G-0...
<]6 |6 61
SOURCE
EfF
TERM £>3 31

Ho. Of	_ . _
EMPLOYEES i lQ.4-^
COLL
AGREEMENT
BE^TWEEN:

DAIRVLAND FOODS FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVEASSOCIATION
_onrl_
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464
OCTOBER 1, 1990 -MARCH 31, 1993
fit - 7 1992
OOlfOH-C>lf-
INDEX
CLAUSE 1 CLAUSE 2
CLAUSE 3 CLAUSE4 CLAUSE 5 CLAUSE6 CLAUSE 7
CLAUSE 8 CLAUSE 9 CLAUSE 10 CLAUSE 11
CLAUSE 12 CLAUSE 13 CLAUSE 14 CLAUSE 15
CLAUSE 16 CLAUSE 17 CLAUSE 18 CLAUSE 19
CLAUSE 20 CLAUSE 21 CLAUSE 22 CLAUSE 23 CLAUSE 24
UNION SECURITY UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES UNION NOTICES DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC. SHOP STEWARDS CONFLICTING AGREEMENT CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT RIGHTS WELFARE PLAN & PENSION PLAN
COMPENSATION COVERAGE PAY DAYS PAY STATEMENTS POSTINGS OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS NEW CLASSIFICATIONS LOSS OF WAGES NEW EMPLOYEES SENIORITY
- REDUCTION OF STAFF -SEVERANCE PAY MINIMUM PAY EATING AND REST PERIOD ANNUAL HOLIDAYS STATUTORY HOLIDAYS DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME-INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
1
2
2
2
3
4
4
4
7
9
9
16
16
17
17
24
25 25
26
35
35
35
40
42
CLAUSE 25 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL CLAUSE 26 UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES CLAUSE 28 JURY DUTY CLAUSE 29 PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES CLAUSE 31 KEEPING PROPER RECORDS CLAUSE 32 PERFORMANCE ON DUTY CLAUSE 33 DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIMEAND TIME OFF (DRIVER SALESMEN)
CLAUSE 34 WAGES CLAUSE 35 SAVINGS CLAUSE CLAUSE 36 EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT SCHEDULES"A, "B" AND "C" LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING APPENDIX "A“AND APPENDIX "B1
46
47
48
49
49
49
50
51
51
55
55
56
58
63
67
DAIRYLAND FOODS AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this	day of
,1991.
BETWEEN:	DAIRYLAND FOODS
FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION 6800 Lougheed Highway,
Burnaby, British Columbia V5A IW2
(hereinafterreferredto as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	.TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464,
of the City of Vancouver,
Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
CLAUSE1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencingtheir employment hereunder.The Employer agrees to retain, in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Union within ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
V 1.02 Itisfurtheragreed: That any person nota member ^•CViOfthe Unionshallnotworkatoccupationswhich come under / the Union'sjurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a member of the Union can be placed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submittedto Arbitration underthe provisions of Clauses, Section8 03.
1.03	That the Union'sjurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union's jurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places.
1.05	The selling and distribution cf dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union's jurisdiction
1
such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed provided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on March 8th, I960, carrying on such selling and distribution. Subsection 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representatives who are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Personnel above Route Foreman or Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
CLAUSE2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shallallowtimeoffworktoany man orwomanwho isserving on a committee or as a delegate, providedthatail requests fortime off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation ofthe plants or routes, and providedthat requests for such time off are made by officers of the Union.
CLAUSE3 UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the Employees.
CLAUSE4
DEDUCTION OF DUES ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement
hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to
2
7'"]
the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's bylaws, owing by him or her hereunderto the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statementsupplied i n duplicate by the Union which shall show the total amount owing by each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductionsof any monies owing shall also be made from any employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employerto the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union not later than the lOth day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statementsupplied by the Union.
CLAUSE5 SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Unionand the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the superintendent or foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned, failing which, a shop steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Union activities.
5.02	The shop steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The shop steward shall report to the Union Officers any violation of this Agreement.
3
CLAUSE6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
CLAUSE7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT ,	/
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a court cf competent jurisdiction. The employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or goods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall notbeaviolation ofthisAgreementorcause for dismisal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any material or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction.
CLAUSE8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any violation of this Agreement must be submitted asawritten grievance within thirty (30)calendardaysofthe
4
violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuatingcircumstances,grievance procedureis authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
8.02	Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or violation of this Agreement shall be subject to the time limits of Section (1) of this Clause and shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
(a)	The employeeor the Uniontogetherwithsuch person or personsas heor the Union may wish, shalltake the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an Officer or Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shall discuss the matterwith the Employer. If a solution is reachedthis shall be final.
8.03	If the proceduressetforth in (a)and(b) above do not result in a solution being reached within seven (7) days of the first discussion between an officer of the Unionand a representativeoftheEmployer, or within such further period by the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to Arbitration Board of three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Boardand shall notify the other Party inwriting of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receivingthe notice shall within five f5Jdays thereafter appoint a member forthe Boardand notify the other party of its Appointment.
(c)	The two Arbitratorssoappointedshallconferto select
5
a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agreeupon a personwilling to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.04	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms of the questionto be arbitrated and make its awardwithin tm (10) days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue Is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.05	if the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged. the employeeshall be re-instatedby the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privilegeswhich he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been rehired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employerand paid ah pay which he should have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had beenhired at the proper time, providedthat, if it is shown to the Boardthat the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatementordate of failure to re-hireand re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deductedfrom wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenseswhich the employee hasincurredinorderto earn thewagessodeducted,AND PROVIDEDTHATtheArbitra-
tion Board, ifcircumstancesareestablishedbefore it,which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employerto pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.06	If the award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction the question shall, atthe requestofeitherparty, besubmittedto anotherArbitration Boardappointedpursuantto and with all the powers providedin this Clause.
8.07	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the parties in equal shares.
8.08	Without restricting the specific powers hereinbefore mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
CLAUSE9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	(a)
All employees shall be given fourteen (14)
calendar days' notice before being^laid.off
savefrfose whose layoff isdictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown. A lay-off notice may be extended up to a maximum of four (4) calendar weeks before being renewed.
(b)	Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
(c)	These provisions shall not apply to Part Time, Summer Help and new employees still within their probationary employment period (as per Clause 19.01 (a)).
7
9.02	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement, noemployee shall be discharged otherthan for proper cause.
9.03	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty or Theft
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinking or consuming/taklng intoxicating liquors or drugs during working
hours including coffee and lunch break.
6.	Permitting unauthorized persons on vehicles provided “no riders” stickers
are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of company property
9.04	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing, within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitute cause.
9.05	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reasonwhatsoever and feels that he has been unjustlydealt with, or, ifanemployee, laid off pursuantto Clause19ofthis Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance if launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension, to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof.
8
9.06	The nature of a suspension;lengthof a suspension and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be providedto an employee inwriting and the Unionshall be so notified immediately.
9.07	Alllettersofwarningcrreprimandshallbe removed from an employee's personnel file after a period of five (5) years provided no further disciplinary documentation is on file.
CLAUSE10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire; suspend for cause; discharge for cause; lay-off; promote; assign to jobs; transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working forces; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intendedoris to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee cf the Union, its members or its Executive.
10.03	Nothingin any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01 Effective the first day of the month following the completion of 104 shifts worked in a continuous twelve
9
month period, the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:	yQ c ~ ’:? O ’ . 07
(a)	Life Insurance in the sum of $30,000.00 upon death
from any cause whatever. 7') - O ?> 3	,
7^ 7 C
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the principal sum of $30 000.00 both occupational and nonoccupational coverage, on the following schedule of losses:
NATUREOF LOSS	AMOUNT PAYABLE
Life
The sight of both eyes Either both hands or both feet One hand and one foot The sight of one eye and either one hand or one foot Both the thumb and index finger of one hand
One hand or one foot or the sight of one eye
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
The Principal Sum
The PrincipalSum The PrincipalSum Quarter of the Principal Sum Half of the Principal Sum
(c)
(d)
The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents. To a maximum of $45,000,00,
First dependent Each additional dependent -$ 7,50000'
*	*-» ’ ;• _	■-~c	'	7	'
i ^
Sick benefit covering all employees in the sum of 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate, fora period of fifty-two (52)weeks to become effective on the first day in the event of a non-compensable accident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
10
Notwithstanding the above, the weekly amounts payable shall be equivalent to or greater than the amount payable under the UnemploymentInsurance Commission Program.
In addition, any employee with over (7) years' seniority that is on weekly indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (d).
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten (10) dollars for each Physician's statement completed in each sickness or accident period.
To apply for sick benefitan employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer.
(e)
<*
i f *
ny*
Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the coverage provided by the MedicalServicesAssocia-. of British Columbia. i
. Medical Travel Insurance benefitsas provided for in I Appenix A (attached).
Additional coverage of $1,000,000.00 in out-of-province Medical Coverage.
(f)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.

(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
100% paymentfor claims for Plan A (Basic Services).
11
75% payment of claims for Plan B (prosthetic appliances crown and bridge procedures). ^	--y*! .7 ,
50% payment of claimsfor PlanC(Orthodontics)to a maximum of $1,500.00 per life.
ysD-u>o 7?- or°9y}7
(h)	A Long Term Disability Plan providing a benefit of fifty (50) percent of anemployees weekly base rate to commence afterweekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions of LTD plan to include eligibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period of two years and/or the \ Employer is unable to provide a suitable job to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must beunable to perform thenormal duties of any occupation.	__ __
(j) An Optical Planto provide $150.00 of coverage each two year period applicable to each eligible person.
11.02 The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11.01 shall be borne 100% by the employer. The employee's portion of the U.I.C. rebate shall be retained by the Company to offset benefit costs.
11.03	Sick Leave
' s ”

(a)	Commencing on the 1st of the month following completion of the probationary period (Per Clause 19.01
(a)) all employeesshall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (1/2} day per month for each month wages are earned. Fortnepurpose of this Clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess of
12
thirty (30) days shall receive such excess daysaccu-mulated in the contract year in cash or as time off at the employee'soption in the fStto'WTng^dntrict year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay. Effective Aug ust 1, 1984, employeesoverage 60 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely at the rate of pay in effect when the days are earned. Eachemployeeshall decide his option by April 30th of each year.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accidentisnotcoveredfor payment byeithertheSick Benefit (11.01 (d) of this Clause) or Compensation, employeesshall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
Firstday of Absence - One Half (112)day’s pay.
Second day of Absence - One Full day’s pay.
Third day of Absence - One Full day’s pay.
thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee’s absence exceeds fifty-two (52) wee ks. Employees absent due to a workers' compensable accident shall draw on accumulated sick leave to provide a full day's pay on the day of such accident.
The Employer may also request a report from a qualified medical practitioner for any illness of three (3)days or less if it appears that a pattern cf absence is developing.
Employeeswith an existing accumulated balance of 30daysandovershallreceivefullpayonthefirstday of absence. Sick pay shall not bepayableonce notice ofemployment termination has been given unless a physician's statement is submitted.
13
(c)	It is mutually agreed, the maximum loss of pay up to
the payment date of the sick benefit as per 11.01 (c) on account of absencedue to sickness shall be one-half (1/2) day.	t -
(d)	Uponterminationcf employment fgranyreason other thanjust cause, an employee having*compIefed:
7 years of service will receive 33% of accumulated sick days owing.
14 years of service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
18 years of service will receive 100% of accumulated sick days owing, up to a maximum 30 days.
11.04	Funeral Leave	S’?/) I
CP P ST ~ (
Intheeventofdeath intheimmediate familyofanemployee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave ofabsencewith payto make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral. The term “immediate family” shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-inlaw, father-in-law.
11.05	Leave of Absence
6>
\/j - >
Any regular full-time employee may request, in writing, a leave of absence without pay and benefits once every two (2Jyear period. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Application for leave must be made within fourteen (14)calendar days of the effective date (except under extraordinarycircumstances).Furtherleavesmay be granted for compassionate reasons only. The term of a leave of absence period shall not exceed the employee's current
14
vacation entitlement If a leave cf absence is usedfor purposes otherthan forreasons forwhich it has been granted, this will be cause for dismissal.
11.06	Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate in the operation of ajoiptly*ustegii£eDsion Plan in accordance with^ggen-__dlx.“-BT-attached hereto which shall form part of this Agreement.
11.07
I (a) When an employee goes df work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his Welfare Feesand Union Dues so that at all times, the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose cf this Clauseonly, any employee df ill or on Compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for atthe rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (SummerHelp) per Clause30.02
15
(b)	Part time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their job classification.
(c)	Employeeswho are not actively at work and who are not in receipt of disability benefits, wage loss benefits or any form of compensation.
CLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employeeson compensation are directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, shall be kept on the payroll.
in the event the previousjob no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19.
Notwithstanding the above, when an employee returns to work following compensation with any limitations on his ability to perform all functions of his job, the Employer reserves the right to obtain additional medical clarification.
CLAUSE13 PAY DAYS
13.01	Employeesshall be paid every second week. Pay day shall be on Thursday when possible but no later than Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous.
Should such payment be impossible due to circumstances 16
beyond the Employer's control, such employees shall receive an advance approximating the regular pay.
13.02	When pay day falls on a Statutory Holiday or an employeesday off, such employees shall have the privilege of drawing their pay cheques the previous bank day.
(a)	All employeeswill be given a statement with their pay cheques showingthe period for which the cheque is issued, the base earnings, extra earnings such as Statutory Holiday pay, accumulated earnings to date, accumulated overtime hours, and an itemization of deductions. Premium pay and shift differential wil! show separately.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave (Clause 11.03 (a)) owing shall be shown on April 1st and October 1st of each year.
CLAUSE15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15.01	Routes
(a) All new routes, va	indjjogitions shall be
posted immediately on the bulletin boarSs at all op-erationsinthedistrictconcernedfora period of ninety-six (96) hours, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, with wages as per contract schedule, units, hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There shall be no changes in requirementsof posted vacancies during time of posting.
CLAUSE 14 PAY STATEMENTS
14.01
17
(b) Any employee desiring the new route, vacant route or position shall make application to the necessary manager within the period of posting. An employee entering the Retail or Wholesale Driverclassifications shall commence as a trainee.
Application for vacant TRAINEE positions will be accepted from employees who have successfully completed the following:
i- Possessthe requiste driving licence qualifications.
ii	- Pass the company driving examination.
iii	- Possess a satisfactory driving record (Abstract).
iv	- Satisfactory completion of route familiarization/ suitability assessment.
(C) There will be a trial period not to exceed three working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employercan determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicantwill revertto his former route or position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
(d)	An employee who successfully bids on a postedjob and at his choice reverts to his old position within the three week trial period shall lose all bidding rights for the next six calendar months.
(e)	The trial period shall not apply if the successful applicant has previously held the same position in the past 36 months.
18
(f)	Unsuccessful applicants under Section (b) above shall be considered in the filling ofany route or position arising out of the original vacancy.
(g)	Application for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last six (6) months.
In the eventthat no suitable applicant is available and the position cannot be filled from within the department, or that the vacancy is a newly created route, then Clause 15.01. (f) will be waived.
(h)	There shall be only one posting created by a ROUTE vacancy, provided that any vacancy of a Relief Drivers, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
(i)	If a higherclassification of driver's license is required for any driving job due to change or vehicle replacement, the cost ofobtainingsuch licenseshallbe borne by the Employer.
15.02	inside
(a)	On completion of shifts and days cff selection as outlined in Clause 24.04, all vacancies or promotions shall be posted immediatelyfor a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Saturdays and Sundays at all operations in the district concerned. Wages as per contractschedule.hoursofwork and days off to be on all postings.
(b)	Any insideemployeedesiringthevacancy orpromo-tion shall make written applicationto the PlantSuper-intendent within the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employercan deter-
19
mine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
An employee who successfully bids on a postedjob and at his choice reverts to his old position within the three week trial period shall lose all bidding rights for the next six calendar months.
(c)	Any vacancy or promotion for an inside employee, shall resultinone posting, plusa maximum of two (2) additional postings.
(d)	The Union shall be notified in writing in the event the vacancy is not posted within fourteen (14) calendar days.
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a) In determining vacancies and promotions, seniority shall be on a departmental basis (exceptascontained elsewhere in this Clause) as follows:
(i)	Production Department-to include all employees on the Production and Farm Pick-Up Payrolls.
(ii)	Sales and Distribution -to include all Sales and Distribution Department employees including insideemployeesat non-processingoperations.
(iii)	Other - to include Office and Laboratory employees intheCenral District only as described in Clause 19 of this Agreement.
20
(b)	The filling of vacancies for positions described under Schedule A (Wages) of this Agreement - Production Department Classifications A, B, C and D shall be filled on the basis of previous production department experience. Application for the position of UTILI-TYMAN shall be accepted from employeeswith previous Plant Process experience. The successful employeesfilling vacancies for specializedclassifica-tions of Cheesemaker (Cheddar), Cheesemaker (Cottage), Buttermaker,IceCream Maker,Utilityman, Pasteurizer,TetraOperatorandC.l.P. Operatorshall fulfill a non-mobility period whereby they will not be accepted to other vacant positions.
For the specializedjob classificationof Cheesemaker (Cheddar) and Cheesemaker (Cottage) the nonmobility period will be thirty-six months.
Forthe specializedjob classificationof Utilityman, the non-mobility periodwill be twenty-four (24) months.
For the specializedjob classification of Buttermarter, Ice Cream Maker, Pasteurizer, Tetra Operator and C.I.P. Operatorthe non-mobility periodwill be fifteen months.
For employees designatedas first aid attendants,the non-mobility periodwill be twelve (12) months.
(c)	The filling of vacgncies^md-promotions shall be pjbased on the length-of continuous service an em-
UPy ployeehas been on the payrollcf the Employerinthe departmentconcernedorwithoutreferencetodepart-\	mentas contained in Section (d) of this Clause, other
considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal, particularly in the case of vacancies involving Home Service DriverSalesmen, Utilityman and Holiday Relief.
21
Only those persons who have been in a posted or assigned position for a minimum of six (6) months may apply for new postings or vacancies.
Any employee desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department or without reference to department as contained in Section (d) of this Clause may make written application to do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
Transfer request may be submitted only during the periods of January 1 st to January 15th and July 1 st to July 15th of each year on the appropriate company form. All transfer requests shall become null and void as of December 31 st of each year.
(d)	Applications for vacant positions of Print Machine Operator, Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream Operator, Creamer Operator, Checker and/or Loader (Fluid), Checker and/or Loader (Ice Cream), Dairyworker, Night Watchman, Janitor - Heavy Work (with certificate), Janitor - Light Work, Packager, Retail Driver Salesman, and Truck Driver will be accepted without reference to department, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal.
(e)	No employee shall accumulate departmental seniority for bidding on ajob unless he is already in a posted position. The employee will, however, accumulate company seniority as per Clause 19.01 (b).
The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified within seven (7) days. A copy of such announcementwill besenttothe Union office.
22
In the event the successful applicant is not assigned to the new positionwithinfourteen (14) calendardays, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employershall notify an Officer of the Unionprior to makingan announcement and shall supply them with the names of all applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notifiedin writing as to the reason why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(f)	Thetimelimitforpostingcfvacanciesand promotions may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent cf the Union.
(g)	All new or vacant routesor positions must be posted. Any vacancy that occurred because cf sickness or accident shall be considered temporary (and shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Clause
24.04	provided retraining is notnecessary)until such time as medical evidence indicatesthe employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
There shall be only one employee move due to a temporary vacancy.
(h)	Where a newly created retail route or territory has been identifiedas having a unique or special growth potential, the posting of that vacancy may bedeferred for a period of sixteen (16) weeks. This period, pursuant to 15.01 (a)and 15.03(g), may beextended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
(j)	Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or positions before new employees are hired. Employeeson days off, holidays,
23
or off ill shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing has requested a change. Applications for vacant positions as outlined in Clause 15 will be accepted from part-time employees for those postings in their current district only. Company seniority will be determined as per 19.01
(b).
(j)	The Employer shall post on the bulletin boards at all operationson January 15thand July 15th of each year a list of all employees in the bargaining unit with their date of commencement of employment and their current classification. A copy of such list or listsshall be given to the Union.
(k)	Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using summer help. The Employerreserves the right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such jobs.
(l)	The position of Chargehand for any classification within a sub-department will be subject to posting as per Clause 15, butwithout applying Clause24.04 and with the understanding that the Employer will retain the right to determinewhenandwhereaChargehand is required and havetheoption of deciding the necessity of replacing vacated Chargehand positions. Applicants for posted Chargehand positions shall be restricted to those employees working in the areas of responsibilityinthe Branchwhere thevacancy exists.
CLAUSE16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate cf wages to be paid for any classificationofworkother than those set forth in Schedules “A", “B” and “C”.
24
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work either party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Contract. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
17.01	No employee shall suffer areductionin earningsor
rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Schedule A Classification F Summer Help) shall receive twenty-five percent(25%) less than the rate providedherein.fbrthe first two hundred and eight (208) working shiftsand fifteen percent (15%) less than the rate providedhereinfor the next two hundred and eight (208) working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall includepart-time employees.
18.02	Experienced employees who terminate their employment with one Employercoveredby Local464, then go toworkforanotherEmployer(inthesamecapacity)shallbe considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a periodexceed-ing six (6) months.
CLAUSE 17 LOSS OF WAGES
CLAUSE 18 MEW EMPLOYEES
25
CLAUSE 19
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF - SEVERANCE PAY
19.01	SENIORITY
(a)	A probationary period of fifty.-iy£oj(52^working shifts, to be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days, shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extended by any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
(b)	There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union by the Employer on January 15th and July 15th of each year and shall includeall employees covered by this Agreementwho have completed their probationary period.
The first list shall cover all employees other than parttime employees, and shall show the name, classification, and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees ' (those employees employed for less than the standard work week for the job classification) and shall show the name and classification of each employee and the number of shifts worked for the Employer.
Should a part-time employee become full-time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a date of employment for the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis of onecalendar month for each 17.3 shiftsaccumulated.
26
(c) Summer Help Employees
The Company may employ summer help employees under the following conditions:
1.	To supplement the regular work force and provide additional help, during
the periodApril 1st to September15.
2.	These employees will not displace full-time employees.
3.	Each such employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay for those months in which the employee has earnings, Union Dues in accordance with Clause 4 of this Agreement.
4.	Summer Help employees under the condition of “1 ” above, shall not:
(a)	accrue seniority rights;
(b)	be entitled to benefits normally granted other employees:
(c)	beguaranteed a minimum number of hours
perweek.	^
5.	These employees will be employed under the classification and at wage ratesas stipulated in Schedule “A”.
19.02	REDUCTION OF STAFF
(a)	Whenever it is necessary to reduce the number of employeesfor any reasonwhatsoeverthe employees shall be considered as-laid off and will be rehired in order,„oLs,eQiority provided that the Employer may apply to the unionfor itsconsentto waive seniority in any case where the ability and qualifications cf a
JlS") 27 ^7c}p-j
particularemployeeare substantiallysuperiorto those of a more senior employee and provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for the job involved.
The onus of establishing the matters aforesaid shall be on the Employer.
(b)	A reduction in staff may only be effected by the laying off ofthe leastsenioremployee in accordancewith the following procedure, recognizing the Departments and Districts listed below.
Departments
1.	Production
2.	Sales and Distribution
3.	Other
Districts
1.	Lower Mainland - Squamish, Vancouver, Burnaby, Delair and Sechelt.
2.	Vancouver Island- Victoria, Nanaimo, Port Alberni , Courtenay, Campbell River and Powell River.
3.	Central -Williams Lake, Cache Creek, Kamloops, Armstrong, Kelowna, Vernon and Penticton.
4.	Northern-Vanderhoof, Burns Lake, Smith ers, Terrace, Prince Rupert, MacKen zie, Prince George and Quesnel.
5.	Kootenays - Cranbrook, Castlegar, Golden and Revelstoke.
28
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF - DISTRIBUTION
District:	Lower Mainland
Classifications:	Class 1 (including Specials)
Class 3 (including Specials) Class 5
1.	When the Employereliminatesa job process, routeor position, the employee-displaced shall ba_the-4east senior (company sdnioffty) employee within the licence classification affected in the division or branch concerned.
Note: Recognizing distinct separate divisions of fluid and ice cream, Step 1 shall, if necessary, consist of two moves, first within the affected employee's division, then in the other division, should seniority allow.
For the purpose of this Clause, any employee that haschanged positionsasa resultof the ap-plicationof Clause 15, shall have his full Company seniority applied to the new position upon completion of the three (3) week trial period referred to in Clauses 15.01 and 15.02 of this Agreement.
The positions of Route Foremanand Assistant Foreman (production) shall be excluded from this procedure.
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall displace the least senior employee in the next lowest licencecI&sstftcSfion, if any, in the branch concerned.
29
3.	Any driver displaced from Steps 1 and/or 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee in his licence classification in the district concerned failing which he shall displace the least senior employee in the next lowest licence classification.
4.	Any driver displaced from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee in the district concerned regardless of department.
5.	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis, regardless of district.
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF-DISTRIBUTION
District:	Vancouver Island, Central,
Northern and Kootenays
Classifications:	Class 1 (including specials)
Class 3 (including specials)
1.	Whenthe Employereliminatesajob process, routeor position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior (company seniority) employee within the licenceclassificationaffected inthe branchconcerned.
Note:Recognizing distinct separate divisions of fluid and icecream, Step shall, if necessary, consist of two moves, first within the affected employee's division, then in the other division, should seniority allow.
For the purpose of this Clause, any employee that haschanged positions as a result of the application of Clause 15, shall have his full Com-
30
pany seniority applied to the new positionupon completion of the three (3) week trial period referred to in Clauses15.01 and 15.02 of this Agreement.
The positions of Route Foremanand Assistant Foreman (production) shall be excluded from this procedure.
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall displace the least senior employee inthe next lowest licence classification, if any, in the branch concerned.
3.	Any driver displaced from the above Steps 1 and/or 2 (above) shall displace the leastsenior employee in the branch concerned regardless of department.
4.	Any driver displaced from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee in the district concerned regardless of department.
5.	The displaced employee from the above steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of district.
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF STAFF - PRODUCTION
CLASSIEICATICNS:As per Schedule “ A
1.	Where the Employer eliminates a job process or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior (classification seniority) employee within the classification affected in the department cf the plant concerned.
i.e. - Lastone in..Firstone out
31
2.	The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) shall displace the least senior employee within his department in the plant concerned.
3.	The displaced employee from Steps 1 and 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee within his department in the district concerned.
4.	The displaced employee from the above Steps shall displace the least senior employee in the district concerned.
5.	The displaced employee from the above Steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis regardless of district.
Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unscheduled break-down shall be by seniority (as per Clause
19.02	(a})and shall affect only thejob classification in the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned.
As in 19.02 (a)ofthis Clause, the Employermayapply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in 19.02 (a), undertakes to consider such application.
(c)	Any employee laid off from a posted position will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only. This option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her permanent position and will provide recall to a vacant position.
32
-?,3-
Employeeslaidoffpursuantto this Clause shall retain the right to be rehiredjQLtiftyJistQ452)ja£eeksii:om the date ofjoitiaLJay-off from permanent or part-time statOsprovided that the employeeshall leavewith the Employeranaddressand telephone numberatwhich the employee can be served notice of rehire. The onus shallrestwiththeemployee to maintain acorrect address and telephone number. The date of initial lay-off will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks if the employee has worked a minimumof one hundredand four (104) shifts in the previous fifty-two (52) week period. On completion of the above shifts, this would provide:
1.	Renewal of the 52 week right of recall, and
2.	The opportunity to renew the lay-off option previously selected.
Senority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calendar days to respond to a notice of recall shall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(d)	Employeeswho leave the bargaining unit but remain in the employ cf the Employer, shall have the rightto re-enter the bargaining unit with previous bargaining unit seniority unless terminated.
19.03	SEVERANCE PAY	—f
(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees save for summer help.
(b)	In respect to an employee whose termination arises out of or is attributable to:
33
\>i
The elimination of a job process, or	-
Theintroductionofeguipmentormethods which j reduces the number of employees, providedhe , has five (5) years or more service, he shall f be eligible for severance pay at the rate j paid at the time of severance.	/
(c)	Employees with two (2) to five (5) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks severance pay when termination is due to reasons outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of two (2) weeks of full pay for each-year of service commencing with the sixth (6th) year of~iervtce but shall not exceed a total oLtwe.oty-(20)..weeks of full pay. ^ ■? ."Is"
(d)	Upon termination such employee shall be placed on the rehire list as provided for in Section 19.02 (c) of this Clause, for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the rehire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the rehire list, he may renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severance pay no later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms setoutabove shall forfeitall rights underthis Agreement.
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay.
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee.
CLAUSE 20	,
MINIMUM PAY	l^P~{
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his days off he shallreceivea minimumoffourj[_4) hours' pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
Overtime may betaken, attheemployee'soption, in money ox in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
WT
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in time off in a calendar year.
CLAUSE 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employeesshall be worked longerthanfive (5) hours withouta halfhouroff for the purposeofeatingameal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 22 ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01 Employees, save for summer help who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years toward holiday scheduleand shall receive pro-rated holiday pay de-
35
pending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked • 24 months worked -84 months worked -168 months worked -216 months worked * 300 months worked -
2 weeks f
3 weeks fioli^aJJor &%fiofida'
4weeks holidayor 8%holidaypay
5	weeks holidayor 10% holidaypay
6	weeks holidayor 12% holidaypay
7	weeks holidayor 14% holidaypay
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whicheveristhegreater. Allemployeeswith seven(7)years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or8% oftheirannualearnings,whicheveristhegreater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5)weeksoffwithfull payor 10% of theirannual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks off with full pay or 12% cf their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. Ail employees with twenty-five (25)years or more service shall receive seven (7) weeks off with full payor 14% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
(c)	4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven weeks
inadditiontoalltimeworkedduringtheyear, provided furtherthe sum of time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and provided such em ployee worked for his regular Employerduring some part of the year.
36
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees enitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within themonthsof OctobertoApril inclusive,shallbegiven the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority, i.e. length of service. Choice of holidays under each holiday reliefman or wherever possiblewithout referenceto the holiday reiiefman, shallbe as nearlypropor-tionateaspossible in termsof seniority. Annual holidayswill constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days does not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periods of the year, save for December 24th to January 2nd at Abbotsford/Delair production department and the week immediately preceeding Christmas for Wholesale, shall be available for holidays and shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the summer periodwill be postedby January 31 st andall vacation selectionsmustbe completed by April 1st. Itisthe employee’s responsibilityto sign up for holidaysby this time, otherwise morejunior employeesmay have first choice or holidays may be refusedduring this time slot.
Employeestaking all their holidayswithin the winter schedule shall indicate the perioddesired and shall be given same on the basis of their seniority.
37
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receivetwo (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitledto five (5) weeks or more of annual holidaysrequest-ingannual holidays during the months May to September inclusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one continuous period. The remainder of the holidays to which such employee is entitled shall begiven during the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15thand all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st. Itisthe employee’s responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refusedduring this time slot.
22.06
(a)	In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in singleweeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selection of one week inthe summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
38
22.07	The completedlistcf holiday periodsforthe months May to September inclu si ve shall be posted by January 31 st and completed by April 1st of each year, and mustalso show the dates chosen by employees electing to take holidays in the months October to April inclusive. The completedlist of holiday periods for the months October to April inclusive shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	All accumulated paid time off such as sick days (as per Clause 11), owing for the previous twelve (12) month period ending March 31 may be selected in order of seniority in the same fashion as Annual Holidaysand taken during the months of October to April inclusive.
22.09	Each employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice cf any change of the dates of his annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.
22.10	Itisrecognizedthatthe Fraser Valley Milk Producers Co-operative Association uses April 1st a common aniversary date for computingvaca tion pay andentitlement.
22.11	All employees terminating their employmentshall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%; or 14% of their annual earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled.
22.12	Ice Cream DriverSalesmen shall begining with the holiday season of 1970, be divided into two (2) groups, as nearly equal in numbersas possible according to seniority. Group one (1) shall contain the senior (based on length of service) DriverSalesmen. Thosewith lessseniorityshallbe place in order in group two (2). Those Driver Salesmen in group one (1) shall be given two (2) weeks (or three (3) weeks as per Clause22.05)oftheirannualholidaysfor 1970
39
in the months of May to September inclusive. Those in group two (2) shall be given two (2) weeks (or three (3) weeks as per Clause22.05)oftheirannual holidaysfor1971 in the months of May to September inclusive. The cycle shall then be repeated. Ice Cream Driver Salesmen receiving two (2) or three (3) weeks of their annual holidays under the schedule shall not be allowed to transfer holiday dates, but may elect to take their holidays outside this period.
23.01	All employees, save for summer help shall receive ten (10) Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the ProvincialGovernmentwith full pay during the year. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
23.02	All , . ,	. nail receive one (1) additional.
Statutory Holiday with full pay to be given at a mutually
agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employeeswhose term of employment does not exceed the probationary period (per Clause 19.01 (a)).
(b)	Employees (Summer Help) whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days
advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays.
CLAUSE 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
New Year's Day Good Friday Empire Day
Dominion Day Thanksgiving Day B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
40
23.04	Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice priorto cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holiday cancelledwith lessthanfpur(4)days advance notice shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.05	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutualconsentofthe Employerandthe employee.
23.06	Whenever possible, time cff for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day_of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible any one required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be .paid at double-time rate for that day, plus one additional day at straighttime will be accrued. Accrued days off shall be tied to regular days off and given to those entitled to same in the months October to April inclusive. Any Statutory Holidays owing as of April 30th each year for the previous calendar year, shall be paid for in cash in the following pay periodat the rate of doubletime. Nowholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
The Employerwill post a l ist of time available during which Statutory Holidays owing may be taken. This time may be selected and will be awardedon the basis of seniority; any remainingtime available will be assigned in reverseorder of seniority.
23.07	Part-time employee: (Per Clause 19.01 (b)) shall receive on April Ist of each year payment cf Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23 01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period.
It is agreed that shouldthe number of statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the proratedpayment will be based on the increased number.
41
23.08	An employee shall be entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his annual vacation.
23.09	Each permanent employee shall be entitled to a Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will representthe difference between compensationor sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 24
DAYS AND HOURS WORK AND OVERTIME-INSIDEAND DRIVERS (NOTDISTRIBUTION)
-P! o -
24.01	The basicworkweek shall be thirty :six(36)jTours. Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
The basicworkweekfor part-time employeesand students shall be 36 hours per week, based on any combination of hours per day (maximum 9 hours), up to five (5) days per week.
For ice cream production staff the work week shall be four (4) nine (9) hour shifts or other shifts mutually agreed to by the parties.	ofc?
Alltimeworked in excess of the regular daijy shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double tirpdf
Overtime may betaken, at the employee's option, jpjnoney orintimeoffat amutuallyagreedupondate. Employeeswill
42
make theirwritten declaration once per contract year by the declaration date as to the method of overtime payment. Employees may alter their written declaration once during the declaration period. New employees will make their written declaration at time of hire.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in time off in a calendar year.
No employee shall be requited to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
(i)	Hoursworked on days off are not included.
(ii)	Shifts must be completedas required.
(iii)	Overtime resultingfrom startup of new equipment not included.
There shall be a minimum breakof ten (10) hours between regularscheduled shifts, excluding overtime. There shall be no split shifts.
All overtime pay will be calculatedon the base hourly rate and will not include any shift differential anfi/or premium pay. All overtimewill bepaidoutortakenastimeoff by April 30th following the calendar year in which it is earned.
24.02	All inside employees and drivers (not driver sales-men)working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday. For purposesof this Clause, consecutivedaysoff on Saturday and Sunday are in compliance.
24.03	Employees in the position/classification of UTILI-TYMAN, FLOATER and TRAINEE are excluded from the provisions of this Clause and Clause24.04 below.
43
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that inside employees and drivers (not driver salesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paidjrtdouble time for all hours worked.
Any Statutory Holiday accumulated as a result in change ot days off shall betied to the employee's consecutive days off.
Employees shall receive twenty-four (24) hours notice for change of shifts except for the following reasons:
(j) Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
(jj) Reasons as outlined under Clause 9.01 (a).
(a)	Seniority within the job classification shall be a deter-
mining factor in the selection of days off and shift to be worked. The Employer shall retain the right at all times to see that the required number of experienced employees isavailableon each shift, to ensure proper and efficient operation. If the person with the most seniority is away then the next most senior person has first option on that shift providing it becomes necessary to replace the most senior personwith other than regular relief personnel.
For the purpose of this Clause, Holiday Relief personnel shall continue to accumulate classification seniority in the last posted position held or in the classification they relieve if different to that held prior to becoming holiday relief. If more than one classification is relieved, the holiday relief person may select which classification in which they prefer to accumulate seniority. If the classifications relieved change from year to year, the Holiday Relief person may elect to change their seniority accumulation to another classification. Application of the provisions of this Clause shall be restricted to the plant or branch concerned.
24.04
44
(b) Experienced workers regularly working afullshiftwho are directed to another shift by the Employershall be guaranteed a full shifts pay.
24.05	There shall be no plantwork done in the ice cream department on Sundays except in cases of emergency or where necessaryto supply customer requirements. Should a shift selection not be completed, plant employeeswill be assigned in reverse order of seniority provided they are capable of performing the requiredwork.
24.06	Days and Hours c£ Work and Overtime- Farm Tanker and Interplant Drivers
(a)	The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties,whichever is applicable,and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
Employees may accumulateovertime to provideup to a maximum of two weeks in time off in a calendar year.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day’s work until he has completed all duties including additional pick-ups and/or
45
deliveries if any, required of him bythe Company,and without limitingthegenerality ofthe foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck, refueled and checked his truck; balanced his daily load sheet or other record of goods supplied or deliveries made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
In the event that any of these drivers completes his work in less than eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever isapplicable.inanyoneday, he shall bedeemed to have worked a full shift on that day.
24.07	All sumsearned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they are earned. All premium pay including overtime shall be calculated on the classified base rate.
24.08	Each Driver shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
24.09	All farm and inter-plant tanker drivers shall be entitled to one-half (1/2) hourfor lunch during the unloading period. This one-half (1/2) hour period shall becgWaJed as part of the regular work shift. 5 / «. ■ft
24.10	All drivers must submit upon completionof his shift, a completed and properly identified tachometer or recorder card from all vehicles equipped with recording devices.
CLAUSE 25 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01 This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding nightwatchmen andjanitors. Any employeeworking adaily shift starting betweenjL2floon-aadJ 2 m idnight shall receive an extra $1.65 per hourfor all hours worked during the shift.
~
25.02	Any employee commencing a daily shift Jjefgce 6:00 a.m. shall receive an extra $1.65 per hourforali hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m.
25.03	Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence, then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
25.04	Any employee working Sunday shifts (any shift that includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paida premiumcf $1.65 per hour (in additionto any oth'er shift premium that may be applicable) for all hours worked on Sunday.
25.05	Clause 25 does not apply to Summer Help.
26.01	Reliefman - A relief dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more different job classifications otherthan his/her own during the workweek.
26.02	Employment- Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will not be changed to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified.
(a)	Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise)- All employees shall be employed in a manner
CLAUSE 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
26.03
47
conforming to the listed classifications
It is recognized that the nature cf an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classification or with work performed under the classification of Dairy Worker shall be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
CLAUSE 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, coveralls or smocks, whichever is applicable, as well as gloves, to those requiring same. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once perweek. These uniformsshall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective clothing to all employees required to work in the cold room, at no cost to the employee.
The Company shall providea suitable warm coattoalldriver salesmen working in or out of cold hold trucks.
27.04	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
48
CLAUSE 28
JURY DUTY
28.01	All working time lost by an employee due Id necessary attendance on Jury Duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paidforatthe rate of pay applicable to said employee.	^	(
28.02	Any employee on Jury Duty shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being requiredfOr such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
CLAUSE 29
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
29.01	The summerseason shall be definedas the time of year between and including the 1st of April and the 15thcf September.
29.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 29.01, shall be classed as summer help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understoodthat any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
CLAUSE 30 CREDIT ON ROUTES
30.01	Credit on the routes and the rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility ot the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regula-
49
tions regarding credit. The Employer is solely responsible for bad debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enforced by the Employer.
30.02	The Employershallprovideeachretaildriversales-man with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiring credit. Thecompleted form shall be returnedtothe Employer for his approval or rejection and such approval or rejection of credit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constitute either approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer's application for credit.
30.03	If the stated policy cf the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no retail driver salesman employed by that Employer shall be heldrespon-f^j'ie for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
CLAUSE 31
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
31.01	Each salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer, keep proper route books and make due and correct entries therein, of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer insofar as the same comes under his jurisdiction and shall serve the Employer diligently and according to the best of his abilities in all respects.
50
CLAUSE 32
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
32.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the wholeof his time, attentionandenergiestothe performance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 33
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND TIME OFF (DRIVER SALESMEN)
33.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used;to provide an accurate and complete record of all time w’drked. Time cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those whiA-.
show the following:	v
(a)	Starting Time
No retail driver salesman shall commence or be re-quiredtocommenceworkbefore5:00A.M. nor make deliveriesbefore6:00 A.M., exceptas mutuallyagreed between the Union and Employer.
No wholesale driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 4:30 A.M. nor ma ke de I i ve ries befo re 5:00 A. M., exce pt as m utu a I ly agreed between the Union and Employer.
(b)	Time on Arrival at the Plant after completion of route (Distribution Department only) before entering driver’s room for cashing in purposes.
51
(c)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until hehas completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; checked his truck; refueled and checked oil and coolant levels; balanced his daily load sheet or other record of goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
33.02	No driver salesman shall perform work of any naturepriorto recording his starting time norafter recording his finishing time.
33.03	No Driver Salesman shall be required by the Employer to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week.
33.04	Should a dispute arise in respect to the lime taken tocompletearouteorroutes, nodriversalesman, reliefman, holiday reliefman or route foreman shall he subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute or an appointee of the Company.
33.05	No driver shall he asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment other than fueling vehicles and checking oil and coolant levels. This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
33.06
(a) Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
52
(b) If overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated each Driver Salesmanshall be entitled to a further ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift.
Each Driver Salesman shall take one-half (112)hour for lunch.
33.07	All retail and combination routesshall be loadedor prestacked in an approved manner. A pre-timed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not later than 7:00 A.M.
33.08	No Driver Salesman shall be required to write out monthly route books. The Employer undertakes to have route books preparedfor each driver salesman in sufficient time to allow for the transference of statements from the current book to the new book.
33.09	Employeesintheposition/classificationof TRAINEE are excluded from the provisions of this Clause.
A schedule of time off shall be posted so that Driver Salesmen shall haveat least seven (7) days advancenotice of days off. Any employee required to work on any of his days off shall be paid at double time.
The basic workweek shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
All driver salesmen in postedpositions working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall meanacalendarweek defined as Sunday through Saturday.
For ice cream driver salesmen the work week shall be four (4) nine (9) hour shifts or other shifts mutually agreed to by the Parties.
53
There will be no change of days off in a week that contains a Statutory Holiday.
All time worked in excess of the daily shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two weeks in time cff in a calendar year.
All overtime pay will be calculated on the base hourly rate and will not include any shift differential and/or premium pay. All overtime will be paidout or taken as time of by April 30, following the calendar year in which it is earned.
Int he event that any of these driver salesmen completes his work in less than nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, in anyone day, he shall be deemed to have worked a full shift on that day.
All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned and will be calculated on the classified base rate.
33.10
(a) New, or inexperienced retail and combination or wholesale driver salesmen shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5) calendar weeks from date of assignment to the learning cf a route, providing such overtime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delays or conditions or overtime not attributable to said driver salesman.
54
(b) Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or from wholesale to retail or new, ex perienced driver salesmen (Clause 18, Section 18.02), shall be excluded from theovertime provisions of this Clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignmentto the learningof a route, provided such overtime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delays or conditions or overtime not attributable to said driver salesman.
CLAUSE34 WAGES
34.01	The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules “ A, “B” and “C", hereunto annexed in respectto the various classifications of work therein contained.
Schedules “A, “B” and “C”, shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 35 SAVINGS CLAUSE
35.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliamentof Canada and Province of British Columbia, including ad-mendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
35.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalidor enforcementof or compliancewithwhich has been restrained, as above set forth, the Parties affected, thereby
55
shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose cf arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submitthe dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.

35.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any Sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
CLAUSE 36
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
36.01
(a)	This Agreement shall be in effect from October 1, 1990 JteuMarch 31. 1993- and from year to year fflereafter. unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either Party to the other Party in writing within four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
(b)	All provisionsofthisAgreement, shall befully retroactive to October 1, 1990, except where otherwise noted.
36.02	This Agreement voids all previous agreements or letters of understandingwhich in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
56
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its Officers duly authorized therefor and the Party of the Second Part as hereunto affixed its signatures by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATEDAT	, British Columbia, this
day of	, 1991.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY CF THE SECOND PART
e
SCHEDULE “A
The following wages shall be paid:
Production Department etc.
CLASSIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR
Jan. 1/91 Oct. 1/91 July 1/92 Jan. 1/93
A. Foreman Utilityman
21.64	22.14
21.45	21.95
B.	Pasteurizer Class 1 20.73	21.23
Ice Cream Maker	20.73	21.23
Cheddar Cheesemaker
Cottage Cheesemaker Butter Maker
Tetra Operator	20.55	21.05
C.	Shipper and/or Dispatcher
20.39	20.89
Pasteurizer Class 11 Evaporator Operator (Delair) Sterilizer Operator (Delair) Standardizer Operator (Delair)
22.64	23.14
22.45	22.95
21.73	22.23
21.73	22.23
21.55	22.05
21.39	21.89
58
SIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR
Jan. 1/91 Oct. 1/91 July 1/92 Jan. 1/93
D. Filler Machine Operator (Fluid)
20.06	20.56
Assistant Shipper Yogurt Machine Operator C.I.P. Operator Ice Cream Machine Operator Lineman Operator (Delair)
E. Print MachineOperator
20.06	20.56
CottageCheese/Sour Cream Operator Creamer Operator Checker and/or Loader (Fluid) Checker and/or Loader (ice Cream) 19.84 19.02
Dairyworker^
Sckager
NightWatchman 19.84
Janitor - Heavy Work
19.84
Janitor- LightWork 18.20
20.34 19.52
20.34
20.34 18.70
59
21.06	21.56
21.06	21.56
20.84	21.34
20.02	20.52
20.84	21.34
20.84	21.34
19.20	19.70
Effective as at date of ratification, for new employees entering the following classifications, amend the rates as follows:
F.
Janitor- Lightwork
General Yard Clean up and Pallet repair
Summer Help
Checker/Loader 10.00
Dairy Worker	10.00
Packager	10.00
Premiums:
$12.00
$10.00
10.00	10.00	10.00
10.00	10.00	10.00
10.00	10.00	10.00
Freezerman Holiday Relief
Relief
Charge Hand
40c per hour premium
60C per hour over classification
relieved
45c per hour over classification relieved
55c per hour over classificationof which he is Chargehand.
A premium of 20C per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paid to all employees regularly operating a ride-on fork lift or towmotor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
Any employee required to be a First-Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
"A” Certificate “B” Certificate “C" Certificate
70C per hour 60c per hour 50C per hour
60
SCHEDULE“B"
CLASSIFICATION
WAGES PER HOUR
Jan. 1/91 Oct. 1/91 July 1/92 Jan. 1/93
WHOLESALE SALESMEN AND DRIVERS
Driver Salesman	20.39
Driver Salesman (Semi-Trailer)	20.78
Driver Salesman (Combination)	20.59
Driver Salesman (Combination Semi-Trailer)
20.98
Route Relief	20.97
Holiday Relief	21.30
Route Foreman	21.64
Semi-Trailer Driver	20.57
Train Driver	20.81
Tank Driver	20.52
Truck Driver	19 99
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Reliefmen, Holiday Reliefmen or Route Foreman while driving a semi-trailer.
Driver Salesmen, Route Foreman, Holiday Reliefmen will receive an additional $2.30 per week when employed on Country overnight runs.
61
20.89 21.39 21.89 21.28 21.78 22.28 21.09 21.59 22.09
21.48	21.98 22.48 21.47 21.97 22.47 21.80 22.30 22.80 22.14 22.64
21.07 21.57 22.07 21.31- 21.81 22.31 21.02 21.52 22.02
20.49	20.99 21.49
When a pup trailer is added to the unit the driver will be paid 5$ per hour extra per axle over the semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
SCHEDULE“C”
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN
CLASSIFICATION
Jan.1/91
Retail Driver Salesman 20.29 Route Relief	20.87
Holiday Relief	21.20
Route Foreman	21.54
WAGES PER HOUR
Oct. 1/91 July 1/92 Jan. 1/93 20.79	21.29	21.79
21.37	21.87	22.37
21.70	22.20	22.70
22.04	22.54	23.04
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RETAIL SALES DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT
It is hereby agreed and understood that the following administrationof Clause 15.03 will be deemed appropriate with respect to the appointment cf employees to routes vacated due to lengthy illness.
On the occasioncf a routevacancy createdby an employee who experiences an illness or accident which will require that employee to be absent from work for a lengthy period of time, the Company will assign a Trainee to fill the vacant route. That Traineewill remain on that route until such time as the incumbent employee returns to full and active duty. On return to active duty cf the incumbent employee, the Trainee will again be eligible for re-assignment to other routes.
DATED AT	, British Columbia, this
day of , 1991.
PARTYOFTHE FIRST PART PARTYOFTHE SECOND PART
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: Hours of Work
The Parties acknowledge alternate work week arrangements may be necessary in order to ensure the efficient operation of particulardepartments and satisfy customer requirements.
In support cf this understanding the Union agrees to give full consideration to bona fide requests for alternate work week arrangements (e.g. 12 hours per day) for a particular department, work group or individual throughout the term of the Collective Agreement.
DATEDAT	, British Columbia, this
day of , 1991.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Overtime Accumulation
The parties hereby agree that in those operations (i.e. Lozells, Armstrong, Abbotsford, Annacis) subjectto temporary shutdown and lay-off, employees may accumulate up to a maximum of four weeks in time off in a calendar year, provided two of those weeks are used during the period of temporary lay-off.
Any portion of the additional two weeks accumulate not used during periods of temporary lay-off shall be cashed out.
DATED AT	, British Columbia, this
day of	,1991.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Recall/Part-Time
It is hereby agreed and understood that each plant/depot shall maintain separate listsofpart-timeemployeeswho will be called in when required at that plant/depot only.
Furthermore, those employees on a recall list shall be eligibleforworkonlyattheplant/depotfrom which they were laid off, as per Clause 19.02 (c).
DATEDAT
day of
, British Columbia, this 1991.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
66
APPENDIX " A
MEDICAL TRAVEL INSURANCE
Effective on the first (1st) day of the month following the completionof the probationary period (as per Clause 19.01 (a)) provisionfor the following benefits shall be availablefor memberemployeesand their registereddependantsresident in the Province of British Columbia:
A.	Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member employee and/or his registered dependants, adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by scheduled air or railwill be provided to and from the nearest l ocaleequipped to providethe requiredand recommendedtreatment by a physician and surgeon within two months of referral but said transportation will not be provided to points beyond Vancouver, B.C.
B.	Where necessary, and at the request of the attending physician, provisionfor transportationof an attendant in connection with the aforementionedtransportation of any employee or his registered dependants.
C.	Also, where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision for assistance regarding accomodation limited to commercial facilities for patient and/or attendant, before and after medical treatment and which shall be limited to a total of seven (7) days at a maximum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day.
D.	It is agreed that the maximum allowable claim by any individual covered by the above provisions shall be limited to fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per eligible person each two year periodeffective October 1. 1988.
67
APPENDIX “B’
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464 JOINTLY TRUSTEED PENSION PLAN
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
I. OPERATION OF THE JOINTLY TRUSTEED PLAN This plan to be operated pursuant to the Collective Agree-
(a)	The Plan will be operated b',	of Trustees
which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Employer. Such Trustees and their sucessors shall
? -. 1 be responsiblefor the adminj^atiooand operation of ■ f the Plan and Fund and shall have all powers necessary to create, amend or terminate the Planand Fund consistentwith the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect from time to time. Each Trustee shall have one vote
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(C) The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form of the Pension Plan and may employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to deter-
ment on the following basis.-
68
mine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits provided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon receivedbythe Plan. Theseshallbeusedonlyforthe benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
The terms andconditionsofthe Planwhich isinitialy created shall be submitted to the members of Local 464 who are covered by it, for approval.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Trust Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerningthe Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on anarbitrator by a Judge appointedby the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employers shall from time to time provide all informationwhich is requiredfor the administrationof the Plan and shall assist and co-operatein the Plan's administration. Reasonableassistance rendered by the Employersshall be renderedwithout chargeto the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution oftheTrustAgreementandestablishmentofthe Plan.
(h)	/ The Plan shall notrequirethe Employerto guarantee I the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and 1 further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all
costs of operation and administration (exceptas provided in (f) above) shall be paidfrom the assets of the "—Plan.—
69
The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(i)
(j)
The Trust Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k) The Employershall be required to make paymentsfto the Pension Trust Fundas herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working inajob classification covered by the Collective Agreement:-
(a)	Six point seven five percent (6.75%) of his gross earnings from April 1, 1991.
(b)	Seven percent (7.0%) of his gross earnings from April 1, 1992.
The gross earnings cf an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employeesfrom the firstday following achievement of benefit status whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonalor full-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
Contributionsalong with a list of employeesfor whom they have been made and the amount cf contribution in respect to each employee and his earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the
70
forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assetsofthePlandesignatedbytheTrustees. Acopy ofthelistofemployeesshallalsobemailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the Custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days afterthe end of each pay period. The Employershall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the endof each planyear a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the earnings uponwhich the Employer'scontributionswere based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the PlanAdministratorand Actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be suchthatthe Plancan beregisteredundertheprovisions of the Income Tax Actof Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee Pension Plans.
71
ADDENDUM
DAIRYLAND FOODS AGREEMENT (OFFICE AND TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES)
INDEX
CLAUSEI
CLAUSE 2 CLAUSE 3 CLAUSE 4 CLAUSE 5 CLAUSE 6 CLAUSE 7
CLAUSE 8 CLAUSE9 CLAUSE 10 CLAUSE 11 CLAUSE 12 CLAUSE 13 CLAUSE 14 CLAUSE 15 CLAUSE 16 CLAUSE 17 CLAUSE 18 CLAUSE 19 CLAUSE 20 CLAUSE 21 CLAUSE 22 CLAUSE 23 CLAUSE 24 CLAUSE 25
UNION SECURITY
UNION ACnVmES CF EMPLOYEES
UNION NOTICES
DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
SHOP STEWARDS
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
WELFARE PLAN& PENSION PLAN
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
PAY DAYS
PAY STATEMENTS
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS NEW CLASSIFICATIONS LOSS OF WAGES
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF
MINIMUM PAY
EATING AND REST PERIOD
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
WORK CLOTHES
PAGE NUMBER 1 1 1 1 2 2
2
2
4
5 5 9 9 9 9 11
- II 12 14 14 14 16
17
18 18
CLAUSE26 JURY DUTY CLAUSE 27 PERFORMANCE OF DUTY CLAUSE 28 SAVINGS CLAUSE CLAUSE 29 EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT WAGE SCHEDULES
WAGE CEASSIFrCATrCN AND SCHEDULE PROCEDURES APPENDIX "A" AND APPENDIX "B"
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING
18
18
19
19
20
23
24 27
\h,
1
CLAUSE 1 UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union within fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain, in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, only members of the Union in good standing and Id notify the Union within ten (10) days cf any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.
For those persons hired through external agencies far temporary assignment or where 'students' are employed (e.g. s umme r help) in bargaining unit classifications far targoaery periods, the Company agrees to remit 'aiequivalent payment' in the event these persons are employed pater than 4 weeks.
1.02	It is also recognized and agreed to by the Parties that the interactive nature of office wak necessitates the utilization of non-bargainingunit employes and that they may be used to the same extent they are now used providing it does not directly result in the permanent lay-off of these employees falling within the bargaining unit.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdictionin this Agreement shall cover employees at and from plants
and distribution branches in British Columbia, including office and technical employees except those employees previously excluded.	.--------------- - ---------
CUAUSE 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the thiai's principles. No employee who serves on a Committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow tine off work to any man or vanan who is serving on a committee or as a delegate, provided that all requests for tine off are reasonable or do not interfere with the efficient operation cf the office, and provided that requests for such time off are made by officers of the Union.
CLAUSE 3 UNION NOTICES
3.01
The Company agrees to provide space which direct interest to the Employees.
is readily accessible for the Union notices of
CLAUSE 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's by-laws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote cf the membership cf the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicateby the Union which shall show the trial amount owing by each employee and the names cf tie employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductions of any monies owing
2-
shall also be made firm any employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded by the Employer to the SeaetaiyTceasucecof the Union not later than the 10th day of the following month and shall be accarpsndedby a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
CLAUSE 5
SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each qperaticn covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the matters of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractions of such provisions and rules to the department manager/supervisor, who dell promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall be elected by the Union members in the office location concerned, failing which, a shop steward may be appointedby the Union, and shall be an employee cf the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Union activities.
5.02	The shop steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate cr otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The shop steward shall report to the Union Officers any Violation of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting vifti this Agreement No Union mater shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting vzUh this Agreement.
CLAUSE 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to cross a picket line which has not been declared illegal by a court of competentjurisdiction. The employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product cr goods firm any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competentjurisdiction, around cr against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of Competentjurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any material or equipment affected by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a court cf competent jurisdiction.
CLAUSE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any violation of this Agreement must be submitted as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Beard of the Union.
3
8.02	Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation cr violation of this Agreement shall be subject 1b the time limits of Section (1) of this Clause and shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
(a)	The employee cr the Union together vzdh such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall tale thenrilar up with the Employer.
(b)	Shoulda solution not bereached by step (a) then an Officer cr Officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he cr they so wish, shall discuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reached this shall be final.
8.03	If the procedures set forth in (a) and (b) above do not result in a solution being reached within seven (7) days of the first discussion between an officer of the Union and a representative of the Employer, or within such further period by the Employer and the Union agree to in writing, the dispute shall be referred to Arbitration Board af three persons appointed as follows:
(a)	The Ebrty desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other larty in writing cf the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the natter in dispute.
(b)	The Ebriy receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a member for the Board and notify the other party cf its Appointment.
(c)	The two Arbitrators so appointed shall confer to select a third person to be Chairman and failing for three days firm the appointment of the second of them to agree upon aperson willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The M i n i s te r cf Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.04	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the Parties, settle the terms cf the question to be arbitrated and make its award within tm (10)days from the date of the appointment of the Chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this Agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.05	If the Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, the employee shall be re-instated by the Company without loss oi pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed ifthe suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an ex-employee should have been rehired that ex-employee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he should have enj oyed and accorded all the rkj-its, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had been hired at the proper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatement or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted firm wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, less any expenses which the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDED THAT the Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the
-4-
Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.06	If the award cf the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either E&rty, be submitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to and with all the powas provided in this Clause,
8.07	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the parties in equal shares.
8.08	Without restricting the specific powers hereinbefore mentioned the Arbitration Board shall have all the general powas cf an Arbitration Board,
CLAUSE 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
9.01	(a)	All employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days' notice before being laid cff
except those whose lay-off is the c&axresult of an uncontrollable/unioreseen event. A lay-off notice may be extended up to a maximum cf four (4) calendar weeks before being renewed
(b)	Employees shall give the Employer the same notice.
(c)	These provisions shall not apply to Temporary, Part-Time, Summer and new employees still within their probationary employment period,
9.02	Except for lay-offs pursuant to Clause 18 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.03	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for proper and just cause.
9.04	Any discharged employee may, within 7 2 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give him the reasons for his discharge and the Employer will give such reasons to him, in writing, within 72 hours cf such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth in writing shall constitutecause.
9.05	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 18 of this Agreement is not re-hirea and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievanceif launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension, to be settled pursuant to the provisions cf Clause 8 hereof.
9.06	The nature of a suspension; length of a suspension and the date of implementation cf a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately.
9.07	All letters of warring or reprimand shall be removed from an employee's personnel file after a period of five (5) years provided no further disciplinary documentation is on file.
•5-
CLAUSE 10
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and powerto manage the business and direct the working forces, including the nght to hire: suspend for cause: discharge for cause: layoff; promote; assign to jobs: transfer employees firm department to department; to increase or decrease the working forces; to determine the products to be handled.
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended cr is to be construedin ary way to interfere with the recognised right of the Employer to manage and control the business. It is further
agreed that nothing in this Class stall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members arits Executive.
10,03 Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall in any way limit, void or affect the
other provisions of this Agreement.
CLAUSE 11
WELFARE PLAN AND PENSION PLAN
11.01	Effective the first day of the north. following the completion cf 104 shifts worked in a continuous twelve month period, the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
(a)	life Insurance in the s u m of $30,000.00 upon death fronany cause whatever.
(b)	Accidental Dsstti and Dismembetmentin the principal sumof $30 000.00 both occupational and non-occupational coverage, on the following schedule of losses:
NATURE OF LOSS
AMOUNT PAYABLE
Life
The sight f both eyes Ebbacboth hands or both feet One hand and one foot The sight cf one eye and either one hand or one foot
Both the thumb and index finger of one hand One hand or one foot or the sight Of one eye
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The principal Sum
The Principal Sum Quarter of the Principal Sum Hf of the Principal Sum
(c)	The following schedule of additional life insurance shall apply to all employees with dependents. To a maximum of $45,000,00,
First dependent	- $30,000,00
Each additional dependent	-$ 7,500.00
(d)	Sick benefit covering a 11 employees in the sum of 65% cf the employee's" gross weekly base rate, for a period cf fifty-two (52)wedcs to become effective cn the
6
first day in the event of a non-compensableaccidentand on ihe fourth (4th) day of any sickness.
Notwithstanding the above, the weekly amounts payable shall be equivalentto <x greater than the amount payable under the Unemployment Insurance Ccranission Program.
In addition, any employee with over (7) years' seniority that is on weekly indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11.03 (d),
to ten (10) dollars for each Physician's statement completedin each sickness or accident period
Tb apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer,
(e)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent tothe coverage provided by the Medical
Services Association of British Columbia,
Medical Travel Insurance benefits as provided for in Appendix A (attached).
Additional coverage of $ 1,000,000.00 in outsf-provinceffedksl Coverage.
(f) Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those provided by the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
(g)
A Dental Plan providing the following coverage:
100%
75% payment of claim for Plan B (prosthetic appliances crown and bridge procedures).
50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to amaxiinLiri of $1,500.00 per life.
(h)	A Long Tterm Disability Plan providing a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employees weekly base rate to commence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable to age 65. This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable ty the Canada Pension Disability Plan. Provisions cf LTD plan to includeehgibility if employee is unable to perform duties of his/her own occupation for a period cf two years and/arthe Employer is unable to provide a suitable] ob to the disabled employee. After two (2) years, the employee must be unable to perform the normal duties of any occupation.
(i)	An OpticalPlanto provide $150.00 of coverage each two year period applicableto each eligible person
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11,01 shall be borne 100% ty the employer. The employee's portion of the U.I.C. rebate shall be retained ty the Company to offset benefit costs.
-7
11.03	Sick Leave
(a)	Commencing on the 1 st of the month fdlowingcompletion of the probationary period (Per Clause 18.02 (a)) all employees shall accumulatepaid sick leave at the rate cfcne-half( 1/2) day per month for each month warns are earned. Ebrthe purpose cf this Clause, wages shall include Weekly hiaemnity and Workers' Compensation Benefits.
Employees who accumulate sick leave in excess cf thirty (30) days shall receive such excess days accumulated in the contract year in cash or as tnecff at the employee's option in the following contract year at a mJxaUy agreeable tine at their regular rate cf pay. Effective August 1,1984, employees over age 60 may, at their option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely at the rate cf pay in effect when the days are earned. Each employee shall decide his option by April 30th cf each year.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either die Sick Benefit (11.01 (d) cf this Clause) or Compensation, employees stall draw on time so accumulated in the followingmannen
First day cf Absence ■ One Half (1/2) day's pay.
Second day of Absence - One Full day's pay.
Third day of Absence - One Full day's pay.
thereafter, the balance cf accumulated Sick Leave to be applied and paid st the full daily rate for each day the employee's absence exceeds fifty-two (52) wades. Employees absent due to a workers' compensable accident shall da* on accumulated sick leave to provide a full day's pay on the day cf such accident,
The Employer may also request a report firm a qualified radical practitioner for any illness cf three (3) days cr less if it appears that a pattern cf absence is developing.
(c)
(d)
Errplqyees with an existing accumulated balance cf 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first day cf absence. Sick pay shall not be payable once notice cf employment termination has been given unless a physician's statement is submitted
It is mutually agreed, the maxiram loss cf pay up to the payment date cf the sick benefit as per 11.01 (c) on account of absence due to sickness shall be one-half (1/2) day.
Upon termination cf employment for any employee having completed:
reason, other than just cause, an
7 years cf service will receive 33% cf accumulated sick days owing.
14 years cf service will receive 66% of accumulated sick days owing.
18 years cf service will receive 100% cf accumulated sick days owing, up to a maximum 30 days.
11.04
11.05
11.06
11.07
11.08
8
Funeral Leave
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant up to three (3) working days leave of absencewith pay to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral. The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registered as a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, rtDtberdrrlaw/ather- in-1 aw.
Leave of Absence
Any regular full-time employee may request, in writing, a leave of absence withoutpay and benefits once every two (2) year period, Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Application for leave irust be made vdlhrin fourteen (14) calendar days of the effective date (except under extraordinary circumstances). Further leaves nay be granted for compassionate reasons only. The term of a leave of absence period shall not exceed the employee's current vacation entitlement. If a leave of absence is used for purposes other than for reasons for which it has beencpanled, this will be cause for dismissal.
Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate in the operation c£ a jointly trusteed Pension Plan in accordance with Appendix "B" attached hereto which shall form part of this Agreement.
(a)	When an employee goes off work ill cr on compensation cr grievance procedure is invoked cn hi s discharge, the Company shall continue to payboth his Welfare Efees and Union Dues so that at all times, the employee shall be protected to the utmost
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare benefits, an employee irust leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose cf this Class only, any employee off ill or cn Compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an enployee due to completing denar's tests or doctor's examinations shall, provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate cf pay applicable to said employee.
Exclusions
(a)	Temporary Employees as per Clause 18,01
(b)	Eb± tine employees (per Clause 18.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) cf the standard walk week for their job classification.
(c)	EhpLc^ees who are not actively at work and who are not inreceipt cf disability benefits, wage loss benefits or any form of compensation.
-9
JLAUSE 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees cn compensation aie directed by the Compensation Board or their physician that they may return to work, they diall be returned to their previous] ob and rate of pay for a period of two (2) weeks to see if they are capable c£ performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so,shall be kept on the payrolL
In the event the previous job no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job of comparable name subject to the reduction of staff provisions.
Notwithstanding the above, when an employee returns to work following compensation with any limitations on his ability to perform all functions of his jcb,the Employer reserves the right to obtain additional medical clarification,
CLAUSE 13
PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second week. Pay day shall be on Thursday when possible but no later than Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous.
Should such payment be impossible due to circumstances beyond the Employer's control, such employees shall receive an advance approximatingthe regular pay.
13.02	When pay day falls on a Statutory Holiday or an employees day off, such employees shall have the privilege of drawing their pay cheques the previous bank day.
CLAUSE 14
PAY STATEMENTS
14.01	All employees will be given a statement vriih theirpay cheques showing the period for which the cheque is issued, the base earnings, extra earnings such as Statutory Holiday pay, accumulated earnings to date, accumulated overtime hours, and an itemization of deductions. Rendum pay and shift differential will show separately.
CLAUSE IS
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
15.01	Job Postings
(a)	All regular full-time job vacancies will be posted in accordance with this clause
unless otherwise specificallyagreed to with the Union.
(b>	If a vacancy or a new job is created for which union personnel might reasonably be
expected to be recruited, the following shall apply:
1.	All regular j ob vacancies will be posted for 96 hours in the geographical district as outlined in the posting chart below.
10-
2.	Consideration for the vacancy shall be given in the following order:
(a)	First consideration to full-timeemployees and regular part-time that have been receiving Itiliti and Welfare benefits for a rrrijnirorn of six (6)months employed in the district concerned
(b)	Should the position remain unfilled, applications will then be considered from the employees wishing to transfer in from outside the district and from any other part-time employee working in the district concerned
(c)	Transfer request may be submitted only during the periods of January 1st to January 15th and July 1st to July 15th of each year on the appropriate company form. HlL transfer requests shall become null and void as of December 31st of each year.
3.	Thejob posting shall contain all relevant information including Jobtitle, work location, duties, qualifications, salary range, special conditions, job status.
4.	Unless otherwise agreed to by the Ehrties,new regUar full time employees w i 11 not be eligible to apply fcrposted jobs during their first six months of employment.
5.	Employees on days off, holidays, cff ill or other authorized leave of absence shall be given consideration for any vacancy posted during their absence provided the employee, in writing, has requested a change.
6 .	The successful applicant shall assume the duties of the new job as soon as
practical. In the event the successful applicant is not assigned to the new position within fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
7.	Where optional requirements make it necessary, the Company may make temporary appointmentspending tie posting process. The Company shall make theUnion aware cf all temporaiy appointments.
8.	There shall be a trial period not to exceed 3 weeks during which the employee or the Company may determine suitability, failing vbddi the applicant wH revert to his/her former position. The trial penod may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
Any employee that successfully bids on a posted position and at their choice reverts back to their old position within the three week trial period shall loose all bidding rights for the next six (6) calendar months.
9.	There shall be a maximum of 1 posting per vacancy in each geographical district.
10.	Applicants who have successfully completed their trial period and remain on the jcb shall loose all bidding rights for 1 year ftan the date of commencement on the new job unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	The patties hereto agree that in certain linniBd instances involving the replacement cf
specialized technical personnel requiring prerequisite education and experience, and the unlikelihood of finding such within the bargaining unit, the Gcnperv may expedite the recruitment process during the positing period. The Union snail be informed of all such exceptions.
15.02	Selection to Jobs
(a)	Job selections shall be cn the basis of qualifications and suitability to perform the vacant job and seniority, in that order, and shall include consideration of the employee's performance on his/her previous job.
(b)	Should qualifications and suitability be equal, seniority shall prevail in determining the successful applicant.
(c)	As an aid in assessing 'suitability' and 'qualifications', the Company reserves the right, if necessary, to use selection recruitment tests to assist in determining the proper selection.
15.03	Districts
1.	Lower Mainland» Sperling/Lozells, Abbotsford, Annacis,
2.	Vancouver Island - Victoria, Nanaimo, Courtenay, Campbell River.
3 . Central Interior - Williams lake, Cache Creek, Kamloops, Armstrong,
Vernon, Penticton.
4.	Northern Interior - Smithers, Terrace, Prince Rupert, Prince George.
5.	Kootenays - Cranbrook, Nelson.
CLAUSE 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages Id be paid for any classification cf work otherthan those set forth in Schedules "A" and "B".
CLAUSE 17
LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction in earnings or rate cf earnings because cf the adoption cf this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
12-
AUSE 18
SENIORITY - REDUCTION OF STAFF
18,01	Definition of Employees:
(a)	Full-Time Regular - An employee husd to vrork on a full-time basis in a regular continuingposition.
(b)	Part-Time Regular - An employee to work regular hours or days on a ocntinuing basis but who woks less than the normal working hours in a north.
(c)	Temporary - An employee hired on a casual or temporary basis for temporary cr intermittent period(s) cr assignments.
18.02	Seniority/Probation
(a)	A probationary period of sixty (60) working shifts to be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty (180) continuous calendar days, shall apply in the case cf each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such an employee. The probationary period snail be extended by any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. Upon completioncf the probationary period seniority shall date fern the date of employment.
(b)	Part-Time seniority conversion
For purpose of establishing seniority for job postings, a date of employment shall be (determined retroactively on the basis of 7.2 hois equalling one shift and 21,7 shifts equaling one calendar month.
18.03	Seniority - Reduction of Staff
(a)	Ary full-time regular employee shall be considered laid off if theirjob is eliminated as a result of technological change, lack of work, discontinuation of a service, office closure cr a change in the method of business operation,
(b)	Prior to the lay-off of full-time regular employees, the Company will lay-off temporary and part-time employees, in that order, in the department affected provided the retained employee(s) are grill fieri and suitable to perform the required job.
(c)	The basic principle in applying lay-off to any regular employee shall be the last hired, first laid off in thejob position within the department provided the retained employee is grilifipH and suitable to perform the position require men ts.
18.04	Bumping and Recall Rights
(a)	Any full-time regular employee who is subject to lay-off under the terms of this
Agreement may bump the least senior employee from an equivalent or lower level j db on the following basis;	'
13
i)	the least senior employee in the same job position within the department, thereafter, the least senior employee m the same job position within the district;
then
ii)	the least senior employee in a job the redundant employee most recently permanently held within the same location;
then
iii)	the least senior job in the district provided the employee is qualified and capable to perform the position requirements within a two vjq^cperiod.
Provided the employee is qualified and suitable to perform the position requirements.
(b)	An employeemay elect to be laid-off rather then exercise bumping ricj±s.
(c)	A department shall be defined as a distinct unit, part or division (i.e.; Cashier, PASS, Route Accounting, Accounts Recievable, Accounts Payable, Credit, Computer, General Accounting, Patrons, Labratory, Payroll, Office Services, Customer Services, Home Services, Sales andhfetebmg,etc.) of a large cfiBoe.
(d)	Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, for the purpose of this clause a branch operation shall be considered a department.
(e)	A laid-off employee may elect to be placed cti the recall list cr be paid severance, in accondancewith the Employment Standards Act
Any employee who chooses severance pay-out will be permanently laid-off and lose all seniority rights.
An employee not recalled to their previously held position within 6 months c£ layoff shall be paid severance and lose all seniority rights.
(f)	Employees who are recalled w i 11 be paid the wage rate on rehire equivalent to the salary they would have received had they not been laid off.
(g)	Employees on recall must respond and report to work within 7 calendar days of notice. An employee who fails to respond to notice of recall will be deemed to be terminated.
The onus shall be on the employee to keep the Company informed of changes to phone numbers and addresses wiile on recall.
18.05	Wage on Transfer to Lower Level Job
A full-time regular employee subject to lay-off who bumps to a lower grade job under the conditions of this Clause will continue to receive the current salary on such transfer until the lower level rate catches up to his/her current rate.
14-
^LAUSE 19 MINIMUM PAY
19.01	When a full time regular employee is called to vcric on any of his days off he shall receive a minimum of four (4) houm pay or pay at the overtime rates for all time worked, whichever is the greater.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum of two (2) weeks in time off in a calendaryear.
CLAUSE 20
EATING AND REST PERIOD
20.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a meal
20.02	221 employees shall be entitled to a ten minute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
20.03	Jfll employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) adaitionalhour is anticipated.
CLAUSE 21
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
21.01	Employees, save for summer help who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as fobe subject to short periods of lay- off, shall accumulate working time in successive years toward holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
12 months worked -24 months worked • 84 months worked -
168 months worked -216 months worked -300 months worked -
2	weeks holiday or
3	weeks holiday or
4	weeks holiday or
5	weeks holiday cr
6	weeks holiday or
7	weeks holiday or
4% holiday pay 6% holiday pay 8% holiday pay 10% holiday pay 12% holiday pay 14% holiday pay
21.02 All employees with one (l)year or more service shall receive two (2) wedcs off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receive three (3) weeks off with full pay or 6% cf their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with seven (7) years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay cr 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full pay or 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) weeks cff vifti full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with twenty-five (25) years ornate service shall receive seven (7) weeks off with full payor 14% of
21.03
21.04
21.05
21.06
15
their annual earnings, whichever is the greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit cf:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if enti tied to thrse weeks
(c)	1 months if entitled to four wedcs
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven wedcs
in addition to all time waked during the year, provided further the sum cf time credited and time worked does not exceed one (1) year, and provided such employee worked fcr his regular Employer during some part of the year.
It is recognized that the vacation year of April. 1st to March 31st will be used in determining years of continuous service lor the purpose ol establishing entitlement.
Employees will select vacation within the department on the basis on seniority. Vacations to be taken at the time stipulated by mutual consent of the department employees and the Company.
(a)	All regular full-time employees will be entitled to a minimum of two (2) weeks vacation during the summer period. The summer period shall be defined as the period of time from May lstto September30th.
(b)	All regular full-time employees who are entitled to greater than two (2) weeks vacation may utilize the remaining balance between October and April. There shall be no carry-over of vacation.
(c)	All regular full-timeemployeesmay utilize all or any portion of fedrvacation in one
continuous period provided they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive, Extend vacations shall be based on seniority and taken at a time stipulated by nuftual consent of department employees and the Company.
(d)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after the employees covered by the schedulehave made their first selection, the employees shall have the option cf making additional summer period selectionsin order of seniority at a time stipulated by nubuaL consent of department employees and the Company,
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and Shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority ai the winter schedule.
(a)	Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 15th and a minimum 2 wedc vacation period must be selected by March 1st.
(b)	Vacation schedulesforthe winterperiod will be posted by June 15th and remaining vacation selections must be selected by SqptHiberlst,
(c)	It is the employee's responsibility to signup for holidays by the stipulated deadline date, otherwise vacations may be granted on a 'first come, fust serve' basis or may be scheduled off by the Company.
16-
«1.07 Each employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice of change of the dates of their annual holidays frail the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident, illness cr other circumstances beyond the control of the Company or unless such change is mutually agreeable Id the parties involved.
21,08 ML employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; 10%; 12%;ar 14% of their annual earnings in lieu cf holidays to which they are entitled.
Present employees that fell under the former July 1st vacation period shall, upon termination, have their outstanding vacation entitlement reduced by 3/12.
CLAUSE 22
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
22.01	All employees, save for summer help shall receive ten (10) Statutory Holidays and all holidays proclaimed by either the Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
New Year's Day	Dominion Day	ThariksgivingDay
Good Friday	B.C. Day	RemembranceE&y
Empire Day '	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
22.02	All employees shallreceive one (l)adiLtiaBl Statutory Holiday with full pay to be given at a mutually agreed upon date for each employee.
This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Employees whose tom of employmentdoes not exceed the probationary period,
(b)	Ehplqyees whose term of employment does not exceed the period April 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
22.03	Wherever possible, each employee shall be entitled to 7 days advance courtesy notice prior to receiving statutory holidays.
22.04	Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holiday cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice, provided such cancelation is occasioned ty anything other than accident, illness cr other circumstancesbeyond the control cf the Company, shall accru e at the rate cf two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
22.05	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save ty mutual consent of the Employer and the employee.
22.06	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays wll be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible any one required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at double time rate for that day, plus one additional day at straight time will be accrued. Accrued days off shall be tied to regular days off and given to those entitled to same in the months October to April inclusive. Any Statutory Holidays owing as of April 30th each year for the previous calendar year, shall be paid for in bash in the following pay period at the rate of double time.
17
The Employer will post a list cf time available during which Statutory Holidays owing may be taken. This time may be selected and will be awarded on the basis of seniority^; any remaining time available willbe assigned in reverse order cf seniority.
22.07	Part-time employees shall receive on Apri 11 st of each year payment cf Statutory Holidays as per Clause 22.01 prorated according to the number of shifts worked in the previous twelve month period,
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal cr Pmmnrnal Government the prorated payment wi 11 be based on the increased number.
22.08	An employee shallbe entitled to a paid day off for each such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his weekly days off or time cfF taken in lieu thereof cr on his annual vacation.
22.09	Each permanent employee Shall be entitled to a Statutory HUidty even when he cr she is c££ through illness, quarantine, caipensaticn or lay-off, providing he cr she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30)working days immediately prior to the Stafaubay Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation cr sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
CLAUSE 23
DAYS AND HOURS WORK AND OVERTIME
23.01 The standard work week shall be 36 hours consisting of 5 days cf 7,2 hours each, cr other shift established by the employer, whichever is applicable, and basal on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour week shall constitute a veeks work.
All employees who are required to work in excess cf the t^ular daily shift cf 7,2 hours cr other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for actual hours worked at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date. Employees will make their written declaration once per contract year by the declaration date as to the method of overtime payment. Employees may alter their written declaration once during the declaration period. New employees vail make their written declaration at time of hire.
Employees may accumulate overtime to provide up to a maximum cf two (2) weeks in time off in a calendar year.
No employee shall be required to work longer than eight (8) hours overtime in any one week provided however:
(i)	Hus worked on days off are not included.
(ii)	Shifts must be completed as required	. , , ,
(iii)	Godrirre resulting from start up of new equipmentnot included.
There shall be a minimum break cf ten (10) hours between regular scheduled shifts, excluding overtime. There shall be no split shifts.
18
All overtime pay will be calculated on the base hourly rate and wJL not include any shift differential and/or premium pay, All overtime will bepaid out or taken as time cff by April 30th foUowingthe calendar year in which it is earned.
23.02	All full-time regular employees working a five (5) day cr other shift established by the employer shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week, wherever possible, Each week shall rrean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
23.03	All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they are earned. All premium pay including overtime shall be calculated on the employee’s base rate.
23.04	Each employee shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
CLAUSE 24
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
24.01	Employment - Other Classifications - When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate cf pay, if only for a day cr 1he greater part cf a day, he diall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receiving a lower rate, his rate will notbe changed tothe Jcwarrate.
This provision shall not apply when due to lack of work an employee may be reclassified,
CLAUSE 25
WORK CLOTHES
25.01	The Company shall continue to provide suitable protective clothing/unifonns to all employees requiring same at no cost to the employee.
25.02	All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a carpark under contract to a Tfearstar Local Union, provided the rates are comped dye,
CLAUSE 26
JURY DUTY
26.01	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on Jury Diy or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
26.02	Any employee on Jury Diy shall, subject to this provision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from the courts shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
CLAUSE 27
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
27.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his tine, attention and Energies to the performance of his duties and, shall not, during the tarn. of his employment at any time,
19-
alane, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly cr indirectly connected with the milk business.
CLAUSE 28
SAVINGS CLAUSE
28.01	The within Agreement and schedule hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary altered, varied, or amended fern tine to time to give effect to the laws enacted fcy the Parliament cf Canada and Province of Britidi Columbia, including ammendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made cr passed thereunder.
28.02	In the eventthat any Clause or Sectionis held invalid or enforcement ofcr compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Brides affected, thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either thirty for the purpose cf arriving at anttaDy satisfactory replacement far such Clause cr Section daring Hie period cf invalidity cr restraint, If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlinedin Clause 8.
28.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any Sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
CLAUSE 29
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01 This Agreement shall be in effectfrom October 1,1990 to Pferdh 31,1993, and firm year
to year thereafter, u n less notice of abrogation cr amendment shall be given by either Ehrty to the other Briy in writing votorin four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Briy of the First Bet has hereunto affixed its sed in the presence
of its Officers duly authorized therefor and the Briy of the Second Bet as hereunto affixed its
signatures by its Officers duly authorized therefor.
DATED AT	, British Columbia, this	day cf	, 1991
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
20
GROUP 1 Office Cleric I MailAJtility
GROUP 2 Payrolll
SCHEDULE "A"
Ipas Inventory	Data Entry	Seasonal/Casual
File Clerk	Branch/Junior Clerk
Rec/Switchboard I	Hoi. Rel. Clark Public Assist.
GROUP 3 Garage Clerk Bane Service I
Cust. Service I Dist. Clerk
But/UHT
Cashier
Secretary I
Inventory Control I
GROUP 4 Route Acctg.
Cust. Service II Prod. Control Accts. Rec.
Jr. Accountant Home Service II Accts. Payable
Cash Raster Keypunch Op Data Entry
Ipas
Inventory Control II Payroll II
GROUP 5 Office Clerk II	Secretary II
Members Acctg.	Dist. Clerk
Branch/General Qerk
GROUP 6 Senior Accountant I Comp. Operator
G.O.D. Clerk Daws/Shipping Credit Rep.
Prod. Asst.
In termed. Acct. Purchasing Qerk
Group Start Step 1	Step 2
6 Months	12Iytnfchs
(936 Hrs)	(1872 Hrs)
Step 3	Standard
18 Months	24 months
(2808 Hrs)	(3744 Hrs)
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1991
1	$10.08	$10.71
2	10.86	11.53
3	11.60	12.33
4	12.24	13.01
5	12.65	13.44
6	14.62	15.53
$11.34
12.21
13.05
13.77
14.23
16.44
$11.97
12.89
13.78
14.54
15.02
17.36
$12.60
13.57
14.50
15.30
15.81
18.27
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
2
3
4
5
6
$10.48
11.26
12.00
12.64
13.05
15.02
$10.88
11.66
12.40
13.04
13.45
15.42
$11.28
12.06
12.80
13.44
13.85
15.82
$11.14
11.96
12.75
13.43
13.86
15.95
$11.56
12.38 13.18 13.86 14.29
16.38
$11.99
12.81
13.60
14.28
14.71
16.80
21
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 1991
$11.79
12.66
13.50
14.22
14.68
16.89
$12.45
13.37
14.25
15.01
15.49
17.83
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1992
$12.24	$12.92
13.11	13.84
13.95	14.73
14.67	15.49
15.13	15.97
17.34	18.31
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1993
$12.69
13.56
14.40
15.12
15.58
17.79
$13.40
14.32
15.20
15.96
16.44
18.78
$13.10
14.07
15.00
15.80
16.31
18.77
$13.60
14.57
15.50
16.30
16.81
19.27
$14.10
15.07
16.00
16.80
17.31
19.77
-22-
SCHEDULE "B"
GROUP 7 Quality Tech
Group Start Step 1 6 Mos. (936 Hrs)
7	$16.22	$16.89
7	$16.62	$17.31
7	$17.02	$17.72
7	$17.42	$18.14
Senior Accourrtantn
step 2	step 3	Step 4
12 Mos.	18 Mos.	24 Mos.
(1872 Hrs) (2808 Hrs) (3744Hrs)
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1991 $17.56	$18.24	$18.92
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 1991 $18.01	$18.70	$19.38
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1992 $18.44	$19.14	$19.85
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1993 $18.88	$19.60	$20.32
Step 5 30 Mos. (4680 Hrs)
$19.60
$20.08
$20.57
$21.05
Shift Differential
Applicable to Group 6 and 7 positions only as follows:
Afternoon Shift
Any shift starting between the hours of noon and 6:00 p.m. shall be considered an afternoon shift and will pay a premium of .80 cents pa hour worked, in addition to the base rate of pay.
Night Shift
Any shift starring between the hours of 6:01 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. shall be considered to be the night shift and will pay apcaniun of $1.65 per hour worked, in addition to the base rate of pay for all hours worked prior to 8:00 a.m.
Standard 36 Mos (5616 Hrs)
$20.27
$20.77
$21.27
$21.77
-23-
WAGE CLASSIFICATION AND SCHEDULE PROCEDURES
1, Placement in Range:
All present full-time and part-time regular employees to be placed in range at the'higher of their actual rate or start rate for the range and to move through the range in 6 months increments until they reach the standard rate.
2. Red Circling:
Employees receiving a rate of pay higher than the standard rate (maximum), are to be "Red
Circled" and shall continue to receive the higher rale in addLtkn to 50% of all subsequent increases util such time that the rates for the group or classification have caught up.
3 . Progression through range:
Progression of employees through range are based cn service (actual hours worked).
4. New Employees:
When hiring new employees, Company may pay at any 'step' within the salary range, consistent with experience and qialifioatiais.
5.	ETcncticn to higher group:
An employee receiving a promotion to a higher p u p to be placed at the higher of their actual rate or start rate for the new group and thereafter moves to next step' after 6 months.
6.	Group Leaders (to be designated by the Employer):
Tb receive $1,00 per hour worked in addition to the employees base rate,
■24-
APPENDIX "A"
MEDICAL TRAVEL INSURANCE
Effective on the first (1st) day of the mcnth following the completion of the probationary period (as per Clause 19,01 (a))pro vision for the following baBfits shall be available for msifaer employees and their registered dependants resident in the Province of British Columbia:
A.
B
Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a matter employee and/or his registered dependants, adequate treatment is not available locally, trari^xrtaticn by scheduled air or rail will be provided to and from the nearest locale equipped to provide the required and recommended treatment by a physician and surgeon wltfrin two months of referral but said taanqpcrtefcicn will not be provided Id points beyond Vancouver, B,C,
Where necessary, and at the request of the attending physician, _____________________
cf an attendantin connection with the aforementioned transportation cf any employee or his registered dependants.
C.	Also, where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision for assistance regarding accommodation limited to commercial facilities for patient and/or attendant, before and after medical treatment and which shall be
limited to a total of seven (7) days at a maxirrun of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day,
D.	It is agreed that the maxiirum. allowable claim by any individual covered by the above provisions shall be limited to fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500,00) per eligiblepersan each two year period effective October 1,1988.
-25-
APPENDIX "B"
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION No. 464 JOINTLY TRUSTEED PENSION PLAN
FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
I.	OPERATION OF THE JOINTLY TRUSTEED PLAN
This plan to be operated pursuant to the Collective Agreement on the following basis:-
(a)	The Plan will be operated by a Board cf Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons, three (3) to be named by the Union and three (3) to be named by the Employer. Such Trustees and thair successors shall be responsible for the adninistratiai and operation cf the Plan and Fund and shall have all powaas necessary to create, amend car terminate the ELsn and Fund consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement in effect firm time Id time. Each Trustee shall have one vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairman and a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the HxsIbss.
(c)	The Trustees shall meet and shall decide on the type and form cf the Pension Plan andmay employ legal counsel, actuaries and other consultantsor advisors as they cfesn necessary or
Ivisahle.
advisab
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the ELsn and the benefits provided thereunder firm time to tine and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan. These shall be used only for die benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are <x have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a Trust Agreement with the Trustees. The Txsb Agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerning the ELan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing nuhBL agreement on an arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employers shall from trine to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employers shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment cf the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not require the Employer to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency cf the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
26
The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(j)
00
The Hxsb Agreement shall permit the Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of thenedoers of the Plan.
The Employer shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the QdUa±he Agneement:-
(a) Four point five percent (4.5%) of gross earnings firm January 1,1991
(b) This amount to be increased by 1/4 cf 1% every six (6) months in addition to any negotiated increase to ensure a comparable contribution rate and catch-up to the master Local 464 Agreement within four (4) years..
The gross earnings cf an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the teims of the Collective Agreement.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees firm the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary, <x seasonal or full-time or part-time employees and regardless cf whether or not they arc members of the Union.
Contributions along with a list of employees fx whcm they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to eacn employee and his earnings shall be forwarded by the Employer to the Custodian of the assets cf the Plan designatedby the Trustees. A copy cf the list cf employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator cf the E3an.
Such payment shall be made to the Custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employer shall also submit to the Plan Administratorwithin ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwardedif required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other infcrrtatLcn as the Plan Airanistzatrr and Actuary may require for the operation of the Plan.
(1) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Elai can be registered under the provisions of the Income TSx Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee Pension Plans.
-27-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Alternative Work Week Arrangements
Pursuant to Gause 23, days and hours of work and overtime, which recognizes the right of the employer to establish hours of work for office and technical employees, the Company commits that it will consider and evaluate bona fide requests from the Union for alternative work week