Vancouver Poly-Party Dairy Industry Agreement
Between
PALM DAIRIES LIMITED FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION and
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION 464 Vancouver, B.C.
Effective April 1,1984 Expires March 31, 1966
o oyaff#/
INDEX
VANCOUVER POLY-PARTY
Clause
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
Union Security..........................
Union Activities of Employees...........
Union Notices...........................
Deduction of Dues, etc..................
Shop Stewards ..........................
Conflicting Agreement...................
Crossing of a Picket Line and
Right to Handle Union Product ..........
Grievance Procedure ....................
Discharge of Employees..................
Management Rights.......................
Welfare Plan & Pension Plan.............
Compensation Coverage...................
Pay Days ...............................
Pay Statements..........................
Posting of Vacancies and Promotions ....
New Classifications.....................
Loss of Wages...........................
New Employees...........................
Seniority — Reduction of Staff —
Severance Pay ..........................
Minimum Pay.............................
Eating and Rest Period..................
Annual Holidays ........................
Statutory Holidays......................
Days and Hours of Work and Overtime — Inside and Drivers (Not Driver Salesmen) .
Shift Differential......................
Utilization of Employment...............
Work Clothes............................
Jury Duty...............................
Postponement of Time Off................
Period of Summer Season.................
Credit on Routes.......
Keeping Proper Records
Page
1
3
3
3
4
4
5 5 8 9
10
14
15
15
16 21 21 21
22
27
27
27
31
33
36
37
38 38
38
39
39
40
Clause
INDEX
Page
33
34
35
36
37
38
Performance of Duty.....................
Days and Hours of Work, Overtime and Time
Off (Driver Salesmen)...................
Deliveries By Specials .................
Wages............................■......
Savings Clause..........................
Expiration of Agreement.................
Schedules “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E” . , Standard Working Hours (Maintenance Dept.), Overtime, Tool Insurance, Tool Depreciation
Allowance, Schedule “F”.................
Letters of Understanding ...............
Appendix “A” and Appendix “B”...........
40
41 44
44
45
45
47-51
52-54
55-56
57-61
VANCOUVER POLY-PARTY DAIRY INDUSTRY AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT shall be between Teamsters Local Uriion No. 464 and the following Employers:
PALM DAIRIES LIMITED
3333 Main Street Vancouver. British Columbia V5V 3M8 Annacis Industrial Estate, New Westminster, British Columbia
FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
6800 Lougheed Hinhwav Rurnahv. British Columbia V5A 1W2 THIS AGREEMENT entered into this day of , 1984. BETWEEN:
a body corporate duly incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia and having its place cf business at
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464, of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America.
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART WITNESSETH THAT the Parties hereto agree as follows:
Clause 1
UNION SECURITY
1.01	All employees covered by this Agreement must becgme .members^ the Unionwithin fourteen (14) calendar days of their commencing their employment hereunder. The Employer agrees to retain, in his employ, within the group covered by this Agreement, gnly members of the Union in good standing and to notify the Unionwithin ten (10) days of any new employees hired or former employees returned to the payroll.	jyj (\_
1
1.02	It is further agreed: That any person not a member of the Union shall not work at occupations which come , underthe Union’s jurisdiction, except in cases of emergency and then only until a memberofthe Unioncan beplac- ‘ ed on the job. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the Union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it. In the event of failure to reach agreement, the matter will be submitted to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 8, Section 8.03.
1.03	That the Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of dairy products or such other products as the Employer may from time to time process, manufacture, sell and/or distribute.
1.04	This Agreement shall cover all employees engaged in work coming within the Union'sjurisdiction and whether employed at the Employer's address set forth above or employed elsewhere in the Province of British Columbia and there engaged in the sale or distribution of dairy or other products shipped or forwarded from the aforesaid places
1.05	The selling and distribution of dairy products being recognized as work coming within the Union'sjurisdiction such work must be performed by an employee of the Company whose products are being sold or distributedprovided that selling and distribution may be carried on by such persons other than employees who were on March8th, 1960, carrying on such selling and distribution. Sub-section 1.04 shall not be deemed to include sales representativeswho are not employed in distribution or delivery.
1.06	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the wholesale selling and delivery of ice cream and other dairy products within an area of one hundred (100) miles of the City of Vancouver (excluding Vancouver Island and the Municipalityof Powell River) (including Westview and Cranberry Lake) shall be performed by employees of the Company whose products are being sold or distributed; provided such selling and delivery may be carried on by
2
such persons other than employees who were on March 8th, 1960, carrying on such selling or delivery.
1.07	Personnel above Route Foreman or Assistant Plant Foreman shall not be required to be members of the Union unless working within the Union's jurisdiction.
Clause 2
UNION ACTIVITIES OF EMPLOYEES
2.01	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding the Union's principles. No employee who serves on a committee shall lose his or her position nor be discriminated against for that reason. The Employer shall allow time off work to any man.or woman who is serving onTcomrnlttee^rasTHelegate, provided that all requests for time off are reasonable or do not interfere with the proper operation of the plants or routes, and provided that requests for such time off are made by officers of the
Union.	y
Clause 3 UNION NOTICES
3.01	The Company agrees to provide space which is readily accessible for the Union notices of direct interest to the Employees.
Clause 4
DEDUCTION OF DUES, ETC.
4.01	Each of the employees covered by this Agreement .hereby authorizes the Employer to deduct and pay over toTfie Secretary of the Union, any monthly dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's bylaws, owing by him or her hereunder to the said Union, or as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union. Monies shall be deducted in accordance with the written statement supplied in duplicate by the union which shall show the total amount owing by
each employee and the names of the employees for whom the deductions are to be made. Deductionsof any monies owing shall also be made from any employees in the month in which they terminate. Monies deducted shall be forwarded bythe Employerto the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union not laterthan the 10th day of the following month and shall be accompanied by a copy of the written statement supplied by the Union.
Clause 5
SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	There shall be a Shop Steward at each operation covered by this Agreement, if the Union so desires, to see whether the members of the Union and the Employer live up to the provisions of this Agreement and to report any infractionsof such provisions and rules to the superintendent or foreman, who shall promptly deal with same. Such shop steward shall be elected by the union members in the shop concerned, failing which, a shop steward may be appointed by the Union, and shall be an employee of the place in which he is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the shop steward for Unionactivities.
5.02	The shop steward shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The shop steward shall report to the Union officers any violation of this Agreement.
Clause 6
CONFLICTING AGREEMENT
6.01	It is further agreed by the Employer that no Union member will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Union member shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Employer conflicting with this Agreement.
4
Clause 7
CROSSING OF A PICKET LINE AND RIGHT TO HANDLE UNION PRODUCT
7.01	The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to nross a nioket line which has not been declared illegal by a court ofcomp'Stent jurisdiction. The Employer shall not require any member of the Union to accept any product or ooods from any person, or employees of any person, with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against, or to deliver any product or goods to any person or employees of any person with whom the Union, Local 464, has a picket or placard line, which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, around or against.
7.02	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement or cause for dismissal for an employee to refuse to handle, receive, ship or transport any materials or equipment attecfed"by a labour dispute which has not been declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction.

Clause 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01	Any violation of this Agreement must be submitted as a written grievance within thirty (30) calendar days of the violation or be considered invalid unless, upon evidence of extenuating circumstances, grievance procedure is authorized by the Executive Board of the Union.
8.02	Disputes or differences concerning the interpretation, application, operation or violation of this Agreement shall be subject to the time limits of Section one (1) of this Clause and shall be resolved according to the following procedure:
(a)	The employee or the Union together with such person or persons as he or the Union may wish, shall take the matter up with the Employer.
(b)	Should a solution not be reached by step (a) then an officer or officers of the Union, accompanied by the employee, if he or they so wish, shalldiscuss the matter with the Employer. If a solution is reachedthis shall be final.
8.03	If the proceduresset forth in (a)and(b) above do not
result in a solution being reachedwithin seven daysof the first discussion between an officer.of the Union and a representative of the Employer, dr within such further period as the Employerand the Union agree to in writing, thedispute shall be referredto an Arbitration Board-of thrpe persons appointed as follows:	•—
(a)	The Party desiring arbitration shall appoint a member for the Board and shall notify the other Party in writing of the name and address of the person so appointed and particulars of the matter in dispute.
(b)	The Party receiving the notice shall within five (5) days thereafter appoint a memberfor the board and notify the other party of its appointment.
(c)	The two arbitratorsso appointed shall confer to select a third person to be chairman and failing for three days from the appointment of the second of them to agree upon a person willing to act, either of them may apply to the Honourable, The Minister of Labour, to appoint such third member.
8.04	The Arbitration Board shall sit, hear the parties, settle the terms of the question to be arbitrated and make its award within ten (10) days from the date of the appointment of the chairman, provided the time may be extended by agreement of the Parties.
The Arbitration Board shall have the power to determine whether a particular issue is arbitrable under this agreement.
A majority award shall be the award of the Board.
8.05	Ifthe Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure it is found) that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, the employee
6
shall be re-instated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights, benefits and privileges which he would have enjoyed if the suspension or discharge had not taken place, or if an Arbitration Board finds (or if at any earlier stage of the grievance procedure It is found) that an ex-employee should have been re-hired that exemployee shall be employed by the Employer and paid all pay which he would have enjoyed and accorded all the rights, privileges and benefits which he would have enjoyed if he had been hired at the proper time, provided that, if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge and/or suspension and re-instatement or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Employer pursuant to this Clause, leas any expenseswhich the employee has incurred in order to earn the wages so deducted, AND PROVIDEDTHATthe Arbitration Board, if circumstances are established before it, which, in the opinion of the Arbitration Board, makes it just and equitable to do so, shall have the authority to order the Employer to pay less than the full amount of wages lost.
8.06	Ifthe award of the Arbitration Board is subsequently set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction the question shall, at the request of either party, be submitted to another Arbitration Board appointed pursuantto and with all the powers provided in this Clause.
8.07	The expenses and remuneration of the Chairman shall be paid by the parties in equal shares.
8.08	Without restricting the specific powers herein before mentionedthe Arbitration Board shall have all the general powers of an Arbitration Board.
7
9.01
(a)
(b)
Clause 9
DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES
<i$'0\0
All employees shall be given fourteery(14) cajefidar days’ notice before being laid off save those whose layoff is dictated by supply, exceptionahUreather conditions, or suspension of an operation for an unscheduled breakdown.
Employeesshall give the Employerthe same notice.
(c)	These provisions shall notapplytfo Part infhe, Summer Help and new employeesstilf tyrttmtheir probationary employment period (as per Clause 19.01 (a)).
9.02	Exceptfor lay-offs pursuantto Clause 19 of this Agreement, no employee shall be discharged other than for proper cause.
9.03	The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee, without notice, for any of the following causes:
1.	Dishonesty or Theft
2.	Drunkenness
3.	Refusal to obey a lawful order
4.	Absence without leave
5.	Drinkingintoxicatingliquorsduringworking hoursin-cluding coffee and lunch break.
6.	Permitting unauthorized personson vehicles provided “no riders” stickers are on vehicles.
7.	Willful abuse of sick leave privileges
8.	Impairment due to the improper use of drugs
9.	Willful abuse of company property
9.04	Any discharged employee may, within 72 hours of his discharge, in writing, require the Employer to give him the reasons for his discharge and the Employerwill give such reasonsto him, in writing, within 72 hours of such request, and in the event of any dispute or difference as to whether or not there was proper cause for the discharge of an employee only the reasons so set forth i n writing shall constitute cause.
8
9.05	If an employee is discharged or suspended for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, or, if an employee, laid off pursuant to Clause 19 of this Agreement is not re-hired and feels that he should have been re-hired, the dispute shall constitute a grievance if launched within fourteen (14) calendar days of the discharge or suspension, to be settled pursuant to the provisions of Clause 8 hereof
9.06	The nature of a suspension, length of a suspension and the date of implementation of a suspension shall be provided to an employee in writing and the Union shall be so notified immediately
9.07	All letters of warning or reprimand shall be removed from an employee's personnel file after a period of five (5) years provided no further disciplinary documentation is on
10.01	The Employer shall have the exclusive right and power to manage the business and direct the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend for cause, discharge for cause, lay-off, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to increase or decrease the working forces, to determine the products to be handled
10.02	Nothing in this Agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Employer to manage and control the business It is further agreed that nothing in this Clause shall be used to discriminate against any employee of the Union, its members or its Executive
10.03	Nothing in any of the provisions of this Clause shall
in any way limit, void or affect the other provi '	'
file
Agreement
9
o
O'
p
Or
Clause 11
WELFARE PLAN & PENSION PLAN

.01 Effectivethe first day of the month following the completion of fifty-two (52) working shifts the Employer shall continue to provide a Welfare Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement (excluding those listed hereunder) with the following benefits:
Life Insurance in the sum of $20,000.00 upon death from any cause whatever / 7 o£>//]
Accidental Death and Dismemberments th6 principal-sum of $20,000 00 both occupational and nonoccupational coverage, on the following schedule af
(a)
(b)
losses
G-l.
7<P
Amount Payable
The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum The Principal Sum
Nature of Loss
Life
The sight of both eyes Either both hands or both feet One hand and one foot The sight of one eye and either one hand or one foot Both the thumb and index finger of one hand	Quarter of the Principal Sum
One hand or one foot or
the sight of one eye	Half the Principal Sum
The Principal Sum
Monthly benefit paid to surviving spouse equal to 25% of monthly rate of base earnings of member at time of death, payable until death or remarriage of spouse^ v
Sick benefit covering all employees in the sum Cf 65% of the employee's gross weekly base rate,for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks to become effective on the first
day in the event of a non-compensableaccident and on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness
Notwithstanding the above, the weekly amounts payable shall be equivalent to or greater than the amount payable underthe Unemployment Insurance Commission Program
10
In addition, any employee with over (7) years' seniority that is on weekly indemnity may, at his option, make up his benefit to full salary by using accumulated sick days to the maximum payable as per Clause 11 03(d)
On presentation of a receipt from the Physician, an employee shall be reimbursed up to ten (10) dollars for each Physician's statement completed in each sickness or accident period
To apply for sick benefit an employee must obtain the appropriate Sick Benefit application forms from the Employer
(e)	Extended Health Benefits Plan equivalent to the
coverage provided by the Medical Servigas Association of British Columbia	// '
Medical Travel Insurance benefits as provided for in Appendix A (attached)
(f)	Medical coverage and benefits equivalent to those
provided by the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia	/fa ///
(g)	A Dental Plan providing the following coverage 100% payment for claims for Plan A (Basic Services),,.,
75% payment of claims for Plan B (prosthetic appliances crown and bridge procedures)
50% payment of claims for Plan C (Orthodontics) to a maximum of $1,500 00 per life
(h)	A Long Temrtstisability Plan providing a benefit of thjity-threa^(33vtercent (effective April 1, 1985 forty ^0)percic^& an employees weekly base rate to fcoramence after weekly indemnity ceases, payable
, Wage 65 This benefit to be reduced by any amount payable by the Canada Pension Disability Plan^^
(i)	Effective August 1, 1984 an optical plan to provide $100 00 of coverage each two year period applicable to each eligible person
11.02	The cost of the benefits contained in Clause 11 shall be borne 100% by the Employer,	A
11
01
tr
11.03	Sick leave
(a)	Commencing on the 1st«rff1F)e month following completion of the probationary period (per Clause 19.01
(a)) all employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one-half (V2) day per month for each month wages are earned. For the purpose of this clause, wages shall include Weekly Indemnity and Workers’ Compensation-Benefits
Employees who accumulate siqkjeave in excess of thirty (30) days shall receive suchexcess days accumulated in the contract year in cash or as time off at the employee's option in the following contract year at a mutually agreeable time at their regular rate of pay. Effgettv&August 1,1984, employees over ane 60 ^rftheir option, accumulate these sick days indefinitely at (he rate-eFfSay in effect when the days are earned. Each employee shall decide his op- * tion by April 30th of each year.
(b)	Where any absence, occasioned by sickness or accident is not covered for payment by either the Sick Benefit (11.01 (d) of this Clause) or Compensation, employeesshall draw on time so accumulated in the following manner:
First day of Absence — One Half (V2) day’s pay. Second day of Absence — One Full day’s pay.
Third day of Absence — One Full day’s pay. thereafter, the balance of accumulated Sick leave to be applied and paid at the full daily rate for each day the employee’s absence exceeds fifty-two (52) weeks. Employees absent due to a workers’ compensable accident shall draw on accumulated sick leave to provide a full day's pay on the day of such accident. The Employer may also request a report from a qualified medical practicioner for any illness of three (3) days or less if it appearsthat a pattern of absence is developing.
Employees with an existing accumulated balance of 30 days and over shall receive full pay on the first
12
day of absence Sick pay shall not be payable once notice of employment termination has been given unless a physician's statement is submitted
It is mutually agreed, the maximum loss of pay up to the payment date of the sick benefit as per 11 01
(c)	on account of absence due to sickness shall be one-half (V2) day
Upon termination of employment for any reason an' employee having completed
7 ye^rs of service will receive 33% of accumulated
sipk" days owing
14 yea.rs'bf service will receive 66% of accumulated sici days owing
18 years of service will receive 100% Of accumulated sicM days owing, up to a maximum 30 days y
11.04	Funeral Leave	'	*
In the event of death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant upto three (3) working days leave of absence with pay to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral The term "immediate family" shall mean spouse (including common-law spouse providing he or she is registeredas a dependent under Clause 11), parents, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law	^
11.05 Leave of Absence
An employee, after one (1) full year of continuous full-time service may request in writing, and within fourteen (14) calendar days of the effective date (except under extraordinary circumstances)a leave of absence without pay once every two (2) year period and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld Further leaves may be granted for compassionate reasonsonly The basis'of refusalshall be when such leave wfllTiriBuly affect the efficient operation of the employee’s workplace If such leave of absence is u&edjorpurpsoes other than those Tor which it is granted, jt shall be causeToFdTsmts'sal
13
11.06	Pension
The Employers shall continue to participate intheopera-[ trusteed Pension Plan in accordance with tttached hereto which shall form part of this
11.07
(a)	When an employee goes off work ill or on compensation or grievance procedure is invoked on his discharge, the Company shall continue to pay both his welfare fees and Union dues so that at all times, the employee shall be protected to the utmost.
(b)	To provide payment for the above mentioned welfare benefits, an employee must leave sufficient funds with the Employer or pay, or have paid on his behalf, in advance, the monthly payments direct to the Employer.
(c)	For the purpose of this Clause only, any employee off ill or on Compensation shall be deemed to be on the payroll.
(d)	All working time lost by an employee due to completing driver's tests or doctor's examinations shall,. provided such test or examinations are required by his Employer, be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
11.08	Exclusions
(a)	Employees (Summer Help) per Clause 30,02
(b)	Part time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who do not work more than fifty percent (50%) of the standard work week for their job classification.
These employees shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause 11, Welfare Plan.
Clause 12
COMPENSATION COVERAGE
12.01	When employees on compensation are directed by
the Compensation Board or their physician that they may
14
return to work, they shall be returned to their previous job and rate of pay for a period of two (2,)weeks to see if they are capable of performing the job held at the time of injury, and if so, shall be kept on the payroll.
In the event the previousjob no longer exists, the employee shall be given a job of comparable nature subject to the provisions of Clause 19,
Notwithstanding the above, when an employee returns to work following compensation with any limitations on his ability to perform all functions of his job, the Employer reserves the right to obtain additional medical clarification.
Clause 13 PAY DAYS
13.01	Employees shall be paid every second week. Pay day shall be on Thursday when possible but no later than Friday. The amount paid shall include all sums owing by way of wages earned up to and including the Saturday previous.
Should such payment be impossible due to circumstances beyond the Employer's control, such employees shall receive an advance approximating the regular pay.
13.02	When pay day falls on a Statutory Holiday or an employees' day off, such employees shall have the privilege of drawing their pay cheques the previous bank day.
Clause 14 PAY STATEMENTS
14.01
(a) All employees will be given a statement with their pay cheques showing the period for which the cheque is issued, the base earnings, extra earnings such as Statutory Holiday pay, accumulated earningsto date, accumulated overtime hours, -and an itemization
15
of deductions. Premium pay and shift differential will show separately.
(b)	Accumulated sick leave (Clause 11.03 (a)) owing shall be shown on April 1st and October 1st of each year.
Clause 15
POSTING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
(a)	All new routes, vacant routes and positions shall be posted immediately on the bulletin boardsat all operations in the district concerned for a period of ninety-six (96) hours, excluding Sundays, with details of earnings, units, hours of work, days off, and any other pertinent information. There shall be no changes in requirements of posted vacancies during time of posting.
(b)	Any employee desiring the new route, vacant route or position shall make application to the necessary manager within the period of posting. There will be atrial period notto exceed three working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former route or position. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
(c)	Unsuccessful applicants under Section (b) above shall be considered in the filling of any route or position arising out of the original vacancy.
(d)	Application for vacant routes shall not be entertained if the applicant has applied for and been given a vacant route within the last six (6) months.
In the event that no suitable applicant is availableand the position cannot be filled from within the department, or that the vacancy is a newly created route, then Clause 15.01 (d) will be waived.
15.01	Routes
16
(e)
■l(£)
There shall be only one posting created by a ROUTE vacancy, provided that any vacancy of a Relief Drivers, Holiday Relief or Route Foreman's position shall be posted.
(f) If a higher classification of driver’s license is required for any driving job due to change or vehicle replacement, the cost of obtaining such license shall be borne by the Employer.
15.02	Inside
(a)	On completion of shifts and days off selection as outlined in Clause 24.04, all vacancies or promotions shall be posted immediately for a period of ninety-six (96) hours excluding Sundays at all operations in the district concerned. Details of earnings, hours of work and days off to be on all postings.
(b)	Any inside employee desiring the vacancy or promotion shall make written application to the Plant Superintendent within the period of posting. There will be a trial period not to exceed three working weeks during which the employee and/or the Employer can determine if the successful applicant is suitable, failing which the applicant will revert to his former positon. The trial period may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties. Any such agreement for extension shall be put in writing with a copy sent to the Union.
(c)	Any vacancy or promotion for an inside employee, shall result in one posting, plus a maximum of two (2) additional postings.
(d)	The Union shall be notified in writing in the event the vacancy is not posted within fourteen (14) calendar days.
15.03	Miscellaneous
(a) In determining vacancies and promotions, seniority shall be on a departmental basis (except as contained elsewhere in this Clause) as follows:
17
(b)
(i) Production Department — to include all employees on the Productionand Farm Pick-Up Payrolls	—
(jj) Salesand Distribution— toincludeall Salesand Distribution Department employees including inside employees (except Valley Branch) at nonprocessing operations
(iii) Other — to include Office and Laboratory employeesinthe Central District only as described in Clause 19 of this Agreement
The filling of vacancies for positions described under Schedule A (Wages) of this Agreement — Production Department Classifications A, B, C and D shall be filled on the basis of previous production department experience with the successful employees filling vacancies for specialized classifications of Tetra Operator, Cheesemaker (Cheddar), Cheesemaker (Cottage), Buttermaker, Ice Cream Maker, Pasteurizer and C I P Operator shall fulfill a training period and in addition, a non-mobility period whereby they will not be accepted to other vacant positions
Mir the specialized job classifications of Tetra Operator, Cheesemaker (Cheddar) and Cheesemaker (Cottage), the training period will be one (1) year and in addition, a non-mobility period of two (2) years
For the specialized job classification of Buttermaker the training period will be three months and in addition a non-mobility period of nine months For the specialized job classifications of Pasteurizer, C I P Operator and Ice Cream Maker the training period will be six months and a non-mobility period of one year
The filling of vacancies and promotionsshall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been oirth6 payroll of the Employerinthe department
concerned or without reference to department as contained in Section (d) of this Clause, other considerations such as ability and qualifications,being equal
t oy\
18 /
Only those persons who have been in a posted or assigned positionfor a minimum of six (6) months may apply for new postings or vacancies.
Any employee desiring to change from one branch to another in the same department or without reference to department as contained in Section (d) of this Clause may make written applicationto do so and all such applications will be considered in conjunction with those submitted as above for any vacancy which occurs in the branch to which transfer is requested.
(d)	Applications for vacant positions of Print Machine Operator, Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream Operator, Creamer Operator, Checker and/or Loader (Fluid), Checker and/or Loader (Ice Cream), Dairyworker, Night Watchman, Janitor — Heavy Work (with certificate), Janitor— Light work, Retail DriverSalesman, and Truck Driver will be accepted without reference to department, other considerations such as ability and qualifications being equal.
(e)	No employee shall accumulate departmental seniority for bidding on a job unless he is already in a posted position. The employee will, however, accumulate company seniority as per Clause 19.01 (b).
The results of all postings to be announced and the employees affected to be notified within seven (7) days. A copy of such announcement will be sent to the Union office.
In the event the successful applicant is not assigned to the new position within fourteen (14) calendar days, the Company shall notify the Union.
If such vacancies or promotions are filled by other than the senior applicant, the Employer shall notify an Officer of the Union prior to making an announcement and shall supply them with the names of all applicants for the vacancy or promotion.
19
	Upon request from the Shop Steward, unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing as to the reason why they were not chosen for the promotion or vacancy.
(9	The time limit for posting of vacancies and promotions may be lowered in cases of extreme emergencies and only with the consent of the Union.
(g)	All new or vacant routes or positions must be posted. Any vacancy that occurred because of sickness or accident shall be consideredtemporary (and shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Clause 24.04 provided retraining is not necessary) until such time as medical evidence indicates the employee will not be returning to his former job or position.
(h)	Applicants already on the payroll shall be given the new route, vacant route or positions before new employees are hired. Employees on days off or holidays shall be notified of vacancies by the Employer provided the employee, in writing has requested a change.
(i)	The Employer shall post on the bulletin boards at all operations on January 15th and July 15th of each year a list of all employees in the bargaining unit with their date of commencement of employment and their current classification. A copy of such list or lists shall be given to the Union.
0)	Any classified vacancies shall be posted to allow plant employees first opportunity prior to using summer help. The Employer reserves the right (per Clause 10) to assign regular employees to such jobs.
(k)	The position of Chargehand for any classification within a sub-department will be subject to posting as per Clause 15, but without applying Clause 24.04 and with the understandingthatthe Employerwill retain the right to determine when and where a Chargehand is required and have the option of deciding the necessity of replacing vacated Chargehand positions. Applicants for posted Chargehand positions shall be restricted to those employees working in the areas of responsibility in the Branch where the vacancy exists. 20
Clause 16
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
16.01	The Employer shall negotiate with the Union, the establishment of and the rate of wages to be paid for any classification of work other than those set forth in Schedules “A”, “B”, “C”, “D”, “E” and “F”.
16.02	In the event that the Employer and the Union can not reach agreement concerning any proposed classification of work either party may invoke the Grievance Procedure set forth in Clause 8 of this Contract. The rate established by mutual agreement or Arbitration shall be retroactive to the day the employee was assigned to such position.
Clause 17 LOSS OF WAGES
17.01	No employee shall suffer a reduction in earnings or rate of earnings because of the adoption of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Clause, earnings shall not be deemed to include overtime earnings.
Clause 18 NEW EMPLOYEES
18.01	New, inexperienced employees (excluding Schedule A Classification F Summer Help) shall receive twelve per-cent(12%) lessthanthe rate provided herein, forthe first one hundred and four (104) working shifts; full scale thereafter. This shall include part-time employees.
18.02	Experiencedemployeeswho terminate their employment with one Employer covered by Local 464, then go to work for another Employer (in the same capacity) shall be considered experienced and paid as such, provided the employee is not absent from the trade for a period exceeding six (6) months.
21
Clause 19
SENIORITY — REDUCTION OF STAFF SEVERANCEPAY
19.01	Seniority
(a)
4



/
A
A probationary period ofjifty-two (52) working shifts,
to be completed within a*period oi one PTlinUiyd ynU.
eighty-three (183) consecutive calendar days: shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority and the-Employer shall not be obligated to rehire such employee. The probationary period shall be extended by any working shifts lost due to accident or illness during the probationary period. For Summer Help the probationary period shall be the first period of sup-mer employment (minimum fifty-two (52) working shifts). Upon completion of the probationary period seniority shall date from the date of employment.
Employeeswho have completed their probationary period must register in writing for summer employment by April 1st the following year, if they wish to apply for summer employment in that year.
(b) There shall be two separate seniority lists. Such lists shall be supplied to the Union by the Employer on January 15th and July 15th of each year and shall include all employees covered by this Agreement who have completed their probationary period.
The first list shall coverall employeesotherthan part-? time and summer help employees, and shall show €hename, classification, and date of employment of each employee.
The second list shall cover all part-time employees fthose employees employed for less than the standard worFvJSek tor (heJ){ib classmraTiOh) 'affiysum-. n mer help (Clause 30.02) and shall show the name and of each employee and the number of shifts worked for the Employer.
22
Should a part-time or summer help employee become full-time that employee shall be transferred to the first seniority list and a date of employment for the purposes of seniority shall be determined retroactively on the basis of one calendar month for each 17.3 shifts accumulated.
For a summer-help employee to become full-time, the employee must complete fifty-two (52) shifts of work outside the summer period or from the date of applying for and'receiving a permanent position.
19.02	Reduction of Staff
(a) Whenever it is necessary to reduce the number of employees for any reason whatsoeverthe employees shall be considered ,as_laid_of^and will be rghirgjyji "'i ^ order of seniority provided that the Em plover may app- -^ly to the Union for its consent to waive seniority in any case where the jbility and qualifications of a par-. ticular employee are supstantiany superior to those t of a more senior employee ana provided further that such superior ability and qualifications are necessary for the job involved.	/?/
The onus of establishing the matters aforesatuashal be on the Employer.
(b) A reduction in staff may only be effected by the lay- __ ingoffofthe least senior employee in accordancewith 2 the following procedure, recognizing the Departments and Districts listed below.
Departments 1. Production
2.	Sales and Distribution
3.	Other
Districts
1.	Lower Mainland — Squamish, Vancouver, Burnaby, Valley, Delair, Sardis, Hope and Sechelt.
2.	Vancouver Island — Victoria, Nanaimo, Port Alberni, Courtenay, Campbell River and Powell River.
3.	Central — Williams Lake, Cache Creek, Kamloops, Armstrong, Kelowna, Vernon and Penticton.
23
4.	Northern— Vanderhoof, Burns Lake, Smithers, Terrace, Kitimat, Prince Rupert, MacKenzie, Prince George and Quesnel.
5.	Kootenays — Cranbrook, Castlegar, Golden and Revelstoke.
Procedure for reduction of staff:
(j) District 1 and 3— (Lower Mainland and Central)
1,	Where the Employereliminates a job process, route or position, the employee displaced shall be the least senior employee within the Department affected in the Plant or Branch concerned.
t 2. The displaced employee from Step 1 (above) g shall displace the least senior employee within his Department in the District concerned.
The displaced employee from Steps 1 and 2 (above) shall displace the least senior employee within the District concerned, regardless of Department.
4. The displaced employee from the above Steps shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis, regardless of District or Department.
(jj) Districts2,4 and 5 (Vancouver Island, Kootenays and Northern)
1.	Where the Employer eliminates a job process route or positon, the employee displaced shall be the least senior employee in the Plant or Branch concerned.
2.	The displaced employee from Step (ii) 1 (above) shall displace the least senior employee within the District concerned, regardless of Department.
3.	The displaced employee from the above Step (ii) shall displace the least senior employee on an overall seniority basis, regardless of District or Department,
24
(C)
(iii) Temporary Lay-offs
A temporary general reduction of staff dictated by supply, exceptional weather conditions, or suspension of an operation due to maintenance or unscheduled break-down shall be by seniority (as per Clause 19.02 (a)) and shall affect only the job classification in the Department in the Plant or Branch concerned As in 19.02 (a) of this Clause, the Employer may apply to the Union for its consent to waive seniority and the Union, within the terms stipulated in
19.02	(a), undertakes to consider such application
Any employee laid off from a posted position will be afforded the option to waive the reduction of staff procedure and accept a lay-off from the Branch/Plant in which they were employed with the right of recall to that Branch/Plant only This option must be completed and signed at the time of lay-off from his/her permanent positon and will provide recall to a vacant position
Employees laid off pursuant to this Clause shall retain the right to be rphirpdfnr fiftv-twnYfi?! wppkg from ) the date ofinitial lay-off from permanent or part-time status provided that the employee shall leave with the Employer an address and telephone number at which the employee can be served notice of rehire The onus shall rest with the employee to maintain a correct address and telephone number The date of initial layoff will be advanced forward by fifty-two (52) weeks if the employee has worked a minimum of one hundred and four (104) shifts in the previous fifty-two (52) week period On completion of the above shifts, this would provide
1.	Renewal of the 52 week right of recall, and
2.	The opportunity to renew the lay-off option previously selected.
Seniority shall not accumulate during the lay-off period. Any employee failing within seven (7) calen-
25
dar days to respondto a notice of recallshall be deemed to have forfeited both the right to recall and seniority.
Where any dispute arises such dispute shall constitute a grievance and shall be settled pursuantto the provisions of Clause 8 of this Agreement.
(e) Employeeswho leave the bargainingunit but remain in the employ of the Employer, shall have the right to re-enter the bargainingunit and retain their full company seniority unless terminated.
19.03	Severance Pay	t

(a)	Severance pay shall apply to all employees.
(b)	In respect to an employee whose termination arises,
out of or is attributable to:	sr t pL©
1.	The elimination of a job process, or
2.	The introduction otequipment or methods which reduces the numbei u1 employees, provided he has five (5) years or more service, he shall be eligible for severance pay at the rate paid at the time of severance.

(c)
/
5 (d)
All employees with two; (2) to five (5) years of service^ shall receive two-(2) weeks’severance pay when ter-/* mination is due to reasdfns outlined in this section. Additional severance pay shall accrue at the rate of , two (2) weeks of full pay for each year of service com- •, mending with the sixth (6th) year of service but shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) weeksof full pay. y* Upon termination such employee'shall beplaced on the rehire list as provided for in Section 19.02 (c) of-this Clause, for a period of four (4) weeks. At the end of four (4) weeks, the employee so affected shall have the option of remaining on the rehire list or accepting severance pay.
Should he elect to remain on the rehire list, he may . renew his option every fourth (4th) week but in any event, providing no suitable employment has been provided by the Employer, he must accept severance pay not later than fifty-two (52) weeks from the date of termination.
26
(e)	Any employee electing to take severance pay under the terms set out above shall forfeit all rights under this Agreement
Any employee electing to retire on pension prior to normal retirement age shall not be eligible for severance pay
(f)	Severance pay shall be paid in addition to all other sums owing to the employee
Clause 20 MINIMUM PAY
20.01	When an employee is called to work on any of his | days off he shall receive a minimum of four f4) hours- pay or pay at the overtime ratesJbr'all time worked, whichever is the greater.	1/	y
Overtime may betaken, at the employee’soption, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date. _	/
.5*
Clause 21
EATING AND REST PERIOD
21.01	No employees shall be worked longer than five (5) hours without a half hour off for the purpose of eating a
meal.
21.02	All employees shall be entitled to a tea'Tnirfute break in the forenoon and afternoon, without loss of pay.
21.03	All employees shall be entitled to a paid ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift if overtime in excess of one (1) additional hour is anticipated.
Clause 22
ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
22.01	Employees who may, because of the seasonal nature of the work, be employed in such a manner as to
27
Vo
be subject to short periods of lay-off, shall accumulate working time in successive years toward holiday schedule and shall receive pro-rated holiday pay depending on the number of months worked.
months worked-2 weeks holiday or 4% months worked-3 weeks holiday or 6°/o months worked-4 weeks holiday or 8% months worked-5 weeks holiday or10% months worked-6 weeks holiday or12% months worked-7 weeks holiday CM40/o
holiday pay holiday pay holiday pay holiday pay holiday pay holiday pay
22.02	All employees with one (1) year or more service shall / receive two (2) weeks off with full pay or 4% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with two (2) years or more service shall receivethree (3) weeks 7 off with full pay or 6% of their annual earnings, whichever , . is the greater, All employees with seven (7)years or more service shall receive four (4) weeks off with full pay or 8% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All. , employees with fourteen (14) years or more service shall receive five (5) weeks off with full payor 10% of their annual earnings, whichever is the greater. All employees with i 4 eighteen (18) years or more service shall receive six (6) V weeks off with full pay or 12% of their annual earnings, whichever isthe greater. All employeeswith twenty-five (25) years or more service shall receive seven (7) weeks off with full pay or 14% of their annual earnings, whichever isthe greater, provided however, that any employee off ill, or on compensation shall be given an annual holiday credit of:
(a)	2 months if entitled to two weeks
(b)	3 months if entitled to three weeks
(c)	4 months if entitled to four weeks
(d)	5 months if entitled to five weeks
(e)	6 months if entitled to six weeks
(f)	7 months if entitled to seven weeks
in addition to all time worked during the year, provided further the sum of time credited and time worked does not
28
exceed one (1)year, and provided such employee worked for his regular Employer during some part of the year.
22.03	Two weeks of these annual holidays, unless the employees entitled to same have, on their first selection, elected to take all or any portion of their annual holidays within the months of October to April inclusive, shall be given the employees entitled to same in the months May to September inclusive. All employees in each group shall be given the opportunity to choose their holiday dates in order of their seniority, i.e. length of service. Choice of holidays under each holiday reliefman or wherever possible without reference to the holiday reliefman, shall be as nearly proportionate as possible in terms of seniority. Annual holidays will constitute fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days off provided the days of annual holidays within the fourteen consecutive days does not exceed the employee's entitlement to holiday.
All periodsof the year, save for December24th to January ’ 2nd at Sardis, and the week immediately preceeding Christmasfor Wholesale, shall be available for holidaysand shall be posted.
22.04	All employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks holiday may select all or any portion of their holiday entitlement in one continuous period providing they take their holidays in the months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the summer period will be posted by January 31st and all vacation selections must be completed by April 1st. It is the employee's responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
Employees taking all their holidays within the winter schedule shall indicate the period desired and shall be given same on the basis of their seniority.
22.05	Any employee requesting holidays during the months May to September inclusive shall, at their option, receive two (2) weeks in one continuous period. Employees entitled to five (5) weeks or more of annual holidays requesting annual holidays during the months May to September in-
29
elusive may receive, at their option three (3) weeks in one continuous period. The remainder of the holidaysto which such employee is entitled shall he given duringthe months October to April inclusive.
Vacation schedules for the winter period will be posted by June 15th and all vacation selections must be completed by September 1st. It isthe employee’s responsibility to sign up for holidays by this time, otherwise more junior employees may have first choice or holidays may be refused during this time slot.
22.06
(a)	In the event the application of holiday selection as outlined above results in single weeks left open on the holiday schedule, an employee may select one of the single weeks on his or her first choice.
This selectionof one week in the summer period shall constitute that employee's entire first, second or third choice with any further holiday entitlement being selected from available time in order of seniority.
(b)	Should available time remain open on a holiday schedule after all employees covered by the schedule have made their first selection, the employees shall have the option of making additional summer period selections in order of seniority.
These additional selections, if any, shall be for one (1) week periods only and shall in no way limit the selections in order of seniority on the winter schedule.
22.07	The completed list of holiday periodsfor the months May to September inclusive shall be posted by January 31st and completed by April 1st of each year, and must also show the dates chosen by employees electingto take-holidays in the monthsOctober to April inclusive. The completed list of holiday periods for the months October to April inclusive shall be posted by June 15th and completed by September 1st of each year.
22.08	All accumulated paidtime off such assickdays(as per Clause 11), Statutory Holidays(as per Clause23), and overtime (as per Clause24 and 34)owing for the previous
30
twelve (12) month period ending March31 may be selected in order of seniority in the same fashion as Annual Holidays and taken during the months of October to April inclusive.
22.09	Each employee shall be entitled to thirty (30) days advance notice of any change of the dates of his annual holidays from the date shown in the completed lists of holiday periods provided such change is occasioned by anything other than accident or illness, or unless such change is mutually agreeable to the parties involved.
22.10	It is recognizedthatthe Fraser Valley Milk Producers Co-operative Association uses April 1st as a common an-niversarydate for computing vacation pay and entitlement.
(
22.11	All employees terminating their employment shall receive 4%; 6%; 8%; T0%; 12%; or 14% of their annual \ earnings in lieu of holidays to which they are entitled. |
22.12	IceCream Driver Salesmen shall beginning with the holiday season of 1970, be divided into two (2) groups, as nearly equal in numbers as possible according to seniority. Group one (1) shall contain the senior (based on length of service) driver salesmen. Those with less seniority shall be placed in order in group two (2). Those driver salesmen in group one (1) shall be given two (2) weeks (or three (3)
^^Wfeeks as per Clause 22.05) of their annual holidays for / 1970;n the months of Mayto September inclusive. Those \jn,group two (2) shall be given two (2) weeks (or three (3)
■ as per Clause 22.05) of their annual holidays for 1971 the months of Mayto September inclusive. The ,__cyetb shall then be repeated. Ice Cream Driver Salesmen receiving two (2) or three (3) weeks of their annual holidays under the schedule shall not be allowed to transfer holiday dates, but may elect to take their holidays outside this period.
Clause 23
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
23.01	All employees shall receive ten (10L Statutory Holidaysand all holidays proclaimed by efmbrthe Federal or the Provincial Government with full pay during the year. The Statutory Holidays shall be:
31
New Year's Day Good Friday Empire Day Dominion Day B.C. Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
23.02	All employees shall receive one (IL,^ Statutory Holiday with full pay to be givet^rna agreed upon date for each employee. ^
This provision shall not apply to:	'
dditional
mutually
(a)	Employees whose term of employment does not exceed the probationary pprjod (per Clause 19.01 (a)).
(b)	Employees (Summer brelp) whose term of employment does not exceed the period May 1st, to September 15th, inclusive.
23.03	Each employee shall be entitled to seven (7) days advance notice prior to receiving Statutory Holidays.
23.04	Each employee shall be entitled to four (4) days advance notice prior to cancellation of Statutory Holidays. Any Statutory Holiday cancelled with less than four (4) days advance notice shall accrue at the rate of two (2) days for each day so cancelled.
23.05	Statutory Holidays shall not be given in advance save by mutual consent of the Employer and the employee.
23.06	Whenever possible, time off for Statutory Holidays will be given on the day of the Statutory Holiday but when this is not possible any one required to work on a Statutory .^yjHoliday shall havethe option of being paid at double time , plus an accrued day off with pay or straight time plusthe f accrual of two (2) additional days off with pay which shall be tied to	given to those entitled to
same in the months October to April inclusive. Any Statutory Holidays owing as of April 30th each year that have not been given in time off as per Clause 22.08, shall be paid for in cash in the following pay period at the rate nf dnnhio time No wholesale or retail routes shall go out on Christmas Day or New Year's Day.
32
The Employer will post a list of time available during which statutory holidays owing may be taken. This time may be selected and will be awarded on the basis of seniority; any remaining time available will be assigned in reverse order of seniority.
23.07	All employees shall receive all Statutory Holidays with full pay which fall while they are on the payroll save for:
I. Part-time employees (per Clause 19.01 (b)) who shal. receive on April 1st of each year payment of Statutory Holidays as per Clause 23.01 prorated according to the, number of shifts worked inf ' elve month '
II. Summer Help (per Clause 30.02) who shall receive on termination date payment of Statutory Holidaysas per Clause23.01 prorated accordingto the number of shifts worked in the summer season.
It is agreed that should the number of Statutory Holidays be increased by the Federal or Provincial Government the prorated payment will be based on the increased "■
23.08 An employee shall be entitledto a paid de such Statutory Holiday even if it falls on his we
or time off taken in lieu thereof or on his ann
Statutory Holiday even when he or she is off through illness, quarantine, compensation or lay-off, providing he or she is not absent for a period exceeding thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the Statutory Holiday. This payment will represent the difference between compensation or sick leave payment and his/her regular pay for that day.
Clause 24
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - INSIDE AND DRIVERS (NOT DRIVER SALESMEN)
24.01	The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Nine (9)hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
period.
23.09 Each permanent employee shall be
33
+1-1
FoLice-sroaffl-prod-uction staff the work week shall be four ?4) nine (9) hour siws or other shifts mutually agreed to by the parties.	r"' ”	~
All time worked	4f ttlf r°n"lgl'HgilY gllift of nine'
(9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time. /
-e;	$V//7
Whenever necessary, the eight (SJhour shift shall continue ' to be applied at the Sardis operation.
Overtime may betaken, at the employee’soption, in money ^or_inJime_off at a mutually agreed upon date.
No employee shall be required to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week ppvidepKhowever:
(i)	Hours worked on days off are not jctcludepr
(ii)	Shifts must be completed as required.
(iii)	Overtime resulting from start up of new equipment not included.
There shall be a minimum break of ten (10) hours between regular scheduled shifts, excluding overtime. There shall be no split shifts.
All overtime pay will be calculated on the base hourly rate and will not include any shift differential and/or premium pay. All overtime will be paid out or taken as time off by April 30th following the calendar year in which it is earned.
24.02	All inside employees and drivers (not driver
Salesmen) working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.	/'P‘4'7
24.03	A schedule of time off shall be posted so that in-
side employees and drivers (not driver Salesmen) shall have at least seven (7) days advance notice of days off^ Any employee required to work on any of his days oftshafl be paid at double time for all hours worked.	J'l
Employees shall receive twenty-four (24) hours notie^for change of shifts except for the following reasons:
34
(i)	Short notice absenteeism of other employees.
(ii)	Reasons as outlined under Clause 9.01 (a).
24.04
(a) Seniority within the job classification shall be a determining factor in the selection nf days-off and shift tn be worked The Employer shall retain the right at air 'times’tosee that the required number of experienced employees is available on each shift, to ensure proper and efficient operation. If the person with the most seniority is away then the next most senior person has first option on that shift providing it becomes necessary to replace the most senior person with other than regular relief personnel.
(b)
Experienced workers regularly working a full shift who are directed to another shift by the Employer shall, be guaranteed aTuTi~shifTspayi	"	'
24.05	There shall be no plant work done in the ice cream department on Sundays, except in cases of emergency.
24.06	Days and Hours of Work and Overtime — Farm Tanker and Interplant Drivers — F.V.M.P.C.A.
(a)	The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36)hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
All time worked in excess of the regular daily shift of eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or intime off at a mutually agreed upon date.
(b)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day’s work until he has completed all duties including additional pick-ups and/or deliveries if any, required of him by the Company, and
35
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck, refueled and checked his truck: balanced his daily load sheet or other record of goods supplied or deliveries made; completed any other necessary records: and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
,ln the event that any of these drivers completes his "ork in less than eight (8) hours, nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, in any one day, he shall be deemed Jo-have worked ? full shift ?n ttlat day
24.07 All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they are earned. All premium pay including overtime shall be calculated on the classified base rate.
24.08 Each Driver shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
24.09 All farm and inter-plant tanker drivers shall be entitled to one-half (%) hour for lunch during the unloading period. This one-half (Y2) hour period shall be calculated as part of the regular work shift.
upon completionof hisshift, a completed and properly identifiedtachometer or recorder card from all vehicles equipped with recording devices.
24.10 All drivers must submit
Clause 25
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
25.01 This Clause shall apply to all employees excluding*! nightwatchmen, and janitors. Any employee working a dai-' ly shift starting between 12 noon and 12 midnight shall receive an extra $1.65 per, hour tor all hours worked dur-ing/he shift.
Any employee commencing a daily shift ^afnre6-00f» a.m. shall receive an extra $1.65 per hour for all hours"
worked prior to 8:00 aTrm
I oof!
25.03 Any time less than ten (10) minutes will not be computed, except where it is a daily or nearly daily occurrence,
36
then all times shall be computed and totalled, and paid for in each pay period.
25.04 Any employee working	(any shift that >
includes Sunday as a regularly scheduled work day) shall be paid a premium of $1.65 per hour (in addition to any | other shift premium that may be applicable) for all hours
25.05 Clause 25 does not apph	,
26.01	Reliefman — A relief dairyworker is an employee who relieves on two or more different job classifications other than his/her own during the work week.
26.02	Employment.— Other Classifications — When an employee is required to fill the place of another employee receiving a higher rate of pay, if only for a day or the greater part of a day, he shall receive the higher rate, but if he is required to fill temporarily, the place of another employee, receivinga lower rate, his fgfe ^;jjj ^ Jjechanged to the lower rate.
This provision shall not apply when uuc iu im,k of work an employee may be reclassified.
26.03
(a)	Combination of Classifications (Seasonal or otherwise) — All employees shall be employed in a manner conforming to the listed classifications. It is recognized that the nature of an operation or the season of the year may render it necessary to combine two or more classifications.
(b)	Any employee affected by the combining of his classification with any other classificationor with work performed under the classification of Dairy Worker shall be paid at the highest rate of the combined classifications.
worked on Sunday.
Clause 26
UTILIZATION OF EMPLOYMENT
37
Clause 27 WORK CLOTHES
27.01	All inside employees shall be provided with (at no cost to them) clean uniforms, coveralls or smocks, whichever is applicable, as well as gloves, to those requiring same. These clean clothes will be supplied no less than once a week and shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.02	The Company shall provide each driver with a clean uniform at least once per week. These uniforms shall be Union made and Union serviced.
27.03	The Company shall provide suitable protective
driver salesmen working in or out of cold hold trucks. 27.04 All clothing and uniforms to be supplied and/or serviced by a company under contract to a Teamster Local Union, provided the rates are competitive.
28.01	All working time lost by an employee due to necessary attendance on Jury Duty or any court proceedings arising out of his employment shall be paid for at the rate of pay applicable to said employee.
28.02	Any employee on Jury Duty shall, subject to this pro-
vision, make himself available for work before or after being required for such duty, wherever practicable. All jury duty pay or witness fees received by the employee from *i-----*s shall be reimbursed to the Employer.
29.01	Fluid Milk
If, at any time, a driver salesman’s, reliefman’s, holiday reliefman’s or route foreman’s time off should be post-
Clause 28 JURY DUTY
Clause 29
POSTPONEMENT OF TIME OFF
38
poned for any reason, he shall be paid extra for the time worked, or have the time off, at his option, on the following pay period at the rate of double time
29.02	Ice Cream
If at any time, an employee's time off should be postponed for any reason, he shall be paid extra for the time worked, on the following pay period at the rate of double time for each day so postponed, or, at the employee's option, two days off at a mutually agreed upon date for each day
so postponed
Clause 30
PERIOD OF SUMMER SEASON
30101 The summer season shall be defined as the time of year between and including the 1st of May and the 15th of September.
30.02	Employees employed specifically for the period defined in Section 30.01, shall be classed as summer help and paid at the rate applicable, it being understood that any employee working at a classified occupation shall be paid the classified rate whilst so employed, subject to the provisions of Clause 18.01.
30.03	Summer help who have accumulated five (5) years or more of seniority, as per Clause 22.01, will be paid at the full classified rate.
Clause 31
CREDIT ON ROUTES
31.01	Credit on the routes and the rules and regulations thereof are the sole responsibility of the Employer as the Employer is the sole person who can control and regulate the credit through their employees. The Employer shall keep posted in a conspicuous place the rules and regulations regarding credit. The Employer is solely respon-
39
K NJ
sible for bad debts providing that the regulations in effect regarding the granting of credit have been observed by the employee and enforced by the Employer.
31.02	The Employer shall provide each retail driver salesman with suitable credit application forms which, if the Employer so requires, shall be completed by any customer requiring credit. The completed form shall be returned to the Employerfor his approval or rejectionand such approval or rejection of credit shall be indicated by the Employer in an appropriate place in the driver's route book records and shall constituteeither approval or rejection by the Employer of the customer's application for credit.
31.03	If the stated policy of the Employer is not to grant or recognize credit to any retail customer, no retail driver salesman employed by that Employer shall be held responsible for any monies owing by a customer to whom he has not granted credit nor shall there be any discrimination against any driver who refuses to grant credit to any retail customer in accordance with the stated policy of the Employer.
Clause 32
KEEPING PROPER RECORDS
32.01	Each salesman shall, subject to the control of the Employer, keep proper route books and make due and correct entries therein, of all transactions and dealings of and in reference to the business of the Employer insofar as the same comes under his jurisdiction and shall serve the Employer diligently and according to the best of his abilities in all respects.
Clause 33
PERFORMANCE OF DUTY
33.01	Each employee, while on duty, shall devote the whole of his time, attention and energies to the perfor-
40
mance of his duties and, shall not, during the term of his employment at any time, alone, in partnership or in association, be connected with or concerned in any other business directly or indirectly connected with the milk business.
Clause 34
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND TIME OFF (DRIVER SALESMEN)
34.01	Time clocks and time cards must be used to provide an accurate and complete record of all time worked. Time cards and copies of pay cheque stubs to be made available to the Union upon request. No employee shall record or be asked to record times other than those which show the following.:
(a)	Starting Time
No retail driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 5:00 A.M., nor make deliveries before 6:00 A.M., except as mutually agreed between the Union and Employer.
No wholesale driver salesman shall commence or be required to commence work before 4:30 A.M. nor make deliveries before 5:00 A.M., except as mutually agreed between the Union and Employer.
(b)	Time on Arrival at the Plant after completion of route (Distribution Department only) before entering driver's room for cashing in purposes.
(c)	Finishing Time
Provided that an employee shall not be deemed to have completed his day's work until he has completed all duties and additional deliveries if any required of him by the Company, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until he has unloaded his truck; checked his truck; refueled and checked oil and coolant levels (excluding propane powered units); balanced his daily load sheet or other record of
41
goods supplied and sales made; completed any other necessary records; and attended at any meeting or interview called or requested by the Company.
34.02	No driver salesman shall perform work of any nature prior to recording his starting time nor after recording his finishing time.
34.03	No Driver Salesman shall be .required by the
Employer to work longer than five (5) hours overtime in any one week.	..
34.04	Should a dispute arise in respect to the time taken to complete a route or routes, no driver salesman, relief-man, holiday reliefman or route foreman shall be subject to any change in status until the Union has investigated the route or routes involved by sending an Agent of the Union along with the employee involved in the dispute or an appointee of the Company
34.05	No driver shall be asked or required to service or maintain trucks or equipment other than fueling vehicles and checking oil and coolant levels (excluding propane powered units). This does not include driving his vehicle to the proper parking area.
34.06
(a)	Each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a ten (10) minute break in the forenoon and afternoon.
(b)	If overtime in excess of ono(1) additional hour isan-ticipated each Driver Salesman shall be entitled to a further ten (10) minute break immediately following the standard shift.
(c)	Each Driver Salesman shall take one-half (V2) hour for lunch.
34.07	All retail and combination routes shall be loaded or prestacked in an approved manner. A pre4imed departure schedule shall be posted so that each route may reach the delivery area not later than 7:00 A M.
34.08	No Driver Salesman shall be required to write out monthly route books. The Employer undertakes to have route books prepared for each driver salesman in sufficient
42
time to allow for the transference of statements from the current book to the new book.
34.09	The basic work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours. Nine (9)hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, and based on the principle of a thirty-six (36) hour work week shall constitute a day's work.
All driver salesmen in posted positions working a four (4) or five (5) day week shall receive at least two (2) consecutive days off each week. Each week shall mean a calendar week defined as Sunday through Saturday.
For ice cream driver salesmen the work week shall be four (4) nine (9) hour shifts or other shifts mutually agreed to by the parties.
There will be no change of days off in a week that contains a Statutory Holiday.
All time worked in excess of the daily shift of nine (9) hours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, shall be paid for at double time.
Overtime may be taken, at the employee's option, in money or in time off at a mutually agreed upon date.
All overtime pay will be calculated on the base hourly rate and will not include any shift differential and/or premium pay. All overtime will be paid out or taken as time off by April 30, following the calendar year in which it is earned.
In the event that any of these driver salesmen completes his work in less than nine (9)h ours, or other shift mutually agreed to by the Parties, whichever is applicable, in any one day, he shall be deemed to have worked a full shift on that day.
All sums earned by way of overtime shall be paid for in the pay period following that in which they were earned and will be calculated on the classified base rate.
34.10
(a) New, inexperienced retail and combination or wholesale driver salesmen shall be excluded from
43
the overtime provisions of this Clause for a period of five (5)calendar weeks from date of assignment to the learning of a route, providing such overtime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delaysorconditionsor overtime not attributable to said driver salesman.
(b) Salesmen who transfer from retail to wholesale or from wholesale to retail or new, experienced driver salesmen (Clause 18, Section 18.02), shall be excluded from the overtime provisions of this clause for a period of three (3) calendar weeks from the date of assignmentto the learningcf a route, providedsuch overtime is not occasioned by:
1.	Mechanical breakdown.
2.	Delaysor conditionsor overtime not attributable to said driver salesman.
Clause 35
DELIVERIES BY SPECIALS
35.01	No deliveries cf a regularly scheduled nature shall be made except to those customers for which a letter of understanding must be obtained and all parties to this Agreement to be so advised.
Clause 36 WAGES
36.01 The Employer shall pay wages to every employee covered by this Agreement at the rates set forth in Schedules”A”, “B”, "C”, “D”, “E”, and “F", hereunto annexed in respect to the various classificationsof work therein contained.
Schedules “A”, “B”, “C”, “D”, “E”, and “F” shall be deemed to be contained in and form a part of this 1 Agreement.	j
In addition to the rates set forth in the above schedules, J* all employees working atQuesnel, B.C. and all branches S North of this location shall receive an additional 10b per hour as a Northern Living Allowance.
44

Clause 37 SAVINGS CLAUSE
37.01	The within Agreement and schedules hereto annexed shall be subject to, and shall be interpreted, and, where necessary altered, varied, or amended from time to time to give effect to the laws enacted by the Parliament of Canada and Province of British Columbia, including amendments thereto and regulations or orders-in-council made or passed thereunder.
37.02	In the event that any Clause or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Partiesaffected, thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of either Party for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Clause or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint. If the parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement,they shall submit the dispute to the procedure as outlined in Clause 8.
37.03	It is clearly understood however, that the Agreement or any Sections thereof, which are not held invalid or restrained, shall continue in effect for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
Clause 38
EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT
38.01
(a)	This Agreement shall be in effect from April 1, 1984 to March 31, 1986, and from year to year thereafter, unless notice of abrogation or amendment shall be given by either party to the other party in writing within four (4) months prior to the anniversary date hereof, in any year.
(b)	All provisionsof this Agreement, shall be fully retroactive to April 1, 1984, except where otherwise noted.
38.02	This Agreement voids all previous agreements or letters of understanding which in any way alters the terms and conditions contained herein.
45
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Party of the First Part has hereunto affixed its seal in the presence of its officers duly authorized therefor and the party of the Second Part has hereunto affixed its signatures by its officers duly authoriz-
ed therefor.		
DATED AT		, British Columbia,
this	day of	1984.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
46
SCHEDULE“A
The following wages shall be paid: PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT ETC.
Classification
A Assistant Foreman B Pasteurizer Class I ice Cream Maker Cheddar Cheesemaker Cottage Cheesemaker Butter Maker
Powder Production Operator (Sardis)
Tetra Operator
C Shipper and/or Dispatcher Pasteurizer Class II
Wages per Hour April 1 April 1 1984	1985
$18.34 $18.79
17.43	17.88
17.43	17.88
17.25	17.70
17.09	17.54
C I P Operator Evaporator Operator (Delair) Sterilizer Operator (Delair) Standard izer Operator (Delair D Filler Machine Operator (Fluid) Assistant Shipper Separator Operator (Sardis) Yogurt Machine Operator Ice Cream Machine Operator Lineman Operator (Delair) Packager
E Print Machine Operator
Cottage Cheese/Sour Cream Operator
Creamer Operator Checker and/or Loader (Fluid) Checker and/or Loader (Ice Cream)
Dairyworker	.
Night Watchman Janitor — Heavy Work Janitor — Light Work
16 76	17 21
15.72
16.76
16.54	16.99
14.90	15.35
47
Classification
Wages per Hour April 1 April 1 1984	1985
F. Summer Help -Checker/Loader Dairy Worker Packager
Premiums:'
^reezerman-#£11 Holiday Retiefmen
^/^efefr
efmen
Charge Hand
$12.34 $12.79 12.17	12.62
11.41	11.86
—40<t per hour premium! —60<t per hour over classification relieved —45$ per hour over classification relieved ^ 55$ per hour over classification of which he is Chargehand.
A premium of 20$ per hour above classified rates provided herein shall be paidto all employees regularly operating a ride-onfork lift or tow-motor fifty percent (50%) or more of their regular shift.
Any employee required to be a First-Aid Attendant shall be paid a premium for the necessary first aid certificate as follows:
“A” Certificate “B” Certificate “C” Certificate
70$ per hour ■60$ per hour ■50$ per hour
SCHEDULE“B”
WHOLESALE SALESMEN
Classification	Wages per Hour
April 1 April 1 1984	1985
Wholesale Salesman and Drivers
Driver Salesman	$17.09	$17,54
Driver Salesman (Semi-Trailer)	17.48	17.93
Driver Salesman (Combination)	17.29	17.74
48
Classification
Wages per Hour
April 1 April 1 1984	1985
Driver Salesman (Combination Semi-Trailer) Route Reliefman Holiday Reliefman Route Foreman Semi-Trailer Driver Train Driver Tank Driver Truck Driver
17.68	18.13
A premium of 150 per hour shall be paid Reliefmen, Holiday Reliefmen or Route Foreman while driving a semitrailer.
Driver Salesmen, Route Foreman, Holiday Reliefmen will receive an additional $2.30 per week when employed on Country overnight runs.
When a pup trailer is added to the unit, the driver will be paid 50 per hour extra per axle over the semi-trailer rate while pulling the pup.
SCHEDULE“C”
RETAIL DRIVER SALESMEN
Classification
Wages per Hour
April 1 April 1 1984	1985
Retail Driver Salesman Route Reliefman Holiday Refiefman   Route Foreman
49
SCHEDULE“D”
OFFICE STAFF (Central District)
Classification
Wages per Hour .. April T April 1 1984	1985
a)	Junior Clerk	$12.06	$12.51
b)	General Clerk Cashier	12.51	12.96
c)	Bookkeeper Steno	12.83	13.28
d)	Summer Help Junior Clerk	10.49	10.94
	General Clerk Cashier	10.88	11.33
e)	Lab Technician	15.73	16.18
HOURS‘ OF WORK (OFFICE STAFF ONLY)
I Seven (7) hours shall constitute a day's work and five (5) , days shall constitute a week’s work, with two (2) con-<fr Sfecutive days off. The Company’may, however, institute .^afour (4) day week consisting of three (3) nine (9) hour clays and one (1) eight (8) hour day with three (3) con-/ secutive days off. All overtime shall be paid for at double time, i.e. after seven (7) hours — eight (8) hour or nine (9) hours whichever is applicable.
SCHEDULE“E” MAINTENANCE
FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
Classification
Wages per Hour April 1 April 1
19.78	20.23
50
Chargehand
Leadhand
Classification
Journeyman Partsman Trade Helper General Helper Partsman Chargehand
Wages per Hour April 1 April 1 1984	1985
19.43	19.85 j
<~3£3§	18~84 I
16.88	17.33
16.43	16.88
18.96	19.41
Stockroom and Stores Area — Burnaby
Shipper/Receiver Chargehand	17.85
Shipper/Receiver	16.88
Supplies Clerk	16.88
Assistant Shipper/Receiver	16.76
Dairyworker	16.43
18.30
17.33
17.33 17.21 16.88
51
STANDARD WORKING HOURS
A.	The standard working day shift shall be of nine (9) hours. The standard working week shall be one of thirty-six (36) hours, with at least two consecutive days off each week. Starting and stopping times will be between 7:00 A.M. and 5:30 P.M with one-half (V2) hour off for lunch.
B.	Any shift commencing before 7:00 A.M. or ending after 5:30 P.M., which is not confined to the standard day shift hours of work shall be considered a second shift. Employees working second shifts shall work nine (9) hours and be paid for nine (9) hours and a shift premium of ten percent (10%) of their regular hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked.
C.	No employee shall work during his designated lunch period, except in the case of an emergency.
D.	Employees shall be allowed sufficient time during working hoursto return tools, parts, etc., to the stores or crib before the end of each shift.
E.	There shall be no split shifts.
F.	Employees working a Sunday shift shall be paid a premium often pecent (10%) of their regular hourly
^ rate (in addition to any other shift premium that may be applicable) for all hours worked on a Sunday
OVERTIME
A.	Time worked in excess of the basic working periods as shown above, shall be considered as overtime, provided that the excess time is approved by the Company. This provision applies to time worked before the employee's scheduled shift as well as after the scheduled shift.
B.	Overtime shall be paid at the rate (f double time. Double time shall also be paid under the following circumstances:
52
c.
D.
1.	For all time worked on call-backs.	j j
2.	For all work performed on an employee's scheduled day off.
3.	In all cases of overtime work there shall be a break of nine (9) hours before commencing a designated new shift. In an emergency where this is not possible, the following shift shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
4.	Should an employee be instructed to start later than his normal starting time inorderto be allow--ed a nine (9) hour break, he shall suffer no loss of pay for such hours not worked within the shift.
Employees required to be on stand-by for call-back ii 9' shall be nair! for_four (4) hours at the appropriate rates *1 - fj (straight time). If the §FTipl@y@e is called back, then w Paragraph B applies.
Employees who are required to work on any of the Statutory Holidays falling within the course of their regular weekly shift shall have the option of being paid at double time for such work and receive an additional day off with pay which may be accumulated, or being paid at straight time for such work and receive two additional days off with pay which may be accumulated.
If the Holiday should fall on an employee's regular day off and he is required to work, he shall have the option of being paid at double time and one-half for such work and receive an additional day off with pay which may be accumulated, or being paid at time and one-half for such work and receive two additionaldays off with pay which may be accumulated.
No-emploYee-tQ.be compelledJtOLwnrk rarflcfime. If a job is in progress the man working on the job should be required to finish the job if the supervisor thinks it necessary in the interests of safety and efficiency. Otherwise, on planned overtime, if there are no volunteers, then the shop steward may designate the
53
required number of men to complete the work. The number of men required to be determined by the supervisor.
TOOL INSURANCE
The Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, insurance againstloss due to fire or theft (as per insurance regulations) to a maximum value of $2,000.00 (inventory to be supplied by the employee to the Committee (three from the Union — three from Management)for the purposes of Tool Insuranceand Tool Depreciation allowance).
TOOL DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE
Tool depreciation allowance of $10.00 per $100.00 value of tools to be a maximum of $200.00 per mart per year. No allowance paid to employees having lessthan $100.00 of tool value. First payment to be January 1st, 1973, and annually thereafter.
A basic tool allowance of $95.00 shall be paid to all employees in the Journeyman Classification. First payment to be January 1st, 1979 and annually thereafter.
Employees hired after January 1st of any year will be paid V12th of their tool allowance per month worked.
SCHEDULE“F” LABORATORY TECHNICIANS PALM DAIRIES LTD.
Classification
Lab Technician
Wages per Hour April 1 April 1 1984	1985
$15:73 $16.18
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
PALM DAIRIES LIMITED FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
IT IS AGREED and understood that Clause 1, Section 1.04, shall not bedeemedto include the Palm Dairies Ltd., plants located at Victoria, B.C., Prince George, B.C., and Nelson,
B.C.
DATED AT	, British Columbia,
this	day of	,1984.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
55
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464
OF THE SECOND PART
IT IS AGREED and understood that employees at the Delair Plant, when on a regularly scheduled job, will not be paid less than a full shift's pay
DATED AT	, British Columbia,
this	day of	, 1984
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
56
APPENDIX “A” MEDICAL, TRAVEL I
Effective on the first (1st) day of the month following the completion of the probationary period (as per Clause 19.01 (a)) provision for the following benefits shall be available for member employees and their registered dependents resident in the Province of British Columbia:
A.	Where in the opinion of the attending physician treating a member employee and/or his registered dependents, adequate treatment is not available locally, transportation by scheduled air or rail will be provided to and from the nearest locale equipped to pro-vide-the required and recommended treatment by a physician and surgeon within two months of referral but said transportation will not be provided to points beyond Vancouver, B.C.
B.	Where necessary, and at the request of the attending physician, provision for transportation of an attendant in connection with the aforementioned transportation of any employee or his registered dependents.
C.	Also, where transportation has been provided to the nearest locale where adequate facilities are available, provision for assistance regarding accommodation limited to commercial facilities for patient and/or attendant, before and after medicaltreatment and which shall be limited to a total of seven (7) days at a maximum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day.
D.	It is agreed that the maximum allowable claim by any individual covered by the above provisions shall be limited to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per calendar year.
57
APPENDIX “B”
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 464 JOINTLY TRUSTEED PENSION PLAN FOR
ALL OF ITS MEMBERS EMPLOYED AT FRASER VALLEY MILK PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, AND PALM DAIRIES LIMITED.
1. OPERATION OF THE JOINTLY TRUSTEED PLAN
This plan to be operated pursuant to the collective agreement on the following basis, —
(a) The Plan will be operated by a Board of Trustees which will consist of six (6) persons! three T3) to be named bv the Union and three 13) to be named by fhe employers Such Trustees and their successors shrill be responsible for th^'iSih^Tstratiorr'flnc spgra-
of the Plan and. Fund^nTFstmU-hewTall powers
'necessary to create, amend or terminate the Plan and Fund consistent with the terms sf the Collective Agreement in effect from time ts time. Each Trustee shall have sne vote.
(b)	The Trustees shall select a Chairmanand a Secretary. These persons shall not have a casting vote on any matters under consideration by the Trustees.
(c)	The 1 rustees s^ajJjTjeetanjj^h^^
and f > of the .pension Plan aiiU llia^’^mployTegal counsel, actuaries and other consultants or advisors as they deem necessary or advisable
(d)	The Trustees shall have the exclusive right to determine the provisions of the Plan and the benefits pro; vided thereunder from time to time and the use of all contributions plus investment earnings thereon received by the Plan These shall be used only for the benefit of employees on whose behalf contributions are or have been made to the Plan and to meet necessary Plan expenses
58
The terms and conditions of the Plan which is initially created shall be submitted to the members of Local 464 who are covered by it, for approval.
(e)	The Employer and the Union shall enter into a trust agreement with the Trustees. The trust agreement shall provide that in the event that the Trustees are deadlocked on any issue concerningthe Plan or Fund the matter shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually agreeable party or failing mutual agreement on an arbitrator by a Judge appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
(f)	The Employers shall from time to time provide all information which is required for the administration of the Plan and shall assist and co-operate in the Plan's administration. Reasonable assistance rendered by the Employers shall be rendered without charge to the Trustees.
(g)	The Trustees shall establish a Trust Account into which contributions shall be paid pending execution of the Trust Agreement and establishment of the Plan.
(h)	The Plan shall not requirethe Employers to guarantee the benefits or assure the solvency of the Fund and further that all costs of establishing the Plan and all costs of operation and administration (except as provided in (f) above) shall be paid from the assets of the Plan.
(i)	The Trustees may effect arrangements with the Employers and other Trustees of pension plans to permit reciprocal inter-plan transfers.
(jj The Trust Agreement shall permitthe Trustees, in certain events and upon certain conditions to transfer the assets and liabilities to another Board of Trustees provided such transfer shall not adversely affect the benefits or rights of the members of the Plan.
(k) The Employers shall be required to make payments to the Pension Trust Fund as herein set forth. Such contributions shall be, for each employee working in a job classification covered by the Collective Agreement: —
59
five point five percent (5.5%) of his gross earnings from April 1, 1984 up to March 31, 1985, and
(b) five point seven five percent (5.75%)of his gross earnings from April 1, 1985.
The gross earnings of an employee shall be the sum of his regular earnings, overtime, shift differential, premiums and any other earnings payable to the employee in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement.
It is understood that contributions shall be payable in respect to the earnings of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary, or seasonal or full time or part time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
Contributions along with a list of employees for whom they have been made and the amount of contribution in respect to each employee and his earnings-shall be forwarded bythe Employerto the Custodian of the assets of the Plan designated by the Trustees A copy of the list of employees shall also be mailed to the Administrator of the Plan.
Such payment shall be made to the custodian for each pay period not later than twenty-one (21) days after the end of each pay period. The Employersshall also submit to the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days following the end of each plan year a listing of all employees who were covered by the Plan during such plan year showing, for each, the earnings upon which the Employer's contributions were based during the plan year. Copies of all the listings shall also be forwarded if required to the Union. These listings shall also contain such other information as the Plan Administrator and actuary may require for the operation of the plan
60
(I) It is intended that the Plan and Trust Fund shall be such that the Plan can be registered under the provisions of the Income Tax Act of Canada and any other applicable Federal or Provincial law respecting employee pension plans.
61
Keep your Beneficia,/ Card up to date ... Notify the Union office at once of any change.
Notify the Union office at once of any change of address.
If you leave the industry you must get a withdrawal Card immediately.
A good Union member is an informed Unipn member,..
ATTEND YOUR UNION MEETINGS!
a
Be UNION... Buy UNION