COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	AULT FOODS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the
"Company")
AND
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES, LOCAL UNION NO.647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, V\forehousemen and Helpers of America (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
CONTRACT TERM: April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1997
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
II
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
TABLE OF CONTENTS
RECOGNITION
RELATIONSHIP AND DEDUCTION OF
UNION DUES AND INITIATION FEE
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
REPRESENTATION
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARBITRATION
GENDER
SPECIAL GRIEVANCES
DISCHARGE CASES
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUTS ETC.
SENIORITY
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
HOURS OF WORK
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
RATES OF PAY
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
SICKNESS PAY
SAFETY
PENSION PLAN
SEVERANCE PAY
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
GENERAL
DURATION OF AGREEMENT SCHEDULE "A"
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#2 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#3 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#4 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING#5
PAGE
2
2
4
4
6
7
9
9
10 11 II 21 23 30 32 36 36
39
40
41
41
42 42
48
49
53
54
55
59
60
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	AULT FOODS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the
"Company")
AND
MILKAND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES, LOCAL UNION NO. 647, AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND HELPERS OF AMERICA (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
CONTRACT TERM: April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1997
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	AULT FOODS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the
"Company")
AND
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES, CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES, LOCAL UNION NO. 647, AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND HELPERS OF AMERICA (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
WITNESSETH:
It is the desire of the parties to this Agreement to establish, promote and foster a good relationship that will be enduring and of mutual benefit to both the Union and the Employer.
It is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of co-operation and of help from the employees of the Company to obtain all possible business and expand the operation of the Company and the parties hereto pledge their full support and co-operation in this regard.
ARTICLE 1
101
ARTICLE 2 2.01
2.02
RECOGNITION
The Employer agrees to recognize the Milk and Bread Drivers, Dairy employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union No. 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees of the Toronto, Ontario District, at the Don Mills Branch Plant and Garage and any other operation within Metropolitan Toronto, save and except:
a)	Plant protection employees, office staff, chief engineers, foremen, milk route foremen, those above the rank of foreman and milk route foreman, territory salesman, and persons covered by subsisting Collective Agreements, and,
b)	Persons engaged on a casual basis to replace regular employees who are off work due to sickness or accident provided such period is less than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
RELATIONSHIPAND DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES AND INITIATION FEES----
Ail present employees in the bargaining unit who have acquired seniority shall become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment, and all persons who may hereafter become employees in the bargaining unit shall immediately upon the expiration of their probationary period become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
Permanent employees shall be required to have the initiationfee and the regular monthly Union dues, and delinquent dues deducted from their first pay for each month they work or portion thereof.
The initiation fee shall be paid no longer than sixty (60)
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
3
calendar days from the date of hire. The employee shall sign his authorization card at the time of hire. The Union shall inform the Company of the amounts of dues and initiation fees.
The total amount so deducted will be forwarded by cheque to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union on or before the twenty-fifth (25th) day of the month for which the deductions were made with a list of names of employees from whom the deduction of dues and/or initiation fee was made.
The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted in accordance with 2.02 above.
The Company will show the total amount of Union dues deducted on each employee's T-4 slip when issued.
The Union and/or the employees covered by this Agrement will not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the General Manager, except as expressly provided for in this Agreement. The Union agrees that before a Union Steward leaves work to conduct Union business he must first obtain permission from his Supervisor.
The Company agrees that such permission will not be withheld unreasonably and the Union agrees that such privilege will not be abused.
All employees hired for a temporary period shall be advised of the temporary nature of the job and a copy of such advice shall be supplied to the Union. The Company further agrees to inform all new employees who are covered by this Agreement (including those hired to fill temporary vacancies
4
caused by illness; emergency or any other cause and those hired for the summer vacation period) that full Union membership is a condition of employment after sixty (60) calendar days have elapsed from the date of hiring however Union dues shall be deducted from day one. The Company undertakes to inform the Departmental Steward whenever a new employee is hired. The Chief Steward shall be informed in writing whenever a new employee is hired.
2.08	Consistent with the express terms of the Collective
Agreement, employees shall suffer no loss of earnings attending meetings with Management in the grievance procedure or in labour-management meetings. It is understood that the Company's liability for payment, in accordance with this article, shall not extend beyond the Departmental Steward at Step I of the grievance procedure, the Departmental Steward, the grievor and the Chief Steward at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, and the Chief Steward and stewards at labour-management meetings.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The management cf the Company's operation and the
selection and direction of employees is the exclusive function cf the Company except where this Agreement expressly abridges this right.
ARTICLE 4 - REPRESENTATION
4.01	The Union through its members shall have the rigjit to elect
or appoint a Steward Committee which shall consist of 6 stewards excluding the Chief Steward.
In order to be eligible to be a steward, an employee must have at least twelve (12) months seniority with the Company. The number of stewards may be altered by agreement between the parties.
4.02
4.03
4.04
4.05
5
It shall be the steward's duty to represent eligible employees under the terms of this Agreement on any matter properly arising out of this Agreement and to co-operate with the Company in the administration of this Agreement.
The Union shall notify the Company in writing of the names and jurisdiction of each of the members of the Steward Committee and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been notified by the Union Business Representative of the name and jurisdiction of same.
The Union shall have the right to select a Negotiating Committee consisting of the Chief Steward and six (6) members of the bargaining unit who must have at least twelve (12) months' seniority with the Company. It shall be the Negotiating Committee's function to meet with the Company to negotiate the renewal of this Agreement. Members of the Negotiating Committee shall receive a normal work day's pay exclusive of overtime for attendance at negotiation meetings with the Company up to and including conciliation.
Representatives of the Union shall be allowed access to the Company premises for the purpose of contacting stewards or investigating any matters pertaining to the provisions of this Agreement upon notifying the Plant Manager or Distribution Manager.
6
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the
utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
5.02	No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances
giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (5) full working days before the filing of the grievance. However, in matters in respect of the computation of pay or determination of hours worked or in the event that an employee is sick or on vacation, he may grieve within five (5) working days of the error of computation or hours of work determination or on his return to work.
5.03	Wherever under this article, or under article headed
"Arbitration", time is provided for the doing of any act or thing, such time shall be exclusive of Designated Holidays and Sundays.
5.04	STEP 1	If an employee feels he has a complaint, he
shall submit it to his immediate superior who shall endeavour to arrange a satisfactory settlement of the matter with the employee within forty-eight (48) hours. If the immediate superior’s decision is not satisfactory, the matter may be lodged by or on behalf of the employee as a grievance in the following manner:
STEP 2 The employee may refer the grievance to the departmental steward who may present it in writing to the Plant Manager, or Distribution Manager within seventy-two (72) hours following the receipt of the immediate superior’s decision. The Plant Manager, if he considers it necessary, shall be allowed a period of time not exceeding seventy-two (72) hours to consider and investigate the matter and give his answer in writing. It is the mutual desire of the parties that the aggrieved employee be present at this step, if he so desires.
7
STEP 3 If the written answer of the Plant Manager or Distribution Manager be not satisfactory, the written grievance shall be presented by the Chief Steward and the Departmental Steward to the General Manager or his designate for discussion, consideration and answer in writing within ninety-six (96) hours or such further times as may be agreed upon. At such meeting the Chief Steward and the Departmental Steward may be accompanied by a representative of the Union if his presence is requested by either party. Time limits specified in the foregoing procedure may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the parties.
5.05	Any step of the grievance procedure may be waived by
mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
5.06	Decisions arrived at between the Company and the Union
on the disposition of any specific grievance shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
5.07	If final settlement of the grievance is not completed under
Step 3, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article 6 at any time within seven (7) days after the decision is given under Step
3.
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION
6.01	Both parties to this Agreement agree that any dispute or
grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 5 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the request of either of the parties hereto.
6.02	The Board of Arbitration will he composed of one (Iperson
appointed by the Company, one (Iperson appointed by
8
the Union, and a third person to act as Chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board.
6.03	VWthin five (5) days of the request by either party for a
Board, each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
6.04	Should the person chosen by the Company and the person
chosen by the Union to act on the Board fail to agree on a third person within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, they shall apply to the Ontario Labour Management Arbitration Commission for a list of arbitrators. If the appointees fail to agree on a Chairman from this list, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario for the appointment of an impartial third member to act as Chairman.
6.05	The decisions of the Board of Arbitration, or a majority
thereof, constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both parties. In the absence of a majority decision the decision of the Chairman shall be accepted as the decision of the Board.
6.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter
or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Where an arbitration board determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the Company for cause and the Collective Agreement does not contain a specific penalty for the infraction that is the subject matter of the arbitration, the arbitration board may substitute such other penalty for the discharge or discipline as to the arbitration board seems just and reasonable in all circumstances.
6.07	Each of the parties to this Agreement will bear the
expenses of the Arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman.
9
6.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been
directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
6.09	Time limits fixed in this Article may be extended by mutual
agreement in writing between the Employer and the Union.
6.10	VWiere both parties agree, a single Arbitrator who shall
have the same powers as the Board may be substituted for a Board of Arbitration. In such case the patties shall endeavour to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator. In the event the parties are unable to agree, a Board of Arbitration shall be constituted in accordannce with paragraphs 6.02, 6.03, and 6.04.
ARTICLE 7 - GENDER
7.01	In this Agreement wherever the masculine gender is used,
it shall be construed to be the masculine or feminine as the context requires.
ARTICLE 8 - SPECIAL GRIEVANCES
8.01	If the Company has a grievance it shall be taken up in writing with the Committee and processed according to the terms of the grievance procedure commencing with Step 3.
8.02	If the Union has a grievance, which cannot reasonably be
processed as an individual employee grievance, it shall be processed beginning at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE CASES
9.01	In the event of an employee who has attained seniority
being discharged from employment and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
9.02	All such cases shall be taken up within three (3) days and
disposed of within seven (7) days of the date the employee is notified of this discharge, except where a case is taken to arbitration. A daim by an employee who has attained seniority, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the General Manager, or the appropriate person referred to in Step 3 of Section 5.04 within three (3) days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
All the preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such case.
9.03	A daim by an employee who has attained seniority that he
has been unjustly suspended or demoted shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the appropriate manager in Step 2 of Section
5.04	within three (3) days after the employee is suspended or demoted. All steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 2 will be omitted in such case.
9.04	Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the
management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties or the Arbitration Board.
9.05	\Mren an employee has been summarily dismissed, he shall
have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises. It is agreed that the Company will notify the steward involved
11
immediately of the dismissal of any employee within the bargaining unit and the reason given.
ARTICLE 1Q - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUTS ETC.
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that there shall not be any strike or picketing during the life of this Agreement. The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement.
10.02	In the event of a legal strike, lockout or picket line of any Union it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement for a member of the Union to refuse to cross the line.
ARTICLE II- SENIORITY
1 101 Seniority as referred to in this Agreement shall mean length of
continuous service in the employ of the Company within the bargaining unit.
11.02 a)	I n the event of the discontinuance of a position or a work
shortage the most junior employee in the classification affected who is subject to layoff shall be entitled to exercise his seniority to claim the job of the most junior employee in the bargaining unit provided he possesses the immediate qualifications and ability to perform the job being claimed.
b)	If the employee subject to lay-off is unable to daim the job of the most junior employee in the bargaining unit, then:
i) he shall exercise his seniority to daim the job of the next senior employee in the job for which he immediately possesses the necessary qualifications and ability, or
ij)	if unable to daim the job of any employee who
is more junior to him in the bargaining unit because he does not immediately possess the necessary qualifications and ability, he shall be assigned the most junior job in the bargaining unit for which he possesses the required
c)
12
qualifications, skills and ability to learn to do the job within a training period of up to ten (10) working days and be given said training. I n the case of keyman positions, training period shall be up to 15 days
If the employee does not fulfill the job requirements within ten (10) working days (15 working days for keyman positions) nor does he qualify for a position under any section of Article 11.02, he shall be laid off.
d)	After application of the full job posting procedure contained in Article 11.08, employees who have the ability to perform the work available shall be recalled in order of seniority to the first available full-time permanent job and will assume the job as if they had bid.
e)	0 Any regular, full-time employee who has been
laid-off may register at the Payroll Department at the time of lay-off to indicate that he will be available for casual work. All such casual work shall be assigned on a seniority basis provided the laid-off employee possesses the necessary immediate abilities, qualfications and skills to do the work.
jj) The employee must keep the Company informed of his readiness to work and his current address and phone number in order to be contacted.
iii)	Such assignment of work shall not be considered to be recall under Article 11,0Z{d).
iv)	I n the event that a casual vacancy exceeds 60 calendar days, the Company agrees to fill the position without bidding as if it were a recall situation using the re-employment list pending the return of the incumbent.
v)	At the end of such casual work assignments, which include replacement for time off due to vacation, illness and compensation, notice of lay-off under Article 11.02 (g) shall not apply.
vi)	In the event that a person works more than 60 calendar days on a number of consecutive casual vacancies, the Company agrees to recognize the need for a full time position.
Such positions will be filled by employing the full job posting procedure.
f)	The Chief Steward and Departmental Steward will be informed of all lay-offs prior to them becoming effective.
g)	The Company shall, in the event it is necessary to layoff permanent - not temporary employees, give to all employees with five (5) years service or more ten (10) days notice of layoff or ten (10) days pay in lieu of notice and give to all other employees who have passed their probationary period five (5) days notice of lay-off or five (5) days pay in lieu of notice.
h)	During a lay-off of twelve (12) months or less the Company will continue to pay the premium cost of all insurance coverage detailed in Article 17, except for Group Sickness and Accident Insurance and Long Term Disability Insurance, up to the end of the month following the month of lay-off. At that time all insurance coverage will cease according to the terms and conditions of the master policy.
j) Should a laid-off employee be assigned casual work under Article 11.02 (e) for more than five (5) days in any one twenty (20) working day period, he shall be covered for hospital medical and surgical insurance, OHIP, dental insurance and optical insurancefrom the sixth (6th) day of employment to the end of the month following the last day of employment, and designated holidays. Also, should an employee work 30 or more consecutive calendar days on casual work
14
assignment(s), the employee shall be eligible for Sickness Pay in accordance with Article 18.
11.03	An employee will be considered probationary for the first sixty (60)
calendar days service and will have no seniority rights during that period. After this period his seniority shall date back to the day on which his employment began. Employes acquiring seniority on the same date shall be added to the appropriate seniority list in alphabetical order.
A probationary employee shall not have access to the grievance procedure with regard to his termination; unless it is alleged that the termination was arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith.
H.04 Seniority rights shall cease for any one of the following reasons:
a)	if an employee voluntarily terminates his employment;
b)	if an employee is discharged for cause and not subsequently reinstated through the grievance or arbitration procedure;
c)	if an employee is laid off for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or more;
d)	if an employee is absent from work without leave for more than wd (2) consecutive work days unless there was reasonable justification for such absence.
15
e)	if an employee who is notified to return to work after layoff, fails to notify the Company within five (5) days that he is intending to return to work, and does not return to work as soon as possible after receiving notice and, in any event, within eight (8) days after the mailing of such notice by registered mail to the last address given to the Company by the employee.
1 105 Employees who have been laid-off due to lack of work and subsequently re-employed shall have their seniority accrue while on lay-off for up to twenty-four (24) months.
11.06	Seniority lists will be revised each six (6) months, a copy of the lists will be posted on the bulletin board, hereinafter provided for, and copies given to the Union and each steward. There shall be seniority lists for groups one and two and one and two combined.
11.07	In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be promoted to a position beyond the scope of this Agreement, including a position with the Union, he will not be allowed to return to the bargaining unit with any previously acquired seniority other than for vacation entitlement.
11.08	a)	\AAien a vacancy occurs in any position, or additional
permanent staff is required in the bargaining unit, it shall be posted for three (3) working days, on the Company's bulletin board in the group concerned, setting forth generally the facts and conditions in respect thereto and requesting bids therefor. Before the vacancy is posted, the Company will discuss, with the Departmental Steward the relevant fact, i.e., rate of pay, job classification, starting time, days off, shift premium. A copy of postings shall be given to the Chief Steward.
b)	Any employee in the group (c) concerned may make written application, in duplicate, to fill such vacancy; one copy of the application shall be filed with the Company, and the other with the Chief Steward. No application submitted after the expiry date and time shown on the notice will be considered, except that during the vacation period the names of employees in the appropriate seniority group who are on vacation will be
16
reviewed and if their seniority warrants a delay in filling a position the vacancy will not be permanently filled until such employees have been notified in writing by the Company and have had forty-eight (48) hours, if necessary, after their return to work in which to apply.
c)	For the purpose of this Article, the following two (2) groups will be recognized:
1.	VWiolesale Milk Services Reliefman.
2.	All other employees.
d)	If no bids are received for an original vacancy posted, the Company will consider any interested employees from the other groups before filling the vacancy.
e)	If no applications are received the Company shall give consideration to those employees not ordinarily entitled to apply subject to Articles 11.08 (i) and (j).
f)	The Company will award the position to the applicant with the longest service if he either,
i)	is immediately qualified to fill the vacancy, or
jj) possesses the required qualifications, skills and ability to learn to do the job within a training period of up to ten (IO) working days and be given that training.
The successful applicant shall be allowed to return to his former position at any time during the ten (10) day training period.
The successful applicant and the steward concerned will be notified not later than the fourth (4th) day following the posting, and the successful applicant will be assigned to his new position within ten (10) working days.
g)	The vacancy created by filling the above vacancy shall be posted in both groups and applications considered from those groups as in (d) above.
17
h)	It is agreed that the Company may temporarily fill a vacancy for a period of fifteen (15) days, or for a longer period of time when agreed to by the Company and the Committee. The Company will notify the appropriate Departmental Steward of any temporary filling of a vacancy during the fifteen (15) day period.
i)	In no event shall more than three (3) postings be made as a result of one (l^rcancy. One successive vacancy created by the Company filling the above group vacancies shall be filled at the discretion of management. Successive vacancies will be filled using our contractual recall provisions.
j)	An employee shall not be permitted to apply for vacancies unless he has obtained twelve (12) months seniority, and no employee who has been awarded a job shall be permitted to apply for or request a vacancy for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, except in the event:
i)	he is removed by the Company from the job.
ii)	the job is discontinued.
iii)	a change of starting time of a shift other than of a temporary nature.
k)	In the event an employee successfully bids for a position, the Company, subject to business conditions, will try to maintain the start time of the posted position. However, should it become necessary to change the original start time, and subsequently, within 12 months of the change, the Company determines another position is required at the original start time, the employee shall be returned to this original start time. The Company would then post the position with the other start time. The above would only apply if an employee had not successfully bid to another position.
18
11.09	The Company agrees to discuss with the Committee the job opportunities available to any employee who is no longer able to perform his regular duties.
11.10	It is agreed that the onus of establishing the qualifications of employees referred to in sub-Articles 11.02 and 1108 (d) above shall be on the Company.
11.11	Students
a)	Students shall have comparative seniority standing only among themselves but not vis-a-vis regular full time employees. There shall be separate student departmental seniority lists for the Plant, Shipping, Feature Products, and Drivers.
b)	A student shall be considered a probationary employee for the first axly (60) calendar days during the summer school vacation period and will have no seniority rights nor access to grievance/arbitration procedure during that period. If the student is terminated during the probationary period, he shall not have access to the grievance proedure unless it is alleged that the termination was arbitrary, discriminatory or in bad faith. The student's seniority on completion of probation shall date back to the date of hire.
c)	If the company wishes to have students working, the students shall be called in within order of seniority within the department. The student must keep the company informed of his readiness to work, and his current address and phone number in order to be called in.
Students
d)	In order to be called in for part time work during the school year a student must keep the Company
19
informed that he is willing to be called for such work or the Company shall have no obligation to call him until the next summer.
e)	Students shall pay dues and initiation fees as per Article 2.02.
f)	Students shall only receive the following benefits:
-	Statutory holidays as per Employment Standards Act. However if a student is in his second summer work term he shall receive any designated holidays that he qualifies to receive which fall during this work period;
-	vacation pay as per Employment Standards Act;
footwear as per existing practice;
-	The Company will pay the classified rate to a student working in a higher rated job, other than General Labour or Machine Operator. If a student moves to a Machine Operator position he will receive the rate of the position after a training period of fourteen (14) working days, or sooner, at the discretion of management;
-	students requested to work to Labour Day, and who do work to and including such date shall receive a bonus of Ten Dollars ($10.00) per week for all full weeks worked at the student rate in the plant. There shall be no bonus for any week in which the student received a rate other than a student rate. A student who terminates voluntarily before Labour Day will not receive the bonus. A student whose employment is terminated by the Company before Labour Day will receive the bonus, except in the case of a student discharged for cause.
20
g)	A student employee who wishes to become a permanent full time employee will be given consideration for any unfilled vacancy.
h)	For the training of students, the Company shall give consideration to the relative seniority of students.
11. E A temporary employee or a student hired on a permanent basis will have seniority dating back to the beginning of the last period of continuous full time employment.
1113 It is understood that on a job postings in the Production Department, the geographical location will be defined in keeping with the following areas:
Production and Shipping/Storage.
No Employee will be required to work outside the defined area except in the event of there being staff in excess of the crewing requirement or abnormal circumstances. If a Keyman or Lead Hand is transferred to another area he will not be classified as a Keyman or Lead Hand, but will receive his rate. The Keyman or Lead Hand will not be assigned to perform supervisory duties and will have no disciplinary power.
11.14 Keyman
a)	(i) The Keyman-Relief shall bid to a posted shift
time that may deviate up to two (2) hours. He generally will perform, but is not limited to, work of a relief nature for breaks, lunches and short term vacancies.
(ii)	Notice of shift change, if requested by the Company, would be applicable.
b)	(i) The Keyman-Floater shall be assigned shifts by
seniority to cover vacancies such as vacations, illness, injuries, etc., in their assigned area unless there is insufficient work in their area. Upon being assigned a position, in accordance with seniority, the Keyman-Floater shall remain
21
in that position until the conclusion of the assignment except in the case of long-term illness/injiry.
In the event no assignments other than long term illness or injury coverage are available, the Keyman-Floater will be assigned to such coverage until such time as another vacancy becomes available.
(ii)	In the event all keyman-floaters have assignments, illness vacancies covered by sick pay, as provided in Article 18.01, shall be first made available as overtime opportunities.
Other vacancies shall be covered by students/casuals.
(iii)	Should a vacancy be anticipated to be greater than 5 days, the senior person in the job classification may request the preferred shift. Hence, the resultant vacancy may be filled by students/casuals.
(iv)	Notice of shift change, if requested by the Company, would be applicable.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	Bereavement Pay
In the case of the death of a spouse or child of a permanent full-time regular employee, the employee shall be granted up to a maximum of five (5) days leave of absence without loss of pay. A permanent full-time regular employee shall be granted three (3) days leave of absence without loss of pay for justifiable absence in case of death in the immediate family, i.e. parents, parents-in-law, brother, or sister; and he shall be granted one (1) day's leave of absence without loss of pay to attend the funeral of his grandparent, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
22
The Company may provide an extended leave of absence without pay if requested.
12.02	In the event a permanent full time employee is called to
performjury duty or subpoenaed by proper authorities to act as a witness the Company will pay the difference between pay received by the employee and his regular pay.
b)	The employee shall be required to report to work each day he is not required to report at court.
c)	Any regular full time employee called to serve as a juror the Company will consider the employees work week to be Monday to Friday.
12.03	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days in any one calendar year to a maximum of two (2) delegates of the Union on to (2) weeks prior notice for the purpose of attending Union conventions provided that such absence is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
23
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK
13.01 The following paragraphs are intended to define the normal hours of work.
a)	The regular work week for Production, Service and Maintenance Departments shall consist of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each for a total of forty (40) hours.
b)	It is anticipated that starting times will continue as currently in effect for the duration of the Agreement. In the event that a change is required. It will be discussed by the Plant Manager and the appropriate Union Steward in advance.
c)	There will be no rotation of shifts except where rotation presently exists.
d)	VWiile the six (6) day delivery plan is in effect,
VWiolesale Milk Service deliveries may be made Monday through Saturday, as required, but the regular work week for employees in this group shall be a five day work week of 40 hours as scheduled.
e)	The work day of an employee of the Wholesale Services Department will begin at his scheduled starting time, or at such later time at which he reports for work. The time after the completion of his unloading and parking will be recorded, and he will be allowed thirty (30) minutes per day for cashing in. Specific situations that warrant an extension of, or reduction in, this time allowance will be handled on an individual case basis. An allowance of two and one-half (21/2) hours per week will be made for unpaid personal time. Any abuse of the personal time allowance shall be subject to disciplinary action.
13.02 Shifts
24
Shift schedules will be posted seventy-two (72) hours in advance. VMth the exception of a Route Reliefman, a change in an employee's scheduled shift shall require seventy-two (72) hours notice in writing or the time worked with less than seventy-two (72) hours notice shall be paid at time and one-half (I 1/2). It is agreed that there will be no split shifts.
It is understood that one (1) notice will not cover more than one (I) change off the scheduled shift and back to the scheduled shift. Only one (I) notice will be given at any one (I) time, and a further notice will not be given until after the end of the complete change. Copies of all shift changes will be given to the Department Steward.
13.03	Lates
Employees may be penalized for lateness in reporting for work by deduction from pay for time not worked.
13.04	Failure to Report for \Afork
Should an employee fail to report to work on any scheduled work day, he shall have deducted from his weekly wage a regular day's pay or eight (8) hours pay if on an hourly rate.
13.05	Rest Periods
a)	It is agreed that employees shall be given a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes each half (1/2) day shift, not less than one and one-half (11/2) hours and not more than three (3) hours after the half (1/2) day shift commences, as arranged by department supervisors.
b)	Inside plant workers shall be given an unpaid one-hour lunch period, not less than three (3) hours and not more than five (5) hours after the full shift commences. I n lieu of this one-hour lunch, an employee upon request will be granted an unpaid lunch period of a different duration provided that such is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. Any changes to the present practice of lunch durations must be requested in writing 72 hours prior to such change.
13.06
25
Each employee shall be granted a further rest period of fifteen (15) minutes at the commencement of overtime anticipated to be of two (2) or more hours duration and subsequent to the regular shift. It is understood that no employee will be required to take a rest period and a lunch period at the same time. At least one (1) hour will be allowed between a rest period and lunch period.
Overtime
a)	Except as herein noted, all overtime work shall be voluntary. If the Company is unable to fill its overtime work requirements on a voluntary basis, such work shall be assigned to qualified employees on an inverse seniority basis, starting with thejunior qualified employee who is immediately available. The burden of proof cf establishing the qualifications or lack of qualifications of employees shall rest with the Company.
b)	Ail hours worked between Midnight Saturday and Midnight Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time.
c)	Production. Service & Maintenance Departments
i)	Any hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in a week, shall be paid for at an hourly rate determined by dividing the regular weekly rate by forty (40) plus one-half (1/2). In the case of an hourly rated employee, the overtime rate will be his regular rate plus one-half (112).
In the event that an employee is required to work overtime hours, in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours for any reason, all resulting overtime hours in excess of the eight (8) overtime hours shall be paid at double the employee's contract rate.
26
ii)	Night shift employees working on shifts starting between the hours of 8:00 P.M.and 3:00 A.M. shall not be required to work more than eight (8) hours in any one (Isfr ift.
iii)	If an employee is required to work in excess of fourteen (Inconsecutive hours, he will be granted eight (8) hours free from work prior to reporting on his next regular shift and will be paid for such time off next shift at regular straight time rate.
iv)	Overtime work will be distributed as fairly and impartially as possible over a period of time among the employees who are qualified to do the work. A departmental list of all overtime offered will be maintained and posted. Refusal of overtime offered will be counted as time worked. Overtime offered will be based on low man hours. To accomplish this objective, planned overtime will be the vehicle of distribution. On January I and July 1, regardless of overtime levels, all totals will be reverted to zero.
Under no condition shall an employee be compelled to take time off in lieu of overtime pay.
27
d)	VUiolesale Services Department
i) Any hours worked in excess of forty (40) in a five (5) day work week or after eight (8) hours in any one (l(^y, shall be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) of the classified flat rate.
jj) Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, any employee who works the sixth (6th) and/or seventh (7th) day, as required, will be paid time and one half (11/2), based on his personal guarantee, if applicable, for all hours worked on the sixth (6th) and/or seventh (7th) day. If an employee operates a second route in the same day, he will be paid a day's pay at time and one-half (1/2) based on his personal wage guarantee, if applicable.
13.07	No Pyramiding
Overtime and premium provisions of this section, except shift premiums, shall not be pyramided, but the highest single premium shall apply.
13.08	Call-Back Guarantee - Production, Service & Maintenance Departments
If an employee in the Production, Service and Maintenance Departments is called back to work after completing his regular days work or on his day off, he shall receive payment for the hours worked at the rate of time and one-half (I 1/2), with a minimum payment of four (4) hours at time and one-half (1/2).
13.09	Days Off
a)	Production. Service & Maintenace Departments i) Except as noted below, all employees in the Production, Service and Maintenance Departments shall have Sunday and Wednesday as normal days off.
Classification or Department
28
Stock Room and Employees required to work \Afednesday to meet distribution and sanitation needs.
Stationary Engineers, Milk Receivers and Graders
Night Shippers, Night Loaders
Shuntmen
Maintenance Employees with the exception of Maintenance Mechanics
Maintenance Mechanics and Mechanics
Garage Employees
Saturday & Sun.
On a
scheduled
rotating
basis
Sunday & wed. but \Afed.
be rotated with Sat. & Mon. in consecutive weeks
Sunday & wed.
Saturday and Sunday
Sunday,
and
Monday or Sat.
on a rotating basis.
Sunday and One of Monday, Friday or Sat. on a rotating basis.
29
jj) The Company will provide Saturday and Sunday as days off for employees whose normal day off is Wednesday, by request, on an equal opportunity basis, to the extent that the qualifications of individual employees and the requirements for work on Wednesday permit. Preference will be given on a seniority basis only when Wednesdays worked are equal. To the extent that business efficiencies are retained and qualifications of individual employees permit, the Company will attempt to accommodate employees who request to move their shift forward on Saturdays. Preference will be given based upon seniority.
iii)	If an employee is called in on his day off, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (I
12).
iv)	If an employee is required to work his day off in a week in which a designated holiday occurs, he may request payment, at time and one-half (H/2) or one-half (1/2) day's pay plus a day in lieu with pay.
b)	Wholesale Services Department
i) In the case of Wholesale Milk Services
Salesmen and Reliefmen, operating on the six (6) day delivery plan and Special Delivery Drivers, it is understood that Sunday and one (Ir^her day each calendar week shall be scheduled as days off on a rotating basis.
In the case of Wholesale Milk Services Drivers operating on the five (5) day delivery plan, Wednesday and Sunday shall be regular days off. The existing practice for long weekends and weekends off shall continue.
ARTICLE 14 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
30
14.01	The following holidays will be recognized as Designated Holidays and will be appreciated by permanent full time regular employees as days off with full pay, consistent with the other provisions of this section:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Good Friday	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Boxing Day
Four (4) Floating Holidays are to be granted, the observance of which is to be determined by mutual agreement.
In the event the float days are scheduled and are subsequently cancelled, at the Company request, the employee may elect for payment in lieu of rescheduling day(s), or, if the employee and Supervisor are unable to mutually agree on scheduling the float days, they shall be paid out. Payment for unscheduled float days shall only be made at the end of the collective agreement year.
If during the term of this Collective Agreement the Government legislates that Heritage Day be recognized as a statutory holiday, it shall be added to the above list.
14.02	a)	Other than Stationary Engineers, Milk Receivers and
Graders, no employees will be required to work on Christmas Day. The Company will make every effort to curtail or eliminate the necessity to work on New Year's Day; however, the Company reserves the right to schedule any employees for work on any holiday other than Christmas Day, if necessary to maintain essential production, maintenance and distribution.
b)	Each employee shall be guaranteed one (Id^signated Holiday off in addition to Christmas Day, by mutual agreement.
31
14.03	Employees, other than laid off employees assigned to casual work, hired for part-time, temporary assignments, vacation period, and probationary employees shall not be eligible for any of the above named Designated Holidays unless required by the provisions of the Employment Standards Ad.
14.04	For the purpose of this Section a regular day's pay shall mean:
a)	one fifth (1/5th) of the regular weekly rate as it applies to a regular five (5) day work week;
b)	in the case of hourly rated employees, eight (8) hours at the regular hourly rate of pay.
14.05	Any of the above holidays falling on a regular scheduled work day, and not worked shall count as a full day of eight (8) hours, or ten (10) hours, whichever is applicable, for the computation of overtime in the week in which the holiday occurs.
14.06	To be eligible for consideration for any holiday an employee is required to work the full regular work days immediately prior to and after the holiday. However, if the employee is absent on bereavement leave or through verified illness or accident on the regular work days immediately prior to and or after the holiday, and receives sick pay from the Company under the provisions of Article 18 "Sickness Pay”, payment for the holiday will be made. If an employee is in receipt of weekly indemnity insurance benefits or workers’ compensation for thirty (30) days or less, and a Designated Holiday falls within the thirty (30) days, the Company will pay the difference between the insurance benefit or compensation and the designated Holiday pay.
14.07	If a holiday falls on a regularly scheduled day off and the employee does not work, he will be given the option of eight (8) hours pay, or ten (10) hours pay whichever is applicable, for the day, or a day in lieu with pay to be taken within the collective agreement year.
14.08	Should an employee be required to work on a Designated Holiday named above, he shall receive double time his regular rate for all hours worked on the holiday plus his holiday pay, or by mutual agreement double time for all hours worked plus a day in lieu with pay to betaken in the collective agreement year.
32
14.09	Should an employee be required to work overtime hours on a Designated Holiday, he shall receive double time his regular rate for the overtime hours plus straight time for these hours as holiday pay.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
15.01	Vacations with pay shall be granted to all permanent full time regular employees of the Company and to employees qualifying therefor, in accordance with the following provisions:
15.02	Conditions
a)	Such vacations shall be based on length of continuous service as a permanent full time regular employee with the Ault organization. However, in the case of companies or businesses acquired by Ault interests, employees may be allowed credit for prior continuous permanent full time regular employment in the Company or business acquired immediately preceding the date of such acquisition for the purpose of computing service for vacation credit.
b)	Consistent with the maintenance of efficient operations in all departments, employees' vacation period will be alloted with the senior employee having first choice of the first 2 (two) weeks of their vacation period subject to Article 15.02 (c).
c)	(i) On February 14th, all permanent full time
Regular employees will be given the opportunity to indicate to the Company, in writing, their first choice for two weeks of their vacation. This shall be turned in to Management by February 28th. At that time, the weeks will be allocated based upon seniority. For any conflicting weeks, employees not being awarded their choices will be given the opportunity , by seniority, to choose other open weeks by March 7.
The vacation schedules, with confirmed first choices indicated, shall be posted by March
d) (i)
(ii)
33
8th, and employees will be required to fill in their remaining choices of vacation prior to March 30th. The list will then betaken down, completed by the parties and then reposted by April 15th. All further additions to the vacation list shall be considered on "first come, first served" basis. This will be done in writing.
Vacations must be arranged in the operating year in which they are due and cannot be accumulated. Employees shall not be asked to come into work while on vacation except if a designated holiday falls on the day prior to the employee's scheduled return to work from his vacation. He must then advise the Company prior to taking his vacation if he is available to work on the designated holiday.
Employees that have not scheduled their vacations by October 1 of each year will have outstanding vacations scheduled by the Company.
e)	If a Designated Holiday to which the employee is entitled falls within the vacation period, an extra day will be granted or one (I) day's pay in lieu thereof as mutually agreed between the employee and the Company. The date of such day off shall be determined by mutual agreement.
f)	The Vacation year shall be defined as April I to March 31.
15.03	Service Requirements & Length of Vacation
a)	All employees covered by this Agreement shall be granted annual vacation in accordance with their continuous service as a permanent full time regular employee prior to April 1st:
i)
Service Requirements Less than one (1) year continuous service
Length of Vacation One (1) day per month of service to a maximum of ten (IO) days
ii)	After one (ly^ar Two (2) weeks but less than five (5) years continuous service
34
Vac Pay 4%
4%
iii)	After five (5) years Three (3) weeks	6%
but less than ten (1O) years continuous service
iv)	After ten (10)	Four (4) weeks	8%
years but less than
eighteen (18) years continuous service;
v)	After eighteen (18)	Five (5) weeks	10%
years but less than twenty-
five (25) years continuous service
vi)	After twenty-five (25)	Six (6) weeks	12%
years continuous
service
b)	A week's vacation means a calendar week of seven (7) days.
c)	Employees completing their fifth, tenth, eighteenth and twenty-fifth year of service within the vacation year shall be eligible for the additional week's entitlement as of the employee's anniversary date of employment.
15.04	Vacation Pay
a) An employee entitled to vacation in the Service groups of paragraph 15.03 (a) (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) shall receive vacation pay of an amount equivalent to two per
35
cent (2%) per week of vacation entitlement based on the T-4 to reflect the previous year’s earnings of the employee less taxable allowances and benefits, or the regular rate whichever is greater. It is understood that, in the case of a permanent full time regular employee who may have lost earnings during the twelve (12) month period ending December 3lst by reason of sickness or injury, there shall be added to the amount shown on the T-4 return for the purpose of computing vacation pay, an amount equivalent to the average contract classified earnings of the employee for a period not in excess of twenty-six (26) weeks' absence through sickness or injury.
b)	In the case of service group 15.03 (a) (i) [employees with less than one (I) year’s service] the percentage of four percent (4%) shall be computed on the pay received by the employee in the portion of the service year prior to April 1st.
c)	All deductions normally made from an employee's regular pay shall be deducted from the employee's vacation pay.
d)	A permanent full time regular employee leaving the employment of the Company during the service year April to March inclusive, shall be entitled to receive any vacation credit not received for the previous service year ended March 31st, and in addition will receive credit pro rata for any service from April 1 st of the current service year to date of termination in accordance with the above schedule.
ARTICLE 16 - RATES OF PAY
16.01	The Company and the Union agree that the rates as set forth in
Schedule "A" attached hereto shall be paid to the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
36
17.01	The Company will pay the cost of the premiums of the following Insurance Plans, which shall be subject to the terms, conditions and regulations of such plans in effect on the effective date of this Agreement or on the first day of the month following ratification, where applicable, for all qualified permanent full time regular employees.
a)	(0	Group Life Insurance
Coverage of Twenty-Six Thousand Dollars ($26,000) on the life of each active employee who qualifies effective September 1, 1994. Effective April 1, 1995, coverage will increase to Twenty-Eight Thousand Dollars ($28,000) and effective April 1 ,1996, coverage will be increased to Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000).
(ii)	Retiree Life Insurance
Effective August 1, 1991, upon retirement, members with at least five (5) continuous years service immediately preceding retirement are covered for four thousand dollars ($4,000) Life Insurance for the first twelve (12) calendar months following the month in which retirement commenced and two thousand dollars ($2,000) Life Insurance thereafter.
Former employees of \Afeilmer Road who were employed at Don Mills, on, or after 1986, and subsequently retired prior to the end of the month following ratification shall be entitled to the above noted benefit.
b)	Group Sickness and Accident Insurance
Coverage for each eligible employee in an amount of sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of his weekly earnings to the maximum weekly benefits established by the Unemployment Insurance Commission for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks. Benefits are to become effective on the fourth (4th) day of any sickness of
37
non-compensable accident. The level of benefits payable to any employee for Group Sickness and Accident Insurance for the duration of the disability shall be the level of benefits payable to such employee at the time the disability commenced.
c)	Long Term Disability Insurance
The Company shall continue a Long Term Disability Plan for each eligible employee, providing an integrated plan of sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) benefit to a maximum of one thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800) and increasing to two thousand dollars ($2,000) for new claims effective on or after, April 1, 1996.
d)	Optical Plan
The Company shall continue an optical plan which shall provide coverage for each eligible employee and their dependents of one (IgjBir of glasses to a maximum value of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in a twenty-four (24) month period effective September I 1994 for each eligible employee.
17.02
e)	Hospital Medical and Surgical Insurance Ontario Health Insurance Plan and Major Medical coverage with Ten Dollars ($10.00) single, Twenty Dollars ($20.00) family deductible per year, no co-insurance, for each eligible employee, spouse and unmarried children under twenty-one (21) years of age. A semi-private hospital benefit with no deductible will be provided.
f)	Dental Plan
Effective August 1 ,1994 Blue Cros Plan #9, or its equivalent, with the carrier to be determined by the Company.
Effective for claims after September I J994, 1993 O.D.A. rates will apply. Effective April 1, 1995, the 1994 O.D.A. rates will apply and effective April 1,1996, the 1995 O.D.A. rates will apply.
g)	A D & D
The Company will provide an Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AM D) benefit for coverage of fulltime, permanent employees only. The principal sum is sixteen thousand dollars ($16,000) and becomes effective September | 1994, seventeen thousand ($17,000) effective April 1 ,1995; eighteen thousand ($18,000) effective April I J996.
It is not the intent of the Company to provide double coverage for any employee. Therefore, if a married employee is insured under their spouse's insurance plan, the Company will not provide any duplication of coverage.
39
17.03	It is understood and agreed that in assessing the expense
required for these negotiated employee benefits outlined within this Article, the parties have taken into account, any and all savings on increases in premiums that may be realized during the period of this Agreement under the Unemployment Insurance Act or any other government legislated plan, and the full employee's portion of any savings resulting from this assessment are included as part of the negotiated wage increases and improved benefits contained in this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 18 - SICKNESS PAY
18.01	Absence of a permanentfull time regular employee, for one
(1), two (2) or three (3) working days will be considered for payment at the discretion of the Management (Department Head or higher). Departmental steward will be advised of the Company decision. In cases where a claim is established under Group Sickness and Accident Policy Coverage, then the Company policy will apply covering the payment for up to three (3) working days, less any amount paid by the insurance company during the calendar period which included those three (3) working days. The Company has the right to demand a doctor's certificate in connection with all absences on account of sickness.
18.02	Policy Regarding Payment of Sickness Pay
Paymentfor one, two,or three working days shall be made for legitimate absence due to illness, non-compensable accident or hospitalization.
40
,8.03 The Company has the right to demand a doctor’s certificate in connection with all absences on account of sickness.
The following procedure is to be followed at the Toronto
branches:
a)	Where the Company is confident that the sickness is a bona fide one, then a doctor’s certificate will not be required.
b)	If there is doubt that the sickness is bona fide, or where there is a great deal of absenteeism, then a doctor's certificate will be requested for any subsequent absences.
c)	\Mien any action is to be taken, the Union Steward will be informed.
d)	The Union Stewards will co-operate with the Company in policing the problem of sickness and sickness pay.
18.04 Sick pay credits will accumulate and be banked at the rate earned on the basis of one quarter day for each month of service in the calendar year for all eligible employees. It is agreed that the Company will pay off any unused sick pay credits on December 15, of each year. It is expressly understood that employees will draw upon their sick pay credits under this clause prior to exercising their benefit under clause 18.01. This shall commence effective August 1, 1991.
ARTICLE 19 - SAFETY
19.01	Ail employees who drive Company vehicles will report promptly any defects in, or damage to, this equipment by filling out a prescribed form.
In the event of vehicle or property damage an investigation will be carried out by the Safety Committee. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in the activities of the Safety Committee with a view to reducing damage to all vehicles. It is to the mutual advantage of both the Company and the employee that employees shall not operate vehicles which are not in a safe operating condition and not equipped with the safety appliances required by law.
19.02	The Company and the employees agree to abide by the provisions of all relevant health and safety legislation. In keeping with the provisions of this legislation, the Company will not require an employee to operate a machine in an unsafe condition.
41
ARTICLE 20 - PENSION PLAN
20.01	All present employees participating in the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan and new employees eligible on, or after July 14, 1991 shall beenroled/remain in the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan.
(a)	The Company agrees to pay to the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan $26.00 per week effective September 1 ,1994, $28.00 per week effective April 1 ,1995 and $30.00 per week effective April I, 1996 for all employees who are registered members of the plan. New permanent full-time employees shall join the Plan upon completion of I year’s employment with the Company.
(b)	Each employee registered in the pension plan shall pay to the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Pension Plan the sum of $13.50 per week effective September I, 1994, $17.50 per week effective April 1 ,1995 and $21.50 per week effective April 1, 1996.
ARTICLE 21 - SFVFRANCF PAY
21.01	A full time regular permanent employee with two or more years seniority who is permanently laid-off shall be eligible for severance pay if not recalled within 13 weeks from the date of layoff.
Severance pay will be calculated on the basis of one week of pay per year of completed service with the Company up to the date of layoff.
21.02	The employee shall have the right at any time after the thirteen week period to waive in writing his right to recall and shall receive severance
pay-
21.03	It is agreed anyone claiming severance above shall have no further daim to the Company.
ARTICI F 72 - COST OF I MNfl Al I CWANCF
42
2.01	Ail permanent full time regular employees covered by this Agreement, except probationary employees, shall be entitled to a Cost of Living Allowance (C.O.L.A.).
The C.O.L.A "FLOAT' currently in effect of sixty cents (60c) per hour worked shall continue to be paid as a "FLOAT through the term of this collective agreement. This will be paid by separate cheque on the second pay date of January, April, July and October.
The C.O.L.A. as calculated above, shall not form part of an employees applicable weekly or hourly rate as detailed in the Wage Appendicies of this agreement and shall not be included in the calculation of any other form of pay, allowance or benefit except as required by law".
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL
23.01	Union notices may be posted on the bulletin boards supplied for that purpose by the Company, provided that such notices apply only to Union Business and that they are placed on the boards only by properly elected Shop Stewards or Union Officials.
23.02	There shall be no distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any kind of literature upon the Company's property or upon the Company's time except as herein provided.
23.03	If any employee is the subject of a disciplinary action all letters relating thereto shall be removed from the employee's file after a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of such action. Discipline shall be given within five (5) working days from the Company becoming aware of and completing their investigation of the incident giving rise to the action taken. Any action taken can be subject to a grievance.
23.04	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with this Agreement.
23.05	Meal Allowance
43
a) The Company shall provide a meal allowance to a maximum value of Six Dollars and Fifty cents ($6.50) to any employee effective upon ratification.
i)	In the Production, Service and Maintenance Department for two (2) hours or more overtime worked, provided the employee has not been advised of the overtime the day previous.
ii)	Wholesale Milk Salesman, Wholesale Cream Salesman, Special Delivery, Wholesale Reliefman or Interbranch Divers, for two (2) hours or more overtime worked.
b) Payment of the meal allowance will be made by
voucher issued by management. Such voucher may be cashed in once a week at a designated time.
23.06	The Company will pay all fines received for the overloading of any vehicles.
23.07	Uniforms
a) Wholesale Milk Services Reliefmen and Shuntmen Uniforms including up to three (3) pairs of safety boots per year to a maximum cost to the Company of Eighty-Five Dollars ($85.00) per pair effective date of ratification. Two (2) pair cf summer and one (1) pair of winter safety boots at the employee's option will be supplied in accordance with Company policy.
The uniform issues shall be delivered in April and September, three-quarters (3/4) of the cost to be paid by the Company one-quarter (1/4) to be paid by the Wholesale Milk Services Reliefmen and Shuntmen. Uniform charges shall be provided on an individual basis.
The Company will provide a cleaning allowance of Forty-Five Dollars ($45.00) per month. Effective August I, 1991 cleaning allowance to increase to Forty-Seven dollars ($47.80) per month, effective April 1 ,1992 Fifty Dollars
44
($50.00) per month and effective April 1, 1993 Fifty-Two Dollars ($52.00) per month. The Company has the right to demand that all employees to whom uniforms are issued shall be dressed in the Company uniform during working hours and the Company has the right to demand a reasonable state of cleanliness. Salesmen's uniforms will include up to three (3) pairs of coveralls per year for each Wholesale Salesman, and up to three (3) change of aprons per year for each salesman. Shuntmen shall be provided with an approved safety uniform appropriate for their work. Safety boots must be worn.
The Chairman of the Union Committee shall have the right to discuss with the Management any information with respect to competitive prices and quality of uniforms and footwear.
b) Plant Employees
In positions where the employee is required by the Company to war a plant uniform the Company will pay the cost of uniform, overall or coverall, and the cost of laundering. The Company will provide employees whose regularfull timework is in the Milk Storage Room with one vest or parka or thermal clothing a year.
This vest or parka will remain the property of the Company, and if lost, must be replaced by the employee. If the employee leaves the Company, the vest or parka must be returned to the Company. Engineers, Maintenance Men, Loaders, and Garage employees will be supplied with suitable outerwear where necessary.
The Company will ensure there are sufficient changes of uniforms for all employees.
23.08	Footwear
a) Where rubber boots are presently supplied, they will be supplied by the Company as follows:
45
The first three (3) pairs in any one (ly>ar - cost to be paid by Company. Over three (3) pairs in any one (I) year -1/2 of the cost to be paid by Company and 1/2 of the cost to be paid by employee. Rubber boots so provided must not be taken off Company property and old boots are to be returned when new boots are issued.
b) Employees, at their option, may be provided with two (2) pairs of safety leather boots per year by the Company as an alternative to rubber boots [one (l|3*ir of summer and one (1) pair of winter safety boots, at the employee's option].
23.09	Breakage. etc.
Salesmen shall be given credit for all legitimate allowances on route, such as breakage, stolen goods, disputes, paid telephone calls, and authorized returns.
23. I Plant Supervisors
Plant Supervisors and those above the rank of Plant Supervisor, will not perform work normally performed by employees under their supervision except in cases cf emergency beyond the reasonable control of the Company, for instructional purposes or experimentation. The appropriate steward will be consulted prior to any work being performed under this clause.
23.11	Tools
Licenced garage mechanics, maintenance mechanics, general building maintenance, cabinet servicemen and electricians shall be provided with replacement tools up to the value of Three Hundred Twenty-Five Dollars ($325.00), Three Hundred and Thirty Dollars ($330.00) effective April I, 1995 and Three Hundred and Thirty-Five ($335.00) Dollars effective April I J996.
46
The Greaser shall be provided with replacement tools up to the value of One Hundred and Twenty Dollars ($120.00). One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125.00) effective April 1, 1995 and One Hundred and Thirty Dollars ($130.00) effective April 1, 1996.
The allowance will be paid the first pay day after April 15 without a receipt.
23.12	Loss of License
Where an employee whose normal duties include the operation of the Company's vehicles has his classification license cancelled on a first offence, provided he is not in operation of a Company vehicle when the offence occurs, shall be allowed, if qualified, to fill any vacancy not filled through job bidding and will receive the rate of the position filled. It is understood that when the employee's classification license has been reinstated he shall be returned to his regular job and receive his regular previous rate. Any further loss of license will be dealt with on an individual case basis. If no vacancy is available the affected employee shall receive a leave of absence up to a maximum of twelve (12) months.
23.13	Employees required to submit to periodic retesting or medical examination to maintain a licence or certificate in connection with their job shall be scheduled by the Company to be absent and shall be paid at their regular straight time hourly rate for all regularly scheduled hours spent in such tests or examination.
23.14	Bi the case of death or retirement of any participating members of Ault Dairies covered by this Agreement upon written notice from the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct the sum of Two Dollars ($2.00)from the pay of each employee in the bargaining unit and forward such deduction to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union. The Secretary-Treasurer when in receipt of the money will in turn send it to the appropriate parties concerned.
47
23.15	The Company agrees to resume the prior practice of loading vehicles. It is understood and agreed that the driver will assist in checking and load placement.
23.16	In the event an employee has not received payment after 30 days from receipt of their daim for weekly indemnity or VVCB benefits, he may request an advance of Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per week.
(a)	Prior to receiving the advance the employee must sign a promisory note stating that the advance will be repayed in full to the Company within 30 days of the receipt of his first benefit cheque.
(b)	This benefit is not available if the Company is challenging the validity of the claim.
(c)	If the Weekly Indemnity or W.C.B. claim is denied, the advance is payable in full to the Company within thirty (30) days of the claim being denied.
ARTICLE 24 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
48
24.01 This Agreement shall remain in force from the Date of Ratification until the 31st day of March 1997, and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter, unless not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days before the 31st day of March, 1997, or not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days before the end of any subsequent yearly period, either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of, or proposed revision of, this Agreement. Notice of revision shall set forth the nature of the proposed amendments to this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representative on this 'p'day of/pi I , 199^	-
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
49
SCHEDULE "A"
RATES OF PAY
SECTION#! PRODUCTION. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE
Effective
WEEKLY RATES
On Ratifi. Apr 1/95 Apr 1/96
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
Lead Hand
Milk Storage Records Control Key Man Relief Key Man Floater Milk Receiver & Grader Laboratory Worker Pasteurizer Day Pasteurizer Night Fillerman
Pouch-Pak Machine Operator Pur-Pak Machine Operator Creamer Operator Storage & Shipper-Milk-Day Storage & Shipper-Milk-Night Day Shipper-Stockroom Checker-Outgoing Products Checker-Return Products Feature Products Maker Clean-up Man Day Wash-up Man Day Loader Night Loader Packer Janitor
820.34	834.70	851.39
813.22	827.45	844.00
814.24	828.49	845.05
814.24	828.49	845.05
814.24	828.49	845.05
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
810.17	824.35	840.83
808.13	822.28	838.72
808.13	822.28	838.72
809.66	823.83	840.31
809.66	823.83	840.31
796.94	810.89	827.11
807.12	821.24	837.67
WEEKLY RATES
50
effective
General Labour Starting Rate (Probationary employees)
After probation
Stock Room - General Labour Plant etc. - General Labour
On Ratific Apr 1/95 Aor 1/96
796.94	810.89	827. H
807.12	821.24	837.67
807.12	821.24	837.67
MAINTENANCE & SERVICE DEPARTMENTS
Electrician
Plant Mechanic- Starting rate - After probation
General Building Maintenance Man
Painter
Greaser
Ti reman
Engineer-in-charge
Engineer-3rd class
Licensed-Garage Mechanics-Day
Licensed-Garage Mechanics-Night
Truck Serviceman-Day
Truck Serviceman-Night
Truck Washer
Garage Helper
Garage Apprentice
Garage Clerk
Electrician Apprentice
Cabinet Serviceman
Cabinet Delivery & Clean-up Man
Shuntman
926.16	942.37	961.22
913.95	929.95	948.55
924.13	940.30	959. H
924.13	940.30	959. H
823.40	837.81	854.56
815.26	829.52	846.11
815.26	829.52	846.11
854.94	869.90	887.30
840.38	855.09	872.19
921.08	937.20	955.94
921.08	937.20	955.94
809.15	823.31	839.78
809.15	823.31	839.78
805.08	819.17	835.55
805.08	819.17	835.55
791.35	805.19	821.30
809.15	823.31	839.78
807.12	821.24	837.67
840.19	854.89	871.69
815.01	829.28	845.86
821.36	835.74	852.45
Night Shift Premium
Effective upon date of ratification a night shift premium of Sixty-Five cents ($.65) per hour will be paid to all plant employees for all hours worked on shifts starting at or after 11:00 a.m. and before 5:00 a.m.. Effective April 1, 1995 the premium will be increased to Seventy Cents ($.70) per hour. Effective April 1, 1996, the premium will be increased to Seventy-Five cents ($0.75) per hour.
51
SECTION 2 - DISTRIBUTION
Effective	On Ratific
WHOLESALE SERVICES DEPARTMENT Molesale Service Reliefman	848.33
WEEKLY RATES Apr 1/95 Apr 1/96
863.17	880.43
Niaht Shift Premium
Effective upon date of ratification, Molesale Service Drivers operating routes which start between 8:00 p.m. and before 3:00 a.m will be entitled to a shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour for all hours worked on such routes. Effective April I J995 the premium will be increased to Seventy cents ($0.70) per hour. Effective April 1, 1996 the premium will be increased to Seventy-Five cents ($0.75) per hour.
Shift Change Premium
Molesale Services Drivers, who are subject to shift changes on a weekly basis shall be paid a weekly premium of $18.00 per week. Effective July 14, 1991 the premiumwill be increased to Twenty-One Dollars ($21.00), effective April 1 1992 Twenty-Three Dollars ($23.00)and effective April 1, 1993 Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) It is expressly understood that employees in this department are not covered by the applicable clauses in Article 13 pertaining to call-in and shift change.
Molesale Services Drivers in Training
All new Molesale Services Drivers shall receive a minimum of one (I) week's training and shall be paid seventy percent (70%) of the Molesale Services Driver rate or their current rate, whichever is greater, while learning. On assuming responsibility of the route on their own, they shall be paid the classified rate.
Medical Certification
Effective on date of ratification, the Company will reimburse to a maximum of seventy dollars ($70.00), to eligible employees with a Class A license who are required by the Ministry and the Company to obtain a medical certificate. The allowance will be paid when the employee submits proof of charges over and above the benefit provided by O.H.I.P.
52
iractor-Trailer Drivers
Tractor-Trailer Drivers are to be paid a premium cf Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per day effective upon date of ratification.
Garage Mechanic Motor Vehicle Safety Certificate Signature Premium
For each inspection, repair and certification (including mechanic's signature on certificate) of a Motor Vehicle, the principle garage mechanic shall receive a premium of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50). This will be calculated and paid the first pay day after January I, April 1, July I and October I of each year. This will become effective upon ratification.
STUDENTS
Effective
WEEKLY RATES Apr 1/95 Apr 1/96
IN PLANT - GENERAL WORK
1st Year of service 2nd Year of service After 2nd year cf service
706.38
710.45
714,52
718.75
722.89
727.03
733.12
737.35
741.57
Temporary Transfers
Should any permanent full time regular employee, other than a student, perform work cf a higher paid position, he shall be paid the higher rate in such positions. This higher rate shall be paid weekly.
53
#1
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This letter will confirm the understanding reached with the Union during the recent negotiations with respect to the completion of FormP.S.-4A.
Form P.S.-4A (Machine Schedule and Down Time) shall not be used to compare the performance of individual employees resulting in disciplinary action by the Company. The sole intent cf this form is to measure production and record machine down time in the interests of improving operational efficiency.
The foregoing arrangements will continue in effect until March 31, 1997.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
54
#2
Article 4:01
The Company agrees that the afternoon Steward is responsible for both the shipping and production departments.
Pay Cheques
The Company agrees to continue its practice of putting pay cheques in envelopes.
Collective Agreement
The Company and the Union agree to sponsor a one (Iday session, within two (2) months of ratification,with all Supervisors and Union Stewards in attendance, to review the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
55
#3
l-FTTFR OF UNDERSTANDING
DON MILLS BRANCH
This letter will confirm the understanding reached with the Union during recent negotiations of an agreement covering our Don Mills Branch, relative to the following matters:
1.	Dock Pick-ups
The Company undertakes to advise the Union of any expansion of this volume of business, and the reasons for such expansion, and the Union Will meet with the Company to discuss the situation with a view to protecting the business and finding alternative employment for employees affected.
2.	Pay Dav
Pay cheques will be available by noon Thursday, or at the end of the employee's regular shift ending on Thursday whichever is earlier.
3.	Plant Uniform Issue
The present practice relative to the issue of plant uniforms is as follows:
a)	Plant Uniforms (Wiites)
Issued to employees as required by their conditions of work, laundered at Company expense.
b)	Garaae Coveralls
Three (3) pairs of coveralls per week will be supplied and the cost of cleaning will be borne by the Company.
56
c)	Insulated Vests, Parkas
Issued by employee name and returned to stock room yearly for re-issue next year.
Maintenance, Engineers, Storage, Garage Mechanics, Interbranch Dock Receivers.
d)	Gloves
Suitable gloves will be issued to any Plant, Garage, Maintenance and Interbranch employees requesting them.
Leather face gloves will be issued to Case Handlers, Shippers, Maintenance, Garage and Interbranch employees as required.
e)	Footwear - Students
1 st year of service - I pair - rubber safety boots
2nd year of service - I pair - leather safety boots
4.	Helper on Route
On occasion, due to absenteeism or sickness of the regular salesman, another Wholesale Services (Milk) Salesman operates a second route in the same day. Wien a second employee is assigned as a helper, such employee will be a Wholesale Services (Milk) Salesman or Reliefman.
5.	Loading of Trucks
It is understood that, in the loading of Wholesale (Milk) Trucks cases will not be piled higher than six (6) cases,with the exception of twenty (20) litre dispensers which will be piled not higher than five (5) cases high.
57
A floor area equivalent to six (6) or seven (7) cases will be left open at the side or rear door. No driver will be required to take out a load if the six (6) or seven (7) case area is not available. If some products should be in this area, the driver at his option may take the load out.
Shipping supervisors will be instructed in writing as to the Company's policy regarding loading restrictions.
6.	Medical	Certificates
The Company will reimburse an employee for the cost of a medical certificate required under the weekly indemnity insurance coverage if it is not paid by the Ontario Health Insurance Plan.
7.	Income	Tax Deductions
If an employee wishes to have income tax deducted from his weekly indemnity cheque, the Company will do so at his request.
8.	Floatinu Holidays
In connection with the Floating Holidays, it is understood and agreed as follows:
a)	The Floating Holidays will be selected by mutual agreement of the employee and the Company, e.g. added to his regular vacation, or his birthday, etc.
b)	The employee is required to notify the Company at least two (2) weeks in advance of his intention to take a Floating Holiday. If the Company has not advised the employee to the contrary within seven (7) days of the request, the employee will have the day off requested.
58
c)	After written notice has been given, the employee may not change his request.
The foregoing arrangements will be in effect until March 31, 1997
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
59
#4
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The personal wage guarantee, previously contained in Schedule A, will only apply to the following three employees:
-QriRalif	April 1/95 April 1/96
Ken Scott	$18.80	$19.13	$19.51
Bob Boustead	$20.20	$20.55	$20.96
Michael Bowers	$19.06	$19.39	$19.78
The above current hourly rates will be adjusted to reflect the negotiated increases, during the term of this Collective Agreement, for the Wholesale Milk Services Reliefman classification.
The above three employees will continue to receive the guarantee until either:
(a)	They are laid off or terminated; or
(b)	The plant or depot is closed; or
(c)	They voluntarily bid out of the Wholesale Milk Services Reliefman classification; or
(d)	They are displaced out of the Wholesale Milk Services Reliefman classification.
Any references to the above personal wage guarantee contained in the previous collective agreement are to be deleted.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
#5
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Early Retirement Provision
1.	To qualify employees must have age plus service toalling 80 or above.
2.	Employees can apply for early retirement consideration between September 15th and September 30th in each year of this collective agreement.
3.	The maximum number of employees to be granted early retirement in each year will be six, with the selection being those with the highest combination of age and service.
4.	Employees being granted early retirement will receive one weeks pay for each completed year of service in the form of wage continuance. No wage continuance will be provided past 65.
5.	Benefits will be provided up to age 65 and will be restricted to O.H.I.P., vision care, dental, major medical including prescription drugs and hospitalization and, Retiree Life insurance in accordance with Article
17:01.
6.	Early retirement will not occur later than November l_
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
April 113995
Labour Canada
Bureau of Labour Information
Collection of Agreements Unit
Ottawa, Ontario
KIA0J2
Dear Sir/Madam:
Re: Collective Agreements
Enclosed is a copy of the following Ault Foods Limited collective agreements recently negotiated and signed:
TORONTO PLANT
APRIL I ,1994 TO MARCH 31, 1997
TEAMSTERS 647
Yours truly,
AULT FOODS LIMITED
Employee Relations Administrator