Collective Agreement
between
Saputo
Dairyland Fluid Division Ltd (Edmonton, Alberta)
and
Communications, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada
Local 445
Begins:
05/01/2001
Terminates:
04/31/2008
00439 (08)
INDEX
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Article
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
Purposes and Provisions................. 1
Management...............................2
Maintenance of Membership................2
Union Security and Working Conditions...3
Union Representatives....................4
Summer Relief Employees..................5
Seniority................................7
Job Posting.............................11
Grievances............................. 12
Disciplinary Action.................... 16
Unauthorized Persons....................17
Truck Drivers.......................... 17
Leave of Absence........................17
Sick Leave..............................21
General Holidays........................22
Vacations...............................23
Hours of Work and Overtime..............25
Wages...................................27
Transfer of Employees..................'28
Benefits................................28
Miscellaneous...........................29
Period of Agreement.....................30
i
Article
Page
SCHEDULEA
Wages..................................   32
SCHEDULE B
Pension Contribution......................34
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING:
Time Off In Lieu of Overtime..............35
Job Classifications.......................36
Alternative Work Arrangements.............37
Training..................................38
Registered Distribution Operators ( RDO’s).3E
Health & Welfare Benefits.................4c
Benefit Eligibility & Regular Full Time Status .... 4E General Holiday Banking Option...	41
ii
MAY 1. 2001 to APRIL 30. 2008
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
SAPUTO
DA RYLAND FLUID DIVISION LTD at Edmonton, Alberta
{Hereinafter called “The Company")
AND:
THE EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY WHO ARE MEMBERS OF:
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 445
(Hereinaftercalled “The Union")
III
ARTICLE NO. 1
PURPOSES AND PROVISIONS
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products; to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may arise from time to time; and to set forth certain conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
1.02	The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent for the employees of the Company, employed in the dairy industry operated by the Company in the City of Edmonton, excluding such employees as are engaged as office workers, salespersons and maintenance personnel. The Company shall not enter into any agreement which in any way conflicts with the provisions hereof.
1.03	The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the feminine gender.
1
ARTICLE NO. 2 MANAGEMENT
2.01	The Company shall have the exclusive right and power to manage and control the business, provide and post work rules and regulations to be observed by the employee, to alter such rules and regulations as required from time to time, to direct the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, discharge forjust cause, layoff, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to decrease or increase the working forces, to determine the products to be handled, and nothing in this agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the Company to . manage and control the business. Nothing in this clause, however, shall be used to discriminate against any employee or Union member, nor shall it be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect of specific provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 3
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
3.01	It is agreed that all employees covered by this agreement shall become members of the Union within thirty (30) calendar days after being hired and remain members in good standing as a condition of employment.
3.02	The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for union membership and dues de-
ductions, which shall be signed by all new employees on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union, along with the next monthly dues payment, and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment.
3,03	The employer agrees to deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this agreement, all established monthly dues, initiation fees and uniformly levied assessments of the union. It is further agreed that the employer shall remit such deductions to the union prior to the end of the month for which such deductions are made.
ARTICLE NO. 4
UNION SECURITY AND WORKING CONDITIONS
4.01	Any employee who is not a member of the union shall not work at occupations which come under the union's jurisdiction, except; in cases of emergency (and then only until a member of the union can be placed on the job), for purposes of training or where bargaining unit work is involved in merely an incidental way. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it.
4.02	The Union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufacture and distribution of dairy products or such other products as
3
the Company may from time to time process or manufacture, as currently carried out by union employees.
4.03	There will be no strikes, walkouts, slowdowns, or other cessation of work by employees, and no lockouts by the employer, during the period of this agreement, and all grievances or other differences shall be settled by the grievance procedure set out in Article 9 of this agreement.
4.04	No union employee will be required to cross a lawfully established picket line.
ARTICLE NO. 5 UNION REPRESENTATIVES
5.01	The employer recognizes the right of the union to designate a reasonable number of shop stewards to represent the union and/or the employees on a day-to-day basis. The Union agrees to keep the employer advised regarding the personnel so designated as a shop steward and furthermore it is mutually agreed that persons so designated shall be allowed reasonable time and opportunity by the employer to perform their functions in accordance with this clause.
During normal working hours, stewards must advise their supervisor as to the nature of their business, an estimate of the time required and get permission prior to leaving their work site.
5.02	An appropriate locked bulletin board shall be provided by the employer upon which the Union may
4
place notices in regard to meetings, social gatherings and all other matters pertaining to legitimate union business.
5.03	A labour-management committee will be set up and will meet at regular intervals as required to exchange information and discuss operational issues and concerns of mutual interest. This forum will not be used to discuss grievances.
5.04	I n the event an employee is away from the plant for regularly scheduled hours of work, on union authorized business which has been approved by the Company, the employer will continue to pay the employee at the employee's regular rate of pay and benefits as if the employee was at work, and submit the cost to the union for reimbursement.
5.05	The national union representative and/or local business agent shall have access to the plant in accordance with the standard security policy and departmental procedures.
ARTICLE NO. 6
SUMMER RELIEF EMPLOYEES
6.01	The Company may employ summer relief employees under the following conditions:
a)	Summer relief employees may be hired between the period of March I to October 15.
b)	Summer relief employees will be used to sup-plementthe regularwork force in order to meet
5
increased seasonal production and distribution requirements and for vacation relief of regular employees.
c)	Summer relief employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of regular full-time employees.
d)	All summer relief employees shall as a condition of continuingemployment pay union dues in accordance with Article 3 of this agreement for those months in which the employee has earnings.
e)	Summer relief employees shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
f)	Summer relief employees will be paid the rate as set out in Schedule A of this agreement.
g)	Summer relief employees will only qualify for the wage rate as per Article 18, general holiday pay as per Article 15 and access to the grievance provisions.
h)	All summer relief employees must be terminated on or before October 15th.
6
ARTICLE NO. 7 SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service beginning on the date of regular full time employment.
7.02	A newly hired employee shall be on probation for forty-five (45) working days from the date of hiring. During this period of time, seniority shall not apply and an employee may be laid off without cause, and the Company shall not be obligated to re-hire. During the probationary period, the employee shall be entitled to all other rights and benefits of this agreement except as otherwise provided. After successful completion of the probationary period, the employee's seniority and service record shall date back to the original date of hire.
7.03	A list showing the seniority of all employees shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the work site. The Company shall forward an updated seniority list to the union every three (3) months.
7.04	Vacancies will be filled based on seniority, provided that ability and qualifications, as determined by the Company, are relatively equal. Pasteurizer positions shall be filled on the basis of suitability and qualifications relative to seniority, which carry with them a non-mobility period of twenty-four (24) months, unless waived by the employer. (See Article 8 - Job Posting)
7.05	In the event that the Company anticipates a layoff of regular employees of more than 60 days
7
the following procedures shall be followed:
(a)	The situation will be discussed with the 'plant committee’ so that as much notice as possible can be given any employees that may be affected. Wherever possible, the Company will provide five (5) working days notice.
(b)	When there is more than one employee working in the same job classification affected by the employer's decision to lay-off, the order of lay-off within that affected group shall be in reverse order of seniority.
(c)	When an employee is provided notice of layoff, the employee shall first be given the option of displacing the most junior employee, provided the employee to be laid-off has the 'qualification and ability' or is able to perform that job within a reasonable period of time.
Where the laid-off employee is not qualified or able to displace the most junior employee, or if the laid-off employee elects not to displace the most junior employee; the laid-off employee shall be placed on the RECALL LIST, in order of seniority and on the understanding and condition that he remains readily available to accept assignments as required. The option of electing to displace the Junior employee or be placed on lay-off must be made upon receipt of the notice of lay-off (within 24 hours) and cannot be changed by the employee. If the employee to be laid off is not considered qualified or able to perform that job, then the employee shall be assessed in
8
respect of the position occupied by the next most junior employee and so on until it is determined that no positions are available.
Where practical, employees on lay-off will be called for assignments in order of their seniority provided they are available at the time the assignment is scheduled and are qualified and able to perform the assigned work in a manner that is satisfactory, as determined by the employer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a laid-off employee shall retain the right to their previously posted position for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days; and shall retain the right to bid on any posted vacancy as per Article 8 of this agreement.
(d)	Laid-off employees shall retain recall rights in accordance with the following:
(i)	An employee with more than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay-off for a period of twelve (12) months.
(ii)	An employee with less than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay-off for a period of six (6) months.
(iii)	It is understood that if the employee is not recalled from lay-off for an aggregate of more than thirty (30) shifts from the last day of lay-off; then the employee's period of lay-off shall be considered not to have been interrupted.
9
(e)	The Company shall first utilize laid-off employees for work assignments as per paragraph (c) above priorto the utilization of newly hired employees or summer relief employees.
7.06	If the Company determines that temporary layoffs of less than sixty (60) days are necessary, Clause 7.05 does not apply and no advance written notice is required. Those on temporary layoff will continue to be eligible for applicable Company benefits.
7.07	SEVERANCE PAY
(a)	A regular employee who is permanently laid off due to the discontinuance of an operation or lack of work shall receive severance pay (exclusive of notice) on the basis of 1.0 weeks pay for each year of service.
(b)	A regular employee in a department affected by permanent lay-offs who would not otherwise lose his employment may apply to voluntarily terminate and receive a separation allowance (exclusive of notice) of l O weeks pay for each year of service to a maximum of ten (10) years service.
The number of employees eligible for severance under this provision shall be determined by the Company each year.
(c)	An employee accepting severance shall be considered terminated.
10
ARTICLE NO. 8 JOB POSTING
8.01	Permanent positions covered by this agreement, which become vacant and are determined by the Company to be required, will be posted on all designated bulletin boards. The Company is only required to post one additional vacancy that may arise out of the filling of the first vacancy. Any subsequent vacancies may be filled as determined by the Company.
8.02	Vacancies shall be posted for a period of five (5) days not including Saturday, Sunday or recognized general holidays.
8.03	Postings will specify job duties, hours of work, days of work, and rate of pay.
8.04	Candidates will be considered as perArticle 7 of this agreement.
8.05	Any employee who bids on a posted vacancy and is successful, shall not bid on any other vacancies for a period of six (6) months. This period may be reduced upon mutual agreement.
8.06	Posted vacancies will be awarded on the following priorities:
a)	within the bargaining unit;
b)	external candidates.
8.07	The successful candidate will be transferred to the newjob within a reasonable period of awarding the posting.
8.08	New or revisedjob postings will be discussed with
11 (j
the plant committee prior to posting on the bulletin boards.
8.09	Copies of job posting awards will be given to the plant committee and where the senior candidate is not selected the plant committee will be advised prior to finalization.
ARTICLE NO. 9 GRIEVANCES
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	A grievance shall consist of a dispute respecting interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this agreement or any law or statute of the Province of Alberta or Dominion of Canada. The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
9.02	The Company will not consider a grievance unless it is submitted to the employee's supervisor at Step 1 within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the event or knowledge of the event upon which the grievance is based. In cases of pay, the grievance must be submitted within the same time period of receipt of the pay in which the alleged error occurred. For the purpose of determining required time frames under this article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized general holidays are not included.
12
9.03	Step 1:
An employee having a complaint or questions shall first discuss the matter with the supervisor concerned. The department steward may accompany the employee, if requested to do so by the employee. If a satisfactory answer or adjustment is not obtained within three (3) days, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 2.
9.04	Step 2:
At this stage, the grievance must be submitted in writing (on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company) to the department manager or his designate within three (3) days from the date on which the answer was required under Step 1. The applicable department manager will arrange a meeting with the aggrieved employee (if appropriate), the plant committee, and the supervisor to review the grievance and render his decision in writing following same.
Should no satisfactory settlement be reached within four (4) days from the date on which the grievance was submitted at this step, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 3.
9.05	Step 3:
At this stage, the grievance must be advanced by the aggrieved employee andior the Union in writing to the Divisional Vice President andior his designates within three (3) days from the date on which the answerwas required under Step2. The Divisional Vice President (or his designates) shall submit his reply, in writing, to the Union within ten (10) days of receipt of the grievance at Step 3.
13
9.06	If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within the time limits set forth in Step 3 it may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in Step 4 below at any time within fifteen (15) days thereafter, but not later.
The Company or the Union may file a grievance on an allegation involving the interpretation, application or violation of any provisions of the agreement. Such a grievance will be entered at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, but must be presented within fifteen (15) days of the alleged violation. The right of this clause will be lost if used to by-pass any provision of the normal grievance procedure.
ARBITRATION
9.07	Step 4:
Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto.
9.08	The party wishing arbitration must notify the other party in writing of its desire to refer the grievance to an impartial umpire/arbitrator within the specified time limits set forth above. This notice must also state the name(s) of their choice of candidates to act in the capacity of arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within five (5) days of the date of the written notice, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of
14
Labour for the Province of Alberta upon the request of either party.
9.09	The decisions of the arbitrator constituted in the above matter shall be binding on both parties.
9.10	The arbitrator shall not have any powerto alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
9.11	The parties agree to share equally the fee and expenses of the arbitrator.
9.12	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
DISCHARGE CASES
9.13	In the event of any employee who has attained seniority being discharged from employment, and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
9.14	All such cases shall be presented in writing (on a form provided by the Union and approved by the Company) at Step 3 of the grievance procedure within ten (10) days of the date the employee is notified of his discharge. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such cases.
9.15	Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other ar-
15
rangementwhich is equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.16	If a settlement cannot be reached, either party to this agreement may proceedto arbitration as outlined in this article.
ARTICLE NO. 10 DISCIPLINARYACTION
10.01	The Company has the right to discipline or discharge employees for just cause.
10.02	The employees have the right to request their shop steward or union representativebe present when an employee is being disciplined or given a written warning notice.
10.03	Disciplinary notices shall be given to the employee and a copy forwarded to the union office.
10.04	Disciplinary notices shall be removed from the employee's file after two (2) years provided that no other offence has taken place.
10.05	Wherever possible, a steward should be present at the time discipline is issued. Where a steward is not available, another employee may be used.
16
ARTICLE NO. 11 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS
11.01	No unauthorized persons shall be allowed to ride in any vehicle owned by the Company, or serve customers. Violation of this article shall be reason for dismissal without notice.
ARTICLE NO. 12 TRUCK DRIVERS
12.01	Drivers shall be responsible for the condition of the inside of their trucks, including the cab.
No driver shall be required to take out any truck, nor will he do so, if safety features required by law are not operating properly.
ARTICLE NO. 13 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	Personal Leaves: Leaves of absence without pay or loss of seniority may be granted for periods not exceeding six (6) months to regular full time employees with a minimum of one year's service; subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Employee requests for personal leave in excess of one week must be made in writing to the immediate supervisor.
17
(b)	Requests for leaves of absence will be adjudicated by the Company on the basis of merit, compassion and operational consideration.
(c)	Employees who are granted leaves will continue to be entitled to Company health and welfare benefits for one month beyond the month in which the leave commences.
(d)	Employees on leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall not accrue vacation and sick leave entitlements for the period of the leave.
(e)	Employees who have been granted a leave of absence in excess of (c) above will have the option of having appropriate health and welfare benefits continue for the balance of the leave by paying the full cost of the premiums.
(f)	Employees requesting paternity leave will be given special consideration.
(g)	Special consideration will be given to employees called on to serve in the military in the event of war or who are elected to federal, provincial or municipal office.
13.02	Union Leave: The Company agrees to grant time off, without discrimination and without pay, to any one employee who is a member of the union and who has been designated by the union to attend a labour convention or serve in any capacity on other union business, provided in each case the Company's consent has been given, after fourteen (14) days notice has been served on the Company by the Union, and provided further, that such absence shall not exceed two (2) years and
18
such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
13.03	Bereavement Leave: In the event of the death of a member of a regular employee's immediate family, the Company will grant a leave of up to three (3) consecutive days with pay if the employee is scheduled to work. An additional two (2) days of leave without pay may be granted based on individual circumstances.
The term “immediate family” shall include spouse, parent, step parent, child, step child, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
In the event of the death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the Company will grant up to one (1) day with pay if the employee is scheduled to work.
13.04	Maternity Leave: A pregnant employee who has been employed for a continuous period of at least twelve (12) months is entitled to maternity leave without pay; subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Maternity leave is for a period not exceeding 21 weeks commencing at any time during the 12 week period immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery and 6 to 9 weeks after the actual date of delivery.
(b)	An employee shall give at least 2 weeks notice of the commencement date of the leave and of the return date.
(c)	An employee may shorten the six (6) week period following the delivery date if a medical certificate is provided indicating that resump-
19
tion of work by the employee will not endanger her health.
(d)	If during the twelve (12) week period prior to the estimated delivery date, the pregnancy interferes with the performance of the employee's duties, the employer may, by notice in writing, require the employee to commence maternity leave.
(e)	An employee on maternity leave will continue to be covered by the health and welfare benefits and will continue to accrue seniority and sew-ice for the purpose of determining vacation entitlement but not sick leave credits; providedthey return to work following the maternity leave.
(f)	On returnto work the employee will be placed in her previous job or an equivalent job with no reduction in rate of pay or benefits.
13.05	Jury Duty: Employees called upon to perform jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions:
(i)	Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remain to be worked.
(ii)	Employees shall furnish the Company with such statements of earnings from the courts and turn all monies over to the Company.
(iii)	Employees shall provide appropriate written documentation.
20
ARTICLE NO. 14 SICK LEAVE
14.01	After the employee is in the service of the Company one full year, he will be entitled to one work week per year for sickness and non-compensable accident with full pay, when proof of disability is supplied. Proof ofdisability will not normally be required for absences of 1-2 days in duration. However, it is within the Company's rights to request proof of disability for any sick leave and request the proof from a doctor recommended by the Company, in the event of frequent unrelated sick leave.
14.02	The Company may discontinue or reduce the sick leave benefit to any employee found repeatedly abusing the use of sick leave.
14.03	Unused days may be accumulated to a maximum of three work weeks. For anyone illness, employees shall only use the required number of days from their sick bank before qualifying for other benefits.
14.04	In the event of the inability to work due to sickness or accident, employees are expected to give reasonable notice (call in) prior to the commencement of their shift and to keep their supervisor informed as to their expected return to work.
14.05	(a) An employee who works the complete calen-
dar year shall receive a pay-out of 50% of his accrued sick leave provided the employee has not received any warnings regarding his attendance in that calendar year.
21 lS
(b) An employee absent due to any combination ofWCB, Wl or LTD in excess of 30 days shall have his sick leave pro-rated, for the purposes of any pay-out, that calendar year.
ARTICLE NO. 15 GENERAL HOLIDAYS
15.01	Employees currently on payroll for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized general holidayswith pay equal to their regular hourly rate for their regular scheduled hours of work. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work the last scheduled shift priorto the holidayand the first scheduled shift after the holiday and the holiday, if scheduled; unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor's certificate. Employees who are scheduled to work the holiday and do not, due to a verified illness, will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benefit.
15.02	The following general holidays are recognized: New Year's Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
15.03	All general holidays are recognized for pay purposes on the actual day on which they fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. It is recognized on July 1st except when it falls on Sunday, in which case Monday, July 2nd becomes the holiday).
22
15.04	Employees who are required to work on a general holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day (see Clause 17.01) in addition to their regular days pay for the general holiday.
ARTICLE NO. 16 VACATIONS
16.01	Vacations shall be granted to full time employees as follows:
After 1 year of continuous service - 2 weeks After 4 years of continuous service - 3 weeks After 11 years of continuous service - 4 weeks
In addition to the above, employees shall receive one half day (1/2) of paid vacation for each year of continuous service, commencing with the twelfth (12) year.
A week of vacation is defined as 40 hours (see Article No. 17 - Hours of Work and Overtime).
16.02	Vacation pay will be based on the employee's regular hourly rate including shift differential but not including overtime. Summer relief and casual employees are not entitled to vacations, but will receive vacation pay equal to 4% of their regular earnings.
16.03	Each employee shall take their vacation during the calendar year in which they are entitled to it.
23
16.04	For scheduling purposes, new employees are not entitled to two weeks vacation until after their first year anniversary date. Commencing in the calendar year during which the second anniversary falls, vacations may be scheduled throughout the calendaryearsubjectto Clause 16.05 and 16.06.
16.05	Vacations will be scheduled on a calendar basis from January 1stto December 31st. Employees will only be allowed to schedule a maximum of two (2) consecutive weeks during the months of June, July and August. During the balance of the year, employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation, may schedule more than two (2) consecutive weeks subject to the dates being mutually agreed upon.
16.06	A vacation planning schedule and accompanying department/unit guidelines will be posted by December 1st of the preceding year for completion by January 15th. The vacation planning schedule and Departmentalguidelines will be reviewed with the Union prior to posting. Seniority shall prevail in determining vacations. Commencing with the most senior employee, subject to the department/ unit guidelines, employees on a seniority basis will indicate their preferred dates for two (2) weeks. After all employees have had the opportunity to schedule two (2) weeks, employees will indicate their choice, again on a seniority basis, for the balance of their entitlement. After January 15th, vacations will be allotted on the basis offirst come first approved. The Company reserves the right to schedule vacation not declared by August 15th.
24
16.07	In the event an employee resigns or is terminated, vacation pay will be determined as follows:
(i)	If the resignation occurs prior to the anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the last anniversary date to the date of termination less any vacation actually taken during the current calendar year. Any vacation overpayment will be deducted from final earnings.
(ii)	If the resignation occurs after the anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the anniversary date to the date of termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken in the current calendar year.
ARTICLE NO. 17
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
17.01	It is recognized that a day is a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing at twelve (12) midnight.
17.02	Employees shall normally work 80 hours per pay period; eight (8) days, ten (10) hours per day or ten (10) days, eight (8) hours per day, with a minimum of two consecutive days off per week. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the Company, based on operational and business needs (see Letter of
25
Understanding - Re: Alternate Work Arrangements).
17.03	A pay period is defined as a fourteen (14) consecutive day period that commences at 2400 hours Saturday.
17.04	Overtime at one and one half (1 1/2) the regular rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled hours per day or per week and eighty (80) hours in any one pay period.
17.05	When assigning required overtime, consideration will be given to individual circumstances.
17.06	The Company shall provide all employees two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods, one in the first half of the shift and the second in the second half of the shift. The Company shall provide for a half hour unpaid lunch break.
17.07	Shift Differential: A shift differential payment of sixty cents (600) shall be paid to all regular employees for all regularly scheduled hours worked outside of the basic work day. For the purpose of applying this clause, the basic work day is defined from 5:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
17.08	Meal Allowance: All employees required to work in excess of two (2) hours of their regular scheduled shift will be provided a meal allowance of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50).
26
ARTICLE NO. 18 WAGES
18.01	No member shall be required to mark prices on any product handled.
18.02	Any new position that is introduced by the Company during the term of this agreement will be reviewed with the Union prior to the Company determining the appropriate rate.
18.03	All employees assigned to a higher classification shall receive the higher rate of pay for all full hours worked in such higher classification.
18.04	The lead hand is recognized as a non-supervisory appointment. A lead hand premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid over the employee's posted job and regular rate in recognition of additional responsibilities to direct (train, relieve, related administration) and oversee the activities of a specific work unit.
The number of required lead hands and determination of those appointed will be solely at the discretion of management on the basis of operational needs.
18.05	Any employee who commences or re-commenc-es employment with the Company during the time this agreement remains in force, and who previously performed the same work, or substantially the same work (regardless of classification) in the Dairy Processing Industry, shall, for the purpose of his wage rate herein, be granted credit for his previous experience after he completes thirty (30) days of employment with the Company, provided that:
27
(1)	He worked for the previous employer or the Company for at least one () year performing the same or substantially the same work; and
(2)	There has not been a break in service of more than twelve (12) months between the time of termination from his previous employment with the Company or other employer in the Dairy Processing Industry, and the time he commences or re-commences work with the Company under this agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 19 TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES
19.01	Where an employee is transferred to a lower paid job (unless such transfer is at his own request or because of inefficiency) he shall not be made to suffer any loss in pay for the first thirty (30) days that he worked on such job.
ARTICLE NO. 20 BENEFITS
20.01	Employees shall be eligible for benefits as per the Letter of Understanding Re: Benefit Eligibility and Regular Full Time Status'. Notice of premium increases affecting employees to be communicated to the Plant Committee in advance.
28
ARTICLE NO. 21 MISCELLANEOUS
21.01	All delivery personnel shall wear only Company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties: which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times. The annual entitlement for regular full time employees is a jacket, four shirts, and two pair of pants. A winter parka shall be supplied by the Company once every two years. Additional items will be allowed as required on a fifty-fifty (50%/50%) cost sharing basis.
21.02	The Company will provide suitable cold weather clothing for those required to work in the freezer.
21.03	Upon the presentation of appropriate receipts for the purchase of Company approved safety footwear, the Company shall reimburse regular benefit eligible employees seventy-five ($75.00) dollars on the first pay period following May 1 st, each year (or $150.00 for two years).
29
ARTICLE NO. 22 PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
22.01	This agreement shall come into force on the 1st day of January, 2002 and shall remain in force until the 30th day of April 2008, or as here and after provided.
If notice to negotiate has been given by either party, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect during any period of negotiation, even though such negotiation may extend beyond the said anniversary date, until fourteen (14) days after the date upon which a vote is held under the provisions of the labour relations act, on the acceptance or rejection of an award of mediation services and to further continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either party.
Should either party wish to change, add to, amend or terminate this agreement, not less than sixty (60) days notice, nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days notice prior to the anniversary date, shall be given in writing to the other party, such writing to be given by registered mail.
30
FOR
FOR
DAIRYLAND FLUID DIVISION LTD.
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL446
KEITH KLEINWACHTER
31
EROUPI
WAGE SCHEDULE A
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLYWAGES
MAY 1/01 MAY 1/02 MAY 1/03 MAY 1/04 MAY 1/05 MAY 1/06 MAY 1/07
Pasteurizer	$18.06	$18.51	$18.68	$19.21	$19.59	$20.08	$20.64
Fluid Setup Blender Fluid Swing Person C.l.P. Main Panel Operator	$17.59	$18.04	$18.20	$18.72	$19.09	$19.57	$20.11
FluidMilkPackaging Equipment Operator Caser/Stacker Operator	$17.10	$17.55	$17.70	$18.21	$18.57	$19.04	$19.56
l/C Freezer Centre Operator Milk Receiver
Deep Reach Forklift Operator (includes dry goods)
Dock Loader
S h i pper/D i s patcher
Hardening Tunnel Operator
Holiday Relief
Yard Forklift
4 C.I.P. Clean Up	1st 12 months	$15.17	$15.62	$15.73	$16.20	$16.53	$16.94	$17.40
l/CMachineFillerOperator	2nd 12 months	$16.24	$16.69	$16.82	$17.31	$17.66	$18.10	$18.60
Load Bu ilder/S hi ppe r (all products) After 24 months		$16.64	$17.09	$17.23	$17.73	$18.09	$18.54	$19.05
Return Receiver								
Stock Counter								
5. Packager (all products)	1st 12 months	$14.17	$14.62	$14.71	$15.16	$15.46	$15.85	$16.28
Labourer	rtA 2nd 12 months	$15.27	$15.72	$15.83	$16.31	$16.63	$17.05	$17.51
	Wp After 24 months		$16.10	$16.22	$16.70	$17.04	$17.46	$17.94
WAGE SCHEDULE A (cont’d)
El 3 o	CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION			BASIC HOURLY WAGES				
OS cs			MAY 1/01	MAY 1/02	MAY 1/03	MAY 1/04	MAY 1/05	MAY 1/06	MAY 1/07
6	Pallet Repair/GeneralClean-up		$11.10	$11.55	$11.58	$11.97	$12.21	$12.51	$12.84
	Summer Relief		$9.60	$10.05	$10-25	$10.46	$10.67	$10.93	$11.26
7	LaboratoryAssistant		$14.87	$15.32	$15.43	$15.89	$16.21	$16.61	$17.06
	Technician 1	1st 12 months	$15.41	$15.86	$15.98	$16.45	$16.78	$1720	$17.67
	Technician II	2nd 12 months	$16.00	$16.45	$16.58	$17.06	$17.41	$17.84	$18.33
	Technician III’	After 24 months	$17.37	$17.82	$17.98	$18.49	$18.86	$19.33	$19.86
	’(Provided the employee has the minimum certification as set out by the Employer								
8	Wholesale Driver*		$17.55	$18.00	$18.16	$18.68	$19.05	$19.53	$20.07
	Relief Wholesale Driver*		$18.05	$18.50	$18.67	$19.20	$19.58	$20.07	$20.63
	’(see Letter of Understanding)								
9	Shunt Driver		$17.59	$18.04	$18.20	$18.72	$19.09	$19.57	$20.11
SCHEDULEB PENSION CONTRIBUTION
The current Company pension contributions per regular hour (hours actually worked, vacation, stat hours, sick leave, shortterm disability andWCB but excluding overtime and long term disability) will be adjusted as follows:
Effective May 1, 2001 Effective May 1, 2002 Effective May 1, 2003 Effective May 1, 2004 Effective May 1, 2005 Effective May 1, 2006 Effective May 1,2007
Total Company Contribution $1.00 per regular hour $1.25 per regular hour $1.45 per regular hour $1.50 per regular hour $1.55 per regular hour $1.60 per regular hour $1.70 per regular hour
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: TIME OFF IN LIEU OF OVERTIME PAY
It is recognized that there may be circumstances whereby it is to the advantage of both parties for the Company to grant another day of in lieu for overtime worked by an employee on their regular day off.
Employees who work an overtime shift on their regular day off may request another day off in lieu of overtime pay on the following basis:
(a)	only complete overtime shifts can be rescheduled as time off. (i.e. 8 hours or 10 hours).
(b)	time off will be equivalent to overtime hours worked.
(c)	mutual agreement must be reached on when the day in lieu is to be taken, otherwise the overtime will be paid out.
(d)	no more than two (2) shifts can be accrued at anyone time.
FOR THE UNION:
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
It is agreed that no employee's rate of pay will be negatively affected as a result of the classification of jobs as reflected in the new collective agreement.
Any employee who is currently paid beyond the job classification rate as per the agreement will be grandfathered, i.e. retain their current rate including wage adjustments until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled or transferred to another job, at which time they will receive the applicable rate for the new job.
Current grandfathered employees include:
Wholesale Driver
May 1/02 May 1/03 May 1/04 May 1/05 May 1/06 May 1/07
$18.90 $19.08 $19.61	$20.01	$20.51 $21.13
Employees:
Spannenburg, G. Manning, Jim
Wholesale Driver/Swinq Person
May 1/02 May 1/03 May 1/04 May 1/05 May 1/06 May 1/07 $18.38 $18.55 $19.07 $19.46 $19.94 $20.54 Employee:
Bergsma, Pete
RATE OF PAY
FOR THE UNION:
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: ALTERNATIVE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
1.	Pursuantto Article 17.02, the parties acknowledge that "alternate work arrangements" are necessary in order to ensure the efficient scheduling and operation of particular departments and satisfy customer requirements.
2.	In support of this understanding, alternate work arrangements (e.g. 12 hours per day, 10 hours per day, 35 to 44 hours per week, etc.) for a particular department, work group or individual may be utilized.
3.	It is intended that alternate work arrangements be discussed with the Plant Committee prior to implementation including any specific situations where an employee cannot be given two consecutive days off.
4.	It is understood that under alternate work arrangements, overtime would only be paid if the hours worked exceed the daily schedule or the total hours worked exceed the scheduled hours in a specific period (e.g. pay period or work cycle).
FOR THE UNION:
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: TRAINING
As a result of the changing requirements within the Dairy Industry and with the introduction of new technology, the Company and the Union acknowledge the need for the training and development of employees.
Wherever possible, as specific training opportunities and needs are identified, the Company will, from time to time, post a notice of such opportunities in order to solicit interested employees.
In selecting employees for training, preference will first be given to those employees who are interested and available at the time the training is offered and who would be available to apply this training in future assignments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to assign training as required.
CLASS 1 - DRIVER TRAINING
Employees who are interested in obtaining a Class 1 driver's license are responsible for any costs incurred in obtaining such licence. Should an employee be successful in posting to a position requiring the use of a Class 1 licence and pass a Company approved driving test, he shall have fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the training portion for his class 1 licence reimbursed by the Company up to a maximum of six hundred ($600) dollars.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: REGISTERED DISTRIBUTION OPERATORS (RDO’S!
The terms and conditions contained in this Letter are
intended to apply to persons working as Registered Distribution Operators (RDO’s) in North/Central Alberta.
PART 1 GENERAL
1.	The purpose of this letter is to establish Registered Distribution Operators (RDO’s) in North/Central Alberta.
2.	Any person who desires to become a RDO shall be required to make formal application and satisfy the 'eligibility criteria' as determined by the Company.
These criteria shall include but not be limited to general suitability and financial qualifications.
3.	The number of Territories shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
4.	Under this arrangement, RDO's receive the right to distribute Company provided and approved products within a specific geographic territory and/or to specific customers. The Company shall make available sufficient products and shall provide Sales, Marketing and other support services.
5.	(a) Products supplied to RDO's will be at ‘net price’
(with a specified sale price) such that RDO’s will receive a 'commission or 'fee for service' on the sale of each unit.
(b) Other forms of remuneration may be applied at the discretion of the Company (drop charge,
39
transportation fee, storage fee, etc.)
(c) All RDO's are responsible for the cost of returns under their control.
6.	RDO’s will be required to use the Company's automated billing and accounting system. The RDO will be charged a nominal fee for the use of the Norand (hand-held) system and/or other automated processes. The Company will carry the accounts receivable.
7.	RDO’s are expected to adhere to the reasonable directives and guidelines set by the Company. This shall include responsibility for vehicle parking, hook-ups and loading.
8.	The Company may terminate without notice any RDO for 'just cause' or non-performance of responsibilities and immediately take back the distribution rights to the territory.
9.	RDO's are responsible for obtaining proper 'business insurance', registration, WCB coverage and for maintaining vehicles in a safe operating condition.
10.	RDO's are intendedto be covered solely bythe terms of this letter and a Standard Form RDO Agreement and must remain members in good standing of CEP Local 445. Union dues shall be deducted bythe Company and remitted to the Union.
11.	The terms of this letter are to be appended to and form part of the Collective Agreement. The terms and conditions in the 'Standard Form RDO Agreement' is expressly excluded from the Collective Agreement and is directly applicable between the RDO and the Company.
12.	All statutory deductions(i.e., CPP, WCB, Income Tax)
40
are the responsibility of the RDO.
13.	All RDO’s will be required to enter into a standard form 'RDO Agreement' and shall form pari of a separate unit covered by this Letter of Intent.
PART 2: CURRENT DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES
1.	Current distribution employees satisfying the eligibility criteria may apply for available Territories.
2.	The Company will offer ‘voluntary severance’ to those employees awarded distribution rights to a Territory as consideration for separation from their current position.
3.	The RDO’s will be required to provide their own vehi-
cle; either leased or owned which must be suitable for the assigned Territory.
4.	The Company shall continue to pay for the Welfare
Benefits for present distribution employees who become RDO'sfor a period of twelve (12) months based on the current hourly rate to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week. Thereafter, present employees may purchase basic Welfare (medical, dental, extended health, life insurance) benefits by paying the cost of these benefits.
PART 3: NEW REGISTEREDDISTRIBUTIONOPERATORS
1.	The general conditions under Part I of the Letter of Intent shall apply to new RDO’s,
2.	A new RDO shall have the option of purchasing Welfare Benefits by directly paying the applicable plan premiums.
41
It is intended that the terms and conditions contained in this Letter of Understanding apply to RDO's and shall take precedent over the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE UNION:

42
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: HEALTH &WELFARE BENEFITS
1.	The parties hereby recognize that the provision of Health & Welfare Benefits represents a serious escalating cost to the Company that must be judiciously controlled in order for the Company to continue to provide these benefits.
2.	The parties recognize that it is in their mutual interest to recognize and agree to control Health & Welfare benefits through the following principles:
•	Provision of a base level of Health &Welfare Ben-
•	Uniformity of benefit plan provisions across all Company operations
•	Standardization of insurers across employee groups
•	Diligent administration by and through the insurers
. Subrogation by the insurer for rights of recovery
. Retentionby the Company of any insurance, government rebate (e.g., E.l, Premium rebate)
3.	In accordance with these principles, the Company
agrees to provide the following Health and Welfare
Benefits:
Medical:	Provincial coverage. Premiums
efits
Dental:
paid by the Company.
Basic coverage major restorative
43
mum $2,000/yr/person. Premiums paid by the Company.
Extended Health:	Standard plan, including optical
plan of $100/2 years. Premiums paid by the Company.
Weekly Indemnity:	60% of gross weekly base rate
for up to 26 weeks. Premiums paid by the Company.
Long Term Disability: 60% of gross weekly base rate.
Premiums paid by the employee.
Life Insurance:	1 X base annual wage. Premi
urns paid by the Company.
4.	This plan to be effective January 1,2002.
5.	The Company agrees to provide these benefits on the understanding that administration, inclusive of adjudication of claims, is the sole responsibility of the applicable insurer.
FOR THE UNION:
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: BENEFIT ELIGIBILITYAND REGULAR
FULL TIME STATUS
The purpose of this letter is to set out the process and principles under which an employee becomes eligible for benefits and regular full time status.
1.	The practice with respectto the use of students and labour pool employees covered under Articles 6.01 and 20.03 shall continue.
2.	Article 20 Benefit Eligibilityshall be amended as follows:
20.01	Full Time Employees
Effective the 1st of the month following 960 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as regular full time (excluding labour pool and summer help) shall be entitled to full Health and Welfare benefits as provided by the Company.
20.02	Labour Pool Employees
Effective the 1st of the month following 960 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as labour pool (excluding summer help) shall be entitled to core Health and Welfare benefits (medical, dental and extended health) as provided by the Company.
20.03	Full Benefits and Regular Full Time Status
Effective the 1st of the month following 1900 hours worked in a continuous 12 month period, employees hired as labour pool (excluding summer help) shall be considered regular full-time and be eligible for full
45
Health & Welfare benefits (including pension, disability and sick leave*) provided by the Company
20.04	Core Benefit Eligibility
All benefit eligible employees on recall will be entitled to core Health and Welfare benefits (medical, dental and extended health) as provided by the Company, provided they work a minimum of 50% of the regular working hours in the previous period (reviewed quarterly). Where the employee does not qualify for benefits under this provision he has the option of pre-paying these benefits.
* Note of clarification:
In the first year an employee becomes eligible, sick leave entitlement shall be pro-rated on the basis of 1/12 of the sick leave accumulation for each full month remaining in the calendar year in which full time status is attained.
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: GENERAL HOLIDAY BANKING OPTION
An employee who is required to work on a General Holiday shall have the option to:
(i)	Accrue the regularly scheduled hours (e.g. 8, 10 hours) for the General Holiday at the employee's regular straight time rate of pay. Such time is to be scheduled as time off at a mutually agreeable time prior to April 30th each year.
(ii)	It is understood that the maximum number of General Holidays that may be accrued is five (5) days per contract year.
(iii)	Should the Company be unable to provide the time off prior to April 30th each year, the employee shall receive a payout of the amount of hours at straight time.
FOR THE UNION:
47