NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED (EDMONTON, ALBERTA)
AND
ALBERTA WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
MAY 1,1991 TO APRIL 30,1983
INDEX
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED EDMONTON
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26
PURPOSES AND PROVISIONS MANAGEMENT
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
UNION SECURITY AND WORKING CONDITIONS
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
SUMMER RELIEF EMPLOYEES
SENIORITY
JOB POSTING
GRIEVANCES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
LOSS AND DAMAGE
UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS
TRUCK DRIVERS
ROUTE BOOKS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SICK LEAVE
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
LOYALTY TO THE COMPANY HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME WAGES AND COMMISSIONS TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES BENEFITS
SPLITTING OF ROUTES MISCELLANEOUS PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
PAGE 2 PAGE 3 PAGE 4 PAGE 5 PAGE 6,7 PAGE 8,9 PAGE 10,11,12,13 PAGE 14
PAGE 15,16,17,18,19 PAGE 20 PAGE 21 PAGE 22 PAGE 23 PAGE 24
PAGE 2526,27,2829 PAGE 30 PAGE 31,32 PAGE 33,34,35 PAGE 36 PAGE 37,38 PAGE 39,40,41 PAGE 42 PAGE 43 PAGE 44 PAGE 45 PAGE 46
SCHEDULE A WAGE RATES SCHEDULE B COMMISSIONS
MAY 1. 1991 to APRIL 30. 1993
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED, at Edmonton, Alberta
(Hereinafter called "The Company")
AND:
THE EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY WHO ARE MEMBERS OF:
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION (Hereinafter called "The Union")
ARTICLE NO. 1 - PURPOSES AND PROVISIONS
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this agreement that the company and the union co-operate to obtain efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products; to maintain a harmonious relationship between the company and its employees; to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may arise from time to time; and to set forth certain conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
1.02	The company recognizes the union as the bargaining agent for the employees of the company, employed in the dairy industry operated by the company in the City of Edmonton, excluding such employees as are engaged as office workers, salespersons and maintenance personnel. The company shall not enter into any agreement which in any way conflicts with the provisions hereof.
1.03	The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the feminine gender.
2
ARTICLE NO. 2 - MANAGEMENT
2.01	The company shall have the exclusive right and power to manage and control the business, provide and post work rules and regulations to be observed by the employee, to alter such rules and regulations as required from time to time, to direct the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, layoff, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to decrease or increase the working forces, to determine the products to be handled, and nothing in this agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the company to manage and control the business. Nothing in this clause, however, shall be used to discriminate against any employee or union member, nor shall it be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect cf specific provisions of this agreement.
3
ARTICLE NO. 3- MAINTENANCE CF MEMBERSHIP
3.01	It is agreed that all employees covered by this agreement shall become members of the union within thirty (30)calendar days after being hired and remain members in good standing as a condition of employment.
3.02	The union shall supply the company with application forms for union membership and dues deductions which shall be signed by all new employees on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the union, along with the next monthly dues payment, and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment.
3.03	The employer agrees to deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this agreement, all established monthly dues, initiationfees and uniformly levied assessments of the union. It is further agreed that the employer shall remit such deductions to the union prior to the end of the month for which such deductions are made.
4
ARTICLE NO. 4 - UNION SECURITY AND WORKING CONDITIONS
4.01	Any employee who is not a member of the union shall not work at occupations which come under the union's jurisdiction, except; in cases of emergency (and then only until a member of the union can be placed on the job), for purposes of training or where bargaining unit work is involved in merely an incidental way. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it.
4.02	The union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing, manufactureand distribution of dairy products or such other products as the company may from time to time process or manufacture, as currently carried out by union employees.
4.03	There will be no strikes, walkouts, slowdowns, or other cessation of work by employees, and no lockouts by the employer, during the period of this agreement, and all grievances or other differences shall be settled by the grievance procedure set out in Article 9 of this agreement.
4.04	No union employee will be required to cross a lawfully established picket line.
5
ARTICLE NO. 5 - UNION REPRESENTATIVES
5.01	The employer recognizes the right of the union to designate a reasonable number of shop stewards to represent the union and/or the employees on a day-to-day basis. The union agrees to keep the employer advised regarding the personnel so designated as a shop steward and furthermore it is mutually agreed that persons so designated shall be allowed reasonable time and opportunity by the employer to perform their functions in accordance with this clause.
During normalworking hours, stewards must advisetheir supervisor as to the nature of their business, an estimate of the time required and get permission prior to leaving their work site.
5.02	An appropriate locked bulletin board shall be provided by the employer upon which the union may place notices in regard to meetings, social gatherings and all other matters pertaining to legitimate union business.
5.03	A labour-management committee will be set up and will meet at regular intervals as required to exchange information and discuss operational issues and concerns of mutual interest. This forum will not be used to discuss grievances.
6
ARTICLE NO. 5 - UNION REPRESENTATIVES (CONTINUED^
5.04	In the event an employee is away from the plant for regularly scheduled hours of work, on union authorized business which has been approved by the company, the employer will continue to pay the employee at the employee's regular rate of pay and benefits as if the employee was at work, and submit the cost to the union for reimbursement.
7
ARTICI E NO. 6 - SUMMER REIIEF EMPLOYEES
6.01	The company may employ summer relief employees underthefollowirtg conditions;
a)	Summer relief employees may be hired between fhe period of March 1 to September 15.
b)	Summer reliefemployeeswill be used to supplementthe regular work force In order to meet increased seasonal production and distribution requirements and for vacation relief of regular employees
c)	Summer relief employees shall not be employed tr scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of regular full-time employees.
d)	All summer relief employees shall as a condition of continuing employment pay union dues In accordance with Article 3 of this agreement for those months in which the employee has earnings.
e)	Summer relief employees shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
f)	Summer reliefemployeeswill be paid the rate as si out in Schedule A of this agreement.
(6
ARTICLE NO. 6 - SUMMER RELIEF EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED!
g)	Summer relief employees will only qualify for the wage rate as per Article 21, general holiday pay as per Article 17 and access to the grievance provisions.
h)	All summer relief employees must be terminated on or before September 15th.
9
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service beginning on the date of regular full time employment.
7.02	A newly hired employee shall be on probation for forty-five (45) working days from the date <f hiring. During this period of time, seniority shall not apply and an employee may be laid off without cause, and the company shall not be obligated to re-hire. During the probationary period, the employee shall be entitled to all other rights and benefits of this agreement except as otherwise provided. After successful completion of the probationary period, the employee's seniority and service record shall date back to the original date of hire.
7.03	A list showing the seniority of all employees shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the work site. The company shall forward an updated seniority list to the union every three (3) months.
7.04	Vacancies will be filled based on seniority, provided that ability and qualifications, as determined by the company, are relatively equal. (See Article 8 - Job Posting)
10
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY (CONTINUED^
7.05	In the event that permanent layoffs are necessary, the following procedures shall be followed:
a)	The affected employee shall be given a written notice of layoff.
b)	Where there is more than one employee working in the same job classification affected by the employer's decision to lay off, the order of layoff within that affected group shall be in reverse order cf seniority.
c)	When an employee is provided notice of layoff, the employee shall also be advised of an alternate position, if any, which the employee can elect to fill in order to avoid layoff. The company shall begin such an assessment with the position occupied by the most junior employee, and if the employee to be laid cf has the qualifications and ability and is able to perform that job with a reasonable amount of training, then that job shall be offered to the employee to be laid off. If the employee to be laid off is not considered qualified or able to perform that job, then the employee shall be assessed in respect of the position occupied by the next most junior employee, and so on until it is determined that no such alternate position is located, or until it is determined that no such alternate position is available.
11
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY fCONTINUEDI
In no case shall an employee to be laid off be offered an alternate position occupied by an employee in a higher rated classification, or who possesses greater seniority.
d)	If no alternate position is found by the process outlined in paragraph c) above, or if the employee to be laid off does not elect to accept the alternate position offered within three (3)working days c£ receiving notice cf layoff, then the employee shall be laid off in accordance with the notice.
e)	An employee displaced by the process described in paragraph c) above shall be treated as if he were laid off. The employee shall be provided notice of layoff, and the procedures outlined in paragraphsc) and d) above shall apply.
12
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY (CONTINUED1)
f)	Laid off employees shall retain recall rights for a period cf six months from the date of their layoff, and shall be eligible for that period to participate in job postings for vacant positions with other employees under the terms of the collective agreement governing job postings. The company shall not hire new employees while there are still employees on layoff with recall rights, who are, in the opinion of the company capable of performing the duties required in the position to be filled. Upon being recalled within six (6) months of layoff, an employee's seniority shall be back dated to the original hire date.
7.06	If the company determinesthat temporary layoffs of less
than sixty (60) days are necessary, Clause 7.05 does not apply and no advance written notice is required. Those on temporary layoff will continue to be eligible for applicable company benefits.
13
ARTICLE NO. 8 - JOB POSTING
8.01	Positions covered by this agreement, with the exception of labourer and packager, which become vacant and are determined by the company to be required, will be posted on all designated bulletin boards. The company ife only required to post one additional vacancy that may arise out of the filling of the first vacancy. Any subsequent vacancies may be filled as determined by the company.
8.02	Vacancies shall be posted for a period of five (5) days not including Saturday, Sunday or recognized general holidays.
8.03	Postings will specify job duties, hours of work, days of work, and rate of pay.
8.04	Candidates will be considered as per Article 7 of this agreement.
8.05	Any employee who bids on a posted vacancy and is successful, shall not bid on any other vacancies for a period of one (1) year.
8.06	Posted vacancies will be awarded on the following priorities:
a)	within the bargaining unit
b)	layed off union employees from the bargaining unit
c)	external candidates.
14
ARTICLE NO. 9- GRIEVANCES GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	A grievance shall consist of a dispute respecting interpretation, application, or alleged violation of this agreement. The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
9.02	The company will not consider a grievance unless it is submitted to the employee’s supervisor at Step 1 within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the event upon which the grievance is based. In cases of pay, the grievance must be submitted within the same time period of receipt of the pay in which the alleged error occurred. For the purpose of determining required time frames under this article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized general holidays are not included.
9.03	Step 1:
An employee having a complaint or questions shall first discuss the matter with the supervisor concerned. The department steward may accompany the employee, if requested to do so by the employee. If a satisfactory answer or adjustment is not obtained within three (3) days, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 2.
15
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES /CONTINUED)
9.04	Step 2:
At this stage, the grievance must be submitted in writing (on a form supplied by the union and approved by the company) to the plant manager or his designate within three (3) days from the date on which the answer was required under Step 1. The plant manager will arrange a meeting with the aggrieved employee (if appropriate), the master steward, and the supervisor to review the grievance and render his decision in writing following same.
Should no settlement satisfactory to the employee be reached within four (4) days from the date on which the grievance was submitted at this step, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 3.
9.05	Step 3:
At this stage, the grievance must be advanced by the aggrieved employee and/or the union in writing to the Director, Operations (or his designate) within three (3) days from the date on which the answer was required under Step 2. The Director, Operations (or his designate) shall submit his reply, in writing, to the union within ten (10) days of receipt of the grievance at Step 3.
16
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES (CONTINUED)
9.06	If final settlement cf the grievance is not completed within the time limits set forth in Step 3 it may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in Step 4 below at any time within fifteen (15) days thereafter, but not later.
The company or the union may file a grievance on an allegation involving the interpretation,application or violation of any provisions of the agreement. Such a grievance will be entered at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, but must be presented within fifteen (15) days of the alleged violation. The right of this clause will be lost if used to by-pass any provision of the normal grievance procedure.
ARBITRATION
9.07	Step 4:
Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto.
17
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES (CONTINUED^
9.08	The party wishing arbitration must notify the other party in writing of its desire to refer the grievance to an impartial umpire/arbitrator within the specified time limits set forth above. This notice must also state the name(s) of their choice of candidatesto act in the capacity of arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within five (5) days of the date of the written notice, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta upon the request of either party.
9.09	The decisions of the arbitrator constituted in the above matter shall be binding on both parties.
9.10	The arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistentwith the terms and provisions of this agreement.
9.11	The parties agree to share equally the fee and expenses of the arbitrator.
9.12	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
18
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES (CONTINUED)
DISCHARGE CASES
9.13	In the event of any employee who has attained seniority being discharged from employment, and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
9.14	All such cases shall be presented in writing (on a form provided by the union and approved by the company) at Step 3 of the grievance procedure within ten (10) days cf the date the employee is notified cf his discharge. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such cases.
9.15	Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.16	If a settlement cannot be reached, either party to this agreement may proceed to arbitration as outlined in this article.
19
ARTICLE NO. 10- DISCIPLINARY ACTION
10.01	The company has the right to discipline or
discharge employees for just cause.
The employees have the right to request their shop steward or union representative be present when an employee is being disciplined or given a written warning notice.
10.03	Disciplinary notices shall be given to the employee and a copy forwarded to the union office.
10.04	Disciplinary notices shall be removed from the employee's file after two (2) years provided that no other offense has taken place.
20
ARTICLE NO . 11 - LOSS AND DAMAGE
11.01	Employees shall not be charged for loss or damage
unless clear proof of negligence is shown, and no employee shall be charged any more than one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) for any one accident. Any member brought up on a charge should be allowed to sit in on any meeting that has anything to do with his accident.
21
ARTICLE NO. 12 - UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS
12.01	No unauthorized persons shall be allowed to ride in
any vehicle owned by the company, or serve customers. Violation of this article shall be reason for dismissal without notice.
22
ARTICLE NO. 13 - TRUCK DRIVERS
13.01	Drivers shall be responsible for the condition of the
inside of their trucks, including the cab.
No driver shall be required to take out any truck, nor will he do so, if safety features required by law are not operating properly.
23
ARTICLE NO. 14 - ROUTE BOOKS
14.01	All delivery men shall keep properly posted, from
day to day, such route books as are supplied by the company, in order to make it possible for routemen to take over routes without delay. All changes of customers, addresses, the name of new customers, of customers lost, and of customers dissatisfied, must be properly reported so that these matters may be dealt with. Route books are the property of the company and may be demanded by the company at any time and must be handed in immediately.
24
ARTICLE NO. 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	Personal Leaves: Leaves of absence without pay
or loss of seniority may be granted for periods not exceeding six (6)months to regular full time employees with a minimum of one year's service; subject to the following conditions:
a)	Employee requests for personal leave in excess of one week must be made in writing to the immediate supervisor.
b)	Requests for leaves of absence will be adjudicated by the company on the basis of merit, compassion and operational consideration.
c)	Employees who are granted leaves will continue to be entitled to company health and welfare benefits for one month beyond the month in which the leave commences.
d)	Employees on leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall not accrue vacation and sick leave entitlements for the period of the leave.
e)	Employees who have been granted a leave of absence in excess dr c) above will have the option of having appropriate health and welfare benefits continue for the balance of the leave by paying the full cost of the premiums.
25
ARTICLE NO. 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONTINUED^
f)	Employees requesting paternity leave will be given special consideration.
g)	Special considerationwill be given to employees called on to serve in the military in the event of war or who are elected to federal, provincial or municipal office.
15.02	Union Leave: The company agrees to grant time
off, without discrimination and without pay, to any one employee who is a member (f the union and who has been designated by the union to attend a labour convention or serve in any capacity on other union business, provided in each case the company's consent has been given, after seven (7) days notice has been served on the company by the union, and provided further, that such absence shall not exceed one (1) year and shall be predicated on the understanding that the absence of such individual at the stated time proposed will not materially interfere with the operation of the department in which the said employee is engaged.
26
ARTICLE NO. 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONTINUED1).
15.03	Bereavement Leave: In the event of the death of a member of a regular employee's immediate family, the company will grant a leave of up to three (3) consecutive days with pay if the employee is scheduled to work. An additional two (2) days of leave without pay may be granted based on individual circumstances.
The term "immediate family" shall include spouse, parent, step parent, child, step child, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
In the event of the death of a brother-in-law or sister-inlaw, the company will grant up to one (1) day with pay if the employee is scheduled to work.
15.04	Maternity Leave: A pregnant employee who has been employed for a continuous period of at least twelve (12) months is entitled to maternity leave without pay; subject to the following conditions:
a)	Maternity leave is for a period not exceeding 21 weeks commencing at any time during the 12 week period immediately precedingthe estimated date of delivery and 6 to 9 weeks after the actual date of delivery.
27
ARTICLE NO. 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE fCONTINUEDI
b)	An employee shall give at least 2 weeks notice of the commencement date cf the leave and of the return date.
c)	An employee may shorten the six (6) week period following the delivery date if a medical certificate is provided indicating that resumption of work by the employee will not endanger her health.
d)	If during the twelve (12) week period prior to the estimateddelivery date, the pregnancyinterfereswith the performance of the employee's duties, the employer may, by notice in writing, require the employee to commence maternity leave.
e)	An employee on maternity leave will continue to be covered by the health and welfare benefits and will continue to accrue seniority and service for the purpose of determining vacation entitlement but not sick leave credits; provided they return to work following the maternity leave.
f)	On return to work the employee will be placed in her previous job or an equivalentjcb with no reduction in rate of pay or benefits.
28
ARTICLE NO. 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONTINUED^
15.05	Jury Duty: Employees called upon to perform jury
duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions:
(i)	Employees shall returnto work within a reasonable
period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remain to be worked. (ji)	Employees shall furnish the company with such
statements of earnings from the courts and turn all monies over to the company.
(iii)	Employees shall provide appropriate written
documentation.
29
ARTICLE NO. 16 - SICK LEAVE
16.01	After the employee is in the service of the company one full year, he will be entitled to one work week per year for sickness and non-compensable accident with full pay, when proof of disability is supplied. Proof of disability will not normally be requiredfor absences of 1-2 days in duration. However, it is within the company's rights to request proof of disability for any sick leave and request the proof from a doctor recommended by the company, in the event of frequent unrelated sick leave.
16.02	The company may discontinue or reduce the sick leave benefitto any employee found repeatedly abusing the use of sick leave.
16.03	Unused days may be accumulated to a maximum of three work weeks. For any one illness, employees shall only use the required number of days from their sick bank before qualifying for other benefits.
16.04	In the event of the inability to work due to sickness or accident, employees are expected to give reasonable notice (call in) prior to the commencement of their shift and to keep their supervisor informed as to their expected return to work.
30
ARTICLE NO. 17 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
17.01	Employees currently on payroll for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized general holidays with pay equal to their regular hourly rate for their regular scheduled hours of work. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday and the holiday, if scheduled; unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor's certificate. Employees who are scheduled to work the holiday and do not, due to a verified illness, will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benefit.
17.02	The following general holidays are recognized: New Year's Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
17.03	All general holidays are recognized for pay purposes on the actual day on which they fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. It is recognized on July 1st except when it falls on Sunday, in which case Monday, July 2nd becomes the holiday).
31
ARTICLE NO. 17 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS (CONTINUED^)
17.04	Employees who are required to work on a general
holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day (see Clause 20.01) in addition to their regular days pay for the general holiday.
32
ARTICLE NO. 18 - VACATIONS
18.01	Vacations shall be granted to lull time employees as follows:
After 1 year of continuous service - 2 weeks After 4 years cf continuous service - 3 weeks After 11 years of continuous service - 4 weeks In addition to the above, employees shall receive one half day (1/2) of paid vacation for each year of continuous service, commencing after the twelfth (1 2) year.
A week of vacation is defined as 40 hours or 44 hours (see Article No. 20 - Hours of Work and Overtime).
18.02	Vacation pay will be based on the employee's regular hourly rate including shift differential but not including overtime. Summer relief and casual employees are not entitled to vacations, but will receive vacation pay equalto 4% of their regular earnings.
18.03	Each employee shall take their vacation during the calendar year in which they are entitled to it.
18.04	For scheduling purposes, new employees are not entitled to two weeks vacation until after their first year anniversary date. Commencing in the calendar year during which the second anniversary falls, vacations may be scheduled throughout the calendar year subject to Clause 18.05 and 18.06.
33
ARTICLE NO. 18 - VACATIONS fCONTINUEm
18.05	Vacations will be scheduled on a calendar basis from January 1st to December 31st. Employees will only be allowed to schedule a maximum of two (2) consecutive weeks during the months of June, July and August. During the balance of the year, employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation, may schedule more than two (2) consecutive weeks subject to the dates being mutually agreed upon.
18.06	A vacation planning schedule and accompanying department/unit guidelines will be posted by February 1st of each year for completion by April 15th. Seniority shall prevail in determining vacations. Commencing with the most senior employee, subjectto the department/unit guidelines, employees on a seniority basis will indicate their preferred dates for two (2) weeks. After all employees have had the opportunity to schedule two (2) weeks, employees will indicate their choice, again on a seniority basis, for the balance of their entitlement. After April 15th, vacations will be allotted on the basis of first come first approved. The company reserves the right to schedule vacation not declared by August 15th.
34
ARTICLE NO. 18 - VACATIONS (CONTINUED)
18.07	In the event an employee resigns or e terminated,
vacation pay will be determined as follows:
"	If the resignationoccurs priortothe anniversary date for
the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the last anniversary date to the date of termination less any vacation actually taken during the current calendar year. Any vacation overpayment will be deducted from final earnings.
' If the resignation occurs after the anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the anniversary date to the date cf termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken in the current calendar year.
35
ARTICLE NO. 19 - LOYALTY TO THE COMPANY
19.01	The employee must be loyal to the company, do
everything within reason to promote the welfare of the company and themselves, and to keep the operating expenses to a minimum. The salesmen agree to adopt a regular system of canvassing fcr new customers in order to increase sales and decrease returns, and do everything possible to eliminate special deliveries.
36
ARTICLE NO. 20 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
20.01	It is recognized that a day is a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing at twelve (12) midnight.
20.02	Employees (except tanker drivers) shall normally work 80 hours per pay period; eight (8) days, ten (10) hours per day or ten (10) days, eight (8) hours per day, with a minimum of two consecutive days off per week. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the company, based on operational and business needs.
20.03	A pay period s defined as a fourteen (14) consecutive day periodthat commences at 12:00 midnightSunday and ends at 12:00 midnightSunday.
20.04	Overtime at one and one half (1 1/2) the regularrate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled hours per day or per week and eighty (80) hours in any one pay period.
20.05	When assigning required overtime, consideration will be given to individual circumstances.
37
ARTICLE NO. 20 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME [CONTINUED)
20.06	Tanker drivers regular hoursof work shall be eighty (80) hours every two (2) week pay period, eight (8) hours per day or eighty-eight (88) hours every two (2) week pay period, ten (10) hours per day, depending on the requirements of the routes. All hours worked in excess of the above shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of pay.
20.07	The company shall provide all employees two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods, one in the first half of the shift and the second in the second half of the shift. The company shall provide for a half hour unpaid lunch break.
20.08	Shift Differential: A drift differential payment of fifty (50) cents shall be paid to all regular employees for all regularly scheduled hours worked outside cf the basic work day. For the purposeof applying this clause, the basic work day is defined from 5:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
20.09	Meal Allowance: All employees required to work in excess of two (2) hours of their regular scheduled shift will be provided a meal allowance up to seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) provided a receipt is supplied.
38
ARTICLE NO. 21 - WAGES & COMMISSIONS
21.01	The wage rates and commissions for the term of this agreement are attached as Schedule A and Schedule B respectively and form part of this collective agreement.
21.02	City Wholesale Driver salespersons shall receive a commission on milk and cream sales of one-half (1/2) cent per unit on all sales over twenty thousand (20,000) units per month (effective May 1, 1992 eighteen thousand (18,000) units per month).
21.03	Ice Cream Driver Salespersons shall receive a commission of one-half per cent (1/2%) on total net dollar sales.
21.04	The commissionrate of any new product i ntroduced during the life of this agreement will be discussed with the union prior to the company setting the equivalent unit(s).
21.05	Effective May 1, 1991, product returns will be deducted from driver commissions at a rate of 90% of actual.
21.06	Milk sales to corporate stores and institutions as defined by management shall be excluded from wholesale route milk sales.
21.07	In the event legislation is enacted to deregulate milk prices at the wholesale level, during the life of this contract, the company reserves the right to reopen the agreement as it applies to commissions.
39
ARTICLE NO. 21 -WAGES & COMMISSIONS 1CONTINUED1
21.08	No member shall be requiredto mark prices on any product handled.
21.09	Any new positionthat is introduced by the company during the term of this agreement will be reviewed with the union prior to the company determining the appropriate rate.
21.10	All employees assigned to a higher classificationfor more than one (1) day shall receive the higher rate of pay for time assigned to such a job,
21.11	The position of lead hand is recognized as a non supervisory appointment. A lead hand premium of fifty (508) cents per hour will be paid over the employee's regular rate in recognition of additional responsibilities to direct and oversee the activities of a specific work unit.
The number of required lead hands and determination^ those appointed will be solely at the discretion of management on the basis of operational needs.
40
ARTICLE NO. 21 - WAGES & COMMISSIONS 1CONTINUED1
21.12	Any employee who commences or re-commences
employment with the company during the time this agreement remains in force, and who previously performed the same work, or substantially the same work (regardless of classification) in the Dairy Processing Industry, shall, for the purpose of his wage rate herein, be granted credit for his previous experience after he completes thirty (30) days of employment with the company, provided that:
(1)	He worked for the previousemployer or the company for at least one (1) year performing the same or substantially the same work; and
(2)	There has not been a break in service of more than twelve (12) months betweenthe time of termination from his previous employment with the company or other employer in the Dairy Processing Industry, and the time he commences or re-commences work with the company under this agrement.
41
ARTICLE NO. 22 - TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES
22.01	Where an employee is transferred to a lower paid
job (unless such transfer is at his own request or because of inefficiency) he shall not be made to suffer any loss in pay for the first thirty (30) days that he worked on such job.
42
ARTICLE 23- BENEFITS
23.01	All regular full time employees who have completed
the probationary period shall be entitled to the health and welfare benefits as presently provided by the company, conditional upon completing the specified eligibility periods.
43
ARTICLE NO. 24 - SPLITTING OF ROUTES
24.01	It is agreed, by the company, that when a route is
split, the salesman whose route is so divided shall have first choice cf the two (2) routes, with full pay for the three (3) months following, to be governed by the six (6) weeks average sales previous to the dividing cf said route and provided the employee has served the route for a period of six (6)months before it is split. No guarantee will be given for less than one (1) year's service with the company.
44
ARTICLE NO. 25 - MISCELLANEOUS
25.01	All delivery personnel shall wear only company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties; which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times. The annual entitlement for regular full time employees is a jacket, four shirts, and two pair of pants. Additional items will be allowed as required on a fifty-fifty (50%/50%) cost sharing basis.
25.02	The company will provide suitable cold weather clothing for those required to work in the freezer.
25.03	An annual tool allowance of one hundred and seventy-five ($175.00) dollars will be paidto garage personnelwho meet company requirements and maintain their own tool kit.
45
ARTICLE NO.26 - PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
2&Q1
This agreement shall come into force on the J ' '
of May 1991, and shall remain in force until the 30th day of April, 1993, or as here and after provided.
If notice to negotiate has been given by either party, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect during any period of negotiation, even though such negotiation may extend beyond the said anniversary date, until fourteen (14) days after the date upon which a vote e held under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, on the acceptance or rejection of an award of mediation services and to further continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either party.
Should either party wish to change, add to, amend or terminate this agreement, not less than sixty (60) days notice, nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days notice prior to the anniversary date, shall be given in writing to the other party, such writing to be given by registered mail.
46
FOR
FOR:
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN
LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
WAGE SCHEDULE A
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLYWAGES	
		1991	1992
Pasteurizer		$15.66	$16.26
Ice Cream Setup Fluid Setup
Blender (Including setup)	$15.19	$15.79
Fluid Swing Person
Cottage Cheese Maker
Cultured Products Processor
C.I.P. Main Panel Operator
Fluid Milk Packaging	$14.70	$15.30
Equipment Operator Caser/Stacker Operator l/C Freezer Centre Operator GlacierWitaline Operator Milk Receiver Blender
Cultured Products Filler Operator Deep Reach Forklift Operator Palletizer Dock Loader
Forklift Operator (dry goods)
2 ■
CLASSIFICATION
PROGRESSION
BASIC HOURLY WAGES ISai	1992
C.I.P. Clean Up	1st 12 Months
l/C Machine Filler Operator 2nd 12 Months Shrink Wrap Operator After 24 Months Ante Room Attendant Cheddar Cheese Packaging Equipment Operator Ice Cream/Cultured Clean Up Checker Return Receiver
Load Builder/Shipper (all products)
Stock Counter
$13.47
$13.84
$14.24
$14.07
$14,44
$14.84
Packager (all products)	1st 12 Months	$12.47	$13.07
Labourer	2nd 12 Months	$12.87	$13.47
	After 24 Months	$13.25	$13.85
Summer Relief		$8.50	$8.50
Laboratory Assistant	$12.47	$13.07
Technician I	1st 12 Months	$13.01	$13.61
Technician II	After 12 Months	$13.60	$14.20
Technician!!!	$14.97	$15.57
Non-Commission Drivers 1st 12 Months (Special Delivery/	2nd 12 Months
General Truck)	After 24 Months
$13.95	$14.55
$14.32	$14.92
$14.70	$15.30
3
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLY WAGES
MAY 1.
1991	1992
Mechanics 1 si Year Apprentice 2nd Year Apprentice 3rd Year Apprentice Certified
$14.51	$15.11
$14.73	$15.33
$15.26	$15.86
$16.17	$16.77
General Garage
1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months
$13.47	$14.07
$13.84	$14.44
$14.24	$14.84
Tractor Trailer Drivers 1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months
$14.41	$15.01
$14.81	$15.41
$15.19	$15.79
Tanker Drivers (80 hrs. - 2 weeks!
1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months
$14.32	$14,92
$14.70	$15.30
$15.08	$15.68
____________ 1 st 12 Months
(88 hrs. - 2 weeksl	2nd 12 Months
After 24 Months
$14.35	$14.95
$14.69	$15.29
$15.05	$15.65
Wholesale Drivers and	1st 12 Months	$14.11	$14,71
Venrtinn (Commission!	2nd 12 Months	$14.31	$14.91
After 24 Months	$14.53	$15.13
4
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLY WAGES	
		1QQ1	1992
Ice Cream Drivers	1st 12 Months	$14.11	$14.71
(Commission!	2nd 12 Months	$14.31	$14.91
	After 24 Months	$14.53	$15.13
Route Foremen (Plus	$15.18	$15.78
on city wholesale mutest
UNIT STRUCTURE
one m unt equals one half n /2) cent
ALL TYPES OF MILK	WHIPPING CREAM
20 Litres -	20 units	20 Litres -	120 units
4 Litres -	4 units	1 Litre -	6 units
2 Litres -	2 units	500 ml. -	3 units
1 Litre -	1 unit	250 ml. -	2 units
500 ml. -	1/2 unit		
250 ml. -	1/4 unit	AEROSOL WHIP	
125 ml. -	1/8 unit		
2 kg. -	2 units (Powdered Milk)	400 gram -	1 unit
		225 gram -	1/2 unit
CEREAL CREAM		EGG NOG	
20 Litres -	40 units	2 Litres -	10 units
1 Litre -	2 units	1 Litre -	5 units
500 ml. -	1 1/2 units		
250 ml. -	3/4 unit		
COTTAGE CHEESE		SOUR CREAM	
15 Kg. -	60 units
4 Kg. -	16 units
2 Kg. -	8	units
1 Kg. -	4	units
750 grams -	3 units
500 grams -	2	units
250 grams-	1 unit
YOGURT
15 Litres -4 Litre -2 Litre -500 ml. -250 ml. -Portion Pak-
60 units 16 units 8 units 4 units 2 units 8 units per 60
750 grams 500 grams YOP
175 grams 125 gram
3 units 2 units 1 1/2 units 1 unit 1 unit
WHOLESALE MILK SALESMEN SHALL RECEIVE COMMISSION AS FOLLOWS:
Butter
Margarine
Juices & Drinks	■
Cheddar Cheese	■
Pasteurized Cheese	■
Creamers/Milkettes	■
Milk Shake & Ice Cream Mix
.5 cents per 454 grams (1 Lb.)
.25 cents per 250 grams (1/2 Lb.)
2.0	cents per litre
4.0	cents per kilo
4.0	cents per kilo
2.0	cents per 160 .5 cents per litre
DATE M‘< /3/V
BETWEEN:	NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED
at Edmonton, Alberta
AND:	ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN
LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
RE:	COMMITTEE - PENSION PLAN
A joint committee will be formed, comprised of up to eight (8) members. Four (4) membersto be nominated by the company and four (4) membersto be nominated by the union. This committee will be named as expeditiously as possible following the ratification of the collective agreement.
The committee will appoint two (2) co-chairmen who will schedule committee meetings as appropriate.
The terms of reference of this committee will be as follows:
•	to identifythe concerns and issues of employees in regards to the current pension plan.
•	to evaluate the current pension plan, taking into account the identified issues and concerns.
• to recommend to the respective bargaining committees
a)	howthe existing plan can be modifiedto accommodatethe concerns and issues identified or
b)	what alternativesto the existing plan, if any, are deemed appropriate The cornmitteeshall endeavourto presenttheir recommendations by April 30, 1992.
The parties agree that the collective agreement will re-open May 1, 1992 to deal exclusively with the pension issue.
SIGNED	SIGNED
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	NORTHERNALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED
at Edmonton, Alberta
AND:	ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVE SALESMEN
LOCAL445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
RE:	PENSION PLAN PARTICIPATION
It is understood that ex Palm employees at their option may or may not join the existing company pension plan any time during the first year of this agreement.
Subsequent participationrequirementsare conditional upon the outcome of the pension negotiations as per the Letter of Understanding Re: '"Committee Pension Plan".
SIGNED
SIGNED
NORTHERNALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
BETWEEN: NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED at Edmonton, Alberta
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
RE CLOSURE OF SOUTH-SIDE PLANT
The parties agree that this letter shall form part of the collective agreement between Northern Alberta Dairy PoolLimited (Edmonton)and the Alberta Dairy Workersand Driver Salesmen Local445 Canadian PaperworkersUniondated May 1,1991, and thatth is letter shall take effect as of the date of its signing, but in any event shall only remain in effect until March 31,1992 Thereafter this letter of understanding shall be of no further force and effect
While the terms of this letter of understanding are in effect they shall, in the event of any conflict, supersede and take precedenceover provisionsof the current or futurecollective agreements between me parties
The parties agree that the current wage rates (I e as per the old Teamster agreement) of employees on me south plant payroll will be adjusted based on the respective job classifications in the May 1, 1991 agreement, retroactiveto April 15 1991
As well, the parties mutually desire to establish a procedureto deal with all occasions of layoffs of employees at the Parsons Road plant (south), resulting from the Centralization of production and distribution £the 116 Avenue plant (north), occurring between now and March31,1992, when it is anticipated by tine partiesthatthe integration of operations into a single facility shall have been completed
The parties therefore agree to implement the following proceduresgoverning layoffs at the south plant and the transfer of employees to the north plant
1 A list showing the seniority and length of seivice of all south plant employeesshall be posted in a conspicuous placeat the south plant Seniorityfor purposesofthis letter of understanding shall mean an employee's service from date of hire, less any broken service in excess of six (6) consecutive months, with either or both Palm Dairieslimited and NorthernAlberta Dairy Pool Limited, at ether or both City of Edmonton plants Any controversy over the seniority standing of an employee shall be referred to the Company and the Union for settlement
AND
2
2.	As productionand distribution is relocatedfrom the south plant to the north plant any additional positions required at the north plant will be offered to those in the applicable classifications on a transfer basis, based on seniority: provided that ability and qualifications, as determined by the company, are relatively equal. Those individualswho refuse the transfer will be deemed to have resigned and will not be eligiblefor a termination allowance. They also will lose their seniority rights and will not be eligible for recall.
3.	South plant employees will also be given first consideration for any posted vacancies that occur in the north plant, during this period, due to terminations.
4.	Any posted vacancies will be filled based on ability and qualifications as determined by the company. In the event that ability and qualifications are relatively equal, seniority in service shall be the determining consideration.
5.	Any employeewho istransferredorisasuccessfulapplicanttoajob postingfrom the Parsons Road Plant to the North Plant shall have their Seniority recognized back to the date of hire with Palm Dairy Ltd.
It is further understoodthat such persons shall have their seniority integrated into the seniority list of the employees of the North Plant and their overall seniority shall be recognized in the process of job bidding.
6.	Those employees who are not successful in filling a posted position at the north plant and who remain active and productive up to the time their position becomes redundant at the south plant will be given a written notice cf layoff indicating the specific date and will receive a terminaiion allowance as per the following schedule:
3	Months or more but less than 2 years 2 years or more but less than 4 years
4	years or more but less than 6 years 6 years or more but less than 8 years 8 years or more but less than 10 years 10 years or more but less than 12 years 12 years or more but less than 14 years 14 years or more but less than 16 years 16 years or more but less than 18 years 18 years or more but less than 20 years 20 years or more but less than 22 years 22 years or more but less than 24 years 24 years and over
-	I week
-	2 weeks
-	4 weeks
-	8 weeks -12 weeks -16 weeks -18 weeks
-	20 weeks
-	22 weeks
-	24 weeks
-	26 weeks
-	28 weeks
-	30 weeks
3
7 Employeesreceivingatermjnationallowancewjll lose their seniority rights and will not be eligible for recall
SIGNED	SIGNED
NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LTD
ALBERTA DARY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
DATE
BETWEEN: NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED at Edmonton, Alberta
AND:	ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN
LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UN ION
RE:	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
It is agreed that no employee's rate will be negatively affected as a result of the classification of jobs as reflected in the new collective agreement.
Any employee who is currently paid beyondthe job classification rate as per the agreement will be grandfathered, i.e. retain their current rate including wage adjustments until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled or transferredto another job. at which time they will receivethe applicable ratefor the new job.
This letter of understanding will become null and void at such time as all employees are receivingthe appropriate rates as per the collective agreement.
SIGNED:
SIGNED:
NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LTD.
ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESMEN LOCAL 445 CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING	,
date /vy/
BETWEEN	NORTHERN ALBERTA DAIRY POOL LIMITED
as Edmonton, Aborts
AND:	ALBERTA DAIRY WORKERS AND DRIVER SALESIVEN
LOCAL44S CANADIAN PAPEflWORKERS UNION
SUBJECT	TIME OFF IN LIEU OF OVERTIME PAY
It is recognizedthat mere may be circumstances whereoy It is to tne advantage of both parties for (he company to grant another day off In lieu for overtime worked by an employee on (heirreguler day off
Employees who work an overtime shift on their regular day off may request another day off in lieu of overtime pay on the following ba»6:
•	only complete overtime shifts can be rescheduled as Ume off (ie. 8 hours or 10 hours)
•	timeoff wilbe equivalenttoovertime hours worked.
•	mutual agreement must be reached on when (he day in lieu is R be taken, otherwise the overtime will be paid aut
•	no more than two shifts can be accrued at any one time
SIGNED:	SIGNED: