DAIRYWORLD F0ODS
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE LTD (EDMONTON, ALfjERTA)
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, l&JERGY, & PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL445
00439 (06)
iNnijx;
Anna cs oh agrkeIMin i
DAlRVvyyHi r> jrylQs
AOHILOONS LNlFriNAJiONAJ cimnrjvnvL jjn:
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 AII1ICIE 3 AM IlCl.h A AtlTICLI H ARTICI E Ci AIITICU 7 article a ANTICM: S AKTlCll; IO AR 1ICLh 11 Am i cm 12 Ann cl l 13
AMTICl L' 1«l ARTICLE 1G ARTICt E Iti An MCI.E 17 AM'IICLC 10 AlHICl I 19 AtmCLE 20
Ainicir 21
AHTICI L 22
AiniCIL 23
i:(.)MJ)NTON, A* HE|[tTA
1‘UHPOSCS AND PROVISIONS	PAGE	2
MANAGEMENT	PAGE	3
MAINTENANCE 01- MEMBERS! li	PAGE	A
UNION SECURITY ANI) WORKII' CONUI HONS PAGE G
union nrnnrsEN iativer	page	c>
SUMMER RELIEF EMPI OVF.I S	PAGE	7
SENIORITY	PAGE	8, 9, 10
JOU POSTING	PAGE	I I
GRir.VANCr.S	PAGE	12,	13, U
DISCIPLINARY ACTION	PAGE 1H
UNAU IHORIZEL) PERSONS	PAGE 1G
’inucK drivers	page i v
LIAVEOI AUStNCE	PAGE 1H, (9,20
SICK IFAVE	PAGE 21
GlNLRAL \m IDAYtt	PAGE 77
VACATIONS	PAGE 23, 24
I OYALlZlO THE COMPANY	PAGE 2‘J
HOURS 01 WORK AND Ovrmil	PAGE 26
WAGES	PAGE 27
I ftANSFEII OF EMPLOYEES	PAGE 28
til NLE11 S	PAGE 29
MIGCI LLANCOUS	PAGE 30
prnioo or agreement	page 31
SCI IE0ULE A WAUL* RAT LS
SCI IL'ULII li R PENSION C0NTMIHU1 ION.;
MAY.1, .1993 to A Will. 30, .1997
nAinvwonLn foods
AGrurOODU INTERNATIONAL COOPl'pATIVE L*®)., ilf Edmonton, Alhnrt.i (lloasintifior Cd! lei I “Tho Company")
ANI):
run employees of the company who aiie imempuis oi :
COMMUNICA I IONS. ENEHGY & I'APeftWOUKLIfc UNION OF CANADA IOCAI. 44!i
illorcmaftcr L-iilinil " lm Union")
ABXLCLE NO, 1 - PURPOSESAND PROVISIONS
It is tho intent and purpose of this agreomontthat the company and !he union co-operale lo obtain efficient anti unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products; to maintain fl harmonious relationship between tho company and its employees; lo provide a method of setting in an ainicable manner any difference or grievance which may anse horn time tp time; and to set forth certain conditions of employment to be observed betweo e parties lioruto.
the union the bargaining agont for the the dairy industry operated by ihe company employees as are engaged as office workers, ■cl. The company shall not untor into any vith the provisions hereof gender shall bo considered io include tiro
1.Q?- The company recoyni; employuus of the company, empioyf intl\Q City of Edmonton, excluding si salespersons and maintenance pur: agreement which In any way conflic 1.03 The use of tho mascu feminine gender
2
ARTICLE MO. 2 MANAGEMFNT
? Q1	'Ihe company shall hove tho exclusive \
control the* business, provide and post work rules an the employee, i o alter such rules and regulations os direct tho working forces including tho right lo till cause, layoff, promote, assign tu jobs, transfer e department, to decrease nr increase tho working force bo handled, and nothing in this agreement shall bo in airy way to interforfi with tho recognized right of tho c the business. Nothing In this clausa, howevor, shall any employee or union member, nor shall it bo used offirct of specific provisions of this agreement.
i arid power lo manage arid (illations to be observed by .fired from time lo lino, lo uspond, discharge for just loyccs front department lo I o determine the products lo idotf or is I o be construed in tpany to manage and control used to discriminate against the purpose of avoiding the
ARTICLE NO. 3 • MAINTENANCE0
3.01	It is agreed that all cm/
members of tho union within thirty members in good standing as a con 3.0.2	The union shall
union membership and dues doduoti on iho day an which the new en application for membership forms si monthly dues payment, and shal employment.
3.Q3,	Tho employeragrces to
this agreement, all established mo assessments of tfio union, It is fui deductions to the union prior to tho made
yeos covorod by this agreement shall become ) calendar days after boing hired and remain m of employment
ply the company with application forms tor which shall besigned by all newentployees ^yoe is hired All completed copies of the (bo returned to the union, along with the next servo as notification of commencement of
educt front tho pay of all employees covorod by dues, initiation foes and uniformly loviyd jgreed that tho employer shall remit such f the month for which such deductions arc
4
4.03	Any employee who is not o member of] the union shall hot work at
occii|Kitioh<> which comn under Urn union's Jurisdiction, except; in eases of amergenuy (and (hon only until a member of the unton can bo plac«d on the job), for purposes of training or where barga.ning unit work is involved in moioly on incidental wry. Whom tills provision operates against tho efficiency of the pyant, the union undertakes to consirior exemption In any particular coso put bolero iu
^02 Tito union's jurisdiction shall be deumop lo include tho processing, manufacture and distribution ofdairy products or.such either products a s tho company may from time to time process nr manufacture, as currently carried out by union employees.
4.03	There will ho uO striker walkouts, slowdowns, or utiicr cessation of work by employees, and no lockouts by tho employer, during tho periud of this agreement, and all grievances ur oilier differences shell bo settled by the grievance procedure sat out in Article 9 of this agreement.
4.04	No union employee will be required to crosfl a lawfully established picket
ARTICLE NO. G • UNION REPRESENTATIVES
ii-CU	Thu employer recognizes tbeftright of tho union to dcsignato a reasonable
number of shop stewardstoreprosent tbuunionand/or tho employees on a day-to-day basis. THO union agrees to keep the employer advised regarding tho personnel so designated as a shop seaward and furthermore it is mutually oyreod that persons so designated shall bu allowed reasonable itlrno and opportunity by tho omployor to perform their functions in accordance wrfh this clause.
During normal working hour , stewards must advise their supervisor as to tho nature of their business, an estimite of (he lirno required and got permission prior to leaving tholr work site
fi-02	An appropriate locked bulio in board, shad be provided by (lie employer
upon which tho union may place notices 1 regard to mootings, social gatherings and all other matters pertaining to legitimate mior» business.
5.03	A labour-managomont conrunittoo will he set up and will moot at regular intervals as required to oxchango information and discuss oporalfonai issues and concerns of mutual interest. "1 his forum will not bo wed to discuss grievances.
5.04	In tho went an employee s away from tho plant for regularly scheduled hours of work, on union authorized business which lias boon approved by the company, the omploycr will continue to say the employee at the employee's regular rato of pay and benefits.as if tho omplo^bo was at work, and submit tho cost to tho union for reimbursement,
ii-05.	Tho national union represoitlativo and/or local business agent shall have
access to tho plant in accordance with t ? standard socurlty policy and departmental procedure's.
ARIlCLE.WQx-G -..SUMMER RELIEF EMPLOYEES
3J)l
conditions
a)
c)
f)
0)
1 ho company may employ summor rolkf employees under tho following
Sumniur relief employoos may be hlrodlibotwoon the period of March 1 to Soptomhor 1U.
Summor relief employees will bo used a supplement the regular work forcu in order ta meet Increased seasonal production and distribution
requirements and fur vacation relief of eoular employeos.
Summor relief employees shall not bo omployod or scheduled to the extent that their work results iti tho disijlocomont or prevents the hiring ur recall of rogulor full time employees
All summor relief employees shall ns a condition of continuing employment pay union dues in acco|(dunce with Article 3 Of this agreement for those months in which tpe employee has earnings Summor relief employees shall not bo giUarantood a minimum number of hours per weak.
Summor relief employees will be paid |a rata as sot out In Schedule A o f this agreement.
Summur relief employees will only qualify for the wag a rato as per Artlcla 1b, general holiday pay as per Article l|5 and access lotho grievance provisions.
All summor relief employees must bu tor-iwnatod on or before September 15th.
7
ARTICLE NO 7 - SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority shall bo dofinod as| tuo length of an omployeo's scrvi« beginning on tho date of regular full time employment.
7.02	A newly hired employee shall b*» on probation lor forty-fivo (45) workli duya from the date of hiring. During this period of timo, seniority shall not apply at an employeo may be laid off without cause! and tho company shall not bo obligati tu ro-hiro. During tho probationary period, fhe employee shall be entitled to all oth rights and benefits of this agreement except as otherwise provided. After suceessf completion of tho probationary period, the (employee's seniority and service roco shall date back lo tho original date of hire.
2aQ3	A list allowing tho seniority of all employees shall bo posted ill
conspicuous plane nt the work situ Th« company shall forward an updated seniori list to the union every throe (3) months.
7.04	Vacancies will bo filled based on sonlorlty, provided that ability ar qualifications, as determined by tho company, tiro relatively equal. (See Article 8 Job Posting!
7.05	In the ovent that the company anticipates a lay-off of regular employe) of more than 60 cays tho following procedures shall be followed:
(a)	The situation will bo diyjrussod with the 'plant committee' so ths
as much notlco as possjoie can bo given any employees that rm hp	whorm/^r possible, the company will provide fivo I!
working days notice
(b)	Whon thoro is more thin one employee working in tho same |o classification affected >y the employer's decision fo lay-off. th nrrlnr of Inv-nff within tpot affected group shall bo in reverse ordi cf seniority,
AIHICLE NO
(c)	Wtion nn employee is provided jmtico dl;iy-off, the omployoo shall first be given the option of cfe(|)laciny tho must junior employoo, fjrovldodflio urnployoo tobokiit off husthu ’qualification andability' or is able to pot form that job wiHiin a reasonable period of time, Whore thu laid-off employee is I ot qualified or able to dispkico the most junior ompluyuo, or if tli|> laid-off employee elects riot to displace tho most junior oiup!c%!tt; tho iaid-oft employee shall be placed on tho HE CALI. 11ST, order of seniority arid on the uncicrsta'iding and condition thjt ho reman is readily available to accept assignments as tequirecl. The option of electing I o displace the Junior omployoo a. be placed on lay-off must bemads upon receipt of the notice of layoff [within 24 hours) and cannot, be changed by tho employee,
if tho omployoo to be laid off is dpi considorod qualified or able to perform that joli. then tho omplo^o si rail bo assessed in respect of the position occupied by the no* most junior employoo arid so on until it is determined that nof>osiHons aie available,
Whore practical, employees on lajl-off will be called for assignments in order of their seniority pruvidoc ;y nroavailablo at tho time the
assignment is scheduled ynd arc assigned work iri a manner that is omployor.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
right to their previously posted pi
ilifled and able to perform tho sfautory, as determined by tho
off ompioyeo shall retain tho of i for n period not to ojcceed j right to bid on any posted *ii lent.
(d)	Laid-offemployees shall retain recall rights in accordance with the following:
j.j Anfemployoo with more than 10 years of sor (ice will lose his Seniority and consu I o be an employee in the casa of a lay-off for a pOiflod of twelve (12) months.
(il) An omployoc with less than 10 years of sqiblce will lose his seniority -and coase lo be agjcmptoyuo in tho case of a lay-off for a pd'iod of six (6) months.
(iii) It s understood that if tho employee is nul refilled from lay-off for an aggregate of more tiiffin thirty (30) shifts from the last day of lay-ofl1: then tho employeo's period of lay-off shall brjconsldored not to have beeninterruptod.
(o)	The company {Jliall first utilize laid-off employees for work assignments .*$ per paragraph Icl above prior i o tho utilization of fiewly hired umployeos or suminur roliof employees,
lr.n-Crp.am Dnoartmont
If] If a temporary br permanent lay-off is anticipated, regular employees within tho Ico Cruam Oopartmont shall bo laid-off In order of 'lent seniority, commencing with the most Junior einploytfe. provided tho remaining employees have the 'qualifications and abilities' or are able to perform the required jobs dqithin a roasonabio period of time.
7.06	Iftho company determines ft at temporary layoffsof loss than sixty (CO)
days arc necessary, Clause 7,05 docs ribt apply and no advance written not ico rs required Thoso on temporary layoff will continue to be eligible for applicable company benefits,
10
AJJBCU; NO. 8 - JOB posting £LQ1	Hurmantint positions covered by this <
labourer aiid packager, which become vacant a lid n bo required, will be posted on ell designated built? roquirod tu post one additional vaconcy that may vacancy. Any subsequent vacancies may bo filled Ui)2 Vacancies sluill bu posted for a pork Saturday, Sunday or recognized general holidays. iLOH	Postings will specify job duties, hours
of pay
.8.(14 Candidates will bu uonsluerod us per» U95 Anyontployoo who bids on apostod v i bid on any other vacancies fur a period of one (1) 1 B.QQ Posted vacancies will bo awarded on a) within tho bargaining unit I*)	o x ter not Candida lot*.
fLQZ Tho successful candidate will tic trar reasonable period of awarding the posting.
Now or rovicod Job pastings will be dlgcussc lo posting un the bulletin boards. fl.Od	Copies of job posting awards will be {
whoro tho senior c»mdi<la to is not selected the plan to finalization.
aeinont, with tho exception of datarmmeti by tho company to
boards. 'Clio company is only so out of tho filling of tho first detorminod by the company, of fivu (5) days not Including
work, days of work, and rata
ido 7 of this agreement, ncy aiid is successful, shall not or.
y following priorltlos:
arrod tu the now job within a
with tho plant committee prior
on to tin) plant committee aiid ommltton will boadvisud orior
11
2.01	A grievance shall consist of o dispute respecting fnterprctntior application, or alleged violation of this ogroerrtmt or any fuw or statute of the Provide of Alberta or Dominion ol Canada. The foiibwing procedure shall bo followed in . sincere effort by bath parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
9.02	The company will not consider * grievance unless it is submitted to th employee's suporvisor at Stop 1 within ten (JO) days of the occurrence of the oven or knowlodgo of tho event upon which the (frfcvatico is based. In cases of pay, th grievance must bo submitted within tho safte rime period of receipt of the pay li which the alleged error occurred. For the purpose of detumiinlny required tinm frame under this article, Saturdays, Sundays anti recognized general holidays aro no
An employee having a complaint or questions shell first discuss the matter with tho supervisor concerned. The mepartrnerit steward may accompany the employee, if requested to do so by the employee. U a satisfactory answer or adjustment is not obuiinyd within three {3 ays, tho grievance will be dealt with under Slop 2.
3.04	Stop 2:
At this stage, tho grievance rhust bo submitted in writing (on a form supplied by tho union and approved by tho company) io tho deportment manager or his designate within three (3) days from th* dote on which the answer was required under Stop 1. The applicable department winger will arrange n mooting with tho aggrieved employee (it appropriate), th t committee, ;mtj tho supervisor so review the grievance and render his decision king following seme,
Should no saltsfactory sc	ent bo reached within lour (4) days from
the dale on which tho grievance was	hittud tit this stop, the grievance will bo
dealt with under Slot) 3.
12
AJOJCLLNU. !) KHIhVANCES (CONTINtlLD)
M.Ob	Stop 3:
At this stage, thn grievance mujflt bo advanced by tho aggrieved employee and/or the onion in writing to tho UBvisiun.il Vice President and/or his designates within tluoo (3) days from the data m which the answer was required under Stop 2. Itio Divisional Vico President (orlii||. designates) shall submit his reply, in writing, to thn union within ton (10) days of rdecipt of tho grievance at Step 3. <j.00	If final settlement of tho grievance is lot completed within thn time limits
set forth in Step 3 it may hn referred hy either paly to arbitration as provided m Step A below at any tit no within fifteen (1 !il days thoifluiflnr, hut riot Inter.
1 f to company ur tho union may file a jirtevnnce on an allegation involving thn in tor protntion, application «r violation of any |>iovisionii of ttio agreement. Such a grievance will be entered at Step 3 of tho driovancu procedure, but must be presented within fifteen (15) days of thn alleged violation, i lie right of thisetause will lie lest if used In by-pass any provision of the nujpnal grievance procedure, ARBITRATION ‘1.07	Step 4
Until parties tu this agreement ague; that any disputa or grievance concorn'iiy the interpretation or alleged violation pf tho agreement, which has been propeily curried through all t)iu steps of bin giiuv^jicu procedure outlined above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to arbitration at the request of either of the parties heiuto.
0,08	'I ho paily wishing arbitration must notify the otfiei party in writing of its
(lustra to refer dm grievance tu an impartial umpircjprbitrutor within thu specified time limits set forth above. This notice must also stj|te tho narno(s) of their choice of candidates to act in the capacity of arbitrator. the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within five (D) days of the date of the wjllucn notice, thu appointment shall Im made by tho Minister of Labour for the IVnvirifc.tj of Alberta upon the request of either party.
13
9.OP	Tho decisions of the arbitrator constituted in tha above matter shall bo
binding on both parties.
9JO Thg arbitrator shall not havfl1 any power to alter orchnnyu any of tho provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with (lie terms rad provisions of this agreement.
Thepartios agreo to shareeq|jiuiiy tho foe and expenses of tho arbitrator 9.12	No person shall bo selected it's arbitraior who has been directly involvod
in attempts to negotiate or settle tiro grievance,
DISCHARGE CASES
Intho event of any employee kwho hasattuinod seniority being discharged from employment, arid tho employee foeiihg that an injustice has been done, thocaso may befakun upas a grievance',
9,14	Ail such cases $Iuj!( be prostmod in writing {on a form providod by the
union and approved by tha company) at Slop 3 of tho grievance procedure within ton (10) days of tho dafo the employee is nu 'led of his discharge. All proliminnry stops of the grievance procedure prior to Step |1 will bo umitiod in such cases,
91_§.	Such special grievance may l;o settlod by confirming tho management's
action in dismissing the employee, o by reinstating tho employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any orfltor arrangement which is cquitnblu intho opinion of tho conforring parties,
3-JjQ	if a settlomont cannot bo r<fcbched, either party to this sgreemont may
proceed lo arbitration as outlined in this ijrtlclo.
14
ABIiCl H NQ. 1f? - DISCIPI INAHY ACTION
1QJU	Tha company lias tho righttoQdisdpllne ordiscliarye omployoosfof
just cnuso.
10,02	Tho employees havo the rifiVt tu request their sUoj> stownrd or
union representative bo present when an employee is being disciplined or given a written wanting notice.
l£LQ3	Disciplinary notices shall be [given tu tho employee and a copy
forwarded tu tho union office,
IQ 04	Disciplinary notices shall ho rtfl noved from tho employee's filo after
two (2) years provided that no other offonso Maft taken piece.
Whorevor possible, a stewed should ha prosont at the (into diseiplinn is issued. Wltoro a steward is notavaik|)lo, another employee may bo used.
10
ARTICLE NO. 11 - UNAUTHORIZED PERSQ
11 01	No unauthorized person!	o allowed to ride in any vehicle
owned by the company, or serve customers	on of this article shall be reason
for dismissal without notice.
1G
12,01	Drivers shall be rusponslb
trucks, including thy cab.
No driver shall bu required to ti safety foaturos required by law are notopen
or the condition of the inside of their
out any truck, nor will ho do so. if g properly.
\ 7
ARTICLE NQ 13 - LEAVE-QE-ABSENCE
13.01	Personal Leaves Lf of absence without pay or loss of
soniority may be granted for periods not exceeding six (6lmonths to regular full timo
employees with a minimum of one years
a)	Employee requests for pen made inwriting to the imm
b)	Requestsfor leaves of sbs( the basis of merit, compass
c)	Employees who are grant company health and welfar inwhichthe leavecommor
d)	Employees on leave in c> f thirty (30) days shall not accrue vacation and sickloavo entitlements for the period of the leave
o) Employees who have beenarantsd a leave of absence in excess of c)
I; subject to the following conditions
avo in excess of one week must be luporvlsor,
l( be adjudicated bytho company on i operational consideration
/es will continue to be entitled lo its for one month beyond the month
above will have the optior benefits continue for the be tho premiums
i)	Employeesrequesting pater
g)	Special consideration will b(
military in the event of war municipal office
13,02	Union Leave The <
discrimination and without pay, I o any < and who has been designated by the um any capacity onother union business, p has been given, after fuurtoen (14) days the union, and provided further, that sut such permission shall not be unreason;
ving appropriate health and welfare
if the leave by paying the full cost of
v© will be given special consideration
toemployees calledonto serveintho o are elected to federal, provincial or
y agrees lo grant timo off, without )loyee who is a member of the union ttend alnbour convention or serve in in each case tho company's consent has been served on the company by co Shallnot exceedtwo (2) years arid ihuld by the company.
18
ARTICLE d)N6l3.- LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONtlNUEDl
Boroavcmom Leave In the psvont of tho death of a member of a rogulor employee's Immediate family, tho company will grant a leave of up to three (3) coMsocutlvo days will) pay if the employee |s scheduled to work. An additional two (2) days of leave without pay may begraiUtiJ based on individual circumstances.
Tho term "immediate family" shall include spouse, paront, stepparent, child, stepchild, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild,mothor-in-law, father-in-law In the oven! of the death of a brothei-m-lawor sister-in-law. tho company will grant up lo one (1 )day with pay if the employee is scheduled to work.
-13-JD-4	Maternity Loavo; A prugnaru employee who has boon employed
for a continuous period of at least twelve (12) months is ontitlcd to maternity leovo without pay; subject to the following condition^:
a) Maternity leave is for a period not exceeding 21 weeks eommoncing at any time during the 12 week period mmediatoly procoding the estimated dale of delivery and R to 9 weoks uttur the actual date of delivery. b> An employee shall give at least 2 Weeks notico of tho commencement dato of the leave and of tho return (into.
c)	An employee may shorten tho six (et)wuck period following tho delivery date if a modicnl certificate is provided indicating that resumption of work by the employee will not ondllngor her health.
d)	If during the twelve (12} week pefiod prior to tho estimated dolivory date, thu pregnancy interferes witlfitho performance of tho employoe’s duties, tho employer may, bynotied in writing, require tho employee to commence maternity leave.
o) An employee on rnatomity leave will continue to ba covered by the health and welfare benefits and wKil continue to accrue seniority and service for the purpose of detorminkig Vacation entitlement but not sick leave credits; providedthoy return tm work following tho maternity loava.
ARTICLE NO 13 l HAVE OF ABSENCE fCONTlNUEP1
f) On returnto work the employeew II be placed m hor previousjob or an equivalent job With no reduction ir rate of payor benefits 13.05	Jury Duty Employees oa led upon to perform jury duty or
subpoenaed as a witness shall not suffer any lo ss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions
(I)	Employees shall return to wqrk within a reasonablepcrlod of time
after jury duty Is finished They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) huijrs of their normal shift remain to be worked
<ii)	Employees shall furnish the company with such statements of
earnings from the courts nnc turn ell monies over to the company
(iii)	Employees shall provide ap[ ropriate written documentation
20
•t-4jQl	After the employee is in the suJvicu of the company one full year,
tie will bo entitled to one work week per year sickness and nori-eornperisable accident with full pay, when proof of disability is sBPpllod. Proof of disability will riot normally lie required for absences of 1*2 days In djratlon. However, it is within the company's rlphts to request proof of disability for afy sick leave and requesttho proof from a doctor rccommendod by tho company, intllja event of frequent unrelated sick leave
14.02	Tiro company may discontinue pr roduco tho Sick leave benefit to
any employee found repeatedly abusing tha uso c •14..CL3	Unused days may be qccumul
wuokb. For any one illness, employees shall onl^ from ihnir sick frank before qualifying for other be
tCtH—'---------- In tho event of the inability lo
employees are expected to give reasonable notice I ofthoir shift and to kocp their supervisor mformodi
k leave
lo a maximum of throe work tho requirod number of days s.
< duo to sickness or accident, »0 prior i othe commencement their expected return to work
21
ARTICLE NO. 15- GENERAL HOLIDAYS
Employees currentlyont ayrol( lor morethan thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized genera .holidays with pay equal to their regular hourly rate lor thoir regular scheduled hourpiof work, in order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work the last schedm I d shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday and the halfday, if scheduled unless absent due I o illness verified by a doctor's certificate. Ernoloyeus who are schodulod to work the holiday and do not. due to a verified illness will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benofit,
The following general holidays are recognized:
New Year's Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day. Canada Day. August Civic Holiday, Labour Day. Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
All general holidays aremcognizod for pay purposesontho actual day on which thoy fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. Itis recognized on July 1st exceptwhon itfsllsuon Sunday, inwhich case Monday. July 2ndbocomos the holiday).
.15,04	Employees who areroqt|ireci to work on a general holiday shall bo
paid at the rate of time and one half (1 1iR) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day (see Clause 18 01) in j idition I o their regular days pay for the general holiday.
22
ARTICLE NO.JfU-VACATlONS
tG.OI	Vacations shall be granted to jjutt time employees as follows.
After 1 year of continuous service 2 wooks After 4 years of continuous service 3 weeks After 11 years of continuous sorvlotfj- 4 weeks In addition to the above, employees shall fecoivo one half day (1/2) of paid vacationfor eachycor ae continuous service, commencing with the twelfth 112)year.
A wook of vacation is defined x s 40 hours (fceo Article No 18 ■ Hours of Work snd Overllmoi.
-liLQZ	Vacation pay will be based onmo employee's regular hourly rate
including shift differential but not including oveJhme. Summer relief and casual employees are not entitled to vacations, but will refcoive vacation pay equal to 4% of tholr regular earnings.
Each employee shall take their vacation during tho calendar year In which they arc entitled to it.
For scheduling purposos, now fmployees arc not entitled to two weeks vacation until aftor their first year annlv^ssry data, commencing in tho calendaryoar during which the second anniversary fails, vacations may bo scheduled throughout tho calondar year subject to Clause 16105 and 16,06.
Vacations will ba scheduled on i calendar basisfrom January 1st to December 31st, Employees will only be allow# to schedule i maximum of two (21 Consecutive weeks during the months of Jurtfli, July and August. During the balance of the year, employees entitled to more t pn two (?.) weeks vacation may schedule more than two (2) consocutive weeks subject to the dates being mutually ngreod upon.
23
ARTICLE NO. 16 -VACATIONS (CONTINUED)
a vacation planningscnjidulo and accompanying departmenitunit guidelines will be posted by December I s bf the proceeding year for completion by-January T 6th. Tho vacation planningactvfdule and Departmental guidelines will bo reviewed with the Union prior to posting, Seniority shall prevail in determining vacations. Commencing with tho mfst senior employee, subject to tho department/unlt guidelines, employeeson ^seniority basiswill indicate their preferred dates for two (21 weeks After all emplo#os have had tho opportunity ioschoduia two (2} woeks, employeeswill indicate their cholco, again on a seniority basis, for tho balance of their entitlement. After Janurf'y 15th, vacations will be allotted on tho basis of first come first approved. The company reserves the right I o schodulo vacation not declared by August 15th.
16.Q7	In the event an omplotoe resigns or is terminated, vacation pay
will be determined as follows:
" If the resignation occurs priejr to the anniversary da to for the current calendar year, vacation pay'll bo calculated at2% of roguior earnings including shift differential foil each weok of entitiemont from the last anniversary date to the date) of termination loss any vacation actually taken during the current coidbdar year. Any vacation overpayment will be deducted from final earnl gs.
If the resignation occurs ahor ilia anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation paytyllt be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift dlftcroivtlat |.ir each wcok of entitlement from tho anniversary date to the date {>r termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken inthe current calf pdar year.
24
AHTICf liNO.J V -.LOYALLY IQ THE COMPANY
j /.OJ	I Iiu ompUiyuu tiHJSt hu loyal to|hu uompnny, do every lhiny wit)liti
reason to promote tin: wulhiru uf thu nyriifumy wirI themselves, and tn keep the oporstiiiu expenses *u u minimum, Thu sulcsrnun flirjmc to adopt ;i re polar system of canvassing for now customers in order to increase |.&lus and dec run so returns, and do everything possible to eliminate special deliveries
ARTICLE NO. 19 ~ HOURS OF WORK ANti |)VFRT)Mi?
,18 01	it is recognized that n day is a twoniy-four (24) hour period
commencing attwolvo (12) midnight.
18.02	Employees shall normal / work 80 hours per pay period; cioht (0)
days, ten (10) hours per day or ten |10*ti'deys, elpht |3) hours per day. with a minimum of two consecutive days off por fveek. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the company, based on operational and business needs (see Letter of Understanding * Re:	Itowato Work Arrangements),
IJLQ3	A pay porlod is defined s a fourteen 114)eonsocutlvo day period
that commences at 2400 hours Saturday.
3-8.04.	Overtime at one ond on hail (1 1/2) the rogular rate shall bo paid
for all hours worked In excess of the rogulai.schodulod hours per day or perwcoknnd eighty (80) hours In any one pay porlod.
liLCL5.	When assigning required overtime, consideration will be givonto
individual circumstances.
JjLQO	Tfto company sba!) provide all employees two (2) fifteen (1D|
minute paid rest periods, one intho first ha of tlm shift and the second intho socund half of the shift. Tho company shall provi In for a half hour unpaid lunch break
18.07	Shift Differential A s it differential payment of fifty (50) cents shall be paid io all regular employees for olfcmgularly scheduled hours worked outside of thu basic work day. For tho purpose o applying this clause, tho basic work day is defined from 5:00 A.M. to 6;00 P.M.
18.08	Meal Allowance: Alt cr)ployoes required I o work in excess of two
(2)	hours of their regular scheduled shift -will be provided u meal allowance up lo seven dollars enr# fifty cents ($7 50)provfed iroceipt is supplied.
26
ARTjCIE 0N61!) -WAGES
49.01	No member shall bo rcqulutd to mark prices on any product
hnndlo<J.
.19.1)2	Any new position that is ire rod need by th© company during the
term of this agreement will tie reviewed W i the union prior to thu company cluiuf mining the appropriate rote.
11Q3	All employees assigned tu a ighcrclassification/ur more than ono
('ll day .shall receive the higher rato of pay for imo assigned to such a job.
.1,9.04	I lie lead hand is recognize os a non supervisory appointment.
A load hand premium of fifty (DOC) cents per I 3tir will ho paid over tire employee's posted joli and regular rate in recognition of a dr tiunul responsibilities tu direct (train, relieve, related administration) and oversee iht iictivitics if a specific work unit.
the numhur of required lead hands ind determination of those appointed will be solely at thu discretion of management :m the basis of operational needs.
4 9.05	Any employee who conirm ices «■ recommences employment
with the company during the time this agr icmont remains in ford!, and who previously performed the same work, or sulist ntially the same work (regardless of classification) in the Dairy Processing Industry, hall, for the purpose of his wage rate herein, be granted credit for his previous cxp< icnco after he completes thirty (30) days of employment with the company, pruvii d that:
M) lie worked for thu previous omplo )r or the company for at least one (1) year performing the samo or subs mtially tho same work; and {’/)	"Ihero lias riot linen a break in sort cc of more than twelve (12) months
between the time of termination fr|m his previous employment with the company or other employer io tli>| Dairy Processing Industry, and tho time Inxommeticcs or ro-common loswork with the company under this agromont.
ARTICLE NQ-2Q--JBANSFER OF EMPL- f£S
20.01	Where an employee it
transfer is at his own request or bocau stiffer any loss in pay for the first thirty
insforred toolowor paid job {unless such !if Inefficiency) hu shall not bo mndo to ) days that ho worked on such job.
28
ArjUCLKJ* 1 HFNJJIJS
21.Q1	Effective the first day of the rflionth following 104 shifts worked
in o continuous twelve (12) month period, all re julor full-time employees shall bo entitled to tl«! Health and Welfaru benefits ns pii:scml!y provided by the Company conditional upon compiotinu (Ha specified Klifjibili y Poiiuds.
21,02	Notice of premium increases affoctii j employees io be communicated to (ho Plant Cummitfeu in advance1.
29
ARTICLE NO. 22 - MISCELLANEOUS
22,01.	All delivery personnel shall Nearonly company approved uniforms
in the performance of their duties, which |;hnll be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at ail limes The anjiuol entitlement for regular full time employees Is a jacket, four shirts, and two pair of pants. A winter parka shall be supplied by the company once every twoyemu. Additloriai items will boallowod as required an a fifty-fifty (50%/50%) cost sharing basis.
22.02	Tfio company will provide suitable coldweathor clothing forthoso
requlrod to work in tho freezer.
22*03.	An annual tool allowance iftwo hundred ($200,00)dollars will
bo paid I o garuyo personnelwho meet company requirements and maintain thoir own
30
Milieu-; no, r.i- pr mon of agrefment
2a.01.	‘I his agreement shall comn iiito force on the 1 st day of May 1 993,
arid sruiII remain in foieo until the 30th day rtf Aprit, 1397, or as hero tint! after provided.
If nutico to negotiate has been give® by cither party, this agreornont shall remain 111 full lorco and effect during any park i of negotiation, even though such negotiation may extend Jicyond flit: said unnivi rsary dote, until fourteen (14) day:, filter tlm date upon which a vote is held under »c provisions of tho labour relations act, on the acceptance or rejection of an aware uf mediation services and to further continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either party.
Should either parly wish tu chant add trl, timer id or terminate this agreement, not less than sixty (60) days notic i, nor more than otic hundred and twenty (120) days notice prior to llio tinnlvorsar date, shall tin given in writing to the other party, such writing tu bo given by registered mail.
FOR
FOR:
DAIRYWORLD FOODS
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE LTD. GLENSCHWAFtTZ
blaTne ELUS	" ~ ’
PATRICKMCGINLEY
RAY STERN
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ft PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL445
DAVID COLES""
John DtrmviLEn
ST EM KERRIGAN	’	‘
GLRBEN SPANNENBURG OmAN TURK	~
ROBERT PAoUTn
32
WAGE SCHEDULE A
GROUP CLASSIFICATION
PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLY WAGES
l/AYVgg	MAV 1 /94	MAY 1 ''g5	MAY i,;gs
S16-26	$1S.41	S16.55	$16.96
2	Ice Cream Setup
Ruid Setup
Slender(including sei j)
FI ui d SwingPe’SOn Cottage Cheese Maker Cultured Produces Processor CJ.P. Man Panel Operator
$15 9	$1 .94 ms S 15 9
Fluid Milk Packaging Eqw'pmer* Operator	S15.30	$15.45 SI5.7C S1S.OO
Caser/Stacker Operator l/C Freezer Centre Operator
Blender
Cultured Products Filler Operator Deep Reach Forklift Operator Palietlzer Dock Loader
Forklift Operator (dry goods) Shipper/Dispstcher
*	CJ.P. Clean Up	1st 12 Months
l/C Machine Filler Operator	2nd ’.2 Months
ShrinkWrap Operator	After 24 Months
Ante Room Attendant
Cheddar Cheese Packaging Equipment Operator Ice Cream / Cultured Clean Up Return Receiver
Load BuCder/Shipper (ail products)
Stock Cojnter
$14.07	$14,07
$14.44	$14.59
$14.84	$14.93
$14.07	S14.07
St 4.84	$1S.t4
$15.24	$15.54
WAGE SCHEDULE A
GROUP CLASSIFICATION
PROGRESSION
daotr* uniiDiv i • r ancr<
5	Packager (sK products)
Labourer
1st *2 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months
rWY 1T92
$13.07
$13.47
$13.83
may 1 m
$13.07
S13.62
$14.00
MAY 1/95
$13.07 $13.87 S'. 4.25
MAY 1/96
$13.07
$14.17
$14.55
Pallet Repgir/tSeneraJ Clean—up Summer Relie:
$10.00 $10.00 $10.00
S3.53	S3.50	$6 52
$10.00
SS.53
7.
La bora tory Assistant i
Technician II Technician III
'Provided the employee has the minimum certification as set out by the employer
1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months ‘After 24 Months
$13.07
S13.C1
$14.23
$15.57
$13.22
$13.61
$14.$5
$15.72
$'3.47
$13.31
$14.60
$15.97
$13.77
$13,61
$14.90
$16.27
General Truck
1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months
S14.5S	$14.5S	$14.55
$14.92	$15.07	$*5.32
$15.33	S15.45	S15.7Q
$14.55
$15.62
$16.00
5.	Mechanics
1st Year Apprentice
2nd Year Apprentice 3rd Year Apprentice Certified
S15.11	$15.25
$15.33	$15.45
$15.85	S16.C1
$15.77	$16.52
S15.51	S15.6*
SI 5.73	S15.C3
S16.26	S 16.55
Si 7.17	S17.47
WAGE SCHEDULE A
GROUP CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	BASIC HOURLY WAGES
			MAY 1 '32	MAY '-'54	MAY 1*95	MAY '/9S
tc.	General Garage	1st 12 Months 2nd I2t.'cmris After 24 Months	Si 4.07 S 14.44 S'4.B4	$14.07 S14.5S $14.23	S14.C7 S14.S4 $15.24	S14.C7 515.14 sis.s;
11.	Tractor Trai'er Drivers	1st 12 Months 2nd 12 Months After 24 Months	$15.01 S 15.41 $15.73	S15.01 S15.SS $15.94	515 0: $15. El S16.13	$15.01 SI 6.11 $16.43
	Driver?	15112 Months 2nd *2 Months	$14.32 $15.33	$14.92 SI 5.45	$14.92 $15.70	S 14.92 $15.03
			—			
-.3.	Shun: Driver		S1S.73	St £.94	$16.15	$16.49
	Scute Sv.ing Person • Wholesale Driver Swing Persars	(Grand fathered)	S16.1S	S1S.2S	St 5.53	515.S3
IS.	Wholes ala Drivers (Grandfathered’.		516.6s	sie.£3	S17.C5	S17.3S
"A: l new Wholesale Driver Swing Persons shall receive fifty (50) cents per hour ever the regular general truck rates.
SCHEDULE 8
PFWSinNnriNTRIRllTinM
Company pension contributions to be adjusted as follows:
Effective the first of the month following ratification' 100 / hour. Effective May1,	1994:	100	)ur.
Effective May1,	1995:	5 0,	ur.
Effective May 1,	1996:	5 0 ,	ur.
LETTER OR UNI)i'UST ANI)ING
1)ATK:
liKTVVICEN:	DAIRY WORLD frOODfl*
AURl POODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE 1/11). nt lCdmonfori, Alberta
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & DAPICKWOK KICKS
UNION IXJCAI, 445
StJIOKCl:
'll MIC OIK IN UUU 0|> O VIC KM MIC PAY
It is recognized that there may lie drew bailees whereby it is to the advantage of both parlies far the coni pan | to grant another day off In lieu for overtime worked by an employee oil tlictr regular day off.
Employees who work an overtime shift 01 their regular day off may request another day off in lieu of overtim pay ou the following basis:
•	only complete overtime shills1 coil hi; rescheduled as time off,
(i.e. K hoars or 10 bouts).
•	time «IT will he equivalent to overtime hours worked.
•	mutual agreement must be readied m when Die day in lieu is to be taken, otherwise the overtime will la ; paid out.
- no more than two shifts can be uccriued at any one time.
MUNICH:	MUNICH:
DAIRY WORM I FOODS	lOMMONlCATIONS. ENERGY,
AGUIEOODS INTERNATIONAL	ft PAPEKWORKEKS UNION
COOPER AH VIC LID.	I ICAL445
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
DATE:
BETWEEN:	DAIRYWORLD FOODS
agrifoods international cooferaitve ltd.
at Edmonton, Albert
AND;	COMMUNICATION CNERGY & TAPER WORKERS
UNION LOCAL 445
SUBJECT:
JOB CLASSIFI CATIONS
It is agreed that no employee's rate wi the classification of Jobs jj reflected m
Any employee who is currently paid I)* per the agreement will he grandfather, including wage adjustments until such are recalled or transferred to another the applicable rate for the newjob.
This letter ofunderstanding will becor employees are receiving the appropriai agreement
! negatively affected as a result of new collective agreement
id the Job classification rate as .e. retain their current rate t as they successfully bid on or at which time they will receive
uH and void at such time as all ites us per the collective
SIGNED:
DAIRYWORLD FOODS
AGRTFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVELTI).
IGNED;
.COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY,
PAPERWDRKKRS UNION <OCAL445
DATE:
BETWEEN:	DAIRYWORLD FOODS
acwfooos international COOPERATIVE ltd. at Edmonton, Alberta
AND:
COMMUMCA'nONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UMON LOCAL 446
SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
1.	Pursuant to Article 18.02, the parties aqKnowledge that "atternale work arrangements? are nacaasary In order to ensure the efficient operation of particular departments ana satisfy customer requirements.
2.	In support of this understanding, attamroe work arrangements (eg. 12 hours per day, 10 hours per day, 3t to 44 hours per week, etc.) for a particular department work group or Individual, may be utilized.
3.	It is Intended that alternate work arrangements be discussed with the Plant Commutes prior to Implementation Including any specific sttuattons where an employee cannot bn given two consecutive days off.
4.	It la understood that under alternate wax arrangements, overtime would only be paid If the hours worked exceed the dally achedule or the total hours worked exceed the scheduled hours In a epecfflc period (eg. 12 week cycle).
SIGNED:	StGNlD:
DAIHYWORLD FOODS AGRVDO06 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE LTD
COMitiJMCATIONS, ENBtGY, A PAM3WORKER3 UMON LOCAL 448
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
DATE:
1IETWEEN:	DAIRYWORLD ROODS
AGRI FOODS 1NTERNA1 flONAL COOPERATIVE LTD.
ut Kdnionton, AJIxirlu
ANU:	COMMUNICATIONS, KltlKRGV & RAMiKWORKGKS
UNION LOCM,44S
SUUJI'CT:	TRAINING
As « result of Uni changing requirements wlltliln the Dairy Industry and with the Intro duet loti of nc tv technology, tlm* Coinpuny und the Union acknowledge (he need for the training and development of employees.
Wherever possible, us specific training opportunities und needs are identified, the Company wilt, from time toRime, post n notice of such opportunities in order to solicit interested employees.
In selecting employees fur training, prefeulnce will first be given to those employees who are interested and iivuihibh aUhc time the training is offered and who would be nviilUiblc to apply thio training In future assignments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Conijiaiy reservesthe right tu assign training n required.
SIGNED:
SIGNED:
DAIRY WOULD ROODS ACR1 FOODS INTERNATIONAL CO( )1 TOR ATI VE LTD.
(fOMMUNlCAflONS, ENERGY, A EAl'ERWOUKERS UNION LOCAL 445