ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
SCHEDULE A SCHEDULE B
INDEX
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
U
DAIRYWORLD FOODS
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE I TD.
BARRHEAD. CAMROSE. ST. PAUL
PURPOSES AND PROVISIONS MANAGEMENT
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
UNION SECURITY AND WORKING CONDITIONS
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
SUMMER RELIEF EMPLOYEES
SENIORITY
JOB POSTING
GRIEVANCES
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS & TRUCKS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SICK LEAVE
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
LOYALTY TO THE COMPANY HOURS OF WORK RrtlTtfVtEffTIME
WAGES
BENEFITS
MISCELLANEOUS
SEPARATION PAY (PLANT CLOSURE]
PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
PAGE 2 PAGE 3 PAGE 4 PAGE 5 PAGE 6 PAGE 7
PAGE 8, 9, 10 PAGE 11
PAGE 12, 13, 14 PAGE 15 ‘PAGE 16 PAGE 17, 18, 19 PAGE 20 PAGE 21 PAGE 22, 23 PAGE 24 PAGE 25, 26 PAGE 27 PAGE 28 PAGE 29 PAGE 30 PAGE 31
WAGE RATES
PENSION CONTRIBUTION
ARTICLE NO. 1 • PURPOSES AND PROVISIONS
1 -01	It is the intent and purpose of this agreement that the company and the
union co-operate to obtain efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products; to maintain a harmonious relationship between the company and its employees; to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may arise from time to time; and to set forth certain conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
The company recognizes the union as the bargaining agent for the employees of the company, employed in the dairy industry operated by the company in Barrhead, Camrose, St. Paul, excluding such employees as are engaged as office workers and department foremen. The company shall not enter into any agreement which in any way conflicts with the provisions hereof.
1.03	The use of the masculine gender shall be considered to include the
feminine gender.
1«04	Each branch location noted in Clause 1.02 £ considered to be a distinct
bargaining unit for the purposes of applying this agreement. Notwithstanding, Tanker Drivers may be temporarily assigned to other bargaining units for the purpose of covering temporary absences.
2
ARTICLE NO. 2 - MANAGEMENT
2.01	The company shall have the exclusive right and power to manage and
control the business, provide and post work rules and regulations, to be observed by the employee, to alter such rules and regulations as required from time to time, to direct the work force, including the right to hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, layoff, promote, assign to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to decrease or increase the working forces, to determine the products to be handled, and nothing in this agreement shall be intended or is to be construed in any way to interfere with the recognized right of the company to manage and control the business. Nothing in this clause, however, shall be used to discriminate against any employee or union member, nor shall it be used for the purpose of avoiding the effect of specific provisions of this agreement.
3
ARTICLE NO. 3 • MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
101	It is agreed that all employees covered by this agreement shall become
members of the union within thirty (30)calendar days after being hired and remain members in good standing as a condition of employment.
3.Q2	The union shall supply the company with application forms for
union membership and dues deductions which shall be signed by all new employees on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the union, along with the next monthly dues payment, and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment.
3,03	The employer agrees to deduct from the pay of all employees covered by
this agreement, all established monthly dues, initiation fees and uniformly levied assessments of the union. It is further agreed that the employer shall remit such deductions to the union prior to the end of the month for which such deductions are made.
4
■>lE NO. 4 - UNION SECURITY AND WORKING CONDITIONS
Any	,tJT/t./.TOV7r'oF.ba11, rur wnti' at
occupations which come under the union's jurisdiction, except; in cases of emergency (and then only until a member of the union can be placed on the job), for purposes of training or where bargaining unit work is involved in merely an incidental way. Where this provision operates against the efficiency of the plant, the union undertakes to consider exemption in any particular case put before it.
4,-QZ	The union's jurisdiction shall be deemed to include the processing,
manufacture and distribution of dairy products or such other products as the company may from time to time process or manufacture, as currently carried out by union employees.
4-03.	There will be no strikes, walkouts, slowdowns, or other cessation of
work by employees, and no lockouts by the employer, during the period of this agreement, and all grievances or other differences shall be settled by the grievance procedure set out ik" Arilcke'S? tfr this agreement.
4.04	No union employee will be required to cross a lawfully established picket
line.
5
ARTICLE NO. 5 ■ UNION REPRESENTATIVES
5.01	The employer recognizes the right of the union to designate a shop steward to represent the union and/or the employees on a day-to-day basis. The union agrees to keep the employer advised regarding the personnel so designated as a shop steward and furthermore it is mutually agreed that the person so designated shall be allowed reasonable time and opportunity by the employer to perform their functions in accordance with this clause.
During normal working hours, the steward must advise their supervisor as to the nature of their business, an estimate of the time required and get permission prior to leaving their work site.
5.02	An appropriate locked bulletin board shall be provided by the employer upon which the union may place notices in regard to meetings, social gatherings and all other matters pertaining to legitimate union business,
5.03	In the event an employee is away from the plant for regularly scheduled hours of work, on union authorized business which has been approved by the company, the employer will continue to pay the employee at the employee’s regular rate of pay and benefits as if the employee was at work, and submit the cost to the union for reimbursement.
5.04	The national union representative and/or local business agent shall have access to the plant in accordance with standard security policy and departmental procedures.
6
m-> TICLE NO. 6 • SUMMER RELIEF EMPI OYEES
6.01
conditions:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
of
The company may employ summer relief employees under the following
Summer relief employees may be hired between the period of March 1 to September 15.
Summer relief employees will be used to supplement the regular work force in order to meet increased seasonal production and distribution requirements and for vacation relief of regular employees.
Summer relief employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement or prevents the hiring or recall of regular full-time employees.
All summer relief employees shall as a condition of continuing employment pay union dues in accordance with Article 3 of this agreement for those months in which the employee has earnings. Summer relief employees shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
Summer relief employees will be paid the rate as set out in Schedule A this agreement.
Summer relief employees will only qualify for the wage rate as per Article 19, general holiday pay as per Article 15 and access to the grievance provisions.
All summer relief employees must be terminated on or before September 15th.
"7
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY
2A1	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's service
beginning on the date of regular full time employment.
7.02	a newly hired employee shall be on probation for forty-five (45) working
days from the date of hiring. During this period of time, seniority shall not apply and an employee may be laid off without cause, and the company shall not be obligated to re-hire. During the probationary period, the employee shall be entitled to all other rights and benefits of this agreement except as otherwise provided. After successful completion of the probationary period, the employees' seniority and service record shall date back to the original date of hire.
A list showing the seniority of all employees shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the work site. The company shall forward an updated seniority list to the union every six (6) months.
ZJ24	Vacancies will be filled based on seniority, provided that ability and
qualifications, as determined by the	tide 8 -
Job Posting)
7.05	In the event that the com
of more than 60 days the following pi
|{a)	The situation will be disci
possible can be given an} possible, the company wi (b) Where there is more thi classification affected by t lay-off within that affecter (c) When an employee is prov

C^Jf n\*rk
by

Iployees
tice as herever
e job jrder of [llority.
■ ifjiuytje snail first
be given the option of displacing the most junior employee, provided the employee to be laid-off has the 'quallficaiton and ability' or is able to perform that job within a reasonable period of time.
8
ARTICLE NO. 7 - SENIORITY (CONTINUED)
Where the laid-off employee is not qualified or able to displace the most junior employee, or if the laid-off employee elects not to displace the most junior employee; the laid-off employee shall be placed on the RECALL LIST, in order of seniority and on the understanding and condition that he remains readily available to accept assignments as required. The option of electing to displace the Junior employee or be placed on lay-off must be made upon receipt of the notice of lay-off (within 24 hours) and cannot be changed by the employee.
If the employee to be laid off is not considered qualified or able to perform that job, then the employee shall be assessed in respect of the position occupied by the next most junior employee and so on until it is determined that no positions are available.
Where practical, employees on lay-off will be called for assignments in order of their seniority provided they are available at the time the assignment is scheduled and are qualified and able to perform the assigned work in a manner that is satisfactory, as determined by the employer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a laid-off employee shall retain the right to their previously posted position for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days; and shall retain the right to bid on any posted vacancy as per Article 8 of this agreement.
(d) Laid-off emloyees shall retain recall rights in accordance with the following:
(i)	An employee with more than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay-off for a period of twelve (12) months.
(jj) An employee with less than 10 years of service will lose his seniority and cease to be an employee in the case of a lay-off for a period of six (6) months.
9
ARTICLE NO: 7 ■ SENIORITY (’CONTINUED')
(iii) It is understood that if the employee is not recalled from lay-off for an aggregate of more than thirty (30) shifts from the last date of lay-off; then the employee’s period of lay-off shall be considered not-to have been interrupted.
(e) The company shall first utilize laid-off employees for work assignments as per paragraph (c) above prior to the utilization of newly hired employees or summer relief employees.
7.06	If the company determines that temporary layoffs of less than sixty (60)
days are necessary, Clause 7.05 does not apply and no advance written notice is required. Those on temporary layoff will continue to be eligible for applicable company benefits.
10
ARTICLE NO. 8 - JOB POSTING
am	Permanent positions covered by this agreement which become vacant
and are determined by the company to be required, will be posted on all designated bulletin boards. The company is only required to post one additional vacancy that may arise out of the filling of the first vacancy. Any subsequent vacancies may be filled as determined by the company.
&QZ	Vacancies shall be posted for a period of five (5) days not including
Saturday, Sunday or recognized general holidays.
8.03	Postings will specify job duties, hours of work, days of work, and rate of pay.
8.04	Candidates will be considered as per Article 7 of this agreement.
8.05	Any employee who bids on a posted vacancy and is successful, shall not bid on any other vacancies for a period of one (1) year.
8.06	Posted vacancies will be awarded on the following priorities:
a)	within the branch
b)	external candidates
8.07	The successful candidate will be transferred to the new job within a reasonable period of awarding the posting.
8.08	New or revised job postings will be discussed with the union prior to posting on the bulletin board.
8.09	Copies of job posting awards will be given to the union and where the senior candidate is not selected the union will be advised prior to finalization.
11
ARTICLE NO 9 - GRIFVANCFS GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.0**	A grievance shall consist of a dispute respecting interpretation,
application, or alleged violation of this agreement or any law or statute of the Province of Alberta or Dominion of Canada. The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
9.02	The company will not consider a grievance unless it is submitted to the branch manager at Step 1 within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the event or knowledge of the event upon which the grievance is based. In cases of pay, the grievance must be submitted within the same time period of receipt of the pay in which the alleged error occurred. For the purpose of determining required time frames under this article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized general holidays are not included.
9.03	Step 1:
An employee having a complaint or questions shall first discuss the matter with the branch manager. The steward will accompany the employee. If a satisfactory answer or adjustment is not obtained within three (3) days, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 2.
9.04	Step 2:
At this stage, the grievance must be submitted in writing (on a form supplied by the union and approved by the company) to the branch manager or his designate within three (3) days from the date on which the answer was required under Step 1. The branch manager will arrange a meeting with the aggrieved employee (if appropriate) and the steward to review the grievance and render his decision in writing following same.
Should no satisfactory settlement be reached within four (4) days from the date on which the grievance was submitted at this step, the grievance will be dealt with under Step 3.
12
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES (CONTINUED)
9.05	Step 3:
At this stage, the grievance must be advanced by the aggrieved employee and/or the union in writing to the Divisional Director andlor his designates within three (3) days from the dateon which the answer was required under Step 2. The Divisional Director (or his designate) shall submit his reply, in writing, to the union within ten (10) days of receipt of the grievance at Step 3,
9.06	If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within the time limits set forth in Step 3 it may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in Step 4 below at any time within fifteen (15) days thereafter, but not later.
The company or the i.Jtitap.rasy'.filp<?6ir.i5vtSK\r,?.npav\ allegation involving the interpretation, application or violation of any provisions of the agreement. Such a grievance will be entered at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, but must be presented within fifteen (15) days of the alleged violation. The right of this clause will be lost if used to by-pass any provision of the normal grievance procedure.
ARBITRATION 9i07	Step 4:
Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to arbitration at the request of either of the parties hereto.
The party wishing arbitration must notify the other party in writing of its desire to refer the grievance to an impartial umpire/arbitrator within the specified time limits set forth above. This notice must also state the name(s) of their choice of candidates to act in the capacity of arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within five (5) days of the date of the written notice, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for the Province of Alberta upon the request of either party.
13
ARTICLE NO. 9 - GRIEVANCES (CONTINUED)
9.09	The decisions of the arbitrator constituted in the above matter shall be bir/ifofc on both parties.
9.10	The arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
9.11	The parties agree to share equally the fee and expenses of the arbitrator.
9.12	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate ui 'aefttie'n&vac?ancer
DISCHARGE CASES
9.13	In the event of any employee who has attained seniority being discharged from employment, and the employee feeling that an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance.
A	All such cases shall be presented in writing (on a form provided by the
union and approved by the company) at Step 3 of the grievance procedure within ten (10) days of the date the employee is notified of his discharge. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such cases.
9.15	Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
9.16	If a settlement cannot be reached, either party to this agreement may proceed to arbitration as outlined in this article.
14
ARTICLE NO. 11 - UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS AND TRUCKS
11.01	No unauthorized persons shall be allowed to ride in any vehicle owned by the company, or serve customers. Violation of this Article shall be reason for dismissal without notice.
No unauthorized person snould enter or visit the plant in the company of a union (employee) member without obtaining permission from the Branch Manager in advance.
11.02	No driver shall be required to take out any truck nor will he do so, if safety features required by law are not operating properly.
16
ARTICLE NO. 10 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION
10.01	The company has the right to discipline or discharge employees for just cause.
10.02	The employees have the right to request their shop steward or designate be present when an employee is being disciplined or given a written warning notice.
10.03	Disciplinary notices shall be given to the employee and a copy forwarded to the union office.
10.04	Disciplinary notices shall be removed from the employee's file after two (%)'years provided that no other offense has taken place.
KLQ5.	Wherever possible, a steward should be present at the time
discipline is issued. Where a steward is not available, another employee may be used.
15
ARTICLE NO. 1 2 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
-12,01	Personal Leaves:	Leaves of absence without pay or loss of
seniority may be granted for periods not exceeding six (6)months to regular full time employees with a minimum of one year's service; subject to the following conditions:
a)	Employee requests for personal leave in excess of one week must be made in writing to the branch manager.
b)	Requests for leaves of absence will be adjudicated by the company on the basis of merit, compassion and operational consideration.
c)	Employees who are granted leaves will continue to be entitled to company health and welfare benefits for one month beyond the month in which the leave commences.
d)	Employees on leave in excess of thirty (30) days shall not accrue vacation and sick leave entitlements for the period of the leave.
e)	Employees who have been granted a leave of absence in excess of c) above will have the option of having appropriate health and welfare benefits continue for the balance of the leave by paying the full cost of the premiums.
f)	Employees requesting paternity leave will be given special consideration.
g)	Special consideration will be given to employees called on to serve in the military in the event of war or who are elected to federal, provincial or municipal office.
17
ARTICLE NO. 12 • LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONTINUED)
12.02	Union Leave: The company agrees to grant time off, without
disc^minfltinxi.ao/lvKiLho'.'t .nay. j/i pfiu £Y?fw9/i'olnyftf‘f tfdvj. is a	the
and who has been designated by the union to attend a labour convention or serve in any capacity on other union business, provided in each case the company’s consent has been given, after fourteen (14) days notice has been served on the company by the union, and provided further, that such absence shall not exceed two (2) years and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
12.03	Bereavement Leave: In the event of the death of a member of a regular.Vnv&rfteie .faraiV', the company wv/J'j/Jum*■ m\#'tthrnrbc (3) consecutive days with pay if the employee is scheduled to work. An additional two (2) days of leave without pay may be granted based on individual circumstances.
The term "immediate family” shall include spouse, parent, step parent, child, step child, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law.
In Hie event of rrffe death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the company will grant up to one (1)day with pay if the employee is scheduled to work. 12,-04.	Maternity Leave: A pregnant employee who has been employed
for a continuous period of at least twelve (12) months is entitled to maternity leave without pay; subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Maternity Leave is for a period not exceeding 21 weeks commencing at any time during the 12 week period immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery and 6 to 9 weeks after the actual date of delivery.
(b)	An employee shall give at least 2 weeks notice of the commencement date of the leave and of the return date.
18
ARTICLE NO. 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (CONTINUED)
c)	An.emoJQVPf-.th/i^ (6) week period following the delivery date if a medical certificate is provided indicating that resumption of work by the employee will not endanger her health.
d)	If during the twelve (12) week period prior to the estimated delivery date, the pregnancy interferes with the performance of the employee’s duties, the employer may, by notice in writing, require the employee to commence maternity leave.
e)	An employee on maternity leave will continue to be covered by the health and welfare benefits and will continue to accrue seniority and vacation entitlement but not sick leave credits; provided they return to work following the maternity leave.
f)	On return to work the employeewill be placed in her previousjob or an equivalent job with no reduction in rate of pay or benefits.
12.05	Jury Duty:	Employees called upon to perform jury duty or
subpoenaed as a witness shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions:
(i)	Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remain to be worked.
(ii)	Employees shall furnish the company with such statements of earnings from the courts and turn all monies over to the company.
(iii)	Employees shall provide appropriate written documentation.
19
ARTICLE NO. 13 - SICK LEAVE
13,0J-	After the employee is in the service of the company one full year,
he will be entitled to one work week per year for sickness and non-compensable accident with full pay, when proof of disability is supplied. Proof of disability will not normally be required for absences of 1-2 days in duration. However, it is within the company’s rights to request proof of disability for any sick leave and request the proof from a doctor recommended by the company, in the event of frequent unrelated sick leave.
13.02	The company may discontinue or reduce the sick leave benefit to any employee found repeatedly abusing the use of sick leave.
13.03	Unused days may be accumulated to a maximum of three work weeks. For any one illness, employees shall only use the required number of days from their sick bank before qualifying for other benefits.
13.04	In the event of the inability to work due to sickness or accident, employees are expected to give reasonable notice (call in) prior to the commencement of their shift and to keep their branch manager informed as to their expected return to work.
20
ARTICLE NO. 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	Employees currently on payroll for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall be entitled to recognized general holidays with pay equal to their regular hourly rate for their regular scheduled hours of work. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday and the holiday, if scheduled; unless absent due to illness verified by a doctor’s certificate. Employees who are scheduled to work the holiday and do not, due to a verified illness, will receive the holiday pay but do not qualify for sick benefit.
14.02	The following general holidays are recognized:
New Year’s Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
14.03	All general holidays are recognized for pay purposes on the actual
day on which they fall. Canada Day is the only holiday with an exception (i.e. It is recogrtizei	st^xcepf w/rerr rt far&'uiriTorruLry; .:r .“toVnfcircast? tviarlayy,
2nd becomes the holiday).
14.04	Employees who are required to work on a general holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (11/21 their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day (see Clause 17.01) In addition to their regular days pay for the general holiday.
14.05	In case of an employee’s regular day off falling on a Statutory Holiday, he shall either be paid an additional day’s pay at his regular rate for such day
o a..„.r_____annthfir day.ofUtn.pe miitufliiv agreed upon within thirty (30)days,
otherwise the company has the right to determine the date.
14.06	Employees who are required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall receive a day and one half in lieu thereof, the dates to be mutually agreed upon or be
paid at the. rate of one and one half (11/2) the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day, in addition to his regular basic wage for that day. it is agreed that any days off coming to an employee shall either be paid for or given time off by the end of each calendar year.
21
ARTICLE NO. 15-VACATIONS
15.01	Vacations shall be granted to full time employees as follows:
After 1 year of continuous service - 2 weeks After 4 years of continuous service - 3 weeks After 11 years of continuous service - 4 weeks In addition to the above, employees shall receive one half day (1/2) of paid vacation for each year of continuous service, commencing after the twelfth (12) year.
A week of vacation is defined as 40 hours (see Article No. 17 - Hours of Work and Overtime).
IS.t&L	Vacation pay will be based on the employee’s regular hourly rate
including shift differential but not including overtime. Summer relief and casual employees are not entitled to vacations, butwill receive vacation pay equal to 4% of their regular earnings.
15,03.	Each employee shall take their vacation during the calendar year
in which they are entitled to it.
15.04	For scheduling purposes, new employees are not entitled to two weeks vacation until after their first year anniversary date. Commencing in the calendar year during which the second anniversary falls, vacations may be scheduled throughout the calendar year subject to Clause 15.05 and 15.06.
15.05	Vacations will be scheduled on a calendar basis from January 1 st to December 31 st. Employees will only be allowed to schedule a maximum of two (2) consecutive weeks during the months of June, July and August. During the balance of the year, employees entitled’ to more than two (2) weeks vacation, may schedule more
than two (2)consecutive weeks subject to the dates being mutually agreed upon.
22
ARTICLE NO. 1B - VACATIONS (CONTINUED)
15.06	In the event an employee resigns or is terminated, vacation pay
will be determined as follows:
If the resignation occurs prior to the anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the last anniversary date to the date of termination less any vacation actually taken during the current calendar year. Any vacation overpayment will be deducted from final earnings.
If the resignation occurs after the anniversary date for the current calendar year, vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of regular earnings including shift differential for each week of entitlement from the anniversary date to the date of termination plus any vacation entitlement not taken in the current calendar year.
23
ARTICLE NO. 16 - LOYALTY TO THE COMPANY
■‘‘/t&'i	Ths employee	do everything within
reason to promote the reputation and welfare of the company and themselves, and to keep the operating expenses to a mimumum.
24
ARTICLE NO. 17 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
17.<0.1.	It is recognized that a day is a twenty-four (24) hour period
commencing at twelve (12) midnight.
17.02	Employees shall'normally work 80 hours per pay period; eight (8) days, ten (10) hours per day or ten (10) days, eight (8) hours per day, with a minimum of two consecutive days off per week. Scheduled days of the week and hours per day will be determined by the company, based on operational and business needs (see Letter of Understanding - RE: Alternate Work Arrangements).
17.03	A pay period is defined as a fourteen (14) consecutive day period that commences at 2400 hours Saturday.
17.04	Overtime at one and one half (1 1/21the regular rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled hours per day or per week and eighty (80) hours in any one pay period. Employees may request equivalent time off in lieu of overtime pay, to be mutually agreed upon within thirty (30) days, otherwise the company has the right to determine the date. It is understood that the intent is not to cover off banked time by incurring additional overtime.
17.05	When assigning required overtime, consideration will be given to individual circumstances.
17.06	The company shall provide all employees two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods, one in the first half of the shift and the second in the second half of the shift. The company shall provide for a half hour unpaid lunch break.
25
ARTICLE NO. 17 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (CONTINUED)
17.07	Shift Differential: A shift differential payment of fifty (50) cents shall be paid to all regular employees for all regularly scheduled hours worked outside of the basic work day. For the purpose of applying this clause, the basic work day is defined from 5:00 AM. to 6:00 P.M.
17.08	Meal Allowance: All employees required to work in excess of two (2) hours of their regular scheduled shift will be provided a meal allowance up to seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) provided a receipt is supplied.
26
AmlCLE NO. 18 - WAGES
18.01	The wage rates for the term of this agreement are attached as Schedule A and form part of this collective agreement.
18.02	Any new position that is introduced by the company during the term of this agreement will be reviewed with the union prior to the company determining the appropriate rate.
18,03-	All employees assigned to a higher classification for more than one
(D day shall receive the higher rate of pay for time assigned to such a job.
18.04	A lead hand is recognized as a non-supervisory appointment. A
lead hand premium of fifty (50) cents per hour will be paid over the employee’s posted job and regular rate in recognition of additional responsibilities to direct (train, relieve, related administration) and oversee the activities of a specific work group or department.
The number of required lead hands and determination of those appointed will be solely at the discretion of management on the basis of operational needs.
18.05	Any employee who commences or re-commences employment
with the company during the time this agreement remains in force, and who previously performed the same work, or substantially the same work (regardless of classification) in the dairy processing industry, shall, for the purpose of his wage rate herein, be granted credit for his previous experience after he completes thirty (30) days of employment with the company provided that:
(1)	He worked for the previous employer or the company for at least one (1) year performing the same or substantially the same work; and
(2)	There has not been a break in service of more than twelve (12) months between the time of termination from his previous employment with the company or other employer in the dairy processing industry, and the time he commences or recommences work with the company under this agreement.
27
ARTICLE 19 - BENEFITS
19.01	Effective the first day of the month following 104 shifts worked in a continuous twelve (12) month period, all regular full-time employees shall be entitled to the Health and Welfare. benefits as presently provided by the Company conditional upon completing the specified Eligibility Periods.
19.02	Notice of premium increases affecting employees to be communicated to the union in advance.
28
/wiiCLE NO. 20 - MISCELLANEOUS
20.01	All tanker drivers shall wear only company approved uniforms in
the performance of their duties; which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times. The annual. entitlement for regular full time employees is a jacket, four shirts, and two pair of pants. A winter parka shall be supplied by the Company once every two years. Additional items will be allowed as required on a fifty-fifty (50%/50%) cost sharing basis.
29
ARTICLE NO. 21 - SEPARATION PAY (PLANT CLOSURE)
2.1_,Q.l	A full time regular employee who is permanently laid off due to the
discontinuance of an operation shall receive notice or pay in lieu of notice in
accordance with the Employment Standards Code.
21.02	In addition, the Company shall provide ‘severance pay’ consisting
of the following schedule:
More than 3 months, and Less than 2 years Less than 4 yrs Less than 6 yrs Ljpss ‘t'fUi.&yrs Less than 10 yrs Less than 12 yrs Less than 14 yrs Less than 16 yrs Less than 18 yrs Less than 20 yrs More than 20 yrs
Employment Severance
Standards Code Pav Total
1	wk
2	wks
4	wks
5	wks
6	wks 8 wks 8 wks 8 wks 8 wks 8 wks 8 wks
1	wk
2	wks
3	wks A- wks
5	wks
6	wks
7	wks
8	wks
9	wks
10	wks 12 wks
2 wks
4 wks 7 wks 3 wks 11 wks
14	wks
15	wks
16	wks
17	wks
18	wks 20 wks
21 m	An employee accepting severance pay under this schedule shall be
considered terminated.
21.04	In the event vacancies arise at other Company locations, the
Company shall give priority considerations to the re-hire of suitable employees in the order of previous seniority.
30
ahi'ICLE NO. 22 - PERIODCF AGREEMENT
22.01	This agreement shall come into force on the 1 st day of May 1993,
and shall remain in force until the 30th day of April, 1997, or as here and after provided.
If notice to negotiate has been given by either party, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect during any period of negotiation, even though such negotiation may extend beyond the said anniversary date, until fourteen (14) days after the date upon which a vote is held under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, on the acceptance or rejection of an award of mediation services and to further continue thereafter until discontinued in writing by either party.
Should either party wish. to change, add to, amend or terminate this agreement, not less than sixty (60) days notice, nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days notice prior to the anniversary date, shall be given in writing to the other party, such writing to be given by registered mail.
31
FOR:
FOR:
DAIRYWORLD FOODS
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE LTD.
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 445
STUART MCGREGOR
FRANK BRINKLUND
MICHEL DOUCET
RON BECKER
32
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
DATE:
DAIRY WORLD FOODS
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE LTD at Edmonton, Alberta
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & P-WORKERS UNION LOCAL 445
JOB -CATIONS
It is agreed that no employee's rate will be negatively affected as a result of the classification of jobs as reflected in the new collective agreement.
Any employee who is currently paid beyond the job classification rate as per the agreement will be grandfathered, i.e. retain their current rate including wage adjustments until such time as they successfully bid on or are recalled or transferred to another job, at which time they will receive the applicable rate for the newjob.
This letter of .understanding will become null and. void at vx±. time as all
employees are receiving the appropriate rates as per the collective agreement.
BETWEEN:
AND:
SUBJECT:
SIGNED:	SIGNED:
DAIRYWORLD FOODS	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY,
AGRIFOODS INTERNATIONAL	& PAPERWORKERS UNION
COOPERATIVE LTD,	LOCAL 445
SCHEDULE B PENSION CONTRIBUTION
Company pension contributions to be adjusted as follows:
Effective June 1, 1993: Effective May 1, 1994: Effective May 1, 1995: Effective May 1, 1996:
100/ hour. 100/ hour. 5 0/ hour. 5 0/ hour.


GROUP CLASSIFICATION
WAGE SCHEDULE A
PROGRESSION ,	. BASIC HOURLY WAGES
7.
Summer Relief
MAY 1/92 MAY 1/94 M&L 1/95 MAY 1/96 $8.50	$8.50	$8,50	$8,50
8.	Tanker Drivers - Tandem
1st12 Months	$14,40
2nd 12 Months	$14.76
After 24 Months	$15,12
$14.40	$14,40	$14.40
$14.91	$15.16	$15,46
$15.27	$15,52	$15,82
10.	Tanker Drivers - Tandem & Trailer
1st 12 Months	$14.78
2nd12 Months	$15,14
After 24 Months	$15,68
$14.78	$14,78	* $14,78
$15,29	$15,54	$15,84
$15,83	$16.03	$16,33
11.	General Truck
1 st12 Months	$14,39
2nd 12 Months	$14.78
After 24 Months	$15,17
$14,39	$14,39	$14.39
$14.93	$15.18	$15,48
$15,32	$15.57	$15,87