Labour. Agreement
May 1, 2007 to April 30,201 '0
k
ij	■> ^
%u 'fol ^ TI if ili
rt» Z v 1009

ADM Agri-lndustries Company
Montreal Notre-Dame
Location Y94
00446 (09) ^
ADM
age
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
6
6
7
7
7
8
8
8
8
8
9
9
9
10
10
11
11
11
11
11
12
INDEX
RECOGNITION
Recognition
Union Membership and Dues
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS Management Rights
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE & ARBITRATION Grievance Procedure
Collective Grievance Deadlinesand Technical Errors Arbitration
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY Job Classificationsand Rates of Pay Shift Differentials
Ratesof Pay- Temporary Transfers Permanent Transfers Temporary Employees Creation of a New Job Classification Technological Changes
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Intent and No Pyramiding Workday and Workweek Starting Times, Shifts and Schedules Daily and Weekly Overtime Pay 7"' Consecutive Day of Work Premium Call-In Indemnity Call-In Pay
Distribution of Overtime
SENIORITY AND FILLING VACANCIES Seniority
Consideration of Qualifications Probationary Employees Filling Permanent Vacancies Filling Permanent Vacancies (Maintenance)
-1-
Section 6.06 Section 6.07 Section 6.08 Section 6.09 Section 6.10 Section 6.11 Section 6.12
ARTICLE VII Section 7.01 Section 7.02 Section 7.03 Section 7.04 Section 7.05
	Page
Filling Temporary Vacancies	13
Layoffs	13
Recalls	13
Loss of Seniority	13
Demotions	14
Retention of Seniority	14
Severance Pay	14
DAYS
Legal Holidays
Pay for HolidaysWorked
Pay for Holidays Not Worked
Legal Holidays Consideredas Time Worked
Replacement
15
15
16 16 16 16
ARTICLE VIII Section 8.01 Section 8.02 Section 8.03 Section 8.04 Section 8.05 Section 8.06 Section 8.07
VACATION	17
Vacation Eligibility	17
Vacation Pay for Inactive Employees	17
Vacation Pay for Terminated Employees	18
Schedulingof Vacation Time	18
Pay in Lieu of Vacation	18
Holiday Pay during Vacations	18
Rehired Employees	19
ARTICLE IX Section 9.01 Section 9.02 Section 9.03 Section 9.04 Section 9.05
TIME OFF FROMWORK	19
Jury Duty and Crown Witness	19
Bereavement Pay	19
Leaves of Absence	19
Leaves of Absence- Full Time Union Position	20
Leave of Absence- Electionto PublicOffice	20
ARTICLE X Section 10.01 Section 10.02 Section 10.03
HEALTH AND WELFARE Group Insurance Pension Parental Leave
20
20
20
20
ARTICLE XI Section 11.01 Section 11.02 Section 11.03 Section 11.04 Section 11.05 Section 11.06 Section 11.07 Section 11.08 Section 11.09 Section 11.10
MISCELLANEOUS	21
Non-Discrimination	21
SupervisorsWorking	21
Rest Periods	21
Subcontracting	21
Union Representation	21
Reporting Requirements- Absences and/or Lateness 22 Safety	22
Reinstatement Requirements Following Sickness or Injury 22 GuaranteedWeek	22
Safety Shoes	23
•2-
ARTICLE XII
Section 12.01
ARTICLE XIII Section 13.01 Section 13.02 Section 13.03 Section 13.04
Paoe
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS No Strikes or Lockouts
SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT
Term of Agreement
Severability
Entire Agreement
Official Text
•3-
CO CO CO CO ^
C\J CM CM CM CM CM CM
LABOUR AGREEMENT
Montreal- Notre Dame
Between
ADMAGRI INDUSTRIESLTD.
Montreal, Quebec
And
LESYNDICAT NATIONALDES EMPLOYES DE LES MOULINS MAPLE LEAF (DE L’EST) LTEE (CSN)
TERM: MAY 1sl. 2007 TO APRIL30- 2010	Page
ARTICLE I.	RECOGNITION 1
ARTICLE II.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 2
ARTICLE III.	GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 3
ARTICLE IV.	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY 5
ARTICLE V.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME a
ARTICLE VI.	SENIORITY AND FILLINGVACANCIES 11
ARTICLE VII.	HOLIDAYS 15
ARTICLE VIII.	VACATION 17
ARTICLE IX.	Tl M E OFF FROM WORK 19
ARTICLE X.	HEALTHAND WELFARE 20
ARTICLE XI.	MISCELLANEOUS 21
ARTICLE XII.	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS 23
ARTICLE XIII.	SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT 23
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 1st day of May 2007 by and between ADM AGRI-INDUSTRIES LTD., (hereinafterthe "Company") and the SYNDICAT NATIONAL DES EMPLOYES DE LES MOULINS MAPLE LEAFS (DE L’EST) LTEE (CSN), (hereinafterthe "Union").
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for the orderly labour relations between the Company and employees belonging to the bargaining unit as set forth below. In consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I.	RECOGNITION
Section 1.01	Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the employees included in the unit described in the accreditation certificate granted December 13, 1993 by the Canada Industrial Relations Board. The only employees governed by this Agreement are those at the 3800 East Notre-Dame location, and excludes the shipper, head bagger, head of maintenance, plant manager, head miller, director of laboratory quality inspection, office and sales staff and other employees not subject to this Agreement.
Section 1.02	UnionMembershin and Dues
A - Any employee who is a member in good standing of the Union on the execution date hereof, or who subsequently becomes a member in good standing, must as a condition of maintaining his employment, remain a member of the Union throughout the term of this Labour Agreement.
1.	Within seven (7) days of the hiring of a new employee, the Company must give the Union the first and last name of the new employee, his status, his social security number, and the date he was hired. When a new employee has completed his trial period, the Company must confirm it in writing to the employee, and send a copy of such confirmation to the Union.
B - Notwithstanding paragraph A above, the Company shall not be required to terminate the employment of an employee who is expulsed from or suspended as member of the Union.
C - Any employee covered by the accreditation certificate above must, as a condition of employment, whether or not he is a member of the Union, pay the Union dues and, to this end, the employee must sign and remit to the Company a written authorization to deduct Union dues.
•1
D ~ The Employer shall deduct the Union membership dues and initiation fees (but may not apply any other deductions) from the employees' earnings on each pay. There shall be no accumulation of deductions from month to month, and the said deductions shall not be applied retroactively for a past month. The Employer shall promptly remit any amounts thus deducted to the Treasurer of the Union on the second (2nd) week of each month. At the time of payment to the local Union, the Employer shall indicate the names of employees for whom deductions were applied at source, the amount remitted and the cumulative amount for each employee, the salary he earned over the previous month and the number of dues-paying employees.
E - The Union agrees to indemnify the Company for all demands, claims or actions for any debt, interest and cost which one or a group of employees could take against the Company following an action or omission on the part of the Company with respect to the provisions of this Article. The Union shall be solely responsible for the use made of Union dues once they have been remittedto the designated representative.
F - The Company agrees to enter the total amount of Union dues that were deducted at source during the calendar year on each employee's T4 and TP4 statements. The Company shall make every reasonable effort to give employees their T4 and TP4 statements before February 24 of each year.
ARTICLE II.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 2.01	Management Rinhts
A - The Company retains all rights not explicitly limited by the specific terms of this Labour Agreement. These rights include, but are not limited to, the right to manage the plant and direct the workforce; to maintain order; to plan, direct and control plant operations; to determine the means, methods, processes and schedules; to determine the products to be manufactured or processed; to determine the location of its plants; to determine the continuance of its operating departments; to transfer work temporarily or permanently between plants; to close the plant or any portion thereof permanently throughout the term of this Labour Agreement; to decide on "make" or "buy" decisions; to determine work schedules and hours, including overtime; to make and enforce reasonable plant rules and regulations; to make and enforce safety rules; to hire or rehire employees; to assign employees to work and designate the duties of the employees; to change, modify, eliminate or reassign job duties; to contract out work, including, but not limited to, maintenance, construction and cleanup work, or to have such work performed by other Company personnel; to determine the number of shifts; to promote or transfer employees from one job to another; to demote, discipline, suspend or discharge employees for just cause; to lay off or recall employees; to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or any other legitimate reason; to set the wage rates for newly created jobs; and to make any decisions which, in the opinion of management, the efficient operation of the plant requires.
The Company agrees that it shall not exercise its rights in a manner inconsistent with the specific provisions of this Agreement, and any alleged violation hereof shall be subject to the grievance procedure. It is understood that the express provisions of this Agreement constitute the only limitations upon the Company's rights.
-2-
No provision of this Article shall be interpreted as restricting the meaning of the other Articles of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES ARBITRATION
Section 3.01	Grievance Procedure
A “grievance” means any disagreement as regards the interpretation or implementation of this Labour Agreement, including any disciplinary actions.
Section 3.02	Step 1
The grievant and department steward are encouraged to discuss the grievance with their immediate supervisor.
Step 2
The grievant or the Union shall submit their grievance in writing to his immediate supervisor within ten (10) days following the incident giving rise to the grievance or the moment he becomes aware of the facts. The plant manager or his designated representative and a Union representative shall meet to attempt to resolve the grievance; a CNTU representative may also participate.
The Company shall reply within ten (10) working days.
Section 3.03
If the grievance is not settled within ten (10) working days of its filing, it may be referred to arbitration. If the grievance is not referred to arbitration within three (3) months of the date of filing, it shall be abandoned.
Section 3.04
In each of the above procedures, the grievant may be accompanied by a member of the executive committee.
Section 3.05	Collective Grievance
The Union Committee may file a collective grievance to deal with any complaint pertainingto the application of this Agreement and pertaining to the working conditions of the employees in general or a majority of the employees of a department, or to the rate of payment of wages of the employees in general or a majority of the employees of a department. A collective grievance, thus recognized by the parties to this Agreement, may be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, as the case may be.
■3-
Section 3.06	Deadlines and Technical Errors
No grievance shall be set aside due to a technical error, but the deadlines set out in this Article are of the essence. The plant director and a representative of the executive committee may mutually agree in writing to extend any deadline.
Section 3.07	Arbitration
The parties agree that grievances referred to arbitration shall be heard by a single arbitrator whose decisions shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees at issue.
Section 3.08
When a grievance is referred to arbitration, the parties shall try to agree on the choice of an arbitrator.
Section 3.09
If the parties cannot agree on the choice of the arbitrator and there is no previous agreement in this respect, the Minister of Labour shall appoint one.
Section 3.10
In any disciplinary matter or in the case of dismissals, the arbitrator shall be free to hand down any decision he may deem fair under the circumstances, although he shall not have the power to amend, modify or add to this Labour Agreement in any manner whatsoever.
Section 3.11
In the event of arbitration, each party shall pay an equal share of the
costs of the arbitrator.
Section 3.12
Unless the parties should mutually agree otherwise, no grievance may be referred to arbitration until all steps of the grievance procedure have been taken.
Section 3.13
The Company shall give the employee and Union president written notice of any disciplinary measures and dismissals.
-4-
Section 3.14	Expiration of Disciplinary Actions
Any disciplinary action shall be deleted from the employee's record after a period of eighteen (18) months after the disciplinary action, provided that the employee has not been the object of another disciplinary action of the same nature during this period of time.
ARTICLE IV.	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section 4.01	Job Classifications And Rates Of Pay
The following hourly rates shall apply throughout the term of this
Agreement:
Classification		May 1,2007	May 1,2008 I May 1,2009	
				
Plant				
Miller- Class 1		$23.03	$23.61	$24.20
Miller- Class 2		$21.59	$22.13	$22.68
Quality Inspector - Finished Product		$22.32	$22.88	$23.45
Jack of All Trades		$19.89	$20.39	$20.90
Wheat Attendant		$21.49	$22.03	$22.58
				
Maintenance				
Electrician		$24.71	$25.33	$25.96
Millwright		$24.71	$25.33	$25.96
				
Laboratory				
Technician (less than one year)		$17.25	$17.68	$18.12
Technician (more than one year)		$20.65	$21.17	$21.70
NOTES APPLICABLE TO JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Employees in any job classification shall perform any jobs or duties to which they may be assigned. Each "job classification" may include a wide variety of different jobs, tasks and duties, some of which may cross job classification lines. Maintenance, housekeepingand lubrication duties may be required of any employee. Employees who either perform maintenance duties or assist in performing maintenance duties shall be paid at the rate of their own regular job classification. The Company shall have no obligation under this Labour Agreement to establish a light duty job or classification.
2.	There are no minimum crew or job manning requirements. The Company has the sole right to determine the number of employees in any job classification as well as the right to determine crew size in the plant or any portion thereof, provided the
Company does not violate the Canada Labour Code. Classified jobs may be filled, vacated or permanentlydiscontinued at the Company's discretion.
3.	If employees within the bargaining unit do not possess the necessary skills to fill a vacancy, the Company may fill such vacancy by hiring from outside.
4.	Temporary employees shall not be entitled to Company benefit plans, seniority, recall rights, or any other provisions of this Agreement.
5.	New laboratory technicians must have a diploma of collegial studies in chemistry or food sciences.
Section 4.02	Shift Differentials
A - 2nd or 3rd Shifts - A shift differential shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on either the 2nd or 3rd shift. The 2nd shift differential shall be $0.90 per hour. The 3rd shift differential shall be $1.20 per hour.
Note 1A: If an employee is scheduled on a 2nd or 3rd shift and is involved in a continuous work period requiring him to work on more than one shift, then the shift on which he has been originally scheduled establishes the shift differential, if any, for all hours worked during the continuous work period. An employee who is scheduled on the day or 1st shift does not qualify for shift differential pay even though he works on the 2nd or 3rd shifts. Shift differentials shall not apply to call-ins or call-backs unless such an assignment continues on into the employee's regularly scheduled 2nd or 3rd shift. If an employee is on a regular schedule which requires him to overlap two (2) shifts, then the shift on which he is scheduledthe greatest number of hours determines the shift differential, if any. Should he be scheduled an equal number of hours on two (2) shifts, then the higher shift differential shall apply.
B - Rotating Shifts - A shift differential shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on a rotating shift. Such shift differential shall be $0.95 per hour.
Note 1B:	No Shift differential shall be added to an employee's base rate for
purposes of computing overtime, or for any unworked hours for which the employee is paid, such as holidays, jury duty, and funeral leave.
Section 4.03	Rates of Pay - Temporary Transfers
A - If an employee is temporarily transferred for Company convenience to a lower-rated job classification, he shall continue to receive the rate of pay for his regularjob classification.
If an employee is temporarily transferred by the Company to a higher-ratedj ob classification, he shall receive the higher rate of pay. This provision applies only when the employee is specifically assigned to fill a temporary vacancy created by the absence of an employee from work. It does not apply to employees who may relieve others
-6-
for breaks or who may be supplementing the workforce performing various tasks or jobs performed by employees in other job classifications.
Section 4.04	Permanent T ransfers
An employee who is permanently transferred to a lower-rated job classificationshall receive the lower rate at the time he begins work in the lower-rated job. If he is permanently transferred to a higher-rated job classification, he shall receive the rate of the higher-rated job.
Section 4.05	Temporary Employees
Temporary employees may be hired as determined by the Company to temporarily supplement the workforce. Such employees shall not be entitled to benefits under this Labour Agreement nor shall the provisions of this Labour Agreement apply to them. Such temporary employees shall not accrue seniority as a result of such temporary employment. Temporary employees are not considered probationary employees, even if the temporary assignment exceeds the probationary period.
Temporary employees shall be paid the rate applicable to the employment if they are competent and replace a regular employee. Other temporary employees shall receive $3.00 per hour less than the applicable rate outlined in Section 4.01.
The Company shall first offer any temporary assignment to its laid-off regular employees before offering such positions to temporary employees.
Temporary employees may be assigned without time limit for vacation replacements and for illness or accident replacements. Temporary employees hired may work no more than 160 days per calendar, following which they shall obtain the status of regular employees, and their seniority date shall correspond to their hiring date as temporary employees.
Section 4.06	Creation of a New Job Classification
A- If the Employer creates a new job classification, it shall post and determine a wage rate for the said classification; if the Union so requests, it shall, within 120 days of the creation of the classification, negotiate a permanent rate with the Union for the said classification.
The negotiated rate shall be retroactive to the date of creation of the job. If no agreement can be reached, there shall be no arbitration to fix the rate. In such a case, rate negotiations shall be postponed until the Labour Agreement is renewed, and the provisions concerning retroactivity shall apply as provided for in this Section.
•7-
Section 4.07	Technological Changes
A - Three (3) months in advance, earlier if possible, the Company shall provide all information relating to any technical or technological improvement, or to any other change whatsoever in the structure of its administrative system directly linked to the bargaining unit should said improvement or change result in employees being laid off. The Union shall cooperate fully with the Company in all of its requests for assistance before all levels of government.
B - The affected employees shall receive the appropriate training in order for them to adapt to such changes. If the employee cannot meet the basic requirements of the said training or if he fails said training, he may exercise his seniority rights hereunder.
ARTICLE V.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.01	Intent and No Pyramiding
This Article sets forth the normal hours of work and provides a basis for computing overtime and premium pay; it shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on overtime hours or on hours of work per day or per week, nor shall anything in this Agreement be so construed as to permit the pyramiding or duplicating of overtime or premium payments. Hours for which overtime or premium payments are made shall not be used to compute overtime or premium pay for any other hours. Whenever more than one premium could be applied to the same hours, only the larger shall be paid.
Section 5.02	Workday and Workweek
The workday is a 24-hour period running from 7 AM one day to 7 AM the following day. The workweek begins at 7 AM Monday and ends at 7 AM the following Monday. The workday and workweek may be different for some individuals or shifts in the interest of efficient or less costly operations.
Section 5.03	Starting Times. Shifts and Schedules
A - The Company may vary shift schedules, starting times and quitting times for different areas or operations of the mill or for individual employees. Prior notice of seven (7) calendar days shall be given should work hours for an entire department or shift be changed, and any such shift or department change shall remain in effect for fourteen (14) calendar days.
B - A normal workweek shall contain five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours, scheduled Monday through Sunday. However, the Company may vary or change the number of hours scheduled, the number of shifts scheduled, the manpower requirements of the various shifts and the scheduling of workdays and hours for business reasons or efficient operations. Employees may be scheduled to eat on-the-job or have a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period. Any area of the mill or portion of the employees may be scheduled in more than one way.
•8-
C - Employees scheduled in operations with job classifications requiring two (2) or more shifts shall rotate shifts. The Company may, at its discretion, either establish or discontinue shifts fixed for any employee or employees.
D -The work schedule of employees working twelve (12) hour shifts
is set out in Schedule A.
Section 5.04	Daily and Weekly Overtime Pav
All hours worked in excess of forty (40) straight-time hours in any one workweek or eight (8) straight-time hours in any one workday shall be compensated at 1 1/2 times the employee's straight-time hourly rate.
Note 1 :An employee who works continuously beyond his regularly scheduled shift and continues working into the next day, or his scheduled day off, or into a new workweek, shall receive 1 1/2 times his straight-time hourly rate (or double time if applicable) for such hours he works beyond the start of a new day. Such hours shall not be used to create overtime or premium payments during the employee's regular scheduled shift.
Note 2:To satisfy the requirement of forty (40) straight-time hours, the following unworked hours shall count as straight-time hours of work up to eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week for days the employee was scheduled to work: (1) a worked or unworked holiday for which the employee is paid, provided it falls on the employee's scheduled straight-time day of work, or (2) a paid absence resulting from either bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time, or (3) eight (8) hours per day for Union Committee members who are preauthorized by the Company to leave for union activities.
Section 5.05	7th Consecutive Day of Work Premium
During periods when the mill is scheduled on a 1-, 2- or 3-shift operation (or any combination thereof), an employee shall be paid twice his regular rate of pay for work performed on his 7th consecutive day of work in the workweek, provided he has worked forty (40) straight-time hours during the workweek.
Section 5.06	Call-In Indemnity
An employee who is called in for emergency or overtime work on his scheduled day off or called back after he has finished his shift and left the plant and premises shall be paid the rate of the job he is assigned for such unscheduled hours worked or four (4) hours' pay at his straight-time hourly rate, whichever is greater. An employee called back or called in to start in advance of his regular starting time and who continues to work on into his scheduled shift, shall not qualify for the four (4) hour guarantee provided for in this Section.
-9-
Section 5.07	Call-in Pay
An employee who comes to work as normally scheduled shall be entitled to at least four (4) hours of wages at his applicable hourly rate.
Section 5.08	Distribution of Overtime
Employees shall be required to perform necessary overtime assignments. Daily and weekly overtime shall be performed by qualified, active employees who are working in the appropriatejob classification. Such employees shall be assigned to daily and weekly overtime based on the principle of the man-on-the-job with the most seniority, except for work where the continuity of operations is essential. If active employees in the job classificationare not available, the Company may, subject to qualifications, offer the overtime to any qualified employee in accordance with seniority standing, offering the work first to employees on the job. When necessary, the employee with the least seniority who is available and qualifiedmust work overtime.
Note 1: The expression “man-on-the-job” means any employee who is currently performing a specific task or job. If more than one man-on-the-job is involved, then the employee who is performingthe specific task shall be offered the overtime. If the employee performing the task declines the overtime, it shall be offered to employees in the same classification who are qualified to perform the work.
Note 2: Employeeswhosejobs are in operations may not turn down overtime in their own jobs in order to work overtime in another job.
If the overtime is less than a full shift, the overtime shall be offered to the employee working on the job, or the shift immediately following the overtime opportunity. Overtime assignments for absent employees shall be filled by assigning the employee in the same position on the previous shift to work the first four (4) hours of the absent employee's shift. If arrangements cannot be made to assign another employee the last four (4) hours of the shift, the employee having worked the first four (4) hour overtime assignment shall be required to work the remaining four (4) hour assignment.
Maintenance employees assigned to jobs that must be completed following a breakdown or for production needs shall remain on the job until notified otherwise by the Company.
If overtime (including call-ins) is not properly assigned, an employee so affected shall have the opportunity to make up such missed overtime as soon as is practicalwithin a period of thirty (30) calendar days at any time the Company and the employee may mutually agree upon. If no work that normally comes under the bargaining unit is available, the Company can, within the same period, offer other work that can reasonably be accomplishedby the employee.
10-
ARTICLE VI
SENIORITY AND FILLING VACANCIES
Section 6.01	Seniority
A - Seniority shall be considered as plant seniority and shall be defined as the duration of a regular employee's continuous service for the Company within the bargaining unit as described in Section 1.01 - Recognition, since his last hiring date. The seniority date of the employee shall be determined in accordance with Section 6.03 -Probationary Employees.
B - Seniority of employees hired at the same date shall be determined by family name, in alphabetical order.
Note: An up-to-date seniority list shall be posted every six (6) months, and the Union shall receive a copy.
Section 6.02	Considerationof Qualifications
The application of the seniority provisions hereof shall be subject to factors allowing to determine whether the employee is qualified to perform the work required. If the employee is not so qualified, the applicable seniority provisions shall not apply.
Note: It is understoodthat an employee who is applying for a permanentjob or who is permanently transferred to a new or different job shall have a trial/training period appropriate to such job.
Section 6.03	Probationary Employees
All new employees or employees rehired after a break in continuous service shall be hired as probationary for the first ninety (90) calendar days of continuous employment, after which time the employee shall be placed on the seniority list dating back to his latest date of hire. If an employee is inactive for 7 or more consecutive days, the probationary period will be extended by a like number of days beginning with the first day of absence. A probationary employee shall not have seniority rights and the discharge of such employee shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
Section 6.04	Fiilinn Permanent Vacancies
A - Permanent vacancies in job classifications (except Miller=class 1 and laboratory technician) which the Company determines are necessary to fill shall be posted for five (5) consecutive days. The position shall be awarded to the most senior, qualified employee who bids for the vacancy.
B - Permanent vacancies in the Miller class 1, Quality inspector -finished products, and laboratory technician classifications which the Company may determine are necessary to fill shall be posted to determine who is interested in being assigned the position and who holds the required qualifications. Such positions may be
-11-
filled by hiring from the outside. Seniority shall prevail, provided that the employee possesses the necessary skills and qualifications to meet the normal requirements to carry out the work, and the final decision shall rest solely with the Company.
C - Trial Period - An employee permanently assigned a differentjob classificationshall have a trial/training period appropriateto such job. If afterthe trial period, the employee is qualified and capable of performing the job, he shall be assigned to the job. If however, the employee is deemed unqualified and incapable of performing the job, he shall be transferred to his previous position.
Section Note: For maintenance positions, see Section 6.05 - Filling Permanent Vacancies (Maintenance).
Section 6.05	Filling Permanent Vacancies (Maintenance^
A - Entry into the maintenance job classification shall be at the discretion of the Company, which may either hire from outside or assign an employee to receive on-the-job training. The following criteria, among others, may be used to select an employee for these job classifications.
1.	Results from a Company-designed battery of tests measuring aptitudes, interests and other skills and characteristics specific to maintenance.
Physical ability to perform all types of plant maintenance work.
The will and ability to work at high elevations.
4.	The will and ability to work overtime continually and to accept emergency call-in or call-back work, subject to applicable law.
5.	The will and ability to take formal trade school courses as selected by management and to take such courses on a continuing basis during the training period.
6.	Must have shown good job proficiency, had a good attendance record and beena productive employee in previous jobs performed in the plant.
7.
B - An employee in training must advance through 2 training grades and into the Maintenance classification or be demoted. Time spent in each training grade shall be determined as follows:
Training Grade2- 13-24 months
Training Grade 1 -12 months
C - An employee with obvious skills may be advanced at a faster rate. Advancement through the training grades shall be based on management's judgment of the employee's skills and job performance. An employee whose progress to the maintenance classification is unsatisfactory may be kept in any grade for longer than the above-listed time, or he may be disqualified. An employee who is disqualified may, if possible, return to his previousjob classification.
D - An employee in training shall be required to take formal trade school courses applicable to the plant work. Such courses must be approved by management prior to enrolment. The Company shall pay for tuition, books and supplies, but not for time spent in such courses.
-12-
E- The training programshall not prevent the Company from hiring qualifiedemployees from outside.
■Note: The Company shall post a notice when a vacancy is to be filled through the testing program. An employee may indicate his interest by signing the notice. The Company may test all or any portionof those desiring to be tested.
Section 6.06	Filling Temporary Vacancies
When filling temporary vacancies, the Employer shall normally fill the vacancy with the most senior qualified employee available in the next lower classification within the department.
Section 6.07	Layoffs
A - In case of layoff, the employee subject to layoff may exercise his seniority rights throughout the plant, provided that in each case he bumps an employee with less seniority and can fulfill the normal requirementsof the position.
B - When an employee bumps an employee with less seniority in another department to avoid layoff, he shall return to his former department if, over the 12 months, the position he occupied is reinstated.
C - To bump an employee with less seniority in a key position, an employee must be able to perform this position without additional training after the necessary period of re-familiarization depending on the circumstances, except for the laboratory technician, millwright and electrician positions.
Section 6.08	Recalls
In the case of recalls, seniority applies provided that the employee can meet the normal requirementsof the vacant job.
Section 6.09	Loss of Seniority
An employee shall lose his seniority rights and employment, and his name shall be removed from the Company seniority list for any of the following reasons, namely should the employee:
1.	voluntarily quit or resign his employment or retire;
2.	be absent from work for three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays without good cause or fail to notify the Company of his absence;
3.	fail to reportto work at the expiration of an unpaid leave of absence without having obtained an extension of his leave of absence for a definite period of time from the Company;
13-
4.	failto report for work after a recallfrom layoff, not notify the Company within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of the registered letter or telegram that he is intending to return to work, and not return to work within three (3) calendar days after receipt of the registered letter or telegram at his last known address left with the Company;
5.	be dismissed, and such dismissal not be reversed under the grievance and arbitration procedure;
6.	with the exception of those off work due to an occupational disease or industrial accident, have been on layoff or off work for any other reason for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
Section 6.10	Demotions
If an employee who has satisfactorily completed his trial period is unable at a later date to perform the specific tasks of the job he holds, he shall be transferred to the entry-level job classification, provided he has sufficient plant seniority and is qualified to perform the work. In the case of a demotion from an entry-level classification, such demotion shall result in termination.
Note- An employee may not voluntarily give up his job or disqualify himself.
Section 6.11	Retention of Seniority
An employee who is transferred outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority in the bargaining unit for a period of four (4) months as of the date of transfer. When, during this period, the employee wishes to return to the bargaining unit or when the Company does not wish to keep the employee in his new duties, the employee may return to the bargaining unit and enjoy his full rights and benefits.
Section 6.12	Severance Pay
When it becomes necessary to close a department or a substantial part of the department and it is not anticipated that the affected employees will be rehired, severance pay shall be paid to those employees subject to the following conditions:
1.	They have six (6) months or more of seniority.
2.	They are actively in the service of the Employer, or were laid off during the 30 days preceding the notice of closure. Employees on sick leave or on workers' compensation are also eligible.
3.	They have opted for a retirement pension, if eligible.
4.	They have not opted for the bumping provisions available in this Agreement.
-14-
5.	The closure is not caused by war, strike, slowdown or other work suspension, fire, government act or act of God (superior force).
6.	To qualify for severance pay, employees shall continue to perform satisfactorily, as long as required.
7.	An employee shall have the option, at the time of layoff, to receive his severance pay immediately, on condition that his name is removed from the recall list.
8.	An employee who receives his severance pay six (6) months after his layoff, if he is recalled after having received his severance pay, shall return without seniority for the purposes of calculating subsequent severance pay.
9.	Severance pay shall be calculated as follows:
Employees who have between six (6) and twelve (12) months of
service shall receive 1/12, per completed month of service, of one hundred and fifty dollars
($150.00).
Employees who have at least one (1) year but less than twenty (20) completed years of service shall be entitled to forty (40) hours of pay per completed year of service, at their regular base rate of pay.
Employees who have more than twenty (20) completed years of service shall be entitled to eighty (80) hours of pay per completed year of service at their regular base rate of pay for any year in excess of twenty (20) years.
10.	These provisions shall remain in effect throughout the entire term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII.	HOLIDAYS
Section 7.01	Leoal Holidays
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following thirteen (13) days shall be recognized as legal holidays during the calendar year:
New Year's Day
Day after New Year's Day
Heritage Day (2nd Monday of February)
Good Friday
May 1
Victoria Day
St. Jean Baptiste Day
Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
These holidays shall be observed on the prescribed day, except as follows: A holiday falling on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. A holiday falling on a Saturday shall be observed on the preceding Friday.
Should it be necessary to operate on a legal holiday, the Employer agrees to schedule the minimum number of employees required for the operation of the plant.
Section 7.02	Pay for Holidays Worked
When an employee works on a holiday, he shall receive 1 1/2 times his straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked, plus eight (8) hours' holiday pay.
Section 7.03	Pay for Holidays Not Worked
A - An employee who is not requiredto work on a legal holidayshall be paid holiday pay for that holiday equivalent to eight (8) hours at his regular straight-time hourly rate, provided he meets all of the following requirements:
1.	He has earned wages for 120 worked hours during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the legal holiday.
2.	Such employees who were unable to work 120 hours during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the legal holiday shall receive 1/20 of the wages earned during the 30 calendardays immediately precedingthe legal holiday.
Note 1A: Unworked holiday pay for which the employee is eligible shall be offset by any other pay or other form of Company compensation which the employee may receive for the same day.
If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to work as scheduled without a cause acceptable to the Company, he shall not qualify for holiday pay as provided in paragraph A of this Section.
C - To satisfy the requirement of 120 hours worked, the following unworked hours shall count as straight-time hours of work: (1) a paid absence attributable either to bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time, or (2)eight (8) hours per day for Union Committee members who miss work as a result of attending contract negotiation meetings with the Company or (3) eight (8) hours per day for employees on workers' compensation.
Section 7.04	Legal Holidays Considered as Time Worked
Only legal holidays for which the employee is eligible to receive holiday pay, and which fall on the employee's scheduled day of work, whether worked or not worked, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computingovertime pay.
Section 7.05	Replacement
In the event of a legal holiday, an employee who is scheduled to work may, after agreement with the Employer, find a replacement who meets the normal requirements of the job to work on this holiday.
16-
ARTICLE VIII.	VACATION
Section 8.01
A - Vacation shall be earned on January 1st, each year, be taken between May T'and April 30 and be based on the completed years of continuousservice by the employee as of May 1sl, according to the following schedule:
Years of
Continuous Service
Week of
Vacation Time	Vacation Pay
Lessthan 1
1 through 4 5 through 9 10 through 16 17 through 24 25 and more
One day for each month of service, up to a maximum of ten (10) days	4%
2 weeks	4%
3 weeks	6%
4 weeks	8%
5 weeks	10%
6 weeks	12%
B - For each week of vacation, the employee has the option between an amount equal to 2% of his gains during the last twelve (12) months preceding January 1st of the current year, and an amount equal to forty (40) hours at his regular hourly rate in effect on May 1” of the year underway.
C - An employee shall be eligible for the additional week of vacation or vacation pay, when he has worked past his 5lh, 10th, 17th and 25lh anniversary date of continuousservice.
D - The amount of vacation time off shall be reduced by 1/52 for each forty (40) straight-time hours of absence for any reason (except personal illness, up to thirty (30) days annually) during the previous calendar year. In the application of this provision, an employee with one (1) through four (4) years of continuous service shall not have his vacation time reduced to less than two (2) weeks: employees with five (5) through nine (9) years of continuous service shall not have their vacation time reduced to less than three (3) weeks; and so on.
E - Vacation pay shall be paid at the time the employee takes his vacation, providedthe Company is given seven (7) days prior notice.
Section Note: Time missed from work due to an industrial accident shall not be deducted when calculating vacation pay.
Section 8.02	Vacation Pay for Inactive Employees
On or after May 1, an employee who is inactive due to illness, accident, leave of absence, layoff, or for any other reason and who has not taken his earned vacation (that vacation to which he became eligible on May 1) may request pay in lieu of such unused earned vacation. Such employee shall not be considered to be on vacation because he receivedvacation pay, nor shall he be granted vacation time at a later date.
-17-
Section 8.03	Vacation Pay for Terminated Employees
An employee who leaves the employ of the Company for any reason shall receive vacation pay as follows:
1.	Earned Vacation - Earned vacation means a vacation for which the employee became eligible on the May1 date prior to his termination, and such unused earned vacation shall be paid to him upon his termination of employment.
2.	Prorated Vacation - Prorated vacation for an employee whose employment terminates for any reason shall be calculated from May 1 to his last day of work within the vacation period of one year.
Section 8.04	Scheduling of Vacation Time
A - The choice of vacation time shall be granted based on seniority of those employees who sign the vacation schedule between January 1st and March 31 , subject to the operational requirements of the business. After March31sl, vacation time shall be scheduled on a "first-come, first-served" basis, subject to the operational requirements of the business. A maximum of three (3) weeks of vacation may be granted during the summer period, from May 1st to September 1sl.
B - Vacation time may be taken in weekly increments of one or more weeks at a time. Vacation time cannot be postponed and allowed to accumulate from year to year, but must be taken each calendar year.
C - The Company shall transmit to the Union a copy of the final vacation list as established on March 31 of each year.
Section 8.05	Pay in Lieu of Vacation
Pay in lieu of vacation for earned vacation in excess of two (2) weeks per calendar year, or any portion thereof, may be granted to an individual employee at his option. Holiday pay shall not be added to vacation time paid for under this Section.
Section Note: If a legal holiday falls within the week for which an employee takes pay in lieu of vacation, vacation pay shall be allowed if the employee meets the requirementsof Article VII - Holidays.
Section 8.06	Holiday Pay during Vacations
When a legal holiday specified in Section7.01 of the Collective Agreement falls during the annual vacation period, employees may choose to be paid for this legal holiday or take one (1) additional day of vacation. In the latter case, the additional day or days shall be taken from the work days scheduled immediately before or after the vacation period. The Company shall agree with the employee on the moment this day can be taken.
-18-
Section 8.07	Rehired Employees
Employees who have lost their seniority and are later rehired shall be entitled to vacation time computed on the basis of their latest employment date.
ARTICLE IX.	TIME OFF FROM WORK
Section 9.01	Jury Duty and Crown Witness
A - Employees who are summonsed for jury duty shall receive the difference between their basic hourly pay rate for their regular work hours and the amount paid by the Court. This provision also applies to employees who are summonsed by the Court as a Crown witness.
The employee shall furnish evidence to the Company that he reported for or performedjury duty or appeared as a witness on the days for which he claims payment.
C - The employee shall be required to report for work on days or part days when he is not required on jury duty or as a witness in a court of law.
Section 9.02	Bereavement Pay
A - Should a death occur in the immediate family of an employee, he may request funeral leave, provided he attends the burial or the cremation or the funeral. "Immediate family" shall mean spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchildren, grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law and child of the spouse.
B - The employee shall be granted such time off with pay up to a maximum of three (3)days to attend the burial or the cremation or the funeral. A maximum of five (5) days shall be granted for the death of the employee's spouse or child or spouse's child. This shall not include pay for days on which the employee is not scheduled to work. Bereavement pay shall not exceed a maximum of eight (8) straight-time hours per day.
Section 9.03	Leaves of Absence
Leaves of absence of up to thirty (30) calendar days, without pay and without loss of seniority, may be granted (except for gainful employment elsewhere) by the plant manager.
Note: The conditions of all leaves of absence shall be in writing, and copies thereof must be submitted to the Company and the Union. Violation of the conditions of leave of absence by an employee shall be just cause for dismissal.
19-
Section 9.04	Leaves of Absence - Full-Time Union Position
A member of the Union Committee or an authorized representative chosen by the Union may be granted an unpaid leave of absence to attend to Union business. The request for such leave must be presented to the Company at least one (1) week prior to the effective date of the leave. The maximum leave per calendar year shall be two (2) weeks, depending on the operational needs of the Company.
Section 9.05	Leave of Absence - Electionto Public Office
A - Employees who hold an elected office at the municipal, provincialor federal level shall be entitled to an unpaid leave of absence for a period equal to their first term in office. The Company shall not be required to honour any fringe benefit for employees in such a situation, nor shall it be compelled to make any other payment required under the Labour Agreement.
The employee shall give the Company at least one (1) month's notice should he wish to return to work at the end of an unpaid leave of absence. Provided the employee has seniority and is able to perform the work required of him satisfactorily, the Company shall reinstate him in the job he held immediately prior to the unpaid leave of absence, or in a job that pays an equal hourly rate, if one is available.
C - An employee who is reinstated after an unpaid leave of absence shall keep the same seniority he had prior to taking such leave.
ARTICLE X.	HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 10.01	Group Insurance
The group insurance program in effect on the effective date of this Agreement is a separate document and shall continue in effect during the term of this Labour Agreement. Premiums and benefits shall remain unchanged.
Section 10.02	Pension
The pension plan for bargaining unit employees at the Montreal plant is a separate document whose term shall run concurrently with the term of this Agreement.
Section 10.03	Parental Leave
A - Unpaid parental leave without loss of seniority shall be granted and managed in accordance with the Canada Labour code.
B - An employee who returns to work after a parental leave shall give the Employer no less than two (2) months' notice.
-20-
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 11.01	Non-Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion on the part of the Company or any of its representatives, with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union. Proficiency in English is not a job requirement.
Section 11.02	Supervisors Workino
There shall be no restriction on supervisors or other Company personnel performing any type or amount of work at any time, provided this does not result in a layoff or delay a call-back.
Section 11.03	Rest Periods
The Company shall grant employees two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each in addition to their regular lunch period during the course of each shift. Their rest periods shall be taken at a time determined by the foreman of each department and shift.
Section 11.04	Subcontracting
Although the Company prefers to use its own employees to carry out work in its establishment, it retains the right to subcontract work when required to meet its business needs. Whenever possible, the Company shall notify the Union of its subcontracting projects. Without limiting its right to subcontract, the Company shall make every reasonable effort to avoid subcontracting work normally carried out by the employees of a bargaining unit that would result in a layoff or delay the call-back of laid off employees.
Section 11. ns	Union Representation
A - The Union shall create a Labour Relations Committee comprised of three (3) members who work at the plant. The Labour RelationsCommittee shall process grievances as specified in the Agreement, without loss c pay, and shall participate in the negotiations of the Labour Agreement. All regularly scheduled hours that are spent on negotiations shall be paid until a conciliation report is filed.
A representative cf the Labour Relations Committee shall not leave his job to conduct Union business without the permission cf his supervisor. Before contacting any other employee to conduct Union business, he shall first obtain permission from that employee's supervisor.
C - The Union advisor or his representative may be present and participate in any meetings between the Labour Relations Committee and the Company.
-21
The time spent for meeting with the Company during regular working hours shall be paid at regular rate.
D- Bulletin Board
The Employer agrees to make a bulletin board available to the Union for the purposes of posting notices of Union meetings, Union recreational or social activities, and the Union election notices, nomination and election results. Any other notice, regardless of whether it pertains to Union activities, shall be submitted to the Employer for approval before posting.
Section 11.06	Reporting Requirements - Absences and/or Lateness
In the event an employee is unable to report for work as scheduled, he shall be required to notify the Company of this fact by phone or some other reasonable method prior to the start of his shift. This notification shall also include the employee's reason(s) for his failure to report to work, as well as state the time of his anticipated return. Continued failure on the part of the employee to comply with this requirement shall subject that employee to disciplinary action.
Section 11.07	Safety
The Company shall make provisions in accordance with the Canada Labour Code and its regulations for the health and safety of its employees. Such health and safety rules, regulations, guidelines, operating policies and procedures shall be strictly adhered to, including the wearing or use of personal protective equipment, working apparel and other safety equipment required by the Company.
Section 11.08	ReinstatementReauirements Following Sickness or Injury
An employee's reinstatement following sickness or injury shall be conditional on his supplying, on request, a certificate from the Employer's physician stating that he is fully recovered. Where there is a disagreement between the medical diagnosis of the Employer's physician and the employee's physician, the employee and Employer shall be bound by the certificate obtained from a third physician, to be chosen by mutual agreement between the employee's physician and the Employer's physician. The cost of the certificate obtained from the Employer's physician and the third physician shall be paid by the Employer. In the event that it is impossibleto agree on a third physician, the matter may be submitted to the grievance/arbitration procedure.
Section 11.09	Guaranteed Week
A - Any employee who begins a normal workweek shall complete it, except if the Employer cannot supply work for the following reasons:
•22-
-	superior force (act of God);
-	fire, power failure;
-	Union activities preventing the Employer from producing or delivering its products, or other collective acts over which the Employer has no control.
B - The employee concerned shall be available to work on request and shall accept the work offered, subject to the seniority causes, failing which the period of absence shall be deducted from the guaranteed week.
C - When an employee is suspended for just cause, the guaranteed work week described above shall be reduced by the number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked. When an employee is terminated for just cause or when he retires, the guarantee shall cease on the date of termination or retirement.
D - Vacation days, paid holidays and other leaves of absence shall be considered hours worked for the purposes of the guaranteed work week.
Section 11.10	Safety Shoes
The Employer shall pay the purchase price of safety shoes up to a maximum of one hundred forty dollars ($140.00) for the term of this Agreement, upon presentation of a proof of purchase.
ARTICLE XII.	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
Section 12.01	No Strikes or Lockouts
Throughout the term hereof, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, curtailment of work, interference with the operations of the Company, or interference with production caused by or encouraged by the Union or any members thereof. Employees may be disciplined up to and including dismissal for encouraging or participating in any of the foregoing activities in violation of this Section 12.01. The Company shall not lock out any of its employees throughout the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII.	SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 13.01	Term of Agreement
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the moment of its ratificationto April 30, 2010.
The termination of the existing agreement and the negotiation of the new contract shall be carried out in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
-23-
Section 13.02	Severability
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of Canada. Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of said part of portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 13.03	Entire Agreement
This Labour Agreement and Letters of Agreement dated May 1, 2007, represent the complete agreement between the parties and shall supersede and replace all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied, between the parties hereto and shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties. Past practices, procedures and understandings may be changed or eliminated by management unless specifically prohibited by the provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended in any of its provisions by mutual agreement of both parties. If agreements are made after the effective date of this Agreement, they must be in writing.
Section 13.04	Official Text
The French version of this Agreement constitutes the officialtext.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
LE SYNDICAT DES EMPLOYES DE LES ADM AGRI-INDUSTRIES LTD. MOULINS MAPLE LEAF (DE L’EST)
LIMITEE (CSN)
■24-
Montreal
Notre-Dame
Schedule 1
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Effective May 1,2007 Twelve-hourSchedule
The parties have agreed to implement a 12-hour schedule and they agree that the following constitutes the amendments to the Collective Agreement needed to adapt it so as to give effect to such 12-hour schedule when scheduled by the Company. The provisions of this Letter of Understandingtherefore take precedence over any article of the Collective Agreement providing otherwise.
1.	Regular Work Hours
A - Regular work hours shall be from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM for the day shift, and from 7:00 PM to 7:00 AM for the night shift. The regular work week shall start on Monday at 7:00 AM and end on the following Monday at 7:00 AM.
B- The regular rotating 12-hourschedule is as follows:
	M	T	W	1st Week T	F	S	S
Day	B	C	C	B	B	C	C
Night	A	D	D	A	A	D	D
Rest Break	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
Rest Break	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
	M	T	W	2nd Week T	F	S	s
Day	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
Night	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
Rest Break	B	D	D	B	B	D	D
Rest Break	A	C	C	A	A	C	C
	M	T	W	3rd Week T	F	S	S
Day	A	D	D	A	A	D	D
Night	B	C	C	B	B	C	C
Rest Break	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
Rest Break	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
	M	T	W	4th Week T	F	S	s
Day	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
Night	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
Rest Break	B	D	D	B	B	D	D
Rest Break	A	C	C	A	A	C	C
1
All employees under the 12-hour schedule shall be assigned to rotating shifts, in accordance with the above schedule.
2.	Salary and Overtime
A - Regular hours worked under this schedule shall be paid at the straight-time rate. All hours worked in excess of eighty (80) hours in a period of (2)consecutive weeks shall be paid at time and a half in accordance with the federal laws governingthis practice.
B - Hours worked outside of regularly scheduled hours shall be paid at time and
a half.
3.	Meal and Rest Breaks. Beginning and End of Shift
A - Employees who work twelve (12) hours per day shall be paid for the thirty (30) minute period allotted for their meals, provided they remain available to work, if necessary, during this period.
Meal breaks may be taken, without hindering the efficiency of operations.
When a complete meal break is not granted, the employee concerned shall be paid for the unallotted part of the break at one and a half times the rate of the classificationin which he is working at the time.
B - Employees working twelve (12) hours a day shall be entitled to three (3) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes each. These rest breaks shall be taken at a time determined by the shift foreman.
C - For employees working in rotation on 12-hour shifts, the shift change shall occur at 6:40 AM for the shift working from 6:40 AM to 6:40 PM and at 6:40 PM for the shift working from 6:40 PM to 6:40 AM. At the end of the shift change, the employees concerned shall be entitled to ten (10) paid minutes of overtime to clean up, provided that their punch card shows at least 6:50 AM or 6:50 PM, as the case may be. The employees concerned shall be the mill operators, bagging blendersand laboratorytechnicians.
4.	Shift Differential
A shift differential shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he must work on either of the two 12-hour shifts. The applicable shift differential shall be $1.05 per hour provided the employee does not rotate shifts. For those employees who do rotate, the shift differential shall be $1.40 per hour.
These shift differentials shall not be added to an employee’s base rate of pay for the purposes of calculating overtime or to any unworked hours for which an employee is paid, such as legal holidays, jury duty and bereavement leave.
■2-
Paid Holidays
A - When a paid holiday occurs, employees on the 12-hour shifts who are scheduled to work shall receive twelve (12) hours pay at the straight-time rate for the holiday. Employeesonthe 12-hourshifts who are not scheduled shall receivethe equivalent of twelve (12) hours pay at the straight-time rate for the holiday.
B - An employee required to work on a paid holiday shall be paid at time-and-a-half for the hours worked in addition to the holiday pay specified in paragraph A), when so entitled. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours during such a holiday shall be paid at double time.
C- The statutory holiday shall comprisethe 24-hour period running from 7:00 AM on the day the holiday is observed to 7:00 AM the following morning.
D- -The rules of eligibility for payment of a paid holiday shall remain those specifiedin Article VII of the Collective Agreement.
E - Any paid holiday that falls during the annual vacation period for an employee on the 12-hour schedule who is eligible for the paid holiday shall be repaid to the employee at the rate of twelve (12) hours at the straight-time rate. For any paid holiday specified in the Agreement that falls during the annual vacation period, one (1) additional day shall be added to the employee's vacation or paid, at the employee's option. Any additional day shall be taken immediately before or after the scheduled vacation period. In the latter case, the day or days shall be taken from those immediatelyprior to the start of the vacation period, or at the end of such period; the Company shall agree with the employee on the moment this day can be taken.
6. Vacations
A - One week of vacation for employees on the 12-hour schedule shall constitute thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) regular hours of vacation, depending on the shift on which the employees would have been scheduled.
B - Employeeswho, on April 30, were inthe service of the Employerfor lessthan one (1)year, shall be entitled to a vacation credit of 1.25 calendar days per complete month of work, upto a limit of 14 calendar days.
C - For each week of vacation to which he is entitled, an employee on the 12-hour shifts shall receive the higher of 2% of his gross salary earned in the preceding vacation year or an amount equal to forty-two (42) hours of pay at his straight-time base rate.
Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty
Pay for employees scheduled on the 12-hour shifts who are entitled to such leave shall be calculated by multiplying their basic hourly rate by the number of hours that they would have worked had they not been on leave.
-3-
Offer of Overtime
8,
Overtime required to replace employees on the 12-hour shifts shall be offered to employees in the same classification who are on the 12-hour schedule, but not scheduled on the shift (day or night) in question.
9.	Time Changes
When time changes occur in April and October, the 7:00 PM to 7:00 AVI shift shall benefit from the change.
10.	Prior notice of 12-hourschedule implementation
The prior notice indicated in Section 5 cf the Collective Agreement also applies to the 12-hour schedule.
11.	Weekly indemnity
The indemnity is established according to a week of seven (7) calendar days under the terms and conditions set forth in the group insurance plan for ADM hourly employees. For each day of absence entitling and employee to the guarantee, the employee shall receive 1/7 of the weekly indemnity.
•4-
Montreal
Notre-Dame
Schedule 2
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Effective May 1,2007 Pension Plan Highlights
Plan Effective Date: cost:
Membership:
Benefit Formula:
Supplemental Benefit:
Normal Retirement: Early Retirement:
Vesting Service:
Credited Service:
July 1,2007
The Company pays the full cost of the new plan.
Employees who are members of the Maple Leaf plan will automatically become members of the new plan. New employees may become plan members the first month following their first complete year of service.
$29.00 per month per year of Credited Service; $30.00 on the second year and $31.00 on the third year of the labour agreement.
Additional $7.00 per month for all employees aged 50 years and up on April 30, 2004.
Age 65
Age 55 and a minimum of two (2) years of Vesting Service. If you retire before age 65, the pension will be reduced 6% for each year.
Vesting Service is used to determine your eligibility to the pension plan. Vesting Service will be your full years and months of service at the plant following the date on which you became a plan member.
Credited Service is used to calculate the pension benefit amount. Credited Service will include your Credited Service with Maple Leaf. Credited Service, beginningon the date employed by ADM, will be determined on the basis of a schedule of compensated hours in accordance with the followingtable:
•5-
1800 or more	1.0	year
1600 to 1799	.9
1400 to 1599	.8
1200 to 1399	.7
1000 to 1199	.6
800 to 999	.5
600 to 799	.4
400 to 599	.3
200 to 399	.2
less than 200	0.0
Forms of Payment:
Life Annuity, 100% or 60%, if you exercise the Joint and Survivor option.
Plan Reference Year:
January 1 to December31
Plan Administrator:
The Company
Each employee will be provided with a pension booklet in the form of a Summary Plan Description(SPD). The booklet will describe the Plan in greater detail.
•6-
Montreal
Notre-Dame
Schedule 3
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Effective May 1,2007 Uniforms and Winter Wear
Throughout the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall maintain its practice as regards providing uniforms and winter wear.
•7-