COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
PARMALAT CANADA INC. CALGARY
hereinafter referred to as "the Company"
And
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL NO. 987 OF ALBERTA hereinafter referred to as "the Union"
Expires:
April 30th, 2015

Table of Contents
Article No. 1 - Intent and Purpose........................................................1
Article No. 2 - Management Control........................................................1
Article No. 3 - Employees Included........................................................1
Article No. 4 - Union Security............................................................2
Article No. 5 - Bargain With a Ratification...............................................2
Article No. 6 - Continuity of Work........................................................3
Article No. 7 - Seniority.................................................................3
Article No. 8 - Hours of Work.............................................................6
Article No. 9 - Wages.....................................................................8
Article No. 10 - Annual Vacations.........................................................8
Article No. 11 - Paid Holidays............................................................11
Article No. 12 - Shop Stewards............................................................11
Article No. 13 - Grievance Procedure......................................................12
Article No. 14 - Mutual Interest..........................................................14
Article No. 15-Jury Duty..................................................................15
Article No. 16-Leave of Absence...........................................................15
Article No. 17 - Compassionate Leave......................................................16
Article No. 18 - Uniforms.................................................................16
Article No. 19 - Part-Time................................................................16
Article No. 20 - Health and Welfare.......................................................17
Article No. 21 - Severance Pay............................................................17
Article No. 22 - Technological Change.....................................................18
Article No. 23 - Duration, Termination and Amendments.....................................18
Appendix “A” - Wages and Classifications..................................................20
Appendix “B” - Pension and Benefit........................................................24
Withdrawal Information....................................................................28
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
Between PARMALAT CANADA INC. CALGARY
hereinafter referred to as "the Company"
And
MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES
TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL NO. 987 OF ALBERTA
hereinafter referred to as "the Union"
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto, hereby agree as follows:
Article No. 1 - Intent and Purpose
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain an efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, and to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
Article No. 2 - Management Control
2.01	Responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with the Management.
Article No. 3 - Employees Included
3.01	The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees of the Company at Calgary in bargaining unit positions covered by this collective agreement, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall exclude specifically office workers and employees engaged in any kind of supervision who have the right to hire, discharge or change the status of employees.
3.02	Probationary employees retained as permanent staff shall be deemed to be on permanent staff as of the date of commencing the most recent period of continuous employment. Seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from that date, subject to the sixty (60) days worked probationary period described in Article 7 section 7.02.
3.03	GENDER. Except where specifically stated to the contrary or where the sense requires the contrary, use of the term "he", "him", or "his", throughout this Agreement will be considered to also mean "she", "her", or "her".
- 1 -
3.04	Employees outside of the bargaining unit will not perform work normally performed by bargaining unit employees except:
(A)	to perform experimental work or new operational set-ups;
(B)	when necessary to diagnose or correct operating difficulties;
(C)	for purpose of instruction or training;
(D)	in circumstances beyond the control of the Company
Notwithstanding any language to the contrary in this agreement, the maintenance supervisor, chief engineer and chief electrician will continue to perform their normal duties.
Article No. 4 — Union Security
4.01	The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for Union membership and dues deductions, which shall be signed by all new employees on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment. The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for pension benefits. These forms shall be signed on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies are to be sent to the Union office.
4.02	Upon written request of an employee, the Company will, in accordance with the tenor of the request, deduct the employee's Initiation Fee and monthly Union dues, remitting same, together with a list of the employees from whom the deductions have been made to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union, on or before the 15th day of the following calendar month in which the dues are deducted.
Article No. 5 - Bargain With a Ratification
5.01	Pursuant to the corresponding Certificates of Certification as issued by the Labour Relations Board, the Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, and will bargain only with the Union, and duly appointed representatives thereof, on behalf of the employees of the Company.
5.02	This Agreement will be ratified by Union member employees whose decision will be final, and neither Union members employed by other Companies, nor non-union employees employed by the Company, shall have any voice in ratifying this Agreement or amendments thereof that may be made in the future.
-2-
Article No. 6 - Continuity of Work
6.01	There shall be no cessation of work, or slow down of any kind by the employees, or lock-out by the Company during the time this agreement is in force, or in the process of being renewed or amended.
6.02	In the event of any other Milk Company or Companies having difficulty in production and/or distribution, by reason of a dispute between such Company or Companies and its or their employees, the Company will not require the Employees to which this Agreement applies to perform work additional to which they ordinarily perform, and the employees agree to perform their usual work as though such dispute did not exist.
6.03	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to cross any legal picket line.
6.04	The business agent is allowed to visit the Company premises but shall not conduct Union business on the Company time.
Article No. 7 - Seniority
7.01	Seniority shall be based on the length of continuous service an employee has been on the payroll.
7.02	A probationary period of sixty (60) days worked on the payroll shall apply in the case of each new employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an employee may be laid off without reference to seniority, and the Company shall not be obligated to re-hire such an employee. After having completed this probationary period, or upon being recalled within nine (9) months after being laid off, the employee's seniority and service records shall date back to the beginning of his employment.
7.03	In the selection of candidates for a posted vacancy in the bargaining unit, skill, ability and physical fitness shall be considered and where these factors are equal seniority shall govern.
7.04	Job Bidding
(A)	When a vacancy occurs as outlined under Section 7.03, it will be posted on the bulletin board for five (5) working days during which period an employee may make written application for such vacancy.
Any immediate changes to a job that is to be posted will be made prior to posting.
(B)	The successful applicant will be advised within five (5) working days of the expiry of the five (5) working day posting period. The successful applicant will be allowed to job shadow to reconfirm their decision to accept the posting. The job shadow which will occur within one week of the successful applicant being informed of his being awarded the position, will be in accordance with the following schedule:
Pasteurizer Operator Mix Maker Swing Relief I & II Bulk Milk Receiver/Grader	2 Days
Filler Machine Operator Caser Operator Shunt Driver Receiver Picker Palletizer/Loader	1 Day
The successful applicant will be allowed a familiarization period of up to twenty (20) working days. Within this familiarization period, if the employee is found to be incapable of performing the duties of the job vacancy, he will be returned to his former job. In the event the successful candidate does return to his former job, the vacancy will not be re-posted, but will be filled under the same terms as set out herein, in accordance with 7.03 from among employees who applied for the original posting. In the event no other qualified employee applied for the posting, the Company shall fill the vacancy at its discretion.
(C)	When the applicant described under section A and B above has qualified for the vacancy, then the subsequent vacancy, but not thereafter, created by his application will be posted in the same manner as described above and filled in accordance with 7.03.
(D)	The successful applicant will be selected by the Company and such selection shall be made in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement. A seniority employee who is going on vacation may file a written application with his supervisor for a specific job vacancy which he anticipates may occur during the period of his vacation.
(E)	A successful applicant for a job posting (posting A) or any new full time hire shall not be eligible to bid on another job posting until he has worked twelve (12) months in his new job, unless;
1. )	the job posting represents a pay progression opportunity. In this case, the
employee will not be allowed to bid on another new job until a total of twenty four (24) months has elapsed from the successful bid to posting A outlined above.
2. )	If the job posting is for the same job that the employee is currently on but a
different shift therefore requiring no incremental training there will be no minimum time restriction for bid eligibility to this job and there is no impact on the timing restrictions above.
-4-
3.) Any successful applicant or new hire for a Swing Relief job posting shall not be eligible to bid on another job posting until he has worked twenty four (24) months in his new job.
7.05	In determining vacancies, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recall, seniority shall be on a bargaining unit wide basis.
7.06	In the event of a reduction of staff, the junior employee shall be the first subject to lay-off. If the junior position in the bargaining unit is occupied by an employee possessing special skills and/or license, then the junior position for the purposes of this clause only shall be the second most j unior position in the bargaining unit. If he is capable of performing the work of the most junior employee within the bargaining unit because of previous training or experience, or because the employee could reasonably learn to perform the job to a satisfactory level within a short time period, the employee will be accorded a qualifying period of up to twenty (20) working days and the most j unior employee within the bargaining unit will be subject to lay-off. In the event it is determined the employee cannot qualify for the position, he will be laid off.
Employees subject to lay off under this Article will be provided with notice in writing, with a copy to the department Shop Steward.
7.07	The Company agrees to recall on the basis of seniority, employees who have been laid off for a period not exceeding nine (9) consecutive months, providing the employee is capable of performing the duties of the vacancy.
Employees subject to recall under this Article will be contacted by phone at the last known phone number on the Company’s records with confirmation in writing by registered mail or courier if unable to contact the employee by phone. If required, a copy of the letter is to be provided to the department Shop Steward. Failure to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the letter is mailed will result in the employee's name being struck from the seniority list.
7.08	A list showing the seniority of each employee within the bargaining unit, based on the length of service an employee has been on the payroll, shall be compiled and kept posted on the bulletin boards. The list shall be revised on the first of January and the first of July each year. Any errors shall be reported to the Shop Stewards for correction. A copy of such list will be provided to the Union.
7.09	An employee shall lose all seniority rights and his employee status with the Company shall be cancelled in all respects if he:
1. )	voluntarily leaves the Company;
2. )	is discharged for just cause;
-5 -
3.) is laid off by the Company for a period exceeding nine (9) consecutive months.
Article No. 8 - Hours of Work
8.01	The hours of work of all employees covered by this Agreement shall be as follows:
(A)	Ten (10) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, four (4) days per week, or eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, five (5) days per week.
It is understood and agreed that any change from ten (10) hour work days to eight (8) hour work days will be with the mutual consent of the Union and will only be implemented at the first of the calendar week and only if a minimum of seven (7) calendar day's notice has been given by the Company.
(B)	There shall be two consecutive days off. Employees classified as Swing Relief II may not be scheduled for two (2) consecutive days off. The Company will post next week’s schedules for the swing relief by Wednesday of the week prior. This schedule is subject to change due to unforeseen circumstances.
The Company shall have flexibility of scheduling the days and hours of work for those employees associated with the Wholesale delivery. Specifically they are those employees in the following areas:
-	coolers
-	freezers
-	checkers
-	loaders/shippers
-	case room workers
These employees' days and hours shall be scheduled on either a four (4) or five (5) day basis.
(C)	1.) All hours worked in excess of ten (10) in the day and/or forty (40) in the
week and four (4) day's work per week, shall be considered as overtime, and paid at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times the employee's rate of pay.
2.) From time to time it is necessary for the Company to require employees to work overtime. The assignment of overtime work will be made among the employees who are at work at the time, possessing the ability, qualifications and willingness to perform the required work by first asking the senior employee and then proceeding in order of seniority until the required number of workers is obtained. Failing this, the assignment will be made by selecting the employee(s) in reverse order of seniority, possessing the ability and qualifications to perform the required work until the required number of
-6-
workers is obtained. The employees will complete the overtime assignment, however, no employee will be forced to work more than twelve hours in a shift. If overtime is required the Company’s intent is to provide as much notice as possible. Employee assistance is encouraged to identify as soon as possible when overtime work may be required.
3. )	Where it is necessary for the company to require employees to work overtime
on a day they are not scheduled to work, the assignment will be made among the employees possessing the ability and qualifications to perform the required work by first asking the senior employee who has indicated his willingness by signing the department overtime list for unscheduled days and then proceeding in order of seniority on the list until the required number of workers is obtained. Failing this, the Company will attempt to contact all employees who possess the ability and qualifications to perform the required work until the required number of workers have been obtained, whether they have signed the overtime list or not. Failing this the Company will assign the work by selecting the employee(s) in reverse order of seniority, possessing the ability and qualifications to perform the required work until the required number of workers is obtained, whether they have signed the overtime list or not.
4. )	Any dispute in the assignment of overtime will be raised at the monthly
Labour Management meetings or such other meeting arranged between the Company and the Union. The remedy for any errors shall be in kind through the assignment of a future overtime opportunity within a reasonable time period.
5. )	Where the Company determines that overtime work is required, it will offer
such overtime work opportunity to seniority employees in the classification who are at work at the time, prior to offering such overtime work to part-time employees.
(D)	In the event any changes are to take place in the employees' days of rest, forty-eight (48) hour's notice shall be given to the employees affected by the change (not applicable in cases resulting from emergencies such as fire, flood or Acts of God). Note: This definition shall only apply to Article 8.01(D) of the contract.
(E)	Employees required to work any of their regular daily shifts outside the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be paid a shift differential of eighty five ($0.85) cents per hour for all hours of their regular daily shift worked prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. Shift differential will apply to overtime hours worked, however, it will not be computed at the overtime rate. Effective May 1,2013 the shift premium will increase to ninety ($0.90) cents per hour. Effective May 1, 2014 the shift premium will increase to ninety five ($0.95) cents per hour.
-7-
(F)	Effective May 1, 2004, employees required to work on a Sunday shall receive a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked on the Sunday.
(G)	All inside staff shall receive two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid coffee breaks. One such break in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift. There shall be one half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
Where an inside staff employee is required to work in excess of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours overtime at the end of a regular shift, he will be provided a further fifteen (15) minute paid coffee break. Such break will be taken prior to commencement of overtime.
8.02	The parties agree that unless otherwise agreed by an employee, any employee on the payroll as of April 19, 1988 who was enjoying two (2) consecutive days off, one of which was Sunday, shall be scheduled during the term of this Agreement for two consecutive days off as follows: either a Friday - Saturday; or a Saturday - Sunday; or a Sunday - Monday combination. Hours of work for employees hired after April 19, 1988 will be four (4) ten (10) hour days or five (5) eight (8) hour days. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees classified as Swing Relief II may not be scheduled for two (2) consecutive days off.
8.03	The Company agrees that an accurate record of hours of work for all employees covered by this Agreement shall be kept, and no employees shall record or be asked to record times other than their actual hours of work.
Such records shall be available to the Union for inspection on request.
8.04	Where an employee is called to work on one of his scheduled days off, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the overtime rate.
An employee who has left the Company's premises and is specially called outside of his scheduled hours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work being that outside of scheduled hours, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is greater.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the employee's scheduled hours or if the employee leaves after eight (8) hours even though such departure from the premises precedes his regular scheduled end of shift.
Article No. 9 - Wages
9.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix "A" setting forth the wage rates and classifications of all employees covered by this Agreement.
Article No. 10 - Annual Vacations
8
10.01	Annual Vacations with pay shall be granted to all employees covered by this Agreement on
the following basis:
(A)	Those employees with less than one (1) year, prior to March 1st of each year, will have their vacation pro-rated based on their weeks of service up to a two (2) week maximum.
(B)	Those employees with one (1) year's continuous employment and less than four (4) years, prior to March 1st of each year, two (2) weeks annual vacation.
(C)	Those employees with four (4) year's continuous employment and less than ten (10) years, prior to March 1st of each year, three (3) weeks annual vacation.
(D)	Those employees with ten (10) year's continuous employment and less than twenty (20) years, prior to March 1st of each year, four (4) weeks annual vacation.
(E)	Those employees with twenty (20) years or more of continuous employment, prior to March 1st of any year, five (5) weeks annual vacation.
(F)	Effective 2014, those employees with thirty (30) years or more of continuous employment, prior to March 1 of any year, six (6) weeks annual vacation.
(G)	Where an employee attains sufficient service in a calendar year to otherwise entitle him to an additional week’s vacation, but is ineligible because his anniversary date of hire falls on March 1st or thereafter, he will be granted such additional week following his anniversary date of hire in that year.
(H)	Effective August 17, 2002 vacation pay will be calculated on wages, overtime, shift premium, Sunday premium, lead hand premium, and previous year’s vacation pay.
10.02	Allocation of Vacation Dates
There will be four holiday schedules.
1. )	All Shipping and Cooler Staff
2. )	Production (including blast freezer)
3. )	Maintenance
4. )	Freezer
(A)	The vacation schedule request sheets will be made available beginning in the first week of January. Employees on each schedule shall choose their vacation dates in order of seniority, provided operations are not impaired.
-9-
(B)	Senior employees will co-operate in the selection process by marking their preferred first choices in an expeditious manner after the list is posted so as to allow all employees to mark their first selection by February 1st.
(C)	An employee may take his entire annual vacation in one continuous period during the months of October to April inclusive. All employees referred to in this section shall be allowed their annual vacation within the vacation year March 1 to February 28th.
(D)	Should an employee decide, in accordance with the selection procedure contained herein, to split his vacation into two (2) periods, he shall not make his second selection until all other employees on the schedule have made their first selection. No employee, on his first selection, may take more than three (3) continuous weeks’ vacation during the months of May to September inclusive. The next senior employee will follow the same procedure and so on down the schedule until all employees have made their selections.
(E)	Selection of vacation requests shall be completed by March 15th. An employee who submits vacation dates following March 15th, may only apply for available dates in order of their seniority.
(F)	An employee's scheduled vacation as approved by the Company will not be changed following posting unless such change is mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
10.03	When during the course of a working year, in respect of which an employee has not received
his annual vacation, the employer shall, on cessation of employment, pay to the employee, in
lieu of an annual vacation and in addition to all other amounts due to him as follows:
(A)	In the case of an employee who has worked less than four (4) years, prior to March 1st, vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article 10.01 (G) at the rate of four per cent (4%) for the period of his employment in that year.
(B)	In the case of an employee who has four (4) years continuous employment and less than ten (10) years prior to March 1st in any year vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article 10.01 (G) at the rate of six per cent (6%) for the period of his employment in that year.
(C)	In the case of an employee who has ten (10) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st in any year, vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article
10.01	(G) at the rate of eight per cent (8%) for the period of his employment in that year.
(D)	In the case of an employee who has twenty (20) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st in any year, vacation pay calculated in accordance
- 10-
with Article 10.01 (G) at the rate of ten per cent (10%) for the period of his employment in that year.
(E)	In the case of an employee who has thirty (30) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1 st in any year, vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article 10.01 (G) at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) for the period of his employment in that year.
Article No. 11 - Paid Holidays
11.01	Every employee shall be entitled to the following Paid Holidays with pay in accordance with
11.02	and 11.03, except that an employee, if scheduled to work on his regular working day preceding and following a Paid Holiday, must work on those days to be entitled to pay for the Paid Holiday, unless absent due to illness verified by a Doctor's certificate.
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day August Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
11.02	(A) Should any of the above Paid Holidays in section 11.01, fall during his annual
vacation, he shall be compensated a day's pay, at his base rate.
(B)	Should any of the above Paid Holidays in section 11.01, fall on an employee's regular
day of rest he shall be compensated with a day in lieu at a time mutually agreed upon or a day's pay, at his base rate. It will be the employee's choice whether to take a day's pay or a day off, it being understood such day off must be arranged with his immediate Supervisor at least two (2) weeks in advance of the desired day off, and the lieu day must be taken prior to the succeeding April 30th. In the event the day off cannot be scheduled as set out above, the Company will pay the day's pay.
11.03	Should it be required to work any of the above Paid Holidays in section 11.01, he shall be compensated for hours worked on the day of the holiday at one and one half (1-1/2) times his base rate of pay. In addition he shall be compensated with a day in lieu at a time mutually agreed upon or a day's pay, at his base rate. It will be the employee's choice whether to take a day's pay or a day off, it being understood such day off must be arranged with his immediate Supervisor at least two (2) weeks in advance of the desired day off, and the lieu day must be taken prior to the succeeding April 30th. In the event the day off cannot be scheduled as set out above, the Company will pay the day's pay.
Article No. 12 — Shop Stewards
12.01	There shall be elected from the employees, by the employees, up to five (5) Shop Stewards,
- 11 -
all of whom shall have been continuously employed by the Company for not less than six (6) months. The elected Shop Stewards shall appoint a chairman from among themselves. Their duties shal I be to see that the members of the Union abide by the rules and regulations of the Company, the Union, and the terms of this Agreement.
12.02	The management agrees to hold, once a month, a meeting of the Shop Stewards, to discuss all difficulties that may arise, as well as discuss the good and welfare of the Company and its employees.
Article No. 13 - Grievance Procedure
13.01	Should any alleged grievance arise as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, such grievance shall be processed within ten (10) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance have originated or occurred, in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP:
Between the aggrieved employee, with or without the Shop Steward, and his supervisor. The decision of the Supervisor shall be given within three working days following presentation of the grievance. Failing settlement, then
SECOND STEP:
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the first step a meeting will be held between the Shop Steward and/or Union Representative and the Plant Manager. The decision of the Plant Manager shall be given within three (3) working days of such meeting. Failing settlement, then
THIRD STEP:
Within three (3) working days following the decision under the second step, a meeting will be held between the Union Grievance Committee and the Committee designated by the Company. A staff representative of the Union will be present at the request of either the Company or the Union.
A decision under this step will be given within five (5) working days following such meeting. The grievance will be presented in writing at this step by the grieving party. Failing settlement, then
If the grievance remains unsettled, then within ten (10) working days of the date of the decision under the third step the grievance shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided herein.
13.02	The term "working days" for purpose of this Article shall not be deemed to include
- 12-
Saturdays, Sundays and Paid Holidays.
13.03	If the Company wishes to grieve to the Union against any action of the Union, its officers or members, the foregoing procedure may be followed commencing with the second step.
13.04	The Union will elect and the Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee, the number agreed upon between local management and the Union, whom shall be the employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be furnished to the Company.
13.05	Grievance meetings with the Grievance Committee shall be conducted at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between Company Management and Chief Shop Steward. The Company will pay members of the Grievance Committee at their regular rates for time spent at meetings of the Grievance Committee with Management representatives during regular working hours.
If an Employee, who has completed the probationary period, has an alleged grievance that he has been unjustly discharged, he shall notify the Company through the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days after the date of separation stating the reason of objection to the discharge and the grievance will be considered commencing with the second step of section 13.01 of this Article.
13.06	Should any grievance arise directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the grievance shall be taken up commencing at the second step of section 13.01 of this Article.
13.07	Pending settlement of any grievance, the aggrieved employee shall perform the duties assigned to him.
13.08	Before leaving his job or his department in connection with any grievance, a Shop Steward or member of the Grievance Committee must first obtain permission from the Supervisor of his department. Should the grievance require such Steward or member of the Grievance Committee to go into another department, he must first report to the person in charge of the department.
13.09	(A) If the Union and the Company cannot reach a settlement, following the third step of
the Grievance Procedure, and upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members. The Company and the Union shall each select one (1) member, and the third member within seven (7) days shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two (2) members first selected. The third member shall be impartial and possess knowledge of Labour Management relations. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board.
If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days, in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the
- 13 -
Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta, who shall appoint a Chairman. No person involved directly in the controversy under consideration shall be a member of the Board of Arbitration.
(B)	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer, and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching a decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
(C)	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with power to change, modify or alter any terms of the contract. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provisions of this contract, or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this contract.
(D)	The findings and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
(E)	The expense of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the Arbitration.
(F)	By mutual agreement the parties may elect to have a single arbitrator hear the matter in dispute instead of a three member board. In such case, the party wishing to submit the issue to arbitration should indicate in its notice of intent to arbitrate, that it would like the matter heard by a single arbitrator. The recipient of the notice shall inform the other party within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice if it is agreeable or not to the matter being heard by a single arbitrator. If so, the parties shall endeavour to select the single arbitrator. Failing agreement, the process for selecting a three member board set out in clause 13.09 (A) shall be followed. The single arbitrator shall be bound by all clauses of Article 13 in the same manner as a Board of Arbitration, with the necessary changes being made.
Article No. 14 - Mutual Interest
14.01	The Union agrees that it will further the interests of the Company at all times to the limit of its ability.
14.02	It is further agreed by the Company and the Union that no employee will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No employee shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Company or the Union conflicting with this Agreement.
14.03	(A) Employees shall be paid by direct deposit every other Thursday on a system of
- 14-
twenty-six (26) equal pay periods. New employees hired after August 24,1996, will be paid with a one week lag.
(B) All employees shall be given a statement with each bi-weekly pay showing overtime hours worked, base pay and deductions.
14.04	An employee who wishes to review his personnel file shall submit such request in writing to his supervisor. Arrangements will be made within five (5) working days or such other time as may be mutually agreed between the employee and the Company for the employee to view his file in the presence of a member of management, such meeting to be outside regular working hours. An employee may not review his file more than once per year. When an employee receives a written warning a copy will be provided to the steward and the Union.
A verbal or written warning which is recorded in an employee's personnel file will be withdrawn when the employee completes a period of thirty (30) consecutive months active employment following the date of the discipline without receiving any other discipline in that period.
14.05	In the event the Company wants to consider entering into a learning agreement with an employee, both parties will discuss and agree on conditions of the learning agreement prior to presenting to the employee.
Article No. 15 - Jury Duty
15.01	The Company shall continue to pay an employee for scheduled hours at his regular wage for the time he is away due to being summoned to serve jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness. Within one (1) month of the employee's return to work he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will report to work during regular hours that he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the Court Office if requested by the Company.
Article No. 16 - Leave of Absence
16.01	(A) Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the employee, provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. Since it is the desire of the Company, the Union and employees to allow as many employees as possible to take their regular vacation during prime vacation time of May to September and during the Christmas - New Year's Day Week, applications for leave of absence during those periods will be restricted to absolute emergencies as defined by the Company.
(B)	If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, a written application shall
be made by the employees to the Company, and if leave is granted by the Company it
- 15 -
shall be confirmed in writing.
(C) Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence, but where leave exceeds one (1) calendar month, the employee will be required to repay all premiums on any benefits to which he is entitled.
Article No. 17 - Compassionate Leave
17.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family, the Company will grant leave of absence without loss of pay for three (3) days for the purpose of attending the funeral. Additional leave up to two (2) days without pay may be granted for the purpose of travelling to the funeral outside the province. “Immediate Family” shall mean spouse, parents, child, brother, sister, step-father, step-mother, step-brother, step-sister, grandparents, mother-in law and father-in law. The Company will grant leave of absence without loss of pay for one (1) day, for the purpose of attending the funeral of the employee’s brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
Article No. 18 - Uniforms
18.01	(A) Plant Employees
The Company will provide and launder, without charge, designated outer work clothing required by plant employees in the performance of their duties. It is understood and agreed that such clothing will be treated with proper care by the employee and will not be removed from Company premises under any circumstances.
(B) Safety Footwear
As a condition of employment, all plant, maintenance, shipping, and truck drivers shall be required to wear Company approved safety foot wear. Such full time employees who have completed their probationary period, as of February 1 st, of each year, will be eligible to receive footwear allowance of up to one hundred and forty ($140) dollars in that year upon presentation of their receipt(s) of purchase for such safety foot wear. Effective May 1, 2012 the Footwear allowance will be up to one hundred and forty five ($145.00) dollars. Effective May 1, 2013 the Footwear allowance will be up to one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars. Effective May 1, 2014 the Footwear allowance will be up to one hundred and fifty five ($155.00) dollars.
Article No. 19 - Part-Time
19.01	The Company may employ part-time employees under the following conditions:
1.) Part-time employees shal 1 not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement, or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time employees.
- 16-
2. )	Each part-time employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay each
month Union dues in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement for those months in which the employee has earnings.
3. )	A part-time employee shall not be guaranteed a minimum number of hours per week.
4. )	Part-time employees will be paid the wage rate as set out in Appendix "A" of this
Agreement and should they be employed in a higher rated classification, then the appropriate wage shall apply.
5. )	Part-time employees shall be given first opportunity to qualify as full time employees
and be placed at the bottom of the seniority list if they meet all qualifications and their seniority date will be the date in which they become a full time employee. Provided the part-time employee has worked at least forty-five shifts prior to becoming a full time employee, his full time probation period will be reduced to twenty-five days worked from the date of hire as a full time employee.
6. )	The Company will maintain in each department a list of part-time employees and the
total hours each part-time employee has worked on a four week basis. The shop steward will be granted access to said information on an "as requested" basis.
7. )	Part time employees will be eligible for the major medical and dental benefits in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the plans. Coverage will be effective the first day of the month following 960 hours worked by the part time employee in a continuous twelve month period. Continued eligibility will be subject to the part time employee working an average of twenty-four hours or more per week in the previous quarter (reviewed quarterly).
Article No. 20 — Health and Welfare
20.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix "C" setting forth the Health and Welfare benefits for employees covered by this Agreement.
20.02	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to select or change the benefit carrier(s) during the term of the Agreement, provided however the benefits with the new carrier are not less than the current Health and Welfare benefits.
Article No. 21 - Severance Pay
21.01	A regular full time employee who is permanently laid off and who is not subject to recall shall receive severance pay based on two (2) week's pay for each complete year of continuous service up to a maximum of twenty (20) years continuous service.
- 17-
Article No. 22 - Employee Displacement
22.01	An employee who is displaced from his job may exercise his rights under clause 7.06 or he will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies which are, or become available through the job posting procedure. Such displaced employee will be paid at his previous job base rate for a period of up to six (6) months from the date of his displacement if he works in a lower rated classification.
Article No. 23 - Duration, Termination and Amendments
23.01	(A) This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the 1st day of May 2012 and
continue in full force and effect through the 30th day of April 2015 and from year to year thereafter, except as hereinafter provided.
(B) Either party may, not less than sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the expiry of the collective agreement, give notice in writing to the other party that it wishes to negotiate amendments to the collective agreement. Negotiations shall commence thereafter in accordance with the Alberta Labour Relations Code.
SIGNED AT CALGARY, ALBERTA THIS / DAY OF.
, 2012
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF: PARMALAT CANADA Inc. CALGARY
SIGNED OF BEHALF OF: MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION 987
18-
Page left blank Page blanche
Appendix “A” - Wages and Classifications
SECTION 1 - PLANT STAFF
	Effective May 1/12	Effective May 1/13	Effective May 1/14
Pasteurizer Operator	$24.30	$24.86	$25.48
Mix Maker	$24.30	$24.86	$25.48
Swing Relief 1	$24.30	$24.86	$25.48
Bulk Milk Receiver/Grader	$23.46	$24.00	$24.60
Swing Relief II	$23.46	$24.00	$24.60
Filler Machine Operator	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
Caser Operator	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
Shunt Driver	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
Receiver	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
Picker	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
Palletizer/Loader	$22.93	$23.45	$24.04
General Labour A Other experienced employees (Hired prior to May 16, 2004)	$22.39	$22.91	$23.48
General Labour B Other experienced	$20.69	$21.17	$21.70
employees
(Hired following May 15, 2004 and Part Time employees)
"Lead Hand" designated by the Company will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over and above his rate. Lead hands shall not have the right to hire, fire or discipline employees. Lead hand responsibilities will include directing a part of the workforce while doing their regular job.
Swing Relief positions will be paid fifty cents ($0.50) per hour over and above the job rate once the
-20-
employee is qualified to relieve for the required positions, or if not provided the opportunity to train, the premium will be paid after ten (10) months working in the position.
NOTE:
Swing Relief I is qualified to relieve for Pasteurizer and Mix Maker plus at least two other positions or job functions. Swing Relief II is qualified to relieve for four (4) positions or job functions.
-21 -
SECTION 2.
	Effective	Effective	Effective
	May 1/12	May 1/13	May 1/14
Electrician	$33.68	$34.45	$35.31
Millwright	$33.68	$34.45	$35.31
3,d Class Engineer	$30.81	$31.52	$32.31
Maintenance Man	$30.55	$31.25	$32.03
4th Class Engineer	$30.55	$31.25	$32.03
“Lead Hand”, “Chief Electrician”, “Chief Millwright”, and “Chief Engineer” designated by the Company will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over and above their rate. “Lead Hand”, “Chief Electrician”, “Chief Millwright”, and “Chief Engineer” shall not have the right to hire, fire or discipline employees. “Lead Hand”, “Chief Electrician”, “ChiefMillwright”, and “Chief Engineer” responsibilities will include directing a part of the workforce while doing their regular job.
NOTE:	The Company will provide a tool allowance of $230.00 per year to all plant
maintenance employees who are required to provide their own tools.
SECTION 3 - RATE PROGRESSION SYSTEM
3.01	The following rate progression system will apply to new full time employees (unless otherwise excluded).
$2.00 less than scheduled rate during their first year.
$1.00 less than scheduled rate during their second year.
Part time employees who become full time will get credit for their part time hours worked to determine progression from the first year rate to the second year rate and to the full time rate as appropriate.
Note: This progression to apply to all of Appendix "A" except the classifications in SECTION 2.
3.02	Effective May 15, 1999, the rate progression for part time employees is as follows:
Start at 80% of the full time position rate;
After completing 2080 hours worked progress to 90% of the full time rate;
-22-
After an additional 2080 hours worked progress to 100% of the full time rate.
SECTION 4 - TEMPORARY WORK
An employee temporarily working on a higher rated classification shall not be paid the higher rate for the first four (4) hours of work. If, however, the employee works at least four (4) hours, he will be paid such higher rate for all hours worked on that day. If such employee works in excess of twenty (20) hours in a week on a higher rated job, he will be paid the higher rate for all hours worked in that week.
SECTION 5
Any Classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification or any change in method constituting a change in classification shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
- 23 -
Appendix “B” - Pension and Benefit
ARTICLE 1 - PENSION PLAN
1.01	The Company contributes to the Teamsters Pension Plan, which is administered by Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta, and Province of Alberta. The plan is jointly trusted by union and company trustees. The plan provides that one of the company trustees is appointed by Parmalat Dairy & Bakery Inc.
1.02	Contributions are based on all regular hours worked including vacation pay and holiday pay but not including overtime. The maximum hours will be one hundred seventy-three (173) hours per month. Contributions will start on the day an employee begins work for the Company.
1.03	The Company will make any contributions on behalf of a part-time and/or summer student as required under the Alberta Pension Act.
1.04	The hourly contribution rate is effective in accordance with the following schedule:
November 1, 1988, increase to seventy-five cents ($0.75) per hour from sixty-five cents ($0.65).
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
1, 1990, increase to eighty cents ($0.80) per hour.
1, 1992, increase to eighty-five cents ($0.85) per hour.
1, 1994, increase to ninety cents ($0.90) per hour.
1, 1997, increase to ninety-five cents ($0.95) per hour.
1, 1998, increase to one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
1, 1999, increase to one dollar five cents ($1.05) per hour.
1, 2002, increase to one dollar ten cents ($1.10) per hour.
1, 2003, increase to one dollar fifteen cents ($1.15) per hour.
1, 2004, increase to one dollar twenty cents ($1.20) per hour.
1, 2005, increase to one dollar twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour. 1, 2006, increase to one dollar thirty cents ($1.30) per hour.
1, 2007, increase to one dollar forty-five cents ($1.45) per hour.
1, 2008, increase to one dollar sixty cents ($1.60) per hour.
1, 2009, increase to one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour.
1, 2010, increase to one dollar seventy five cents ($1.75) per hour. 1, 2011, increase to one dollar ninety cents ($1.90) per hour.
1, 2012, increased to one dollar ninety five ($1.95) per hour.
1, 2013, increased to two dollars ($2.00) per hour.
1, 2014, increased to two dollars and five cents ($2.05) per hour.
ARTICLE 2 - SICK LEAVE
2.01	After an Employee is in the service of the Company one (1) full year, he will be entitled to
-24-
one work week per year, for sickness or non compensable accident, with full pay, when proof of disability is supplied. Unused days may accumulate to a maximum of seven (7) days leave for sickness or non-compensable accident. Any other benefits received by the employee during the time the Company is paying full pay, will be paid by the Company.
Where the Company requires an employee to obtain a Doctor’s note to support an absence, the Company will pay for the doctor’s charge, if any, for such note.
ARTICLE 3 - SHORT TERM DISABILITY PLAN
-	See Company Benefit Plan
ARTICLE 4 - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
-	See Company Benefit Plan
ARTICLE 5 - ALBERTA HEALTH CARE
5.01	The Company will pay the full premium cost of Alberta Health Care during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - DENT AL/VIS ION CARE/SUPPLEMENTARY HEALTH
6.01	The Company will pay the premium cost under the dental benefit to:
•	have the dental benefits paid at the applicable percentage based on the 2004 Dental Reimbursement Guide for Alberta as published by the Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association of Canada (CLHIA); Effective May 1, 2012 the 2012 Dental Reimbursement Guide for Alberta, effective May 1, 2013, the 2013 Dental Reimbursement Guide for Alberta and effective May 1, 2014, the 2014 Dental Reimbursement Guide for Alberta.
•	Reimbursement for major restorative is 60%;
•	Calendar yearly maximum is $2,000.
6.02	Effective May 1, 2004 the Company will pay the full premium cost to implement a vision care benefit of $100 per 24 month period through the group insurance plan. Effective November 1, 2006 the Company will increase the vision care benefit to $125, effective May 1,2007 the vision care benefit will be $150, effective May 1, 2008 the vision care benefit will be $175 and effective May 1, 2009 the vision care benefit will be $250 per 24 month period through the group insurance plan.
6.03	Effective November 1, 2006 the Company will add a prescription drug card benefit at no premium cost to the employee.
-25-
‘parmalaf
Comment [C0MMENT1]: RATIFIED Aug 17 2002, Nov 151,1 Pat .Pope corrections made to Article 10.03 and 14.03(B);
May 1,2012
Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta Miscellaneous Employees 5663 Burleigh Cres. S.E.
Calgary, AB T2H 1Z7
Attention: Mr. Pat Pope Dear Pat;
Re: Letter of Understanding - Payroll Error
This letter will confirm the understanding reached by the Parties during the recently concluded negotiations for the renewal for the collective agreement which expires April 30,2012, to the effect that:
In the event of a payroll error in excess of $50.00 the company will arrange to have the error corrected as soon as possible. An error of less than $50.00 will be corrected on the payroll following the matter being brought to the company’s attention.
Sincerely,
Jim Warr
Manager, Human Resources
LETTER OK UNl>KRSTA.N »! NC
BdlVC-CCi
PanualalDiiirj & J^aiterv Lm\ Calgary*
(Hereinafter referred +Hi ns the
nnd
Teamsters Lotnil Uitii>n f>fi" of A) l.n'.i'tii Miscellaneous JLhn ploy sea iTJcreinaftcr referred to ss the "'Ltiimr1)
*
*
Re:	Absence, iionrovat process for Part 1 insc Employers
]t T hereby agreed bowser the Company iLiiti fbe Urion tn;:; employees deth'isd as Pen Tine eiiipioyse-s do :ict have die same sc.redtihnp. pv-c-wS; ns employee.' thm are owned £3 Full Tims employee* rrKe- f ie Colisetivo Tpioerr.ej::.
In order tn die fticililak1 nation vet nerrs, and ieave oRibsencs ■'fa|iju.-,ts, by pin ti:re employes!;, inch retruetfs Jor tine i/T filial; j? in written fin:, and sropruvsil cftush rc-qus'jif' shall be al die at the ciseret-t'i1 of wr or natty.
The Cioaiptuiy rial! m-Lte ■'cs.s citable of-"?rs to approve such rei| -rsK. subject lo operabiMtal requirement*.
J-or [lie ConpiLiiy
For th- ’.'rjii'::'.
27-
Withdrawal Inforamtion
Upon termination, lay-off, lengthy illness, worker compensation or disability you are advised to call your Union office as soon as possible to obtain a withdrawal card or transfer card, which will entitle you to re-enter the Union without further payment of Union dues or a re-initiation fee. You must obtain your withdrawal card as soon as you leave your place of employment as your dues must be paid up within the month in which you obtain your withdrawal card.
If you are a member that works for an Employer that contributes, on your behalf, to the Teamsters Local 987 Pension Plan it is your responsibility to pay dues during short-term disability, compensation or other leaves for medical reasons. You must contact the Union office immediately to make arrangements as you may quality for Disability Pension Credits.
Withdrawal Cards may be obtained either in person or by mail to:
Teamsters Local Union 987	Teamsters Local Union 987
5663 Burleigh Crescent S.E.	or	17448 - 103 Avenue
Calgary, AB T2H 1Z7	Edmonton, AB T5S 2C8
Withdrawal cards cost twenty-five cents ($0.25) which should be included along with your name, correct mailing address and Social Insurance Number.
Shop Stewards are not responsible to obtain your withdrawal card for you as it is not their duty to look after your business.
Should you require further information you may contact the Local Union office in Calgary at (403) 252-7843 or in Edmonton at (780) 483-7098.
-28-