Collective Agreement
Between
GENERAL MILLS CANADA CORP. MIDLAND, ONTARIO
And
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS LOCAL 388 G
Term of Agreement
JuneOl, 2006 through May 31,2011
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
ARBITRATION BEREAVEMENT LEAVE CONTRACTING OUT WORK DEDUCTION OF DUES
Assignment and Authorization Payment of Union Dues DISQUALIFICATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE GROUP LIFE, HEALTH, DISABILITY AND PENSION PLANS Dental Plan Life Insurance Pension Plan Safety Glasses Safety Shoe Allowance HOLIDAYS
Holiday Time Credit Holiday Work Pay Recognized Holidays Unworked HolidayPay HOURS OF WORK
Hours for Computing Overtime Rest Periods
Schedule of Normal Work Day and Week JURY-PAY LAY-OFFS
LEAVES OF ABSENCE LIMITATION ON STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS MANAGEMENT RIGHTS MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM Advancement Maintenance Positions Requirements Selection of Eligibility NEW POSITIONS AND RATES OVERTIME
Call-Back Pay Minimum Overtime (daily)
Overtime Pay Overtime Work Pyramiding
Reporting Pay Minimum Saturday Pay
33 16
34
37
38
38 25 31
34
34
34
35 37 37 9 9 9
9
10 2 4
3 2 16 20 25 37 34
39
40
41 40 39 21
4 8
4 6
5
Sunday Pay
PARTIES TO AGREEMENT PENSION PLAN AGREEMENT PLANT COMMITTEE POSTING PROCEDURES (Job Bidding)
PURPOSE
RECOGNITION (of Employees Covered) SCHEDULING
Assignments of Shifts Call-In Procedure
Placement When Alternate Job Choice Not Made Posting of Work Schedules Reduction in Work Force Procedure Reject Regular Position and Seniority Scheduling for Third Shift Staggering of Work week Teamleader Working SENIORITY
Continuous Service Maintenance Employees Plant Seniority Probationary Employees Seniority List Temporary Student Help SEVERENCE PAY SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL STAFFING SCHEDULE TERMINATION, SEPARATION &
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE TERMS OF AGREEMENT TRANSFERS VACATIONS
APPENDIX “A” - MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM APPENDIX “B” - WAGE SCHEDULE
7
1
35
30
23
1
2
10
10
14
11
15
11
10
11
10
10
17
17
19
18
18
18
18
28
9
10
31
38
21
26
39
41
Collective Agreement Between
GENERAL MILLS CANADA CORPORATION MIDLAND, ONTARIO And
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS
LOCAL 388 G
Term of Agreement
June 1,2006 to May 31, 2011
Article 1
PARTIES
1.01	The parties to this agreement are General Mills Canada Corporation, a Canadian Company existing under the Laws of the Province of Ontario, hereinafter called the Company, and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers Local 388 G (AFL, CIO, CLC) International, an International Union with headquarters in Kensington, Maryland, U.S.A. representingthe General Mills Canada Corporation employees at Midland, Ontario, through Local Union No. 388 G. hereinafter called the Union.
Article 2
PURPOSE
2.01	To insure true collective bargaining on matters relating to rates of pay, hours of work, and working conditions.
2.02 Parties of the contracthave agreed the acceptance or rejection of any demand by the Union or by the Company shall be determined by recognizing at all times the imperative need to protect at one and the same time, the continuing safety of the Company's corporate structure, and the general welfare of those dependent thereon. In so doing the Company and the Union pledge themselves to respect their mutual interest by promoting loyalty, efficiency, safety and a true cooperative spirit at all times within the plant organization.
2.03	The parties hereto acknowledgetheirrespectiveresponsibilityone to the other and to those for whom they act. Each pledges to refrain from any act, the effect of which may create a misleading or false impression of the other or which may be construed as discrimination,harassment, interference, or coercion. Company, Union and Employees will not discriminateagainst any employee because of sex, race, colour, creed, language, age, and national origin.
1
Article 3
RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for its employees for the purpose of negotiating with respect to hours of labour, rates of pay, working conditions, and other conditions of employment, provided, however, that this recognition and this Agreement shall not apply to employees whose duties and responsibilitiesclassify them as Supervisors, Managers, Team Leaders, Office Employees, LaboratoryEmployees, Buyers, Salesmen, and employees taking the Company’s regular training course for supervisoryservices, provided however, that trainees doing work to learn aj ob shall in no way displace or otherwise disturb the status of a regular employee who would normally work the job.
3.02	All non-maintenance employees shall become members of the Union on the
sixtieth (60th) working day followingthe beginning of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing for the life hereof as a condition of employment. All maintenance employees shall become members of the Union on the one hundred and twentieth (120th) working day following the beginning of their employment.
3.03	Notice ofUnion activities, regular meetings, and special meetings may be posted on Companypremises and board without prior approval. Other notices may be posted after approval by the Company.
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS OF WORK
4.01	Hours
Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work an forty (40)hours a week’s work for the purpose of computing overtime. This shall not be considered as a limitation on the number of hours per day or per week the Company may operate its plant or schedule its employees.
4.02	Schedule of Normal Working Hours and Days
a)	Under ESA Sec.18 (1) an employee shall be given a period of at least 11 consecutivehours free from performing work in each day. Under ESA Sec.18 (4) an employee shall be given a period free from the performance ofwork at least 24 consecutivehours in every work week or at least 48 consecutivehours in every period of two consecutivework weeks.
b)	The normal workweek shall consist of a Monday through Friday workweek schedule.
2
Any regular scheduled three (3) shift RDP and Snacks production operation will commence on Mondaymoming at 7:00am. Staffing will remain con si stent on third shift RDP and Snacks production for regular work week.
d)	Any regularly scheduled three (3) shift cookie line production operation will commenceon Sundaynight at 11:00pm.
e)	If production requires that certain positions have earlier start times and end times, those employees shall be paid at one and one half (1 & Vi) times their regular straight time rate for that time after eight (8) hours of work. In the case of twelve (12) hour extended shifts the regular start time shallbe 7;00 p.m. on Sunday and 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
f)	It is agreed the normal shift startingtimes shall be establishedby mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Any deviation from the previously agreed upon shift scheduling for the purpose of meeting varying operationalrequirements shall be by mutual agreement. The Company and Union both agree to cooperate in every way possible to insure that working schedules are in accord with production requirements.
g)	Any scheduled RBG line sanitation shall commence immediately following the completion of that day’s scheduled production.
4.03	The Companywill provide employees with a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break when working twelve (12) hour shifts.
4.04	Rest Periods
The Company agrees that there should be a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes in the first half and fifteen (15) minutes in the second half of each shift. A one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch period shall be granted each full work shift. These periods are to be allotted at the discretion of the team leader.
4.05	A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be provided between the regular shift and overtime, provided the employee works one (1) hour of overtime. An additionalten (10) minutes rest period will be provided if working beyond two (2) hours. It is understood that the employee who works the larger portion of the overtime, when splitting an eight (8) hour shift will be entitled to the half hour lunch break.
4.06	Employees on shift work are required to be ready and on the j ob prepared to commence work at their shift startingtime. Employees will not leave their work station until relieved by the on-coming shift or excused by their team leader.
4.07	The Company agrees to continue its practice of allowing employees a
five (5) minute wash period at the end of each half shift. For purposes of this
3
ARTICLE, the parties agree that when an employeeworks three (3) minutes beyond the end of his/her normal eight (8) hour shift, the five (5) minute wash period shall be added to allow the employee a total of one-quarter hours pay at the overtime rate. The five (5) minute wash period does not apply at the end of the shift when running twenty-four (24) hour shift rotation with a paid lunch, in order to ensure continuous operation.
4.08	The fifteen(15)minuterestperiodsmentionedin Articles4.04 and 4.05 aboveare inclusiveof the five (5) minute wash periods which has been an historial pratice and is mentioned in Article 4.07.
Article 5
OVERTIME
5.01	Pyramiding
In no event shall overtime or premium pay provided for in this ARTICLE be pyramided or duplicated. Thus, if two (2) or more of the overtime and premium pay provisions are applicable to the same hours of work, only the applicable provision yielding the highest amount of pay shall be applied, and such payment shall satisfy the requirements of all other applicablepay provisions. However, overtime and premium rates for all hours worked shall be computed on the applicable straight-time hourly position rate, plus the applicable shift differential. Furtherto ARTICLE4.02 (b), the applicable overtime rate of one and ahalf (l'/i) times the regular straighttime rate will be applicable when starting up early on Sunday due to a twelve (12) hour production requirement.
5.02	Overtime (Daily)
a)	An employee(s) will be notified at least two (2) hours in advance of the end of the shift on any daily overtime. Otherwise such overtime work will be voluntary on the part ofthe employee(s). The abovedoesnot apply in case of a mechanical or electrical breakdown.
b)	All overtime work in excess of eight (8) hours per week will be Voluntary on the part ofthe employee, except those employees who work daily overtime as part of their regular work week. Those employees would be required, if necessary, to work eight (8) hours overtime over and above the regular daily overtime they work per week, after which any overtime would be voluntary.
c)	All overtimework hours that are vacant by senior employees not wanting to work the overtime on Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays will be filled by the most junior qualified employee.
4
5.03	Overtime Work
1)	When employee’s services are needed for overtime work and they notify
their Team Leader immediately that they do not wish to accept the overtime work, they will be excused as soon as qualified replacements can be secured who will accepttherateofthejob. All parties will cooperate in securing a qualified replacement. Daily overtime of less than four (4) hours will be offered as follows:
a)	first to the person who is moved from their scheduled position for company convenience, and
b)	next to the person on thej ob during regular hours and
c)	then by plant seniority, qualificationsand skills being sufficient.
d)	Overtime will be first offered to the employees who are available for the entire overtime coverageneeded. Overtime will then be offered to the employees who are not available for the entire overtime starting with the least amountnot available. EG 15 minutes, 25 minutes, etc...
e)	Scheduled daily overtimerequired due to section (b) and (c) above will be offered by posting and employees will be required to sign for overtime. The Companywill post overtime sign-up sheet twenty-four (24) hours in advance to ensure all employees have the opportunity to sign.
f)	If (a) to (e) does not fill overtime, the lay off list will be utilized.
2)	Employees who wish to work Saturday, Sunday and recognized holidays must have the positions desired in their choices in order to work. The sign-up sheet will be available from Monday until 7:00 AM Thursday.
(a)	Weekend Replacement Procedures
(1)	To fill a vacancy follow through the sign up sheet until an employee who has not been assigned to work and has indicated they wish to work, then fill the position with this employee (if the employee has the vacancy available listed in their choices).
(2)	Next call by plant seniority to offer the overtime to anyone that has it as aj ob choice who did not indicate they wish to work.
(3)	Offer extra hours of work to employees on both ends of shift.
5
(b)	If employeeshave signed for Sundayovertime, this will override Saturday mandating and company would mandate for Saturday.
3)	Weekend Mandating will be assigned in the followingorder:
a)	Employees who sign the overtime list for Saturday and Sunday will followthose choices for production schedule. When alljobs are filled with those who sign, the vacant positions are filled starting at the lowest in seniority and working backwards until all positions are filled.
b)	Next to the mostjunior employee who has forty (40) hours or less.
c)	Next to the mostjunior employee with overtime accrued from daily built-in overtime.
d)	Next to the mostjunior employee who has partial hours available for weekend overtime mandating.
e)	When mandating from the mostjunior, if an employee signs for days only and a position is open on afternoonor night shifts and they are qualified, that employee will be scheduled to the open position.
Junior employees who are scheduled are not moved to accommodate a senior employee who does not sign and becomes thejunior qualified for the open position.
f)	An employee cannot be mandated more than twice in a four (4) week period.
4)	Weekend Lunchroom Scheduling
The lunchroom position will be scheduled on days for a single shift and on days and afternoons when dough line is runningboth shifts.
When two or more lines are running double shift, a lunchroom person will be scheduled on both shifts. When only one line is running (excludingdough line) either single shift or double shift, a lunchroom person will be scheduled to day shift only.
5.04	Overtime Pay
All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours at straight time in one (1) day or forty (40) hours at straight time in one (1) week or all work performed in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours, shall consitute overtimeand shall be compensated for at the rate of one and one-half (1 ‘A) times the straighttime hourly rate. The first eight (8) hours worked on recognized holidays which fall during the
6
employee’s first forty (40) straight time hours of work in the holiday week will he included in the forty (40) straighttime hours of work for the purpose of computing overtime of hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
Employees scheduled for Monday day shift or afternoon shift cannot be awarded Sundaymidnightovertime(ll p.m. -7 a.m.) shift.
5.05	Saturday Pay
Hours worked by an employee on Saturday shall he paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her straight-time hourly rate.
a)	In the event of time lost by reason of a labour dispute between General Mills Canada Corporation and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Gbain Millers Local 388 G (AFL, CIO, CLC, International) employees will be paid at the applicablepremium rate for work performed on Saturday, Sunday or Holidays.
b)	Sunday 11:00 PM Start
Production lines running between 11:00 PM Friday and 11:00 PM Saturday, will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straighttime hourly rate.
c)	Monday 7:00 AM Start
Production linesrunningbetween 7:00 AM Saturdayand 7:00 AM Sunday, will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straighttime hourly rate.
d)	No employee will be awarded two shifts of weekend overtimeon the same schedule date, unless no other qualified employee has signed for the other shift.
5.06	SundayPay
All work performed on Sunday shall be compensated for at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate. Except in those cases where production start times are staggered due to either shift or start-up as per article 4.02.
a)	Sunday 11:00 PM Start
Production linesrunningbetween 11:00 PM Saturdayand 11:00 PM Sunday, will be paid at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate.
b)	Monday7:00 AM Start
Production linesrunningbetween 7:00 AM Sundayand7:00 AM Monday, will be paid at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate.
c)	No employee will be awarded two shifts of weekend overtime on the same scheduledate, unless no other qualified employee has signed for the other
5.07	Reporting Pay Minimum
Employees called to work shall be given sufficientwork to enable them to earn not less than four (4) hours at the applicable hourly rate of pay, or, not being given that much work, shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable hourly rate unless beyond the control of the company due to mechanical or electrical breakdown. Every effort will be made to contact employees prior to them reporting to work in the event of a shift cancellation.
a)	Employees called in to fill a vacancy on the diift prior to their own shift within the same day will be given up to one(l) hour to report to work.
b)	Employees called in from layoff to fill aj ob as a replacement for an absent employee, who are asked to come in to the j ob within an hour, shall be given up to one (1) hour to report to thejob.
5.08	Call-BackPay Minimum
Employees will be called back to work as outlined in Article 5..03. Employees called back to work after completion of a regular day’s work and before the commencement of his/her next regular day’s work, shall be paid not less than four
(4)	hours’ pay at the applicable overtime rate. However, if employee’s regular shift starts one (l)hour or less from the time they started work on the call-back, they will receive the applicable overtime rate for only such time worked on the call-back as occurs before their regular shift. Employees shall not be considered called back if they are called to work sixteen (16) hours or more after the completion of their last regular day’s work; nor shall employees be considered called back if their succeedingshift is changed, provided the employees are notified of such change at or before the end of their preceding shift and eleven (11) hours or more have elapsed between the two (2) shifts. For maintenance employees who are scheduled to check ammonia compressors, cold rooms, etc., on Saturday, Sunday, or Holidays, the following scheduleof hours will be paid.
a)
One (1) trip to the plant, two (2) hours of pay at the appropriate overtime rate.
b)
If more than one (1) hour is worked four (4) hours of pay at the appropriateovertime rate.
5.09	Management will make every reasonable effort to provide the necessary training for employee’s who are not qualified for regular production or overtime work on weekends and holidays, if such employees have a reasonable expectation of acquiring such work by reason of their seniority.
Shift
Article 6
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
6.01	A shift differential shall be paid for all work performed on the second shift in the amount of fifty cents (SO) per hour and on the third shift in the amount of sixty-five cents (.65) per hour and such shift differential shall be used in computing overtime.
6.02	A drift differential of fifty cents (.50) will be applied to all wage rates outlined in ARTICLE 29 for all work performed between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 11:01 p.m. with the exception of those hours of work performed by employees on the day shift who must complete eight (8) hours of work before the applicationof the shift differentialbecomes effective.
6.03	A shift differential of sixty-five cents (.65) per hour will be applied to all wage rates as outlined in ARTICLE 29 for all work performed between the hours of 11:01 p.m. and 7:00 am.
Article 7
HOLIDAYS
7.01	Recognized Holidays Holidays shall be:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, first Monday in June, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and one (1) day before Christmas Day and one (1) day before New Year’s Day as well as one additional floating holiday (representingHeritage Day). Our holiday schedulewill remain atthirteen (13).
7.02	Any stipulatedholidays falling on a Saturday will be observed on the day agreed to by the Union and Company in advance. Canada Day will be observed on the day agreed to by the Union and the Company. This will b e agreed to 6 months in advance.
Any stipulated holidays falling on Sunday will be observed on the day on which it is required to be publicly observed or in accordancewith the Canada Labour Code referredto as Bill C-126.
7.03	Holiday Work Pay
All work performed by employees during the hours of their regular shift on the holidays listed in Paragraph 7.01 shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate in addition to the holiday pay of eight (8) hours at straight time or in addition to straight time for hours worked, whichever is greater. For work
9
on such holidays commencing outside the hours of their regular shift the employees shall be paid for an early call in, or for a call back, whichever is applicable, as defined in Paragraphs 5.07 and5.08, at the rate of (3) times the regular hourly rate in addition to the holiday pay of eight (8) hours at straight time. Work on a paid holiday shall be voluntary on the part ofthe employee.
7.04	Unworked Holiday Pay
Employees will be paid eight (8) hours their straight time hourly rate for the holidays listed in Paragraph 7.01 if no work is performed on tiisss holidays, provided the employee has worked if scheduled the day prior to and immediately following the statutoryholiday, unless otherwise excused. In addition the employee must work five (5) days during the month in which the holiday occurs, or received five (5) days pay during the month.
Article 8
STAFFING SCHEDULE
8.01	The company shall not deliberately stagger the workweek in such a manner as to deprive employees of overtime. Regularly scheduled swing shifts, when practical and desirablemay be negotiated between the Company and the Union. Supervisors, Team Leaders and other plant personnel excluded from the bargaining unit will not be permitted or assigned to do work covered by the bargaining unit, except as outlined in (a), (b) and (c) below:
(a)	Instructing and/or training employees
(b)	Demonstrating the correct use of tools or equipment
(c)	Acting to prevent an accident or injury to an employee, or to prevent product or equipment damage.
8.02	Employees may not reject work in their regular position and thereafterus their seniorityto claim work in another position.
a)	Employees returning from modified work must be scheduled for minimum of one regular shift before being awarded overtime.
8.03	All employees will be assigned to either an “A” or “B” shift designation forthe purposes of shift rotation during any two-shift operation. For the purposes of shift rotation during any three shift operation, positions on the third shift will be filled by those employees who hold 3"1 shift postings, these employees will have a “C” designation along with their regular “A” or “B” shift designation for the purpose of any two shift rotation.
A two shift rotation calendar starting after the plant shutdown will be set up for the purpose of scheduling designatedshifts forthe next fifty-two (52) week period.
Assignments to these “A”,”B” and, or“C” shifts shall be permanent to the extent
10
of maintaining a balance of skills, experience and continuity of production. Changes from one shift to another shift shall be in accord with the job posting procedure as outlined in Article 15 when bid j ob vacancies exist or when the parties agree it is necessary to redistribute the skills or when necessitated by a reduction in force to fill availablejobs.
8.04	The parties agree that when a reduction in force occurs, the purpose of the
following paragraphs is to generally preserve work opportunities for the more senior employees.
a)	Employees shall, when their regular bidjob is not operating, designate, in order of preference, unlimited alternateprimary choices in all areas of operations.
b)	Employees will list all j obs for which they wish to work on their choice sheet within their primary and secondary and sanitationchoicesorwill face layoff.
c)	Employees who hold “C” shift bidjobs will be scheduledto these positions any time their bid j ob is running, or was running to start the week (if they can obtain it by seniority). If their bidjob is not running once they have begun to work on the “C” shift they will follow all production choices on that shift as long as they are able to obtain these by way of seniority.
3 3nfts: When running the lines on three shifts, all employeesholding C shift production bidjobs will be scheduled to theirjob if they can make it by seniority (i.e. warehouse and cookie line). If their job stops running during the week, they will follow their choices on C shift first before moving to their letter (A) or (B) shift. If production i s running on a line that no employee holds a bid job for, then the mostjunior qualified employee will be scheduledto that position. If theirjob is running on C shift, and their qualifications as. required on another position on C shift, they will be moved across shift if we have no other option available (J.Q. orC.C.).
2 Shifts: When running double drift, all employees who hold C Shift bid jobs and have their hid job as their first choice will be scheduled on that j ob on their letter (A) or (B) shift if they can obtain by seniority. Employees who hold C shift hid j obs and place that bidj ob further down in their choices will be scheduled on a higher choice if they can obtain it by their seniority. They may ultimatelybe scheduled on their bidjob on their letter of A orB, then follow remainder of choices on that shift, then to the opposite letter by their choices.
it
1 Shift: When a line or a position (i.e. shipping, Kliklok, Thiele) is running single shift and a person holds that position as a bid job, or can obtain it by seniority as one of their higher choices, then they will be scheduled to that position first on the single shift.
Shift Reduction: The following procedure will be followed when production lines reduce from a double to a single shift. The first day of the single shift will be scheduled as an afternoon shift and the time will be adjusted as to the earliest time available for those scheduled to follow the Employment StandardsAct. The second day for line being a single shift, again staffing will be done as if on afternoon shift and the start time to coincide with the earliest possible start time to follow the Employment StandardsAct rules for all employees, except only if start time is not at 7:00 AM on the second day back.
e)	All lines will follow a two shift rotation separate from any third shift operation. All “A’s” to be scheduled on the same shift if possible. All “B’s” to be scheduled on the same shift if possible. In the event of a single shift operation, “A’s” and “B’s” will be scheduled on the same shift by seniority, choices, skills, and abilities.
f)	Employees will follow all primary choices on their given shift before proceeding to the next shift and only to the “C” shift before layoff.
g)	The employees choice sheet will have a primary list of choices, to include any qualifiedposition in the RBG or Snacks operation an employee wishes to be assigned to for the purpose of scheduling.
Employee choice sheets may also include a secondary list of any choices an employee wishes to perform before they would be laid c£f.
i) The choice sheet for each employee will include any position an employee wishes to be scheduledto for the purposes of shift rotatdm. The employee will be scheduled to these choices on their letter shift first and the opposite shift second in order of preference and seniority.
The employee choice sheet will also include a separate area at the end for any line sanitationjobs an employeemay wish to perform if qualified before lay c££.
Day to day schedulingwill be as follows; first by primary choices on the designated letter shift, second by primary choices on the opposite letter shift, third by secondary choices on the letter designated shift, fourth by secondary choices on the opposite shift, fifth by primary and secondary choices on the 3“ (“C”) shift, and lastly by sanitation choices listed in the sanitationsection.
12
l)	All previous department employees must list one of thosejobs as their bid job. Then they must list all previous remaining departmentjobs somewherein their choices.
m)	Forthe purpose of RBG vacancies, employees who hold Snacksbidjobs must place any RBG choices to which they wish to advance ahead of their Snacks bid job in their choices. Employees who are in the Snacks regularly scheduled operation, who do not hold a Snacks bid job, who wish to advance to the RBG section must place their RBG choices ahead of their Snacks choices.
n)	All overtime will be awarded based on the employee’s choice list. Employeesmay signup forjobs in any orderthey choose for Saturday and Sunday and Holidays provided these jobs are within their choice list (primary, secondary and sanitation section).
o)	Previous Sanitation departments will still be protected and will be called a crew. The sanitationcre ws will list one of their previous departmentjobs as their bidjob. They will then have to list in descending order all remaining protected positions next.
p)	Employee’s choices of alternatejobs shall be made once each year effective on May 1st. These choices shall remain in effect for fifty-two (52) weeks.
q)	For each of the choices desired by an employee, the employee must be qualified to perform thejob and have reasonable expectationsof attaining thejob by reason of seniority. Employeeswill not be disqualified from a job choice if the employee requires eight (8) hours or less refresher training. Employeesmay indicate with a‘T” any positionsthey would wish to having training on if their seniority would give them an opportunity to secure this position. Updates may be requested by indicating a “U” (8 hours or less) on their choices. Training would be done gradually throughout they year. The Training Committee will have discretion on who and what training will be scheduled on a case by case basis.. If an employee becomes qualified on ajob not listed in their choices after the choices have been made, it will be added to their choices wherever the employee chooses.
r)	When reduction in force occurs, if anyjob has not been selected by any employee, then the company shall place the mostjunior qualified on the shift in thejob. Once an employee has beenjunior qualified, we do not move that employee unless there is no other option.
13
s)	When it is known, in advance of preparing the staffing schedule that aj ob will be vacant due to the absence of an employee thejob will be assigned to the most senior qualified employee who is not scheduled on an RBG bid j ob, who has selected the opening in question as one of their higher alternate choices on the same shift first. If no employee has indicated the vacantj ob as a higher choice than the one he/she is on, the Company shall assign the mostjunior qualified employee to thejob on the same shift first. It is the Company’s intent to try to make changes under this clause as early as possible.
t)	When a bidj ob is to be scheduled on the Staffing sheets even though actual production is not running these positions will be filled through the usual procedure ofbid jobs and choices.
8.05	The employee shall be responsible forproviding a current telephone
number and alternate, if available, where they can be contacted. It shall be the Employee’s responsibility to make contact before the start of each week, if they did not work the prior week or are absent due to weekly illness or other, to verify scheduling. If the employee does not verify scheduling with the Companyby 9:00 PM on the Friday, the employee will be replaced.
If the schedule changes after the employee has verified scheduling, it will be the Company’s responsibility to contact the employee at the numbers on file.
1.	The following day to day replacementsof employees will stop after a
maximum of three (3) internal moves as follows:
a)	In the event that an employee has limited choices due to health reasons, and is on lay-off, and an opening becomes available on either Snacks or RBG, said employee will be brought in if they have the seniorityto claim thatjob, regardless of any other clause in any other article.
b)	In the event of an RBG vacancy, one senior qualified employee working on Snacks line on the same shift who has the vacancy in question as a higher alternate choice, or listed ahead of their Snacks bid j ob in their alternate choices, will advance to the RBG vacancy, unless there is a more senior employee qualified on the lay-off list.
c)	Any further plant vacancy will be filled by the senior qualified person on the lay-off list.
d)	If no qualified employees are available on the lay-off list, then the vacancy will be filled by thejunior qualified on the same shift
14
e)	Once the junior qualified employee is moved, the vacancy left is covered by (a) through (d).
f)	Employees scheduled for early start up and are eligible to move into a higher choice via replacement will be reassigned. Employee will assume scheduled hours and early start will be considered built-in overtime, subjectto ESA.
g)	If the vacancy cannot be filled by (a) to (d), the position may be filled by overtime.
h)	Should a vacancy for the afternoon shift become apparent before 11:00 am., one phone call will be made to the first employee using replacement procedure. After 11:00 a.m., if the phone call has not been returned, replacement procedure can continue until the vacancy is filled.
i)	Staffing notification calls will be made up to 9:00 p.m. on any given workday for the following day’s schedule. Anyone not contacted by 9:00 p.m. can be bypassed and the next available employee can be contacted.
j)	The replacement procedure will be used for absences of four (4) hours or more.
k)	Early start times on a (2) shift rotation will be defined as follows: Scheduled starttime of 6:30am and2:55pm and any time before will be considered an early start.
l)	For the purpose of replacement procedures company will start at the top of the layoff list for each shift.
m)	An employee on the layoff list may not refuse an afternoon or midnight shift that becomes available in order to secure a scheduled shift the following day.
n)	An employee removed from a scheduled shift due to Article 8.05 (m) will than be re-scheduled as per article 8.
2. An employeewho is scheduled to training will not be moved until after all
replacementprocedures have been exhausted.
8.06	When a newjob is created between choice sessions the newjob will be added to each employee’s choice list where the employee indicates.
8.07	The Company will make every reasonable effort to post employees work schedules to provide forty-eight (48) hours notice whenever possible.
is
8.08	It is the reponsibility of all employees to check the daily staffing sheetposted on the bulletin board to determine where they are scheduled the next shiftor day.
This i s to be done when leaving the plant at shift end, any changes thereafter, the employees will be contacted by phone.
8.09	Once shift or position trades have been approved by a Team Leader, the employees involved will assume the seniority rights of the other employee during the shift in question. When people tradejobs they cannot then use their own seniority to claim overtime as a result.
8.10	a) Bid jobs left vacant at any time by an employee being absent will be filled by the day to day schedulingof employees as outlined in article (8). If the vacancy is due to a prolonged absence, the Union Committee may request that a Training Sign-up sheet be posted for the purpose of assuringthat the most senior employee availablehas the opportunity to obtain the vacancy.
b)	Training to be awarded to the most senior employee who has a reasonable expectation of attaining the position by bidjob and choice procedure. Once training is completethe employee must place this j ob within their choices so that they are able to attain this j ob by seniority for the length of the vacancy.
Article 9
JURY PAY
9.01	Employees who are requested to be absent from work for jury service shall receive whatever straight-timepay they would have otherwise received up to and including forty (40) hours in anyone (1) week less the amount ofjury pay which they received for the same period. When the above is applicable, each full day of jury service shall be credited as one eight (8) hour day in the computation of overtime, and each partial day ofjury service shall be credited as a partial day toward overtime. To be eligible for the above payment, employees must notify their immediate supervisorat the time of their call tojury service and must furnish evidence of the amount of pay received forjury service.
9.02	The Company will reimburse employees for car mileage where applicable at the Company rate for mileage, less the amount received from the courts for mileage.
Article 10
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
10.01	In the event of death in an employee’s immediate family, an employee will
be allowed days cff with pay (each day at eight (8) hours straight-time) in accord with the schedule below as it pertains to each member of the immediate family.
16
immediateFamilv Member________________________Max. Days Paid
Spouse or Child or Step Child or Parents	8 days
Brother, Sister, Grandchild, Step Brother,	3 days
Step Sister, Step Parent, Grandparents,
Brother-In-Law, Sister-In-Law, Father-In-Law Mother-In-Law, Son-in-Law, or Daughter-In-Law
GreatGrandparentsand Spouse’s Grandparents	1 day
10.02	Under the same conditions, an employee will be granted an additional day off with pay provided he/she is required to travel more than 200 kilometres one-way to attend the funeral.
10.03	The Company will provide for one (1) day with pay for any employee acting as pallbearer for a fellow employee.
10.04	The Company shall be promptly notified of the absence hereunder and the reason therefore.
10.05	If an employee suffers the loss of two (2) or more family members at once, said employee shall be allowed the recommended number ofbereavement days per family member to run consecutively with pay.
Article 11 SENIORITY
11.01	Continuous Service
The term “continuous service” wherever used in this Agreement is the period of time that begins with an employee’s date of hire. if such service is broken for any ofthe reasons listed under (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)or (f) below, continuous service shall commencewith the employee’s most recent hire date.
Continuous service shall not be broken due to lay-off or absence due to sickness, injury, leave of absence or other legitimate reason approved by the Company. However, an employee’s continuous service shall be broken if he or she:
1(a)	quits, or
(b)	is discharged forjust cause, or
(c)	has been laid off or is sick for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive calendar months, or
(d)	fails to advise the Company of change in address or fails to report within a resonabletime when called if, in addition, the Union is given forty-eight
17
(48) hours in which to locate such employee and arrange for his/her reporting to work, or
(e)	accepts a Severance allowance payment, or
(f)	takes a pension under the General Mills Pension Plan.
Plant Seniority
The term “Plant Seniority” as used herein shall mean a period reflected by the Company’s employment records of an employee’s continuous service. Plant seniority shall accumulate for the purpose of determiningrights of employees in connectionwith lay-offs and recalls.
11.02	ProbationaryEmployees
Employees shall be regarded as on probation for the first sixty (60) working days aftheir employment. Upon completion of the probationary period, the employee’s seniority shall be retroactive to the beginning date of his/her last period of continuous employment. There shall be no Companyresponsibility for re-employment or continued employment of probationary employees. Maintenance employees shall be regarded as on probation for the first one hundred and twenty (120) working days of their employment. The probationary period may be extended by mutual consent of the union and the company on a case by case basis.
11.03	Seniority List
The Seniority lists will be revised every three months. They will be available for inspectionby the employees concerned at the Production Office, or some other suitable location. Effective July 16, 1996, the Seniority list will show two dates:
(a)	The date of hire for purposes of vacation, layoffs and recalls.
(b)	The date of completion of950 hours for the purposes of pension and benefits.
All employeeshired from and after July 16, 1996 will follow 11.03 a) andb), and will have lower seniority than all current Regular, Casual and Probationary employees. All employees on the current seniority list as of July 15, 1996, will follow rules in effect as at their date of hire.
11.04	Temporary Student Help
The Company may hire summer help to cover the vacation period but that help will not accrue seniority. The summer period is defined as from May 1st to August
18
31s1. Employees hired outside the May 31st to August 31st period will be from the working force, if available.
11.05	MaintenanceEmployees
New employeeshired to become MaintenanceRegularSeniority Employees, including those who have completed their probationary period, shall be eligible for Statutory Vacations and Statutory Holidays only, during their first one hundred and toenty (120) working days of continuous service with the Company. Coverage for other benefits is effective on the first of the month following completionof one hundred and twenty (120) working days of continuous service, unless specified as being later.
11.06	Regular Employees
a)	For employeeshired before May 31, 2002
A regular employee base ofamaximum ofl90 employeeswill be maintained. Once an employee has worked 950 hours in a calendaryear he/she will be eligible for regular employee status only if this does not increase the regular employee base over 190. Elowever, the rate of pay for newly hired employeeswill remain as outlined in Article 11.07 for the time periods noted. Health and dental benefits will be available for regular employees only.
b)	ForemployeeshiredafterMay31,2002
A regular employee base ofamaximum of 150 employeeswill be maintained. Once an employee has worked 1200 hours in a calendar year he/she will be eligible for regular employee status only if t h i s does not increasethe regular employee base over 150. However, the rate of pay for newly hired employeeswill remain as outlined in Article 11.07 for the time periods noted. Health and dental benefits will be available for regular employeesonly.
11.07	Casual Employees
A three-tier system of casual employees will be maintained.
Tierl:	A casual worker will be hired at$2.00 per hour less than the job
rate in the collective agreement for the first twelve (12) months of employment.
Tier 2:	During the second year of employmentthe Casual employee will
be paid $ 1.00 per hour below contractrates.
19
Tier 3 :	Commencing the third year of employmentthe Casual employee
will receive regular hourly wages.
Casual employees will receive benefits when they become regular employees as
noted in 11.06.
a)	Employees will be considered Casual, until these employees have 1200 hours (including recognized holidays) in a calendar year except as noted in Article 11.06 (a). Employees eligible for maternity, jury duty, parental and WSIB leave, will accumulatehours and seniority for the time they otherwise would have worked.
b)	Group Life, Health, Dental, Disabilityand Pension Plan referenced in ARTICLE24 shall not apply to Casual Employees. Such benefits shall apply at the beginning of the month after attainingregular employee status as noted in Article 11.06. Casual Employees shall receive4% of their T-4 earnings as defined in this agreement, as vacation pay each year.
c)	Casual Employees shall be subject to Union Membership, dues and Initiation fees as outlined in ARTICLE 3.02 and ARTICLE26. Casual Employees will become subject to the grievance procedure in ARTICLE 20 covering the terms and conditionsof their employment status. There shall be no Company responsibilityfor re-employment or continued employment during the first sixty (60) working days. The Company agrees to inform the Union of dismissal and reason, prior to communicationwith employee.
11.08	Casual employees must keep alljobs on their choices until they become
regular employees.
Article 12 LAY-OFFS
12.01	When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force at the plant ofthe
Company, plant seniority shall apply with respect to all employees, qualifications being sufficient. In the consideration of plant seniority, it will be the practice to lay off the employee having the shortest period of plant seniority. It is recognized that some leeway is necessaryto the Company in the application of this rule in order to provide for instances where specialized skill, experience, and/or ability necessitate that exceptionsbe made in order to insure efficient and continuous plant operations.
a)	The interpretationof the above paragraph means that a reduction in force or lay-off shall be any day on which an employee is not scheduled to work.
20
b)	In recalling, seniority shall prevail and the practice at the plant will be that the employee with the longestplant senioritywill first be recalled, but the same leeway shall be due the Company as is provided for in the case of lay-offs under the above paragraph.
c)	Further, no new employeeswill be hired until all available, regular employeeshave been affordedan opportunityto return to work, except that should occasion require the services of someone especially qualified foracertainjob or position which cannot be filled from the employeesin the plant, this rule shall be modified to that extent. Failure to report within a reasonable time when called, failure to advise the Company of change of address, or an absence of over one (1) year may be cause for removal farm consideration.
d)	In the event of a lay-off, top seniorityin the plant wll be granted to the localUnion President, excludingMaintenance.
ARTICLE 13
NEW POSITIONS AND RATES
13.01	Whenever the duties, responsibilities or otherjob content have changed substantially, eitherparty to th is Agreement may request a meeting with the other for the purpose of arriving at a satisfactory adjustment in rate for the same.
a) Whenever there are drastic or major duties, responsibilities orjob content changes for critical or key positions after choiceshave been made an employee will have the right to remove th/sjob choice or to move wifirin their choices one time only within the currentjob choice period. Thejob can not be added back to the choice list for one year once removed and until a training update has been completed.
13.02	Prior to the inauguration of a permanent newjob, the Union shall be advised of its intended establishment. When the permanent newjob is created, the Company may at its discretion, establish a temporary rate for such work, and after thirty (30) days of operation, shah negotiate with the Union a permanent rate which shall be retroactive to the effective date of the newjob. Job description to specify other duties as assigned pertaining to the job.
Article 14
TRANSFERS
14.01
a) Temporary transfers for any reason which extend beyond sixty (60) days shall be subject to immediate review by the Union and the Company. In case a temporary transfer for any reason is for a period longer than sixty (60) days consecutively, the Company and the Union will review such transfer to
determine the employee’s senioritystatus. in case a new position is established, the rate forthe new position will be determined by negotiation between the Union and the company prior to the end of the sixty (60) day period.
b)	Employees in any position are expected to perform any duties pertaining to the job. When an employee is assigned to alower-ratejob forthe company’s convenience, and work continues on his/her j ob, such employee shall receive the wage rate of his/her regular position, in other circumstances, the rate of the position the employee is working in will be paid.
c)	It is understood that nothing in the preceding paragraphs precludes an employee from agreeing to accept a lower rate of pay while serving as an apprentice or while in training for ajob paying a higher rate. An employee will be deemed qualified forthe rate of pay ofthejob involved when he/she satisfactorily performs the duties with no more supervision than is required by other qualified workers on the samejob.
d)	in the case of transfer for the Company’s convenience, (meaning a transfer not in accord with the employee’sbidjob or alternate choice selection, but which is at the choice of the Company for reasons of skill) employeestransferredwill receive renumeration equivalent to that of the j ob they are transferred from, or the pay for the hours worked on thej ob they are transferred from, or the pay for the hours worked on thejob they are transferred to, whichever is greater. Any one transferred from a three (3) shift operation to a two or one shift operation shall receive a paid lunch break.
e)	If a transfer occurs, then the employee will get the higher rate for all hours, full or partial, worked on the newjob.
f)	Company will exhaust all replacement and scheduling procedures before using Company convenience.
g)	An employee who is moved to a position with an earlier start time than they were originally scheduled. Said employeewill be allowed to leave at the normal end time of the position they were moved to and receive eight (8) hours pay.
14.02	Employees accepting or transferring to all managementpositions referred to in Article 3 Recognition, clause 3.01 and remaining for more then nine (9) months shall not retain their seniority rights in the bargaining unit. Employees may only exercise this clause once.
14.03	The Company reserves the right to balance out light duties personnel, firstly by shift, second by seniority.
22
Article 15
POSTING PROCEDURES
15.01	When two or more employeeshave equal plant seniority, the earliest shift worked on the first day shall govern, andifboth started work on the sameday and shift, the alphabetical order of the employee’s last name shall govern, beginning with the letter “A”. It is understood that seniorityalong with the employees’ ability, physical qualities and absenteeismwill be the determining factors in awarding critical positions.
15.02	Employees accepting a promotion or tranferring to another position shall be given a fair trial in. the new position and shall be returned to their old position if they are unable to perform the new assignment satisfactorily. Management and Employeeshave fifteen (15) working days to come to a decision on accepting a job posting.
15.03	Employees will be consideredcapableofpeforming the duties of their new position in a satisfactorymanner when they require no more supervision than other qualified employeesin the same position.
15.04	Employees will be allowed to obtainthree(3)job postings in a twelve (12) month period. Once an employeeis qualified through thejob posting procedure, this position must be included injob choices for a minimum of two (2) years. The following will not be considered in the above:
1)	An employee returns by choice to their previousj ob before the sixth working day of the trial.
2)	An employee is unsuccessful in the j ob, and is returned to their previous job by the company before the end of the trial period.
3)	Temporary Posting
a)	If employees move to a lower rated j ob for their own convenience and find their new position to be inadequate, they may request, along with reasons as to why, they wi sh to return to their former position.
b)	Employees holding a temporary posting may not use their seniority to claim daily overtime when not scheduled on their bid jobs.
c)	When an employeecannotobtaintheirtemporarypositionby reason of seniority or the position is not functioningthat day, they will return to their original bid job and then choices.
15.05	Before filling vacancies, the Company will post a notice of such vacancy on the bulletin board within three (3) days of job vacancy. This notice shall remain
23
posted for three (3) working days and employees desiringto apply for the position must sign their names to the notice during that period of time. Failure to do so removes any employee from consideration for the vacant position.
If no suitable applications are received, the Company will fill the vacancy with employeeson seniority not holding a job within any position and if there are no such employees, the Company may fill the vacancy by hiring an employee for such a vacancy.
The higher rate of pay as a result of a posting shall be paid the employee only for the hours actually worked on thejob while completinghis/her trial period in 15.02.
15.06	If for legitimate verified reasons approved by the HR Manager and the Plant Committee, employees shall be absent from work during the above mentioned three (3) working days, due consideration will be given the employees for such advancement, provided they indicate a desire for such considerationwithin five (5) working days after their return to work and within dirty (30) working days from the date of posting. The company will advise seniority employees on approved leaves of such postings.
15.07	The Company also agrees to post the name of the employee chosen for such positions within five (5) working days. If the Company is unable to post such notice within five (5) working days, the Committee will be notified in writing of the reason.
15.08	There will be twelve (12) permanent employees on the Snacks Sanitation crew and four (4) permanent employees on the RBG Sanitation crew. When additional positions are required, the additional positions will be assigned by plant seniority from the employees on lay-off or new employees.
15.09	(a) Among the twelve (12) permanent employees on the Snacks Sanitation Crew, the nine (9) most senior permanent members of the crew, will be protected. Among the four (4) permanentemployeesontheRBG Sanitation Crew, the four (4) most senior permanent members of the crew will be protected.
(b)	The definition of "protected" in the above paragraph means that the nine (9) protected employees on Snacks Sanitation and four (4)protected employees on RBG Sanitation will be regularly assigned to their respective crews when thejob is functioning and cannot be replaced by senior employees on lay-off. The three (3) non-protected employeeson the Snacks Sanitation crew can be bumped by senior qualified employees facing layoff.
(c)	In cases where the RBG and Snacks line is not running production, one Protected Sanitation employee will be utilized for two senior qualified
24
employees up to a total of four. Thereafter, thejobs will be filled on the basis of senior qualified employee first.
(d)	Employees holding protected positions shall by choices be placed onjobs that are considered by the Company to be protectedjobs and only moved as a last resort.
(e)	Employees holding the final three (3) permanent sparepositionson Snacks Sanitation shall be trained on positions so as to be available should a protected employee be absent.
15.10	In the event of failure on a posting or a decline, the employee concemedwill be returned to their oldjob, and if within thirty (30) daysof thejob posting, the next applicant will be found by taking the next most senior person who signed the posting. After thirty (30) days, the job will be re-posted.
15.11	Disqualification
1.	Any employee who is disqualified from anyjob as aresult of errors
made doing thatj ob will not be eligible to claim any work in thatj ob category for a period of one (1) year.
2.	The above one (1) year limit will apply equally to alljobs in our
operations.
Article 16
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
16.01(a)	Upon written request of the Union, the Company will grant a leave of
absence to not more than two (2) employees in the plant to accept fulltime positions with the Union. However, if the number of employees in the bargaining unit exceeds five hundred (500), then one (1) additional employeewill also be granted a leave of absence. Plant seniority shall accrue during such leaves of absence.
(b)	Employees returning to work from leave of absence shall return to the
position they occupied at the time their leave becomes effective.
16.02	If an employee is required to be absent from work through serviceinthe Reserves, or who is drafted, or volunteers for service in Canadian Armed Faroes,may be, by mutual agreement between the Plant Committee and the Company, granted a leave of absence, in writing. Such leave of absence will not interrupt an employee’s continuous service.
16.03	An employee absent because of service requirements in the Reserves will be returned to his/her regular position immediately upon his/her return from serviceinthe Reserves.
25
Employees serving with Canadian Armed Forces will be returned to their former position providing they report for work within ninety (90) days after obtaining their Certificateof Discharge.
The Companywill grant leavesof absenceretroactivelyto employees when warranted for legitimate reasons, includingillness and accident. Seniority will accumulate during such leaves of absence.
The Company will grant leaves of absence without pay for a reasonable period twice each year, to not more than three (3) employees to serve as delegates for the local Union for the transaction ofUnion business.
At the discretion of the Company, a short term personal leave-of-absence of one (1) or two (2) day s, without pay, may b e granted on an infrequent basis if said employeehas booked all vacation days.
VACATIONS
17.01	It is agreed the scheduling of all vacations shall be decided by Plant Management having regard to the necessity of maintaining production and seniority and, whenever it is practical, to arrangevacationsto suit individual employees, an effort will be made to do so. The Company will allow two (2) employees from similar positions to take the same week’s vacation outside the scheduled plant shutdown, except during September, October, November, February, and March, when only one (1) person will be allowed to go. One (1) additional employee in similar positions may be allowed to take vacation provided Company approval is granted in accord with production requirements.
17.02	Plant shutdown schedule will be posted by April 1.
17.03	Vacation schedules will be posted by April 1 and will be completedby May 30th,
17.04	Failure to comply will result in vacation allotment according to production requirements.
a) One week of vacation will take precedent over less than a full week.
17.05	The Company will allow two (2) employees from similar positions to take three (3) consecutiveweeks’ vacation outside the scheduled plant shutdown, except during September, October, November, February, and March, when only one (1) person per similar position will be allowed to go for atwo (2) week period. One (1) additional employee in similar positions may be allowed in accord with production requirements.
16,04
16,05
16.06
16.07
Article 17
26
17.06	For the purpose of a plant shutdown referred to in Article 17.02, for either a one (1) week or two (2) week period, it is agreed all eligible for vacation at that time will take their vacations, provided their services are not otherwise required. If there is not a scheduled plant shutdown, the Company shall grant the above vacations in accordance with the principles of paragraph 17.01 above.
17.07	Vacation Payments
(a)	Any employee who has completed 1200 hours in a calendaryear or is a regular employee accordingto article 11.06 will receive full vacation pay out.
(b)	Employees who at the time of the plant shutdown have accumulated unbroken service on the payroll of one (1) full year shall receive two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay. Employees who have not completed a year’s service shall receive an amount equal to four percent (4%)of their total earnings up to the holiday.
(c)	Each week of vacation shall be compensated at two percent (2%) of the employee’s gross yearly pay or forty (40)hours times their bidjob hourly wage rate (or, ifnot assigned a bidjob, the hourly wage rate ofthejob they are normally assigned to) at the time of their vacation whichever is the greater. After fifteen (15) years of continuous service each week of vacation shall be compensated at two and one half percent (2'/i%) of the employees gross yearly pay or forty (40Jhours times their bid j ob hourly rate (or if not assigned a bidjob), the hourly wage rate of the job they are normally assigned to at the time of their vacation, whichever is the greater. The term “gross yearly pay” shall mean the T-4 earnings for the preceding calendaryear and including pay, bereavement pay, jury duty pay (no mileage), and vacation pay. In addition to the T-4 earnings, money’s paid in lieu of wages under the Worker’s Compensation Act in Ontario, and up to a maximum of forty (40) hours times the employee’s hourly wage rate for each week an employee is paid a benefit from the Weekly indemnity Plan. A Casual employee who works 1200 hours or less in the previous calendar year, except as noted in 11.06 (a) shall have his/her vacation pay calculated at 4% of total earnings for the previous calendaryear.
(d)	The period used as the vacation year for purposes of taking vacation, or forprorating vacation pay forneworterminatedemployeesisJune 1 of each year to the following May 31. Employees who have worked sometime during the vacation year will receive vacation pay after June 1 of the following vacation year.
An employee who returns to work from an extended leave or lay off period for at least one day, shall qualify for the vacation he/she would normally be entitled to by reason of length of service.
27
17.08	Employees with five (5J years’ continuous service shall receive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay.
17.09	Employees with twelve (12) years’ continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay.
17.10	Employees with seventeen (17) years’ continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay.
17.11	Employees with twenty-five (25) years of continuous service shall receive six (6) weeks’ vacation with pay.
17.12	Employees permanently leaving the Company payroll will receive the vacation with pay for which they have become eligible during the year on a pro-rated basis. This provision is to apply also in the case of death of an employee.
17.13	No employee will be allowed to work their vacation.
17.14	An employee who has an approved vacation for Friday or Monday will not be mandated on the weekend. The employee however may sign to work the weekend shift if they wish to work.
17.15 If the approved leave or vacation is on a normal scheduled work day, the employee will be considered off for the day in question and not available to work until the day shift of the next day. If this is not acceptable, it will be the employee’s responsibility to note on the request form that they wish to be available for the production night shift of the requested day off. This will not apply to “C” shift employees.
Article 18
SEVERANCE PAY
18.01	Employees who have completed two (2) or more years of continuous service with the Company and who are thereafter permanently laid off due to lack of work caused by management action in initiating any of the following changes, shall be eligible for severance pay.
(a)
Technological improvements in facilities or equipment.
Changes in methods of production, processing, shipping, receiving, materials handling or distribution,etc.
Permanent closing of the plant, job reduction or other permanent reductions in the total plant working force.
18.02	Employees shall not be eligible for severancepay (1) if they are eligible for
normal retirement under the provisions of the Retirement Plan of General Mills
28
Canada Corporation and the BakEry, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Qain Millers (AFL, CIO, CLC) international Local388 G, (2) in the event of discharge forjust cause or resignation, (3) in the event of death or (4) in the event of an employee being offered and accepting employment elsewhere with General Mills Canada Corporation.
18.03	‘Termanently Laid Off asusedinthis ARTICLE 18 is defined as a lay-off resulting from the application of (a), (b) or (c) of Paragraph 18.01 above. Temporary lay-offs which extend beyond twenty-four (24) months shall be considered permanent lay-offs for the purpose of this ARTICLE 18. Lay-offs will be in accordance with ARTICLE 12 of this collective agreement. However, employees (i.e. employee A) displaced as a result of the elimination of their regularjob and who are also eligible for severancepay may have the option of accepting the lay-off and receiving severancepay or exercising their seniority under ARTICLE 12 to claim anotherjob. Ifthey choose to exercise their seniority to claim anotherjob, and displace another eligibleemployee, (i.e. employee B) with a higher, the same or next lower classified hourly rate, employee B shall have the option of acceptingthe lay-off and receiving severance pay or exercising their seniorityunder ARTICLE 12 to claim anotherjob. Employees will be eligible for the severance option as outlined above, if their bid job is eliminated and they are not offered or are unable to perform otherjob functions by virtue of their seniority, qualifications or physical abilities.
(a)	Employee A has the option of claiming up to two (2)j obs with seniority
and pay rate to commence the day after employee A notifies plant management, in writing.
18.04	Severance Allowance for eligible employees who are permanently laid off shall be based upon length of continuous service with the Company. An eligible employeewhohascompletedthree(3)full years of continuous service shall receive a SeveranceAllowance of three weeks’ pay (120 hours) at his/her normally assigned straight-timerate.
For each additional year of continuous service, an eligible employee will receive one(l) weeks’ pay (40 hours) at the employee’s straight time normally assigned rate. An additional forty (40) hours straight time pay for each year over twenty (20) years will be paid.
18.05	The severancepay will be payable to eligible employees in one (1) lump sum after it has been determined that a reduction in the work force is a permanent layoff of any employee. The amount of the SeverancePay will be based on the eligible employee’s continuous service at the time he/she i s laid a£f fiom active work, provided he/she has been notified in writing by the Company that his/her permanent lay-off would become effective on that date.
29
18.06	Eligible employees who have been on temporary lay-off for a period of270 or more consecutivecalendar days may exercise the option of accepting severance pay or retaining their recall rights as provided in ARTICLE 12 of this agreement.
18.07	Except in the case of a permanent closing of the plant, an eligible employeemay choose to defer receipt of the severance pay until:
(a)	The end of the employee’s allowance period of weekly unemployment compensation benefits under the laws of the Province of Ontario.
(b)	The end of the employee’s allowance recall period as provided in ARTICLE 12 of this agreement.
(c)	Severancepay for which employees are eligible will be payable to an employee’s dependents or estate in the event of their death after they become eligible and before they have been recalled for active work.
18.08	It is understood that upon receipt of severancepay an employee relinquishes all recall, seniority, and employment rights with the Company.
18.09	In the event of a plant closing consistentwith ARTICLE 18.04, it is understood that the SeverancePay Allowance will be in full and final settlement.
18.10	in the case of a permanent closing ofthe plant, an eligible employee shall receive his/her severancepay no later than thirty-one (31) calendar days after the last day he/she is actively at work with the Company.
Article 19
PLANT COMMITTEE
19.01	Plant Committee of five (5) members, includes the President and the Vice President and three (3) shop stewards, of B.C.T.G.M. Local 388 G will be appointed by the Union to meet and bargain with the Company on matters properly arising from time to time in administration of this Agreement.
19.02	Members of the Committee shall be selected in accordance with the constitution of the Union.
19.03	It is clearly understood the Committee members will not absent themselves fixm their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with the grievances of employees, or with other Union business; in accordancewith this understanding the Company will compensate such employees for the time spent in negotiating with the Company; handling grievances of employees, and attendingthe meetings of the plant committee, at their regular rate of pay. This does not apply on time spent on such matters outside of regular working hours. Aforementioned meetings will be held during regular working hours Monday through Friday.
30
19.04	The Union agrees to supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the plant committee and will keep a list up to date at all times.
19.05	A copy of all notices posted on the bulletin board concerningthe employees will be placed in the Union Letter Box.
19.06	Elected Officers of the Union who may be called upon to transact business for the Union which requires their absence from duty with the Company shall, upon application and twenty-four (24) hours’ notice to the proper representative of the Company, be allowed to absent themselves for sufficient time to transact such business with no pay.
19.07	In the future any matters agreed upon between the Company and the Union shall be reduced to writing, signed by both parties, and become a part of this Agreement and attached hereto.
19.08	Plant Committee members required to be absent from their regular duties for the purpose of investigatingand processing grievances and complaints shall notify their Team Leader, who shall arrange relief, ifnecessary. It is understood that only under emergency conditions shall a Team Leader refuse to grant permission to a Plant Committee member to leave his/her j ob for necessary Plant Committee member’s duties. It is agreed that Plant Committeemembers shall only absent themselves from their duties for the length of time necessary to investigate or adjust a complaint or grievance and shall report immediately upon their return to their job.
Article 20
TERMINATION & GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01	(a) A claim by employees that they have been unjustly discharged from their employment shall be treated as a grievance, but a written statement of such grievance must be lodged with the plant committee and the Plant Manager within three (3) working daysafterthe last day for which the employees received their wages. The Company will advisethe plant committee, in writing, whenever a Union member is discharged.
(b)	Upon written request over the signature of the employee involved, the Company will notify him/her in writing of the reason for such suspension or discharge.
(c)	Verbal warnings will be given in the presence of a committee member.
20.02	The Company shall notify the Union in writing of the termination of employment of any employee covered by this Agreement.
20.03	Disciplinary notes and letters more than twelve (12) months old.
31
As agreed, the following procedure will apply in future:
(a)	All notes, letters, memos, etc., will remain in and constitute a part of each employee’s personal file for the duration of employment.
0) Notes and letters pertainingto specific disciplinary action regarding attendance and/or break periods will not be used as progressive steps through our disciplinary procedure (warning, letter, suspension)when there is a period of twelve (12) completemonths or more between specific incidents. Example:
(1)	Employee “A” - verbal warning July 12,1974 re: long breaks.
(2)	Employee “A” - takes long break August 15,1975 -he/she would again receive a verbal warning -NOT the next step which would be a written warning
(c)	All information in any employee’s file will be used when desired to develop an employeeprofile.
(d)	Management will make every reasonable effort to communicate disciplinary action to employees as soon as practical following the completionof investigation.
20.04	If employees have any questions or complaints which they wish to discuss with the Company, they shall:
Step 1: Discuss the matter with their immediate supervisorwithin five (5) working days (with the exclusion of any days the employee is on Holiday, Bereavement Leave, Vacation or Layoff)from the time the grievance occurred. A Union Committee member may be present at this meeting if the employee so desires.
The Team Leader involved shall have five (5) working days to provide an answer to the employee. If this answer is not satisfactory, the employee may proceed to the next step.
Step 2: The employee, or the Union Committee, shall submit a written copy of the grievance to the Team Leader involved within five (5) working days of receiving ananswerin Step 1. The Company shall supply the triplicate forms forthe grievance to be processed in writing. The Team Leader involved shall return two (2) copies of the farm to the employee and the Union with his/her written answer, within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance.
If the decision at this step is unsatisfactory, the employee may proceed to step 3.
Step 3: Within five (5) working days of the answer given the employee in Step 2, the Union Committee member may request a meeting with the Plant Manager or
32
his/her designate for purposes of settling the grievance satisfactorily. This meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the request, and not more than two (2) such meetings may be called in any one (1) calendar month. At this meeting a full-time representative of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers (AFL-CIO-CLC) International or an outside Company representative, or both, may be present.
Time limits mentioned in this ARTICLE may be waived by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. If the grievance time limits mentioned are not observed by the employee, the grievance shall be considered null and void; if the time limits mentioned are not observed by management, the Union may proceed to the next step.
In the event the grievance is not settled satisfactorily, the grievance may be referred to arbitration.
20.05	Any grievance settled in favour of the employee shall be paid immediately upon settlement.
Article 21 ARBITRATION
21.01	(a) Stepl: In the event arbitration is to be invoked, the request must be made in writing to the otherparty within thirty (30) working days or such further period as is mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
Step 2: As soon as the Arbitrator has been appointed, he/she shall meet as soon as possible to hear the evidence and receive the representation of both parties.
(b)	The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alteror change the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give a decision inconsistent with the terms or provisions of this Agreement. It shall, however, have authority to alter or amend a disciplinary penalty.
(c)	No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance.
(d)	Each of the parties hereto shall share the expense of the
Arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will j ointly bear the expense, if any, of the Arbitrator.
(e)	At any stage of the grievance procedure, including arbitration, the
conferring parties may have the active assistance of the employee or employeesconcemed, and any necessary witnesses. All reasonable arrangements shall be made to permit the Arbitrator to have access to the
33
plant to view disputed operations, and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitrator unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure.
Article 22
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
22.01	Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Union agrees it is the exclusive function and the right of the Companyto manage its plant, to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to direct the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge forjust cause, to assign and reassign employees tojobs, transfer employees, to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured, to determine the schedule of production and methods, processes and means of production for handling of its products.
Article 23
CONTRACTING OUT WORK
23.01(a) The Company will not contract out work customarilyperformed by bargaining unit employees on the Company’s premises unless:
(i)	Plant employees are not qualified by reason of lack of skill or experience to do the work required, or
(ii)	The necessary tools or equipment are not available at the plant, or
(iii)	Such work cannot be completed by plant employees within required time limits.
(b) At least seven (7) days before contracting out such work, the Company will meet with the Union Committeeto explain to them the kind of work to be contracted, why it is necessary to contract such work, and the approximate time which will be required to perform the work. The above notice will not be applicable in cases of breakdown or other exceptional situationsrequiring immediate attention.
Article 24
GROUP LIFE, HEALTH, DISABILITY AND PENSION PLANS
24.01	The Company agrees to continue for the duration ofthis Agreement the Group Life, Health, Disabilityand Pension Pian benefits as negotiated between the parties. Except forthe Dental Plan, which is partly contributory, the Company
34
agrees to pay the costs of providing the coveragementioned in this Article, Eligibility for benefits is governed by law or the policies in effect with the insurance plan carrier. Coverageof each of the Plans will be set forth in the booklets available for each employee.
24.02	Pension Plan
The pension plan provides the following benefits for all eligible employees on a non-contributorybasis for employees:
(a)	Past Service Pension
All employeeswith continuous service prior to June 23, 1974, will be given* least $8.00 per month per year of service, including the pension purchased by the employee.
(b)	Mi employeeswith continuous service from June 23, 1974, until June 22,
1976,	will be given $8,00 per month per year of service.
(c)	Ail employeeswith continuous service from June 23, 1976, until June 22,
1977,	will be given $9.00 per month per year of service.
(d)	Ail employees with continuous service from June 23, 1977, until June 22, 1979, will be given$ 11.00 per month per year of service.
(e)	All employeeswith continuous service from June 23, 1979, until June 22,
1980,	will be givenS 11.50 per month per year of service.
(f)	A pension benefit of $12.50 per month, per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23, 1980, until June 22,
1981,	shall apply. A pension benefit of$13.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23, 1981, until June 22, 1982.
(g)	A pension benefit of $15.00 per month, per year of service for an employeewith continuous service from June 23, 1982, until June 22,
1984.
(h)	Apensionbenefitof$16.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23, 1984, until June 22,1985; and
$ 17.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service until June 22, 1987.
(i)	A pension benefit of $ 18.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23, 1987, until June 22, 1988,
(j)	A pension benefit of $20.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23, 1988, until June 22,1989; and
3s
(k)
$22.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from June 23,1989, until June 22, 1990.
A pension benefit of $25.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 1990.
(l)	A pension benefit of $26.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 1996.
(m)	A pension benefit of $28.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 1997.
(n)	A pension benefit of $31,00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 1998.
(o)
A pension benefit of $34.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 1999.
(p)	A pension benefit of $36.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2000.
(q)	A pension benefit of $37.00 per month per year of service for an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2001.
(r)	A pension benefit of $38.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2002.
(s)	A pension benefit of $39.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2003.
(t)	A pension benefit of $40.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2004.
(u)	A pension benefit of $41.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2005.
v)	A pensionbenefit of $42.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2006.
w)	A pensionbenefit of $43.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2007.
x)	A pensionbenefit of $44.00 per month per year of servicefor
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2008.
y)	A pensionbenefit of $45.00 per month per year of servicefor
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23, 2009.
36
z)	A pension benefit of $46.00 per month per year of service for
an employee with continuous service from and after June 23,2010.
24.03	Work-Related Benefits
(a)	The Company will pay $ 125.00 per year per employee towards the purchase of safety shoes. This money will not be banked.
(b)	If glasses are broken at work, the Company will pay for their replacement, provided safety glasses are purchased. The Company will pay for new safety glasses as prescription warrants, or once every four (4) years. This applies for employees with continuous service of one (1) year or more.
(c)	The Company will pay $200.00 towards the purchase of glasses in the first year of this agreementand $225.00 in the third year of this agreementfor replacement other than stipulated above.
(d)	For replacement of mechanical tools the Company will refund up to $240.00 annuallyupon proofofpurchase. Tool kits will be maintained to Company standards. This allowance applies to a tradesman or an apprentice only.
Article 25
LIMITATION ON STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
25.01	During the life of this Agreement, no strike in connection with disputesarising hereunder shall be caused or sanctioned in the plant covered by this Agreement by the Union or by any member thereof and no lockouts shall be ordered by the Company in connectionwith such disputes.
25.02	Employees whose work is required for plant protection during any shutdown shall be permitted to perform faithfully such services without interference from the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers (AFL-CIO-CLC) International or organization affiliated therewith, or members thereof.
Article 26
DEDUCTION OF DUES
26.01	The Company will deduct from the wages of each employee an amount of dues
equal to the dues set by constitutional action by the Union. This deduction will be made from new employees on the first payroll and will be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union.
37
26.02	ASSIGNMENT OF AUTHORIZATION
TO: General Mills Canada Corporation - Midland, Ontario
I hereby assign to Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers (AFL, CIO, CLC) International Local 388 G, monthly dues as establishedby the Union pursuant to its Constitution,Laws and Regulations and an initiation fee also as establishedby the Union pursuant to its constitution,Laws and Regulation.
Suchregular dues shall be deducted from my first pay cheque. The initiation fee shall be deducted followingthe completion of sixty (60)working days service.
You are directed to remit such deduction to the Treasurer of the Union pursuant to the provisions of the collectivebargaining agreement. I further agree that General Mills Canada Corporation shall be saved harmless for all deductionsby virtue of this authorization.
Date	Signature
26.03	Payment of Union Dues
The company will pay each current month's dues to the Union Treasurer by the Fifteenth (15”) day of the month following.
Article 27
TERMS OF AGREEMENT
27.01	This Agreement shall become effective June 1, 2006 and shall continue in full force and effect up to and includingMay 31, 2011.
27.02	This Agreement may be amended, altered, or varied at any time by mutual consent ,and any such modification, alteration or variation, to be binding, shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto, otherwise the Agreement shall be in effect for the period of June 1, 2006 to May 31,2011 and shall continue from year to year after that date unless either party gives notice in writing of intention to terminate the Agreement, or to enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending the Agreement, within a period of not less than thirty (30) days, and not more than ninety (90) days prior to any such yearly date of termination.
BAKERY, CONFECTIONARY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS (AFL-CIO-CLC)	GENERAL MILLS CANADA CORPORATION
Karl Walker	Jnhn Stano
Del Mattice	Janet Charlebois
Vicki McMartin	Rachelle Landry
Darlene Picard	Stephen Masciangelo
George Zanin	Lori Cain
Scott Bamum	
38	
The Company agrees to a wage increase of 2,25 % firstyear, 2.5% secondyear, 2.5% third year, 2.5% fourth year, and 3.0% fifth year.
The Company assures changes are made to benefit booklets that coincide with the changes to the contract.
The Company agrees to pay fifty dollars (S50.00) for each psychologist visit to a maximum often (10) visits.
The Company agrees to increase the maximum to fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00) per lifetime in the second year for orthodontics.
The Company agrees to increase to $10.00 per visit up to a maximum of twenty (20) visits per type of practitioner (Chiropractor, Osteopath, Naturopath, Podiatrist, Masseur, Physiotherapist).
27.03	If notice of intention to amend is given by either party in writing pursuant to the provision of the preceding paragraph, such negotiations shall commence not later than twenty (20) days after the date of such written notice, and if such negotiations do not result in agreement prior to the yearly date of termination of thi s Agreement, then this Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement between the negotiating parties for such further time as necessary in order to complete the negotiations. The Company and Union agree to exchange proposals simultaneously.
27.04	This Agreement and ail terms and conditions thereof shall be subjectto any proper legislation in regard thereto duly enacted by the statue or regulations by the Province of Ontario and this Agreement shall be from time to time modified, extended, restricted or amended to give effect thereto.
27.05	Any change in the schedules of working ocnditicns will be a matter for negotiations between the Company and the Plant Committee.
27.06	Any change in the schedule ofpositions and their related rates will be a matter for negotiations between the Company and the Plant Committee.
Article 28 APPENDIX “A”
MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM
28.01	MaintenancePosition
See Article 29, Appendix “B”
28.02	Selection of Eligibility
Maintenance Trainee, PM SetUp, Electrical Apprentice, positions will be posted
39
Requirements:
-physically fit for maintenance work (applicant will be required to take a physical examination).
-obtain a passing score on Bennett BB Mechanical Comprehension Test with the passing score establishedby joint Union and Company cooperation. The passing score will be establishedffom a comparison between the presentmaintenance norm and the mean from the general mechanical norms as outlined in the Bennett mechanical Comprehension Test Form BB Manual. The employee holding the greatest plant seniority will be tested first. The limitationon the number of times one (1) employee is eligible for the Bennett BB Test is a maximum of two (2) times.
-Acceptance by Manpower training Branch as an apprentice for certified trade training, (Grade 12 educator level or passing score on Self AchievementTest set by the Manpower Training Branch).
28.03	Advancement
-Trainee to Apprentice 1 willbemadeby successfully passing basic 8-week schooling and completinginitial 2,000 hours of in-planttraining.
-Apprentice 1 to ApprenticeII will be made by successfully passing 7-week intermediate schooling and completinga further 2,000 hours of in-plant training. -Apprentice II to Apprentice m will be made by successfully passing 7-week advanced schooling and further 2,000 hours of in-planttraining.
-Apprentice III to Maintenance Millwright will be made by completingthe final 2,000 hours of in-plant training and being registered as a certified tradesman.
Limited factors on the number of apprentices to be such as laid out by the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen QualificationAct. Failure to completethe Apprenticeship Program will require that the apprentice would leave the maintenance staff.
28.04	Any required start-up overtime will be handled by the rotating Maintenance Millwrights. If the need arises, Maintenance Millwright Days will be utilized to relieve or replace shift Millwrights.
Article 30
30.01	All employees will be subjectto drug and/or alcohol testing after an accident or incident where there was the potential for serious injury or property damage. Should such tests be positive, disciplinaryaction will be taken.
40
ARTICLE 29 APPENDIX “B” WAGE SCHEDULE
	June 1/06	June 1/07	June 1/08	June 1/09	June 1/10
MAINTENANCE					
Electronic Electrician	24.25	24.86	25.48	26.12	26.90
Electrician	23.50	24.08	24.69	25.30	26.06
Millwright	23.26	23.84	24.44	25.05	25.80
Millwright Days	23.26	23.84	24.44	25.05	25.80
Packaging Mechanic	23.26	23.84	24.44	25.05	25.80
Electrician Apprentice	17.96	18.40	18.86	19.34	19.92
Apprentice III	20.43	20.94	21.46	22.00	22.66
Apprentice II	19.48	19.97	20.46	20.98	21.61
Apprentice I	18.52	18.98	19.45	19.94	20.54
Trainee	17.55	17.98	18.43	18.90	19.46
Help Mechanic	16.91	17.33	17.77	18.21	18.76
Utility Days	19.05	19.53	20.01	20.51	21.13
PM Set Up Mechanic	18.00	18.45	18.91	19.38	19.96
					
MIXING					
Mixer	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
					
SHIPPING					
Shipper/Receiver	17.90	18.35	18.81	19.28	19.86
					
WAREHOUSE					
Warehouse “A”	17.90	18.35	18.81	19.28	19.86
					
MACHINE OPERATOR					
Kliklok Machine Operator	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Cookie KP Operator	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
					
RBG POSITIONS					
Sheeter Operator	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Shortening Pump Operator	17.31	17.74	18.19	18.64	19.20
Can Feeder	17.31	17.74	18.19	18.64	19.20
Capper Operator	17.31	17.74	18.19	18.64	19.20
Lunchroom	16.91	17.33	17.77	18.21	18.76
41
RBG Relief #2	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Spoons	16.35	16.76	17.18	17.61	18.14
Sanitation Utility	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Packaging Operator	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Sheeter Assistant	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Cookie Relief	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Cookie Case Packer	16.78	17.20	17.63	18.07	18.61
Cookie Packer Relief	16.78	17.20	17.63	18.07	18.61
Cookie Piler	17.57	18.01	18.46	18.92	19.48
Cookie Promo	16.35	16.76	17.18	17.61	18.14
Cookie Start Up	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Kliklok Light Assembly	16.35	16.76	17.18	17.61	18.14
Kliklok Relief	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Kliklok Piler	17.57	18.01	18.46	18.92	19.48
Promo	16.35	16.76	17.18	17.61	18.14
General Help	16.50	16.92	17.34	17.77	18.31
Thiele Piler	17.31	17.74	18.19	18.64	19.20
Theile Assembly	16.35	16.76	17.18	17.61	18.14
					
SNACKS POSITIONS					
Topping	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Packaging	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Q.C. Inspector	16.31	16.72	17.13	17.56	18.09
Flow Wrap Operator	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Snack Supply	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Sheeter	17.75	18.19	18.65	19.12	19.69
Relief	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Spare	16.45	16.86	17.28	17.72	18.25
Depositing Room Operator	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
Prep Room	16.02	16.42	16.83	17.25	17.77
		-	-	-	-
SANITATION		-	-	-	-
Snacks Sani Mixer	16.43	16.84	17.26	17.70	18.23
Snacks Sani Processor	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Snacks Sani Sauce	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Snacks Sani Bulk Systems	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Snacks Sani Cherry Picker	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Snacks Sani Packaging	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
Snacks Sani 5-Roll	16.33	16.74	17.16	17.58	18.11
42
RBG Sani Spare
16.61
17.02
17.45
17.88
18.42
RBG Sani 5-10/5 Roll Stand
16.61
17,02
17.45
17.88
18.42
RBG Sani Cut/Wind Table/Snoons
16.61
17.02
17.45
17.88
18.42
RBG Sani Mix/Ext/1-4 Roll
16.61
17.02
17.45
17.88
18.42
RBG Sani Pkg/Capp/Spare
16.61
17.02
17.45
17.88
18.42
RBG Sani Wash ^Irea
16.71
17.13
17.55
17.99
18.53
RBG Sani Packaging
17.02
17.45
17.88
18.42
Protected Positions(P)
Snacks Sanitation Snacks Sani Mixer Snacks Sani Processor Snacks SaniSauce Snacks Sani Dep/Topp Snacks Sani Packaging Snacks Sani 5 Roll Snacks Wash Area Snacks Third Person Snacks Bulk Systems
REG Sanitation
RBG 5-10 rollstand/5 roll stand
REG Packaging/cappers/spare
43
REG AND SNACKS SANITATION:
Sanitation Crew 10 cents extra for cleaning mixer and washroom work and the extra 10 cents/hour does not followthe employee to otherjobs.
AMOMONIA SYSTEMS:
Chief Operator will be paid an additional $2.25per hour. Shift Operators will receive an additional $1.50 per hour.
SHIPPERRECEEVER DUTIES
Should the current duties and responsibilities of the shipper/receivers be altered, and other warehouse personnel are performing the same duties as the shipper/receivers, these warehouse personnel will receive shipper/receiver rate of pay.
Appendix “C”
Critical Positions- Midland Plant
Dough Line
•	Mixer-Butions
•	Mixer Leavening
•	Shortening Pump Operator
•	Sheeter
•	Tray Packer Operator
•	Sheeter Assistant
Cookie Line
•	Mixer-wet
•	KP/AI1 Fill Operator
•	Piler
•	Relief
Pizza Line
•	Mixer/Sheeter
•	Flow Wrap Operator
Theile • Piler
Kliklok
•	Operator
Sanitation
•	All protected sanitationpositions
44
Maintenance
•	PM Set Up
•	Apprentices
Discretionary Culpable Absenteeism Rate = 10%
Any required amendments to this appendix will be brought forward to the Labour Management Committee.
45
September 11, 2006
LETTER OF AGREEMENT#!
It is hereby agreedthat the wages of skilled maintenance employees will be subjectto the following increases:
Effective Sept. 11/06	SO cents per hour
Effective April 1/07	25 cents per hour
Positions included ii this increase are millwrights, electricians, apprentices, and PM Setup
Agreed
Janet E. Charlebois	Del Mattice
Pat Kelly	Vicky McMartin
ScottBamum George Zanin Darlene Picard
46