ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
BEATRICE FOODS INC. PALM DAIRIES CALGARY DIVISION HEREINAFTER CALLED THE "THE COMPANY'
AND
iiscei i	i
r	lie LOCAL NO. 987
OF I
T I CALLED THE "UNION"
0OH ©oy
ARTICLE NO. .ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO, ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. ARTICLE NO. APPENDIX "A' APPENDIX "B' APPENDIX "C*
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1	INTENT AND PURPOSE......................Page	-	1
2	MANAGEMENT CONTROL......................Page	-	1
3	EMPLOYEES INCLUDED .................... Page	-	1
4	UNION SECURITY..........................Page	-	2
5	BARGAIN WITH AND RATIFICATION...........Page	-	2
6	CONTINUITY OF WORK......................Page	-	3
7	SENIORITY...............................Page	-	3
8	HOURS OF WORK...........................Page	-	5
9	WAGES...................................Page	-	8
10	ANNUAL VACATIONS........................Page	-	8
11	PAID HOLIDAYS...........................Page	-	10
12	SHOP STEWARDS...........................Page	-	11
13	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....................Page	-	11
14	MUTUAL INTEREST.........................Page	-	14
15	SUMMER RELIEF AND PART-TIME.............Page	-	16
16	HEALTH AND WELFARE......................Page	-	17
18	RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE Page	-	17
19	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE....................Page	-	17
20	DURATION, TERMINATION AND	AMENDMENTS . Page	•/	18
........................................ Page	-	19
COMMISSIONS................................Page	-	23
........................................ Page	-	26
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
/ ’
Page - 1 -
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto, hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE NO. 1 INTENT AND PURPOSE
It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement that the Company and the Union co-operate to obtain an efficient and unrestricted production and distribution of dairy products,__ to maintain -a harmonious relationship between the Company and its Employees, and to provide a method of settling in an amicable manner any difference or grievance which may from time to time arise, and to set forth rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE NO. 2 MANAGEMENT CONTROL
Responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business of the Company shall rest exclusively with the Management.
ARTICLE NO. 3 EMPLOYEES INCLUDED
3.01	The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all Employees, including Route Supervisors, of the Company at Calgary, Medicine Hat, Red Deer and Banff who belong to the craft or crafts included in the Union, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall exclude specifically office workers and Employees engaged in any kind of supervision who have the right to hire, discharge or change the status of Employees.
3.02	Probationary Employees retained as permanent staff shall be deemed to be on permanent staff as of the date of commencing the most recent period of continuous employment. Seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from that date, subject to the ninety (90) calendar days probationary period described in Article 7 section 7.02.
3.03	GENDER. Except where specifically stated to the contrary or where the sense requires the contrary, use of the term "he", "him", or "his", throughout this Agreement will be considered to also mean "she", "her", or "hers".
3.04	Employees outside of the bargaining unit will not perform work normally performed by bargaining unit employees except :
a)	to perform experimental work or new operational set-ups;
Page - 2 -
b)	to relieve an employee at his own request;
c)	when necessary to diagnose or correct operating difficulties;
d)	due to equipment breakdown or failure;
e)	for purpose of instruction or training;
f)	to overcome operating difficulties caused by the absence of an employee;
g)	in circumstances beyond the control of the
Company
Notwithstanding any language to the contrary in this agreement, the maintenance supervisor, chief engineer and chief electrician will continue to perform their normal duties.
ARTICLE NO. 4 UNION SECURITY
4.01	The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for Union membership and dues deductions which shall be signed by all new employees on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies of the application for membership forms shall be returned to the Union and shall serve as notification of commencement of employment. The Union shall supply the Company with application forms for pension benefits, these forms shall be signed on the day on which the new employee is hired. All completed copies are to be sent to the Union
off ice.
4.02	Upon written request of an employee, the Company will, in accordance with the tenor of the request, deduct the Enployee's Initiation Fee and monthly Union dues, remitting same, together with a list of the Employees from whom the deductions have been made to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union, on or before the 15 th day of the following calendar month in which the dues are deducted.
4.03	The Company agrees to supply the Shop Steward of the Department concerned with a list of the new Employees each month.
ARTICLE NO. 5 BARGAIN WITH AND RATIFICATION
5.01	Pursuant to the corresponding Certificates of Certification as issued by the Labour Relations Board, the Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agentt for the Employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, and will bargain only with the Union, and duly appointed representatives thereof, on behalf of the Employees of the Company.
5.02	This Agreement will be ratified by Union member
Page - 3 -
Employees whose decision will be final, and neither Union member employed by other Companies, nor non-union employees employed by the Company, shall have any voice in ratifying this Agreement or amendments thereof that may be made in the future.
ARTICLE NO. 6 CONTINUITY OF WORK
6.01	There shall be no cessation of work, or slow down of any kind by the Employees, or lock-out by the Company during the time this agreement is in force, or in the process of being renewed or amended.
6.02	in the event of any other Milk Company or Companies having difficultly in production and/or distribution, by reason
of a dispute between such Company or Companies and its or their employees, the Company will not require the Employees to which this Agreement applies to perform work additional to which they ordinarily perform, and the employees agree to perform their usual work as though such dispute did not exist.
6.03	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to cross any legal picket line.
6.04	The business agent i s allowed to visit the Company premises but shall not conduct Union business on the Company time.
ARTICLE NO. 7 SENIORITY
7.01	Seniority shall be based on the length of. continuous service an Employee ha8 been on the payroll.
7.02	A probationary period of ninety (90) calendar days on the payroll shall apply in the case of each new Employee, during which time seniority shall not apply, and an Employee may be laid off without reference to seniority, and the Company shall not be obligated to re-hire such an Employee. After having completed this probationary period, or upon being recalled within nine (9) months after being laid off, the Employee’s seniority and service records shall date back to the beginning of his employment.
7.03	An Employee’s seniority shall prevail in consideration of all applications for jobs as classified in Appendix "A" above the rank of "Group 4" and excluding the classification of "Route Supervisor" with merit and ability being considered.
7.04	Job Bidding
(A)	When a vacancy occurs as outlined under Section 7.03, it will be posted on the bulletin board for five (5) working days during which period an employee with seniority, may make written application for such vacancy. Employees within the department containing such vacancy will be given first consideration for such vacancy.
Page - 4 -
Any immediate changes to a job that is to be posted will be made prior to posting.
(B)	The successful applicant will be advised within five
(5) working days of the expiry of the five (5) working day
posting period. Upon filling a vacancy, the successful applicant will be allowed a period not exceeding twenty (20) working days during which the employee will be permitted to return to nis former job. If within the same twenty (20) day period, the employee is found to be incapable of performing the duties of the job vacancy, he will be returned to his former job. In the event the successful candidate does return to his former job, the vacancy will not be reposted, but will be filled under the same terms as set out herein, by the next senior applicant for the posting.
(C)	Whai the applicant described under section A and B above has qualified for the vacancy , then the subsequent vacancy created by his application will be posted in the same manner as described above, except that applications will be accepted on an overall seniority basis.
(D)	The successful applicant will be selected by the Company and such selection shall be made in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
7.05	In determining vacancies, promotions, demotions, lay-
offs and recall, seniority shall be on a Departmental basis, as follows:
1.	Plant Staff to include all Employees working within the Plant and Shipping Department.
2.	Wholesale Milk and Ice Cream Sales Staff, Non Commissioned Delivery Sales Staff and Transport Drivers.
Home Service Staff
Garage Staff
In the event of a reduction in staff in a department, the junior employee of the department shall be the first subject to lay-off. If he is capable of performing the work of the most junior employee within the branch because of previous training or experience, or because the employee could reasonably learn to perform the job to a satisfactory level within a short time period, the employee will be accorded a qualifying period of up to twenty (2 0) working days and the most junior employee within the branch will be subject to lay-off. In the event it is determined the employee cannot qualify for the position, he will be laid off.
Employees subject to lay off under this Article will be provided with notice in writing, with a copy to the department Shop Steward.
Page - 5 -
7.07	The Company agrees to re-hire on the basis of seniority, employees who have been laid off for a period not exceeding nine (9) consecutive months, providing the employee is capable of performing the duties of the vacancy, with seniority calculated from the day his employment commenced with the Company prior to being laid-off.
Employees subject to recall under this Article will be provided with notice in writing sent to his last known address, with a copy to the department Shop Steward. Failure to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the letter is mailed will result in the employee's name being struck from the seniority list.
7.08	A list showing the seniority of each employee within the department, based on the length of service an employee had been on the payroll, shall be compiled and kept posted on the bulletin boards. The list shall be revised on the first of January and the first of July each year. Any errors shall be reported to the Shop Stewards for correction.
An overall branch seniority list showing all employees in order of seniority will be posted in appropriate location(s) throughout the branch. A copy of such list will be provided to the union.
7.09	An Employee shall lose all seniority rights and h i s Employee statua with the Company shall be cancelled in all respects if he:
1.	voluntarily leaves the Company;
2.	is discharged for just cause;
3.	is laid off by the Company for a period exceeding nine (9) consecutive months.
7.10	The Company will give consideration based on seniority, merit and ability to requests from employee(s) that have been submitted in writing to theTr Department Head for a transfer to a full time job in Group 4 prior to hiring persons from outside the
Company into Group 4 jobs. When an employee is awarded the job . the twenty (20) day qualifying period as set out in 7.04 (B) of the contract will not apply. The fob previously performed by the employee will be posted in accordance with the contract provided the Company intends to fill it. Any further moves resulting from filling the second position will be filled at the Company's discretion and article 7 shall not apply.
ARTICLE NO. 8 HOURS OF WORK
The hours of work of all Employees covered by this Agreement shall be:
8.01	Commigsjoned Driver Sales Sfaie
Shall include Wholesale Milk, City Ice Cream, Butter and Cheese Sales Staff.
Page - 6 -
(A)	Wholesale (including Ice Cream and Milk) - Days of work shall be four (4), ten (10) hour days or five (5), eight (8) hour days. There shall be two (2) consecutive days off, one (1) of which shall be Sunday.
Banff may schedule five (5), eight (8) hour days between September 15 and May 15 of the following year.
(B)	Overtime shall be paid at one and one half (1 1/2)
times the base rate for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week if scheduled on a four (4) day basis, or eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours if scheduled on a five (5) day basis.
(C)	There shall be two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid coffee breaks. There shall be one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
8.02	Non-Commissioned Country Drivers
Shall include Kold-Hold Ice Cream and Combination and Transport Drivers.
1.	Daily Maximum - ten (10) hours.
2.	Weekly Maximum - forty (40) hours.
3.	Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in the day, and/or forty (40) hours in the
week. Such overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the Driver's sate of pay.
8.03	Commissioned Country Drivers
1.	Daily Maximum - ten (10) hours.
2.	Weekly Maximum - forty (40) hours.
3.	Overtime shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the ten (10) hours per day and/or at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the Driver's base rate of pay.
8.04	All Other Employees
(A) Ten (10) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, four (4) days per week, or eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week, five (5) days per week.
It is understood and agreed that any change from ten (10) hour work days to eight (8) hour work days will be with the mutual consent of the Union and will only be implemented at the first of the calender week and only if a minimum of seven (7) calendar day's notice has been given by the Company.
/|3) There shall be two consecutive days off of which one such aay will be Sunday.
The Company shall have flexibility of scheduling the days and hours of work for those employees associated with the Wholesale delivery. Specifically they are those employees in the following areas:
-	coolers
-	freezers
-	checkers
Page - 7 -
-	loaders/shippers
-	case room workers
These employees' days and hours shall be scheduled on either a four (4) or five (5) day basis.
(C)	All hours worked in excess of ten (10) in the day and/or forty (40) in the week and four (4) day's work per week, shall be considered as overtime, and paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the Employee's rate of pay.
Where the Company determines that overtime work is required, it will offer such overtime work opportunity to seniority employees in the classification who are at work at the time, prior to offering such overtime work to part-time employees.
(D)	In the event any changes are to take place in the Employees’ days of rest, forty-eight (48) hour’s notice shall be given to the employees affected by the change (not applicable in cases resulting from emergencies such as fire, flood or Acts of God), Note: This definition shall only apply to article 8.04(d) of the contract.
(E)	Effective March 8, 1992, employees required to work any of their regular daily shifts outside the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. shall be paid a shift differential of sixty ($.60) cents per hour for all hour8 of their regular daily shift worked prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. Shift differential shall not apply to overtime hours worked.
(F)	All inside staff shall receive two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid coffee breaks. One such break in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift. There shall be one half (112) hour unpaid lunch break.
Where an inside staff employee i s required ta work in excess of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours overtime, he will be provided a further fifteen (15) minute paid coffee break. Such break will be taken prior to commencement of overtime.
8.05	The parties agree that unless otherwise agreed by an employee the Collective Agreement which provides two (2) consecutive days off, one of which shall be Sunday, will continue to apply to any employee on the payroll as of April 19, 1988 who was enjoying the provision at that time. Hours of work for employees hired thereafter will be four (4) ten (10) hour day8 or five (5) eight (8) hour days.
8.06	The Company agrees that an accurate record of hours of work for all employees covered by this Agreement shall be kept, and no Employees shall record or be asked to record times other than their actual hours of work. All time cards shall be signed by the Employee, and by the Supervisor in charge, and all Employees shall be paid in accordance with the time cards.
Page - 8 -
Such records shall be available to the Union for
inspection on request.
8.07	Before putting into effect any further curtailment of milk delivery during the life of this Agreement, Article No.8 Hours of work, Appendix "A" Wages and Classifications, shall be reopened for negotiations, and agreement reached on revision of same.
8.08	Where an employee is called to work on one of his scheduled days off he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the overtime rate,
An Employee who has left the Company's premises and Fe specially called outside of his scheduled nours for emergency work shall be through when the emergency is over. For such emergency work being that outside of scheduled hours, he shall be paid four (4) hours at his job rate or for the hours actually worked at the overtime rate, whichever is greater.
The above does not apply to such work immediately preceding or following the Employee's scheduled hours or if the employee leaves after eight (8) hours even though such departure from the premises precedes his regular scheduled end of shift.
ARTICLE NQi ,9 .WAGES
Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix "A" setting forth the wage rate8 and classifications of all Employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE..133., IQ ANRVAL .VACATIONS
Annual Vacations with pay shall be granted to all employees covered by this Agreement on the following basis I
10.01 (A) Those Employees with less than one (1) year, prior fo March 1st of each year, one (1) day for each twenty-three (23) days actually worked.
(e)) Those Employees with one (1) year's continuous employment and less than four (4) years, prior to March 1st of each year, two (2) weeks annuel vacation.
(C)	Those Employees with four (4) year's continuous employment and less than eleven (il) years, prior to March 1st of each year, three (3) weeks annual vacation.
(D)	Those Employees with eleven (11) year's continuous employment and less than twenty-two (22) years, prior to March 1st of each year, four (4) weeks annual vacation.
(E)	Those Employees with twenty-two (22) years or more of
Page - 9 -
continuous employment, prior to March 1st of any year, five (5) weeks annual vacation.
(F)	Where an employee attains sufficient service in a calendar year to otherwise entitle him to an additional weeks vacation, but is ineligible because of his anniversary date of hire falls on March 1st or thereafter, he will be granted such additional week following his anniversary date of hire in that year.
10.02	Allocation of Vacation Dates
Calgary - Eleven (11) Holiday Schedules.
1.	Home Service (on a swing basis) .
2.	Country Drivers.
3.	Ice Cream.	#
4.	Wholesale (on a swing basis).
5.	Shipping and Dock Drivers.
6.	Culture Department.
7.	Loaders.
8.	Milk Product.
9.	Cooler Staff.
10.	Maintenance.
11.	Garage Staff.
Lethbridge - Six (6) Holiday Schedules
1.	Home Service.
2.	Wholesale.
3.	Plant Production,
4.	Plant Shipping and Dock.
5.	Maintenance.
6.	Garage.
Medicine Hat - One (1) Schedule Banff -	One (1) Schedule
Red Deer -	One (1) Schedule.
(A) Employees on each schedule shall choose their vacation dates in order of seniority, The senior; employee will choose his vacation date first, and should he decide, in accordance with the selection procedure herein contained, to split his vacation into two period6 he shall not make his second selection until all other employees on the schedule have made their first selection. No employee, on his first selection, may take more than three continuous weeks vacation during the months of May to September inclusive. The next senior employee will follow the same procedure and so on down the schedule until all employees have made their selections. Selection of prime time dates shall be completed by March 15th. An employee who submits vacation dates following March 15th, may only apply for available dates i n order of their seniority.
(0) An Employee may take his entire annual vacation in one continuous period during the months of October to April inclusive, except that the period from December 15 to January 2 is excluded. All employees referred to in this section shall be allowed their annual vacation within the calendar year, January 2
Page - 10
through December 15 ,
(C)	An employee's scheduled vacation as approved by the Company will not be changed following posting unless such change is mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
(D)	Sixty (60) days prior to the vacation period of each Department, a vacation schedule shall be distributed by the Supervisor in charge, allowing each employee of the Department to choose his vacation period. Provided operations are not impaired, selection of vacation periods will be in accordance with seniority.
10.03	When during the course of a working year, in respect of which an Employee has not received his annual vacation, the employer shall, on cessation of employment, pay to the employee, in lieu of an annual vacation and in addition to all other amounts due to him as follows:
(A)	In the case of an Employee who has worked less than four (4) years, prior to March lstf an amount equal to four per cent (4%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year .
(B)	In the case of an Employee who has four (4) years continuous employment and less than eleven (11) years prior to March 1st in any year an amount equal to six per cent (6%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year.
(C)	In the case of an Employee who has eleven (11) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st in any year, an amount equal to eight per cent (8%) of his regular pay rate for the period of his employment in that year.
(D)	in the case of an employee who has twenty-two (22) years or more of continuous employment prior to March 1st in any year, an amount equal to ten per cent (10%) of his regular pay for the period of his employment in that year.
ARTTCfF NO. 11 PAID HOLIDAYS
11.01	Every Employee shall be entitled to the following Paid Holidays with pay, except that an Employee, if scheduled to work on his regular working day preceding and following a Paid Holiday, must work on those days to be entitled to pay for the Paid Holiday, unless absent due to illness verified by a Doctor’s certificate.
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day August Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Page - 11 -
11.02 Should it be required to work any of the above Paid Holidays in section 11.01, or should they fall on an Employee's regular day of rest or during his annual vacation, he shall be compensated in addition to his regular salary as follows:
(A)	For Paid holidays falling upon an Employee's regular day of rest, a day in lieu at a tine mutually agreed on or a day's pay, at base rate of pay or a day added to his annual vacation. It w i 11 be the employee's choice whether to take a days pay or a day off, it being understood such day off must be taken prior to the succeeding April 30th. In the- event the day off can not be scheduled as set out above, the Company will pay the days pay.
(B)	For hours worked on the day of the holiday or on an employee's regular day of rest, pay at one and one half (1 1/2) times the basic rate of pay.
ARTICLE NO. 12 SHOP STEWARDS
12.01	There shall be elected from the Employees, by the Employees, not less than five (5) Shop Stewards, and as many as are agreed upon by the Company and the Shop Stewards Committee all of whom shall have been continuously employed by the Company fox not less than six (6) months. The elected Shop Stewards shall appoint a chairman from among themselves. Their duties shall be fo gee that the members of the Union abide by the rules and regulations of the Company, the Union, and the terms of this Agreement.
12.02	The management agrees to hold, once a month, a meeting of the Shop Stewards, to discuss all difficulties that may arise, as well as discuss the good and welfare of the Company and its
employees.
ARTICLE NO. 13 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
13.01	Should any alleged grievance arise_ as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, such grievance shall be processed within ten (10) working days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance have originated or occurred, in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP:	Between the aggrieved Employee, with or
without the Shop Steward, and his supervisor. The decision of the Supervisor shall be given within three working days following
Presentation of the grievance. ailing settlement, then
SECOND STEP Within three (3) working days following the decision under the first step a meeting will
Page - 12 -
be held between the Shop Steward and/or Union Representative and the Branch Manager. The decision of the Branch Manager shall be given within three (3) working days of such meeting. Failing settlement, then
THIRD STEP:	Within three (3) working days following the
decision under the second step, a meeting will be held between the Union Grievance Committee and the Committee designated by the Company. A staff representative of the Union will be present at the request of either the Company or the Union.
A decision under this step will be given within five (5) working days following such meeting. The grievance will be presented in writing at this step by the grieving party. Failing settlement, then
If the grievance remains unsettled, then within ten (10) working days of the date of the decision under the third step the grievance shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration as provided herein.
13*02 The term "working days" for purpose of this Article shall not be deemed to include Saturdays, Sundays and Paid Holidays.
13.03	If the Company wishes to grieve to the Union against any action of the Union, its officers or members, the foregoing procedure may be followed commencing with the second step.
13.04	The Union will elect and the Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee, the number agreed upon between local management and the Union, whom shall be the Employees of the bargaining unit defined herein, who have attained seniority.
A list of Grievance Committee members shall be furnished to the Company.
13.05	Grievance meetings with the Grievance Committee shall be conducted at times suitable to the operation of the business, by arrangement between Company Management and Chief Shop Steward. The Company will pay members of the Grievance Committee at their regular rates for time spent at meetings of the Grievance > Committee with Management representatives during regular working hours.
If an Employee, who has completed the probationary period, has an alleged grievance that he has been unjustly discharged, he shall notify the Company through the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days after the date of separation stating the reason of objection to the discharge and the grievance will be considered commencing with the second step
Page - 13 -
of section 13.01 of this Article.
13.06	Should any grievance arise directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement, the grievance shall be taken up commencing at the second step of section 13.01 of this Article.
13.07	Pending settlement of any grievance, the aggrieved Employee shall perform the duties assigned to him.
13.08	Before leaving his job or his department in connection with any grievance, a Shop Steward or member of the Grievance Committee must first obtain permission-from the Supervisor of his department. Should the grievance require such Steward or member of the Grievance Committee to go into another department, he must first report to the person in charge of the department.
13.09	(A) If the Union and the Company cannot reach a settlement, following the third step of the Grievance Procedure, and upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to the Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members. The Company and the Union shall each select one (1) member, and the third member within seven (7) days shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two (2) members first selected, The third member shall be impartial and possess knowledge of Labour Management relations. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board.
If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days, in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration , the matter shall be referred to the Minister of the Province of Alberta, who shall appoint a Chairman. No person involved directly in the controversy under consideration shall be a member of the Board of Arbitration.
(B) The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider such material evidence and contentions as the parties may offer, and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issues involved. In reaching a decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
(G)	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with power to change, modify or alter any terms of the contract. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitrable issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue under this contract, and shall not depend on, or involve, an issue or contention by either party which is contrary to any provisions Of this contract, or which involves the determination of a subject matter not covered by or arising during the term of this contract.
/■D) The findings and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of
Page -14-
Arbitration shall be deemed to be a decision of the Board.
(E)	The expense of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the Arbitration.
ARTTCIiE NO. 14 MUTOAT, INTEREST
14.01	The Union agrees that it will further the interests of the Company at all times to the limit of its ability.
14.02	It is further agreed by the Company and the Union that no Employee will be asked to make any written or verbal agreement conflicting with this Agreement. No Employee shall make any written or verbal agreement with the Company or the Union conflicting with this Agreement.
14.03	To Comply with the Order of the Public Utilities Board no Home Service Driver Sales Staff shall be required to sell any milk or dairy products for credit or for other than cash or cash equivalent.
14.04	Driver Sales Staff will make every reasonable effort to collect cash for N.S.F. cheques. All N.S.F. cheques, including collection agency fees, if over two months old, shall be paid off in full by the Company and written off the driver's book.
14.05	(A) When a route is split and a vacancy is created by the split, the driver whose route is so divided shall have the choice of the two routes.
(B) When a route is split and/or cut, the commission of said Driver for the following thirteen (13), two (2) week, pay periods shall be based on the average commission earned by the said Driver for the thirteen (13), two (2) week pay periods prior to the division or cut.
14.06	(A) Employees shall be paid every other Friday on a system
of twenty-six (26) equal pay periods.
(B)	Commission shall be calculated up to the last working day of the month and paid on the last pay of the following month.
(C)	All Employees shall be given a statement with each biweekly pay cheque showing overtime hours worked, commission and how the amount is computed (if applicable), base pay and deductions.
(D)	All Drivers shall receive commissions on any delivery made to their regular routes, unless the delivery was made because of Driver neglect.
14.07	J.UR3L.DI11X
The Company shall continue to pay an employee for scheduled hours at his regular wage for the time he is away due
Page - 15 -
to being summoned to serve jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness. Within one (1) month of the employee’s return to work he will reimburse the Company the full amount of any court fees received from the Government. It is understood that the employee will report to work during regular hoursthat he is not required to attend court and may be required to produce a certificate of service from the Court Office if requested by the Company.
14.08	(A) Leave of absence may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon application by the
employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere
with the requirements of the business. Since it is the desire of the Company, the Union and employees to allow as many employees as possible to take their regular vacation during prime vacation time of May to September and during the Christmas-New Year’s Day Week, applications for leave of absence during those periods will be restricted to absolute emergencies as defined by the Company.
(B)	If leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, a written application shall be made by the employees to the Company, and if leave is granted by the Company it shall be confirmed in writing.
(C)	Seniority shall accumulate through periods of such leave of absence, but where leave exceeds one (1) calender month, the employee will be required to repay all premiums on any benefits to which he is entitled.
14.09	Compassionate Leave
It is agreed that application for compassionate leave of absence must be made to the Department head and approved by the Manager. In the event of a death in the immediate family, leave of absence shall be granted for the purpose of attending the funeral. The length of such absence with pay shall be at the discretion of the Manager. "Immediate Family" shall mean spouse, parents, child, brother, sister, grandparents, mother-in law and father-in law.	,
Uniforms-Plant/Garaae Employees
14.10
(A) The Company will provide and launder, without charge, designated outer work clothing required by plant/garage employees in the performance of their duties. It is understood and agreed that such clothing will be treated with proper care by the employee and will not be removed from Company premises under any circumstances.
(B) Uniforms-Be1iverv—Emtlovers
As a condition of employment all delivery personnel shall wear only Company approved uniforms in the performance of their duties which shall be maintained in a clean and presentable condition at all times.
Employees, upon completion of their probationary period, shall be provided with a Company uniform consisting initially of a jacket, two shirts, two pairs of pants and an
Page - 16 -
auter jacket if required. Replacement items will be provided as required upon return of worn out items.
(C) As a condition of employment, all plant, maintenance, shipping, garage and truck drivers shall be required to wear Company approved safety foot wear. Such full time employees who have completed their probationary period, as of February 1, of each year, will be eligible to receive a footwear allowance of up to seventy-five ($75.00) dollars in that year upon presentation of their receipt of purchase for a pair of such safety foot wear.
14.11	An employee who wishes to review his personnel file shall submit such request in writing to his supervisor. Arrangements will be made within five (5) working days or such other time as be mutually agreed between the employee and the Company for the employee to view his file in the presence of a member of management, such meeting to be outside regular working hours. An employee may not review his file more than once per year. When an employee receives a written warning. a copy will be provided to the steward and the union.
ARTICLE NO. 15 SUMMER RELIEF ANT) PART-TTMF,:
15.01	The Company may employ part-time and Summer Relief
Employees under the following conditions:
1.	to supplement the regular work force, to provide additional help on an incidental basis to cover work periods and other such time, to cover an absent employee.
2.	Part-time and summer relief employees shall not be employed or scheduled to the extent that their work results in the displacement, or prevents the hiring or recall of full-time employees.
3.	Each part-time and summer relief employee shall, as a condition of continuing employment, pay each month Union dues in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement for those months in which the employee has earnings.
4.	A part-time employee under the conditions set out in
Clauses (1)/	(2) and (3) above shall not be guaranteed a minimum
number of hours per week.
5.	Part-time employees will be paid the wage rate as set out in Appendix "A" of this Agreement and should they be employed in classifications covered in Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3, then the appropriate wage shall apply.
6.	Part-time employees shall be given first opportunity to qualify as regular employees and be placed at the bottom of the seniority list if they meet all qualifications and their seniority date will be the date in which they become a full time employee. (The application of this clause shall not be in
Page - 17 -
conflict with the nepotism policy of Palm Dairies ) Provided thife part-time employee has worked at least forty-five shifts prior to becoming a full time employee, his full time probation period will be reduced to forty-five days worked from the date of hire as a full time employee.
7.	Summer relief shall be defined as those employees hired between April 1 and September 15th of any calender year for the purpose of temporarily replacing vacationing regular employees. When a permanent vacancy occurs under Article 7, Section 7.03, it will be posted as provided therein.
8.	a summer relief employee will- be paid at the Summer relief rate regardless of the classification in which he works. The "Inexperienced Help" section of the Agreement shall not apply to Summer Relief.
9.	Seniority will not accumulate during the period between April 1st and September 15th inclusive, but in the event a Summer Relief Employee is retained as a regular employee after September 15th, his probationary period under Article 1, Section 7.02 will commence September 16th. Should he satisfactorily complete such probationary period his seniority date will be established as his original date of hire as a "Summer Relief" employee.
10.	The Company will maintain in each department a list of part-time employees and the total hours each part-time employee has worked on a four week basis. The shop steward will be granted access to said information on a "as requested" basis.
ARTICLE NO. 16 HEALTH AND WELFARE
Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is Appendix "C" setting forth the Health and Welfare benefits for employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE NO. 17 INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS AC
The industry shall be kept under an Industrial Standards Schedule, based on the minimums of the Agreement, for the protection of all parties.
ARTICLE NO IB RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
The Company and the Union agree to make a joint application to the Labour Relations Board to revise and bring up to date the Industrial Standards deemed necessary by Advisory Committee.
Page - 18
ARTICLE NO. 19 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
An employee who is displaced from his job by virtue of technological change may exercise his rights under clause 7.06 or he will be given the opportunity to fill other vacancies which are, or become available through the job posting procedure. Such displaced employee will be paid at his previous job base rate for a period up to six (6) montns from the date of his displacement if he works in a lower rated classification.
ARTICLE NO. 20 DURATION. TERMINATION AND AMENDMENTS
(A)	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the first day of May, 1991 and continue in full force and effect €hrouah~the lOtfi dav of April. 1993 and from year to year
thereafter,""except as hereinatter provided.
(B)	Either party may terminate this Agreement on any anniversary date, by notice in writing to the other party, not less than sixty (60) day8 prior to such anniversary date of this Agreement.
(C)	If amendments are desired by either party to become effective in the next ensuing year, the party proposing such amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the party not less than ninety (90) days before the last day of April in any year, and negotiations on such amendments shall be commenced within twenty days of the receipt of said notice.
SIGNED AT CALGARY, ALBERTA THIS if* DAY OF
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
BEATRICE FOODS INC.
PALM DAIRIES CALGARY DIVISION
SIGNED OF BEHALF MISCELLANEOUS EMPLOYEES TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION 987 OF ALBERTA
1992
Page - 19 -APPENDIX "A"
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION
Section 1.
PLANT STAFF
Effective	Effective
Mar 9, 1992	May 1, 1992
Bi-Weekly Hourly	Bi-Weekly	Hourly
grpup,,!	$1,196.80	$14.96	$1,244.80
Pasteurizer Operator Automatic (Full time)
C.I.P. Operator Mix Maker
Cultured Product Maker
Group 2	$1,184.00	$14.80	$1,232.00
Depot Shipper/Receiver (Medicine Hat),
Bulk Milk Receiver/Grader Swing Relief
ScaUR-i	$1,154.40	$14.43	$1,202.40
Filler Machine Operators Caser Operator Head Checker-In Head Shipper Head Checker out
SEgBP-&	$1,127.20	$14.09	$1,175.20
Other experienced employees
$15.56
$15.40
$15.03
$14.69
I
Page - 20
tyflfiES AND CLASSIFICATION
Effect ive Mar 8, 1992 Ri-Week!y	Hon r 1 y
Effective May 1, 1992 Bi-Jfefikly	Hourly
Group 5 Packagers
Group—6
Summer Relief
$1065.60
$13.32	$1113.60
$13.92
$9.98
$10.58
Part-Time hired prior to 4/19/88	$11.32
Part-Time hired 4/19/88 or after $10.27
$11.92
$10.87
Effective March 8, 1992 "Lead Hand" designated by the Company will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over and above his rate.
S&ctxQP. ,2 a
MECHANICAL DOCK
Truck Mechanic	$1,327.20
(with papers) over 6 months
Truck Mechanic	$1,275.20
(with papers) 1st 6 months
Apprentice	$1,178.40
Mechanic over 4 years
Apprentice	$1,174.40
Mechanic 3 years to 4 years
Apprentice	$1,168.00
Mechanic 2 years to 3 years
Apprentice Mechanic 1 year to
Body Repair Man
Garage Serviceman
Garage Staff
$1,167.20
2 years
$1,169.60
$1,153.60
$1,135.20
$16.59	$1,375.20	$17.19
$15.94	$1,323.20	$16.54
$14.73	$1,226.40	$15.33
$14.68	$1,222.40	$15.28
$14.60	$1,216.00	$15.20
$14.59	$1,215.20	$15.19
$14.62	$1,217.60	$15.22
$14.42	$1,201.60	$15.02
$14.19	$1,183.20	$14.79
Effective March 8, 1992 "Lead Rand" designated by the Company will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over and above his rate.
All classifications from "Truck Mechanic (with papers) over 6 months" to and including "Apprentice Mechanic 1 year to 2 years", will be considered to include "Truck Refrigeration Mechanic”.
Page - 21 -
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION
Effective Mr 8, 1992 Bi-Weekly	Hourly
Bi-Weekly
Effective Mr 1, 1992
ffpurlY
MECHANICAL & DOCK cont.
3rd Class	$1/201.60	$15.02	$1,249.60	$15.62
Engineer
Maintenance Man	$1,188.00	$14.85	$1,236.00	$15.45
and 4th Class Engineer
Noter The Company will provide a tool allowance of $100.00 per year to all garage and plant maintenance employees who are required to provide their own tools,
Section 3 Drivers
1.	Milk Route Sales Staff - Wholesale and City Combination
Base Pay........ $1,156.80	$14.46	$1,204.80	$15.06
2.	Milk Route Supervisor - Wholesale
Base Ky.... H $1,218.40	$T5.23	$1,266.40	$15.83
3.	Ice Cream Routes Sales Staff _ ty
Base Pay........ $l,lbb.8U	$T-T.46	$1,204.80	$15.06
4. Country Drivers (To include Combination
Non commissioned Delivery Staff
Base Pay........ $1,136.$0	$14.21
Sales Staff and Transport) $1,184.80	$14.81
DnYeT fifffuTuS	$1,188.80
$14.86
ggmmi oned Drivers	|
Ice Cream
$1,204.80
$15.06
Route Supervisor (Hold Hold and Country Combination)
Base Pay.............$1,218.40------$15.23	$1,2bb.40	$15.83
Non-Commissioned Delivery Sales Staff
Base fey."."...	$1,153.60	$14.42	$1,201.60	$15.02
$1,069.60
$13.37	$1,117.60
$13.97
Page -22
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION
Section 4
Rate Progression System - Effective March 8, 1992, the following rate progression system will apply to new employees (unless otherwise excluded).
$2.00 less than scheduled rate during their first year.
$1.00 less than scheduled rate during their second year.
II A II
Note :	This progression to apply to all of Appendix
except far Truck Mechanics, Apprentice Mechanics, and Engineers. (Also, Home Services is excluded by virtue of the separate Letter of Understanding).
Section 5
An employee temporarily working on a higher rated classification shall not be paid the higher rate for the first four (4) hours of work. If, however, the employee works at least four (4) hours, he will be paid such higher rate for all hours worked on that day. If such employee works in excess of twenty (20) hours in a week on a higher rated job, he will be paid the higher rate for all hours worked in that week.
Section 6
Any Classification not included in this Agreement, any change in classification or any change in method constituting a-change in classification shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union at the time it comes into existence. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
Section 7
Retroactive: Employees (excluding Hme Service staff) on the payroll on the date of ratification will receive retroactive pay based on sixty ($0.60) cents per hour (not compounded) for all hours paid by the Company between May 1, 1991 and March 7, 1992.
Page - 23 -
APPENDIX .8, COMMISSIONS
Section 1
Unit Structure (Other than Home Service) Fluid Milk and Cream
(A)
(B)
250g whipping cream litre of Milk (any kind)
1
1
2 - 500 mL of Milk (any kind) 4 - 250 mL of Milk (any kind) 1 - 500 mL of 10% B.F.
)
)
) One (1) Unit
)
)
1 - litre of 10% B.F.	)
1 -2 litres of Milk (any kind))
Carton Creamers	J
4 - litres of Milk (any kind) ) 1 - litre of Whipping Cream )
Two (2) Units
Four (4) Units
4 - litres of Cream (any kind)) Eight (8) Units
Feature Products 1 - Cream Cheese (250 grams) 250 mL of Sour Cream 500g of Cottage Cheese 250g of Cottage Cheese
1
1
2
1
4
2
3 1 1 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
4
8
4
4
-	litre of Fruit Drink or Juice)
-	250 mL Fruit Drink or Juice) One (1) Unit
-	200g of Yogurt	)
-	175g of Yogurt	)
-	lb Cheddar Cheese	)
-	lb Margarine	)
-	doz. Eggs	)
-	Cheddar Cheese (1kg)	)
-	Cheese Slices (1kg)	)
-	Exact Weight (1kg)	)
-	500mL of Sour Cream	)
-	kg of Cottage Cheese
-	500g Yogurt	)
-	litre Egg Nog (retail)	)
-	litre Egg Nog (Wholesale) )
-	litres of Fruit Drink	)'
-	I25g Yogurt	)
Two (2) Units
Four (4) Units
kg of Cottage Cheese	)
litres of Sour Cream	)
Eight (8) Units
)
Page - 24
(C)	Butter
Butter - when sold at Wholesale price 1/2 cent per lb.
Butter - (2 x 250 grams) - when sold at wholesale price 1/2 cent per 500 grams.
(D)	On any new product ok container size introduced for sale, a commission rate shall be negotiated and established between the Company and the Union. If negotiations are not satisfactorily concluded, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall be empowered to make a binding Award.
Section 2
COMMISSION RATES PAID
(A)	Wholesale and City Combination
No commission on the first twenty thousand (20,000) units sold per month.
Effective May 1/ 1991/ point four five nine (.459 ) of a cent per unit on a 11 units sold over twenty thousand (20,000) units per month.
Effective May 1/ 1992, point four seven eight (.478 ) of a cent per unit on all units sold over twenty thousand (20,000) units per month.
Feature Products as set out in section 1 (B) will be paid for at the rate of one (1) cent per unit.
(B)	Supervisor - Wholesale
Average commission earned per month.
(C)	Ice Cream Staff tCitvl
t
Ice Cream in bulk, and packages will be reduced to litres and paid for at the rate of 1 cent per litre.
(D)	Country Drivers
-	Non Commissioned Delivery, staff Plus actual road expenses.
-	Combination
No commission on the first six thousand, eight hundred
(6.800)	units sold per month.
Effective May 1, 1991, point nine one eight (.918) of a cent per unit on all units sold over six thousand, eight hundred
(6.800)	units.
Effective May 1, 1992, point nine five six (.956) of a cent per unit on all units sold over six thousand, eight hundred
Page - 25 -
(6,800) units.
Feature Products will be paid for at the rate of one (1) cent per unit.
Butter will be paid at the rate set fourth in Section 1 (c) of this appendix.
Ice cream i n bulk, and packages will be reduced to litres and paid for at 1 cent per litre.
Novelties sold, as per the daily sales sheets, will be paid for at 1 1/2 cents per dozen.
-	? ananort Drivers
Plus six point five (6.5) cents per kilometre driven during the month.
The Company to pay for yearly medical examination for all drivers compelled by law to take the examination.
-	Supervisor IKold Hold and Country Combination).
Plus average commission earned by Drivers per month.
\
Page - 26 -&e£EHB£S..,:.C.H.
SUSUPA, h, PENSION PLAN
To contribute to the Teamsters Pension Plan as followsc Sixty-five cents (.65} per hour for all hours worked not including overtime. Effective November 1, 1988 contributions to the Teamsters Pension Plan to be increased to Seventy-Five cents (.75) per hour and effective Nay 1st, 1990 contributions to the
Teamsters Pension Plan to be increased to Eighty cents (.80) per hour. Contributions will be based on all regular hours worked including vacation pay and holiday gay but not including overtime. The Maxknum hours will be 173 pel: month. Effective May 1# 1992 increase the contribution to eighty-five cents ($0.85). Contributions will start on the day an Employee begins work for the Company.
It is agreed that the Teamsters Pension Plan as administered by Miscellaneous Employees, Teamsters Local Union 987 of Alberta, Province of Alberta will be amended to provide the following*
1.	To provide Cor both Union and Company Trustees and that one such Company Trustee will be appointed by Palm Dairies.
2.	There will be no contributions by the Company to the Teamster Pension Plan for hours worked by students and parttime employees.
Re: Contributions on behalf of part-time and summer students; the Company will make any contributions on behalf of a part-time and/or summer student as required under the Alberta Pension Act. Increase contribution to Pension Plan as follows c
November 1st, 1988 to 75 cents per hour May 1st, 1990 to 80 cents per hour May 1, 1992 to 85 cents per hour
(
Section 2 DENTAL PLAN
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification or upon introduction, whichever first occurs, implement the 1992 Alberta Dental Schedule.
Section 3 SICK..LEAYE
After an Employee is in the service of the Company one (1) full year, he will he entitled to one work week pol: year, for sickness or non compensable accident, with full pay, when proof of disability is supplied. Unused days may accumulate to a maximum of seven (7) days leave for sickness or non-compensable accident. Any other benefits received by the Employee during the time the Company is paying full pay, will be paid by the Company.
Section 4 SHQBT TERM-PISABILIIX PLAN - See Company Benefit Plan
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN - See Company Benefit Plan