Milling
Group
AGREEMENT
Between
P&H MILLING GROUP a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited Saskatoon
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 1400
EFFECTIVE
MARCH 1, 2014 TO FEBRUARY 28, 2018
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE............................................2
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE...............................................2
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION.........................................2
ARTICLE 4 - RELATIONSHIPS.......................................3
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS....................4
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SHOP..........................................5
ARTICLE 7 - CHECK OFF...........................................5
ARTICLE 8 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS.............................5
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES..........................................5
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION........................................8
ARTICLE 11 SENIORITY............................................9
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE..................................12
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK.....................................13
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS..................................24
ARTICLE 15 - OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS......................25
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS................................26
ARTICLE 17 - HEALTH AND SAFETY.................................26
ARTICLE 18 - SEVERANCE.........................................27
ARTICLE 19 ■ SCHEDULES ATTACHED TO AGREEMENT...................28
ARTICLE 20 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT..........29
SCHEDULE "A"...................................................30
SCHEDULE "B"...................................................34
BENEFIT PLANS..................................................35
Letter of Agreement Apprenticeship........................40
Letter of Agreement Cameras...............................42
Letter of Agreement Contractors...........................43
INDEX
44
2
AGREEMENT
entered into the 16 day of June, A.D. 2014.
BETWEEN	P&H MILLING GROUP,
a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited
Saskatoon
Hereinafter called THE COMPANY and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local 1400
Hereinafter called THE UNION
ARTICLE 1 ■ PURPOSE
1.1	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
2.1	This agreement applies to all employees of P&H Milling Group, a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited working at its flour mill at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, excluding IT personnel, sales personnel, confidential assistants, casual employees, supervisors and those above.
2.2	The Company will supply the Union for information purposes, names, job titles and principal responsibilities of supervisory and management personnel.
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION
3.1	The Company acknowledges that the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent, and recognizes the Union or its successor as such for all employees in the said Unit.
3
3.2	Negotiating Committee
a.	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than four (4) employees, including the Unit Chair and Chief Steward of the Local, and will recognize and deal with the said Committee with respect to any matter which properly arises from time to time during the term of this Agreement, and the said Committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of this Agreement. The Company shall be kept currently advised of the names of the Negotiating Committee members.
It is agreed that only one (1) employee from each department may be absent at any one (1) time on the activities of this committee, excluding the Unit Chair and Chief Steward, unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
b.	It is clearly understood that the Negotiating Committee is a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal only with such matters as are properly the subject of negotiations, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
3.3	a. The Union acknowledges that members of the Negotiating Committee and Union
officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their Manager. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their duties, they will also notify their Manager. In the event the Manager is absent, notification shall be given to the Manager’s designate.
b.	Members of the Negotiating Committee will not absent themselves from regular work unreasonably and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate a maximum of three (3) such employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company at their regular rate of pay. As far as possible, meetings of the Committee will be held during regular work hours. It is understood that where such meetings are held outside regular work hours at the Company's request, the Company will compensate employees for time spent at such meetings at their regular rates of pay. Time paid for in this manner shall not apply to daily and weekly overtime. Where practical, shifts for night shift employees, who are members of the Committee, will be rearranged to permit their attendance at the meetings.
ARTICLE 4 - RELATIONSHIPS
4.1	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of the employee's membership in or connection with the Union, and that membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
4
4.2	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives, and there shall be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during an employee's working hours.
4.3	LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEE
a.	The Company and the Union agree to set up a joint Labour Relations Committee.The objective of the committee is to enhance communications, labour relations, and cooperation in the workplace between the Company, employee and the Union.
b.	Meetings are to be held on a quarterly/or as-required basis, and an agenda of items to be discussed should be prepared prior to the meeting to facilitate useful discussion and resolution of issues.
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.1	The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and that it is the exclusive right of the Company to:
a.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
b.	Direct its working forces and assign duties, to hire, transfer, promote, demote and to suspend or discharge employees for just cause, to decrease or increase the working force of the Company subject to the right of the Union to invoke grievance procedure where an employee feels they have been unjustly dealt with.
c.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, method of manufacturing, schedules or production, kinds and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products to be produced.
5.2	It is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employee's bargaining agency, as evidence of good faith, the Union assumes responsibility for its members in their relations with the Company, and will use its best efforts to have the employees' responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and in spirit.
5.3	The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and in spirit.
5
ARTICLE 6 ■ UNION SHOP
6.1	All employees within the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and maintain such membership in good standing. New employees shall sign the Union application for membership immediately upon being hired.
6.2	The Company will include in each new employee orientation package a list provided by the Union that details the contact information of the Union executive and Stewards. The new employees will be introduced to the Union executive and Stewards provided they are encountered during the tour, and the introductions do not disrupt production.
6.3	Provided the Union has notified the Company in advance and obtained the Company's agreement, a representative of the Union shall have access to the Company's premises during working hours at such times and in such places as are mutually agreed by the Union and the Company. The Union's representative shall comply with all requirements applicable to visitors on the Company's premises. Agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 7 - CHECK OFF
7.1	The Company agrees to deduct from the employee's pay on each pay day, the Union dues and assessments for the current period. The Union initiation fee will also be deducted in accordance with Union policy. The Company agrees to remit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within ten (10) working days of each pay period ending.
7.2	When, because no wages are due the employee on the date scheduled for deductions and deductions cannot be made, deductions will be made on the next pay where wages are due. The Company agrees to indicate, on the check-off list, the reasons why no deduction was made for such employee.
7.3	The Company agrees to provide the Union with an electronic list of available employee addresses and phone numbers on a quarterly basis. The Union and the Company agree to treat this information as confidential and that it is to be used only for business purposes.
ARTICLE 8 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS
8.1	During the term of this Agreement the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock-outs of its employees, and the Union agrees there will be no strikes or other collective action that will stop or interfere with production, and any dispute or alleged grievance will be resolved through the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES
9.1	The provisions of this article shall not prevent any employee from discussing with the
6
immediate supervisor any grievance or misunderstanding in an effort to settle the same before invoking Step One of the Grievance Procedure. However, the Union shall not be bound by any decision made before the Grievance Procedure has been applied.
9.2	Grievance Committee - The Union agrees to elect or appoint a Grievance Committee from among regular employees of the Company, to deal with questions which are referred for settlement through the steps of the Grievance Procedure. The Grievance Committee shall consist of the Unit Chair, Chief Steward, two (2) Department Shop Stewards. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied by the Union to the Company.
9.3	Grievance Procedure - It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible. Any disputes, disagreement or complaint arising out of the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this agreement shall be dealt with in the following manner.
STEP 1
The employee shall take the grievance up with the Department Shop Steward who, with or without the aggrieved employee, shall discuss the grievance with the Department Manager concerned. The Chief Steward or the Unit Chair may accompany the Department Steward in this step. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within two (2) working days, the matter shall be progressed to Step 2.
STEP 2
The Grievance Committee shall take the matter up, in writing, with the Plant Superintendent, and if following this stage, the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee(s) concerned two (2) working days, or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed to between the two parties, the grievance shall be progressed to Step 3.
STEP 3
a.	The grievance shall then be supplied to the Company, in writing, and shall then be taken up at a meeting of the Grievance Committee, the Director of Operations, or a designate, at which meeting an authorized Representative, or an Executive Officer of the Union shall be present.
b.	The Director of Operations, or a designate will submit a decision to the Union in writing within five (5) working days of the meeting held to discuss the matter or within such longer period as may be mutually agreed upon between the two (2) parties.
c.	If, at Step 3, a settlement to the satisfaction of both parties is not achieved, then either party may, within a further twenty-five (25) working days, request that the grievance be referred to a Board of Arbitration referred to in Article 10.
7
9.4	General
a.	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by or on behalf of an aggrieved employee in respect to a specific action of which there is a complaint within fourteen (14) calendar days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the Grievor. Policy grievances shall be processed commencing at Step 3 of the procedure.
b.	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from among its regular staff, a reasonable number of stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representative of the Company. The Union will supply the Company with a list of Stewards.
c.	Union Stewards and Grievance Committee members will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with disputes or grievances of employees, and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate such employees for time spent in handling grievances of employees, at their regular rates of pay. Union Stewards will not leave their regular duties without first receiving permission from their Department Manager, or in their absence the Manager's designate, and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their duties the employees will notify the Department Manager, or in their absence the Manager's designate.
d.	At any stage of the grievance procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
e.	In the event of a written warning, suspension, or dismissal, the Company’s action will be confirmed in writing to the employee, with a copy to the Department Shop Steward and a copy to the Unit Chair or Chief Shop Steward stating the specific reason or reasons for the discipline.
If after having received a written warning or suspension, an employee has no further infractions for a period of eighteen (18) months, his or her previous disciplinary record shall become void.
f.	A claim by an employee that they have been unjustly discharged from their employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company office within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 2 will be omitted in such cases. Such special grievance may be settled by confirming the Management's action in dismissing the employee, or by
8
reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
g.	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, they shall have the right to interview a Unit Chair, Chief Steward or a Department Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
h.	During the term of this agreement, meetings of the Grievance Committee with Management shall be held whenever requested by either the Grievance Committee or Management. The terms of Article 3, Section 3.b., outlining compensation to employees attending meetings of the Negotiating Committee shall similarly apply to employees attending meetings of the Grievance Committee.
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION
10.1	a. When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, it shall
make such request in writing addressed to the other party of this agreement and at the same time name a nominee. Within 5 working days thereafter the other party shall name a nominee. The two nominees shall immediately attempt to select by agreement an arbitrator as a Chairperson of an Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such Chairperson within a further period of 5 working days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for Canada to appoint an impartial Chairperson.
b.	If the Company and the Union mutually agree, the Board of Arbitration can be comprised of a single arbitrator with the same jurisdiction and authority.
The single arbitrator will be chosen by mutual agreement of both sides, and if no agreement is reached one will be appointed by the Minister of Labour for Canada.
10.2	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in any attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance that is referred to arbitration or who has any direct affiliation with either P&H Milling Group, a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited or the United Food and Commercial Workers.
10.3	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties, will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board, if any.
10.4	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all the previous steps of the Grievance procedure, unless the parties hereto have mutually agreed to forego any or all of the preceding steps.
10.5	The Arbitration Board established under this article shall not have authority to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or insert new provisions.
9
10.6	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties thereto, and the decision of the Board or a majority of the Arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
10.7	Where time limits appearing in this article have been violated by either party to the agreement such violations may be referred to the Arbitration Board and the Board shall be authorized to rule on questions arising out of such violations.
10.8	The Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall have the power to confirm a discharge penalty referred to it or substitute for discharge such other penalty as it deems just and reasonable under the circumstances.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.1	a. Until an employee has completed three (3) months of service with the Company, they shall be considered a probationary employee. Commencing with the day after they have completed this probationary period, an employee shall be granted seniority retroactive to their most recent date of hiring and their name shall be entered on the seniority list as a regular employee.
b.	If there is doubt about an employee being able to qualify during the probationary period, their probationary period may be extended by an additional twenty (20) days of actual work. Any further extension of the probationary period of up to a maximum of twenty (20) working days may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee.
c.	As part of the probation process the company will assess the job performance of the employee on probation. If prior to the conclusion of the probation period the employee fails to meet the expected performance standards, the company may discharge the employee at its sole discretion as long as it is not done in bad faith. Such discharge may be subject to the grievance procedure.
d.	Seniority shall be defined as an employee's accumulated over-all service since their most recent date of hiring in the Company's employ. The Company and the Union agree that the principle of plant seniority shall apply in situations where seniority is a consideration.
e.	Employees promoted to a management or supervisory position at the P&H Milling Group, a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited, Saskatoon operation shall be allowed up to six (6) months in which they can return to the junior position in their original department at the positions rate of pay without loss of seniority. Employees will be allowed to avail themselves of this clause once only over the course of their employment at P&H Milling Group, a Division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited.
10
11.2	a. In the event of any reduction in the working force or lay off, probationary
employees shall be laid off before any employees with seniority are laid off provided these employees have the immediate qualifications and are capable of satisfactorily performing the work available. No employees shall be on lay off status while a junior employee is employed, subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available. If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding an employee's immediate qualifications and capability of satisfactorily performing the work available, the matter shall be discussed between the Company and the Union.
b. If an employee is laid off from his department, but has enough seniority to prevent being laid off from the plant, that employee will fill the position of the employee that was laid off from the plant.
If two (2) or more employees are laid off from their department(s), but they have enough seniority to prevent being laid off from the plant, those employees will fill the positions of the employees that were laid off from the plant. The most senior employee will have the first choice for the vacant positions available and the second most senior will have the second choice, etc. until the affected employees have been assigned to the positions available.
These placements are subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available.
11.3	Subject to all other conditions of this seniority article of the agreement, when reducing or increasing staff, the Company and the Union agree that the principle of plant seniority shall govern. In cases of recall from layoff, the Company shall have met its obligations under this article if it has attempted to reach the employee by phone and registered mail as per the telephone numbers and mail addresses given to the Company in confidence. It will be the employee's responsibility to advise the Company if they are available at some different telephone numbers or addresses. The Company agrees that in the event of a temporary lay off, reasonable notice will be given to the employee whenever possible. The tentative production schedule for the following week will be posted on Thursday, p.m. Employees temporarily laid off or transferred from their position shall retain their rate of pay and shall revert back to their former position once such position becomes available.
11.4	The Company shall maintain and post every three (3) months, a Plant seniority list, and in addition, a seniority list for each department listed in Schedule “A” of this collective agreement.
11.5	All vacancies shall be posted for a period of five (5) calendar days, specifying the number of employees needed in that classification, so that employees desiring the vacant job may apply. The Union shall be informed within ten (10) working days, after close of applications, who the successful applicant is.
11
Filling of vacancies shall be based on qualifications, ability and seniority. Vacancies will be filled in the following manner:
a.	The employees with Plant Seniority in the department in which the vacancies occur, and who apply on the posting, will be awarded the job.
b.	Should there be no applicants from within the department in which a vacancy occurs then the job will be awarded to the senior applicant applying on the posting.
If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding a senior applicant's qualifications or ability the same trial procedure shall be followed as is outlined in Clause 2, above.
If after up to fifteen (15) actual working days, an employee is not satisfied with the new job, they shall be returned to their former position, or if after up to thirty (30) actual working days the employee doesn't prove satisfactory they will be returned to their former position, after discussion with the Union.
11.6	When it is necessary to move employees from one classification to another for a period of one week [five (5) working days] or less, the Supervisor in charge may make appointments in a manner most convenient to Plant efficiency and minimum disruption to the work schedules in effect at that time. Every consideration will be given to Plant seniority, but it will not necessarily be the governing factor.
11.7	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken and all seniority rights forfeited (including the Company's obligation to rehire) for any of the following reasons:
a.	If the employee voluntarily quits.
b.	If the employee is discharged and is not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
c.	If the employee is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days of being requested to do so without furnishing a reasonable excuse for such failure to report or without securing leave-of-absence.
d.	Employees with less than two (2) years service have been laid off for a period equal to their length of seniority, with a minimum of six (6) months.
e.	Employees with two (2) years or more service have been laid off for more than two (2) years.
f.	If an employee is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without securing approval for the absence, unless the employee can demonstrate that is was unreasonable to expect them to be at work.
12
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	The Company may grant leave-of-absence, without pay, to any employee for legitimate personal reasons and any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and seniority shall continue to accumulate during the absence. While on approved leaves of absence, employees shall have the option to continue their benefit coverage by paying their portion of any benefit premiums, in which case the Company will continue to pay its portion.
Union business will be considered a good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company, and seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence. It is agreed that not more than one (1) employee from any one (1) department or a maximum of three (3) employees from the Plant will be granted such leave of absence at any one (1) time.
The Company agrees to notify the Unit Chair of the Union when extended leave of absence is granted to an employee. This does not apply when leave of absence is granted for anything up to a forty-eight (48) hour period.
12.2	The maximum period for which leave of absence without pay may be granted shall be six (6) months except when the leave of absence is for the purpose of handling the affairs of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
12.3	It is the employee's responsibility to make contact with the Company to confirm their date of return. Should an employee fail to return to work at the expiry of the leave of absence or alternately fail to seek renewal of the leave of absence, they shall be considered to have terminated their employment with the Company.
12.4	a. Maternity/Parental Leave without pay and without loss in seniority will be granted
and administered according to the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
b. Employees must give a minimum of two (2) weeks notice of their return to work date.
12.5	Leave of absence for reasonable cause, granted by the Company, shall not break the continuity of an employee’s seniority rights and an employee granted leave of absence shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating providing that the employee is capable after a fair trial of handling the job.
12.6	All vacation entitlement is to be used up before any request for leave without pay will be entertained. Requests for leave without pay must be made to your Department Manager, and specify the date and duration of the requested leave. The Department Manager shall have final and binding authority in determining whether leave without pay will be granted.
13
ARTICLE 13-HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME REGULATIONS, SHIFT BONUS. AND GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
	Starting	Quitting
a. NORMAL SHIFT HOURS	Time	Time
Day Shift	7:00 a.m.	3:30 p.m.
Afternoon Shift	3:30 p.m.	12:00 midnight
Night Shift	12:00 a.m.	8:30 a.m.
b. SHIFT WORK
The Company agrees to rotate shift work.
First Shift	7:00 a.m.	3:00 p.m.
Second Shift	3:00 p.m.	11:00 p.m.
Third Shift	11:00 p.m.	7:00 a.m.
13.2	OTHER SHIFT HOURS
In cases where management wishes to change starting and quitting times for the schedules in clauses 13.1 and 13.2 on other than an individual temporary basis, such change may be affected by agreement between the Company and the Union, and such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The Company may implement a rotating forty-four (44) and thirty-six (36) hour weekly shift schedule on the basis of the day shift in the Maintenance Department. Employees work a nine (9) hour shift Monday to Thursday with Friday as a scheduled day off and work nine (9) hours Monday to Thursday and eight (8) hours Friday. Employees will work either the 7:00 am to 4:30 pm shift, or the 8:00 am to 5:30 pm shift Monday to Thursday, and the 7:00 am to 3:30 pm or 8:00 am to 4:30 pm shift every other Friday. Overtime rules apply to hours worked after the scheduled shift in the day.
It is understood that for legitimate business requirements the Company may schedule employees outside the normal shift hours referred to above, as follows:
a)	The Elevator Driveway, Shipping Desk, and Customer Service areas may be scheduled between the hours of 7: 00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
b)	The Lead Hands, Bag Person and Caretaker may be scheduled to start work at 6:30 a.m.
c)	Employees working in Administration may be scheduled to start work at 8:00 a.m.
13.3	NORMAL LUNCH PERIODS
Employees on normal shifts will be allowed one-half hour for lunch between (Day shift) 11:00 o’clock and 11:30 a.m., (Afternoon shift) 7:30 o’clock and 8:00 p.m. (Night Shift) 4:00
14
o’clock and 4:30 a.m. without pay. Employees on shift work, when on a twenty-four (24) hour basis, will be allowed time for lunch with pay.
On shift work it is understood lunch periods must be staggered in order that the mill be manned at all times and production continued. Lunching and smoking will be confined to time and areas designated by the Department Supervisors.
13.4	REST PERIOD
The Company will grant a rest period of ten (10) minutes in the first half and Ten (10) minutes in the second half of each shift, the periods to be assigned at the discretion of the Department Supervisors. Rest periods will be considered as ten (10) minutes in the rest area.
Employees working on normal shifts, other than those working in Administration and Technical, will be granted seven (7) minutes to wash and change prior to quitting time. Employees working on shift work must remain on duty until their relief takes over.
13.5	NO REDUCTION IN REGULAR SHIFT HOURS
An employee who is notified that they will be required to work the shift immediately following a regular shift shall not have the hours of work of the regular shift reduced.
13.6	REPORTING ALLOWANCE
An employee who reports for work at their normal time and who is sent home because no work is available, shall be paid for one-half the number of hours normally assigned on that shift or day.
13.7	OVERTIME REGULATIONS
a.	Overtime at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate shall be paid for all times worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day, and in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week, and on an employee's assigned days off.
b.	In addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to straight time, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday. Sunday is considered 7:00 a.m. Sunday to 7:00 a.m. Monday.
Similarly, in addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to one-half (1/2) the regular rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday. Saturday is considered 7:00 a.m. Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Sunday.
c.	No employee shall be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours, and when Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday time is payable, no overtime premium payments will be computed twice on the same time.
15
d.	Daily and weekly overtime, to the maximum permitted under the Federal Labour Code, shall be assigned to the employee with Plant Seniority in the Department with the exception of the Maintenance Department where daily overtime shall be assigned to the senior employee on the job provided, however, that in all cases the person assigned overtime is capable of performing the work required, and is readily available in the case of short periods of overtime.
In each instance, the Company will make a reasonable effort to excuse an employee from working overtime where such employee so requests.
e.	An employee shall be entitled to weekend overtime or overtime scheduled for any general holiday, if that employee worked the weekday such overtime was issued or if that employee worked the weekday prior to such overtime being worked.
All employees must confirm their availability for weekend overtime by Thursday 10:00 a.m. of the week that the overtime occurs. Employees off sick on Friday of that week, do not qualify for that weekend overtime.
An employee who books one (1) or more weeks of vacation commencing on Monday shall not be eligible for weekend overtime or any overtime falling on any general holiday until that employee returns to work from vacation.
Employees not posted in a department and who work less than the full week in another department are not entitled to overtime in that department before posted employees in the department. It is understood that employees who work in another department for a full week will be eligible for overtime in that department but not their home department.
f.	An employee required to work prior to or after their regular shift shall receive the applicable overtime rate for all such hours of work.
g.	When overtime hours are required by the Company, overtime will first be offered (up to eight (8) hours) to the senior qualified employee in the department. After all employees in the department have been offered overtime on this basis, the senior employee in the department will then be offered overtime in addition to the eight (8) hours. After all employees in the department have been offered overtime on this basis, the overtime will then be offered to the senior qualified employee in the plant. Under no circumstances will an employee be permitted to work twenty-four (24) hours.
h.	Employees asked to work a double overtime shift, will choose from the remaining shifts and positions that were not selected in the first round.
i.	When overtime is called for in a department, employees on overtime will exercise their senioirty after the regular employees have exercised theirs.
16
j.	Technical Department Weekend Overtime
In the Technical Department qualified employees will provide required overtime coverage on a rotating basis.
Employees may request to be relieved of their rotation obligation, and if so it will be offered to the other employees by seniority. If no employee accepts the overtime the assigned employee must work the weekend overtime.
13.8	OVERTIME LUNCH PERIOD
If an employee is scheduled to work overtime for more than two (2) hours after completing a regular shift or works more than two (2) hours on a call back which runs into his regular shift, and he works the rest of the shift, such employee will be allowed a meal break on Company time and the Company will pay the cost of the meal. This clause does not apply when the overtime work has been scheduled by the end of his shift the day before or earlier.
13.9	GENERAL HOLIDAYS
a.	The following General Holidays shall be observed:
New Year's Day, Family Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Saskatchewan Day (first Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and two (2) additional holidays to be mutually agreed upon by the parties to the Agreement.
The two (2) above unnamed General Holidays to be observed as mutually agreed to between the Supervisor and the Employee, may be taken on an individual employee basis.
Should an additional Statutory Holiday be declared, one of these general holiday days would apply.
The senior employee will be given preference if a date requested conflicts with other requests.
b.	Employees who qualify for each of the above thirteen (13) General Holidays shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay.
c.	If an employee is required to work on any of the thirteen (13) designated General Holidays, they shall be compensated for such work at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay in addition to the holiday pay referred to in item b. above. If an employee is required to work more than their normal eight (8) hours on the above General Holidays, they will be reimbursed at a rate of two (2) times the normal rate of pay for those hours in excess of eight (8) hours.
17
d.	An employee is entitled to general holiday pay if they have worked during the work week immediately proceeding that in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week immediately following that in which the General Holiday occurs.
Temporary employees hired over the Christmas period will only be eligible for holiday pay according to the Canada Labour Code.
The exception to the above is that new employees to the company will not receive retroactive pay for holidays before their date of hire.
e.	All of the holidays named in a. above shall be observed on the day proclaimed in any Saskatoon Civic Proclamations. Failing such Civic Proclamation, the holiday shall be observed on the day mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company.
f.	New employees will be entitled to one (1) General Holiday if they are hired prior to June 30th of the year.
13.10 SHIFT BONUS
Employees working on the second shift shall receive a bonus of eighty five (85) cents per hour over and above the rate of the job.
Employees working on the third shift shall receive a bonus of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) per hour over and above the rate of the job.
Employees working weekends on the second and third shift shall receive the shift bonus in addition to all other entitlements.
13.11	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
An employee required temporarily to perform a higher rated job shall be paid at the rate of the job while so doing, but if required to temporarily work at a lower rated job, shall keep their regular rate.
13.12	EMERGENCY CALLS OR CALL BACK
An employee called out to do a special job shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rate. Overtime rates shall be at one and one-half (1.5) the regular rate, except for Sunday, which is paid at double (2) the regular rate.
An employee called back for an emergency during the night shift shall be allowed a reasonable period of rest before returning to work on their day shift.
18
In such case, the start of their regular shift shall be delayed by no more than the number of hours actually worked during the night shift, plus a one-half (1/2) hours allowance for travel time. The employee shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shall be paid as if they worked their full shift.
In the alternative, if reasonable, the employee may elect to remain at work following completion of the emergency work and commence their scheduled shift for that day. If the employee made that election, the employee’s scheduled shift for that day would be paid their regular rate of pay for the usual duration of their shift, (i.e. If the employee is on a four (4) hour call in from 3:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., the employee’s shift would commence at 3:00
a.m. and end at 11:00 a.m.) This would not constitute a change in the employee’s posted work schedule.
When the Company elects to have a Maintenance employee on call, the task shall be rotated through the crew, and will be paid at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour. The on-call employee will respond to the call.
13.13	PAYMENT OF WAGES
Payment of wages will be through direct bank deposit by noon of every second Thursday.
The normal payroll week shall be from 7:00 a.m. Monday to 7:00 a.m. the following Monday. Sunday shall be considered the last day of the week.
13.14	NOON HOUR - WEEKEND WORK
When a complete eight (8) hour day shift is scheduled on Saturday or Sunday in the Maintenance Department, Packing Room and Warehouse, lunch hour shall be limited to one-half (1/2) hour without pay and the shift shall end at 3:30 p.m.
Alternately, basis mutual agreement of Management and Union, the following shifts may be worked in the Maintenance, Warehouse and Packing Departments:
Day Shift
Afternoon
Shift
Starting Time Quitting Time
7:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m.
15 minutes lunch period (with pay)
10 minutes rest period in the first and second half of "8-hour" shift.
NO "seven minute" wash and change period will be allowed on these shifts.
19
13.15	EMPLOYMENT HOURS GUARANTEE
The Company agrees to provide a guaranteed number of hours of work on a calendar year basis to employees as follows:
a.	1,400 hours to employees with ten (10) years seniority as at January 1 of each
calendar year.
The above guaranteed hours of work shall be reduced an equivalent to the number of hours an employee is absent or paid for due to:
a.	Illness as provided by the Short and Long Term Disability Plans;
b.	Accident covered by Workers' Compensation;
c.	Personal leaves of absence;
d.	Time lost due to a strike or lockout;
e.	Vacation and Statutory Holidays;
f.	Leave to attend Union Business.
Application:
1.	An employee must have ten (10) years seniority as at December 31 of the calendar year in which the guarantee is to apply.
2.	The Guarantee shall not apply on a pro rata basis in case of termination.
3.	The determination of hours worked will be derived by dividing the gross earnings as indicated on the employees' T4 by the employee's weighted average wage rate.
4.	For the purposes of the Guarantee, employees will be deemed to have worked for all hours which they could have worked had they elected to use their seniority rights.
13.16	NOTICE OF LAYOFF AND SHIFT CHANGES
The Company will provide twenty-four (24) hour notice of layoffs or shift changes excluding those that result from unplanned absences, i.e. sickness, compensation, compassionate leave.
Notice will be given to the employee such that one (1) complete work day (7:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.) separates the notification from the beginning of the day that the shift change/layoff takes effect. Notice given by 8:00 a.m. will be deemed to be given prior to the start of the day shift.
20
If notice is not given, the employee will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for the first shift worked on the new schedule or paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of notice of layoff.
Employees requesting time off will be required to do so far enough in advance that the Company can fulfill its obligation to give notice to affected co-workers.
13.17	FOUR (41 ON - FOUR (4) OFF SCHEDULE
a.	Schedule Conditions
The Company may implement a rotating four (4) On - four (4) Off, twelve (12)-hour shift schedule on the basis of day shift and night shift. This four (4) On -four (4) Off Schedule shall operate on a twenty-eight (28) calendar day cycle with a maximum of thirteen (13) cycles per year. Employees affected shall be regularly scheduled to work on the basis of the following normal shift rotation of the cycle:
Four (4) day shift Four (4) off shift Four (4) night shift Four (4) off shift
Twenty-eight (28) Calendar Days
The above Schedule may also be applied on the basis of one (1) shift per day to provide twelve (12) hour shift coverage for a day shift only rather than twenty-four (24) hour shift coverage on a working day.
The following specific provisions shall apply to the operation of the four (4) On-four (4) Off schedule and these conditions supercede other provisions of this Agreement.
b. Schedule Cycle
The normal work cycle for operations on the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule shall be twenty-eight (28) calendar days and shall commence on the first Monday in each cycle. The normal work day shall be twelve (12) hours. The normal work week shall alternate between forty-eight (48) hours per week for four (4) weeks, comprised of four (4) twelve (12)-hour shifts in a seven (7)-day period, and thirty-six (36) hours per week for four (4) weeks, comprised of three (3) twelve (12)-hour shifts in a seven (7)-day period. These hours shall be averaged to forty-two (42) hours per week, every week.
Overtime
Authorized work performed in excess of an average of forty (40) hours per week, or in excess of the normal work day of twelve (12) hours per day, or on an employee’s scheduled days off shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium. On an employee’s second and third scheduled days off, overtime shall be paid at the premium rate of two (2) times the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium. The assignment of overtime work shall follow the provisions set forth in Article 13.7(d) of the collective bargaining agreement. Except that for the four (4) on four (4) off shift it shall be assigned to employees by seniority who are on their days off. These overtime assignments will be made with due regard to avoiding extending an employee’s work day and providing a rest break between shifts of at least eight (8) hours.
Emergency Calls or Call Back
An employee working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule called out to do a special job which is not continuous with their regular work shift, on any day, shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate. Except that for the four (4) On - four (4) off shift it shall be assigned to employees by seniority who are on their days off.
Shift Bonus
Employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule shall receive a bonus of one dollar ($1.00) per hour over and above the base hourly rate of the job.
Employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off day shift only shall receive a bonus of seventy (70) cents per hour over and above the base hourly rate of the job.
Rest Period
The Company will grant three rest periods of 10 minutes each during the full twelve (12)-hour shift to employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule. Employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule will be allowed time for lunch with pay. Rest periods are to be assigned at the discretion of Management to provide relatively balanced rest periods throughout the shift.
General Holidays
i)	The Company agrees to recognize the General Holidays set forth in Article 13.9(a) of the collective bargaining agreement. General
22
Holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than a calendar day basis. Employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule and who qualify for these General Holidays shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay. However, if the Company decides not to operate on a General Holiday, employees who were scheduled to work their regular shift on that General Holiday shall be paid for twelve (12) hours at their regular rate. An employee is entitled to General Holiday pay if they have worked during the work week immediately proceeding that in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week immediately following that in which the General Holiday occurs.
ii)	For employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule, where a General Holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, such employee will be entitled to an additional eight (8) hours of vacation with pay for each General Holiday.
iii)	For employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule, if an employee is required to work on any of the designated General Holidays, they shall be compensated for such work at the rate of one and one-half times their regular rate of pay in addition to the holiday pay referred to in Section 8 above. If an employee is required to work more than their normal twelve (12) hours on the General Holiday, they will be reimbursed at a rate of two times the normal rate of pay for those hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours.
iv)	The company will not require employees to work between December 24 8:00 p.m. to December 25 8:00 p.m. unless there is a pressing necessity to do so. These hours will be recognized as Christmas Day.
Vacation Scheduling
Vacation entitlement will accumulate on the basis of total hours of entitlement, per Article 14 of the Agreement. That is, one (1) week of vacation entitlement will be equal to forty (40) hours. Vacations shall, whenever possible, be granted during the period preferred by each employee, considering the requirements of the plant operation. Plant seniority shall govern the selection of vacation period.
Severance Allowance
Severance allowance according to Article 17 will be calculated based on 80 hours pay for each year of service at the employee’s current regular rate of pay.
23
j.	Notice Requirements
The Company shall provide the Union with a schedule of working hours, for those employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule. Should the requirements of the business necessitate a change in such schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union including number of employees affected and the expected duration of the schedule. The Company agrees to give the Union at least two (2) weeks advance notice of the implementation, alteration, or cessation of the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule. Such notice will be one (1) week for employees working the four (4) On - four (4) Off Day Shift only Schedule. If such notice is not provided, the affected employee will be paid time and one-half their straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first change. However no employee shall be required to start a new shift without twenty-four (24) hours notice. An employee will be compensated for any loss of regular pay if the employee is scheduled less than forty (40) regular hours in a week due to the implementation, alteration, or cessation of the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule.
k.	Assignment of Employees to Four (4) On - Four (4) Off Schedules
Four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule shall be worked for a minimum of one (1) complete rotation of twenty-eight (28) days. In the event the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule is not required as a basis for operations for all employees within a Department, senior qualified employees within a Department will be offered the first opportunity to work the four (4) On - four (4) Off Schedule. If the positions are not filled by senior qualified employees, the remaining positions will be filled through assigning the junior qualified employees within the Department. In the event an employee wishes to exercise their seniority to change their shift, the Company will move the employee at a time that will have the minimum effect on employees and operations.
l.	Implementation of Another Shift
In the event of an implementation of another shift, the employee who bids on a job will revert back to their previous position in the event that this shift is discontinued within a period of three (3) years. It is understood that all employees affected by the original bids will also revert to their previous position.
m.	Fogging and/or Fumigation Fogging
The make-up time for a fogging day will be a day scheduled for mill cleanup or on a repair day. This make-up day will be rescheduled to be continuous with the employee’s regular shift. The schedule will be posted in advance so that the employee is aware of when this make-up time occurs.
24
The pay rate for this make-up time will be one and one-half (1 1/2) times the normal rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium.
Fumigation
For an employee that is being affected by more than two (2) days for the fumigation, the first two (2) days will be scheduled as above for fogging. The third day may be chosen by the employee for mill cleanup or repairs. If this make-up time falls on the employee’s second and third scheduled day off, overtime shall be paid at the premium rate of two (2) times the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium.
Any of the above make-up days are to be scheduled and worked within the calendar year.
13.18	MUTUAL AGREEMENT ON OTHER SCHEDULES
Through mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, other alternative schedules or variations of the above schedules may be implemented and the agreed conditions applying to such schedules shall be incorporated in this Agreement through Letters of Understanding.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
All employees covered by the Agreement shall be granted annual vacations at their regular rate of pay in accordance with the following provisions:
14.1	Three (3) weeks vacation to employees in the year in which they accumulate one (1) or more years of service; four (4) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate nine (9) or more years of service; five (5) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate seventeen (17) or more years of service. For employees hired on or before January 1st, 2009: six (6) weeks vacation earned in the year in which they accumulate twenty-five (25) or more years of service. Vacations are taken in the year they are earned.
a. Employees hired on or before January 1st, 2009 shall be entitled to one (1) additional week of vacation to be taken in the year in which they accumulate their 35th and 40th year of service.
14.2	Vacation pay will be made on the following basis:
a. For each week of vacation entitlement two (2) percent of the full-time employee's gross earnings for the current year or forty (40) hours at the full-time employee's current classification rate, whichever is greater.
Part-time employees will be paid two (2) percent per week of entitlement of their gross earnings for vacation on each pay day.
25
b.	Employees who worked less than sixteen hundred (1600) hours in the calendar year for which Vacations are granted shall be paid for Vacations at the ratio that their hours of work bear to sixteen hundred (1600) hours.
c.	Employees who were away from work due to illness or accident shall have their vacation pay calculated and paid on the following basis only when they return to work. Credited hours for the purpose of vacation pay according to sub-clause b. above for an employee absent on LTD and WCB will be accrued to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks and earned at the employee's vacation entitlement rate.
d.	Gross annual earnings shall include any income the employee may have received from the Workers’ Compensation Board or from the current insurance provider.
14.3	Vacations shall, whenever possible, be granted during the period preferred by each employee, considering the requirements of the plant operation. Requests for full vacation weeks during June, July and August will be submitted by March 15th and be given priority over all other requests. This vacation schedule will be posted by April 1st each year. Employees shall have until April 15th to exercise seniority for all other vacation requests. The smallest segment to be scheduled will be H day of vacation. Completed vacation schedules will be posted by May 1st each year. There shall be no carryover of vacation entitlement from one (1) calendar year to the next.
14.4	Plant seniority shall govern the selection of vacation period. Senior employees in each department shall be given preference.
14.5	Should an emergency arise, either personal or in the Plant operation, whereby an employee is required to forego or curtail their vacation temporarily, every effort will be made to rearrange the vacation for a mutually satisfactory period.
ARTICLE 15 - OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
15.1	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Bereavement Leave of up to five (5) consecutive days excluding weekends will be granted to any regular employee in the event of a death in the employee’s immediate family. Such regular employee will be paid their basic straight time rate for the scheduled hours they normally would have worked during such leave. Immediate family shall be defined to include the employee’s spouse, son, or daughter.
Bereavement Leave of up to three (3) consecutive days excluding weekends will be granted to any regular employee in the event of a death of the employee’s mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, grandparents-in-law and grandchildren. Such regular employee will be paid their basic straight time rate for the scheduled hours they normally would have worked during such leave.
26
15.2	JURY DUTY
When an employee is on jury duty or appears as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay the difference between jury duty pay or pay as subpoenaed witness and the employee's regular pay for the time lost. If an employee is summoned for jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness but does not actually serve on a jury or does not serve as a subpoenaed witness, they will be paid for time lost upon the presentation of a voucher from the Sheriff or other Court Officer confirming attendance in Court. It is clearly understood this compensation by the Company will only apply when an employee is serving on a jury or as a subpoenaed witness on days when they normally would be drawing the regular rate of pay at the Plant. It does not, however, cover periods during which an employee would be laid off due to short-time operations.
15.3	INJURY COMPENSATION
In case of an occupational injury to an employee while on the job, which necessitates the employee leaving the plant for medical treatment, hospitalization, or convalescent at home after treatment, the Company agrees to pay a full days' wages at the employee's regular rate for the day on which the injury occurred regardless of the time the employee left the plant.
It is the responsibility of all employees to report all work related injuries to their supervisor as soon as practical.
ARTICLE 16-GENERAL PROVISIONS
16.1	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the Plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Local Union.
ARTICLE 17-HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.1	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during their hours of employment and will also provide first aid kits, adequate lockers, and locker rooms. Time will be allowed for changing clothes and equipment necessitated by a change from one (1) job to another and extreme changes in working conditions will be discouraged, providing it does not interfere with the normal efficient operation of the Plant.
The Company, in its discretion, will provide leather work gloves, and back supports, in addition to other safety equipment as required under the Canada Labour (Safety) Code, at no cost to the employee.
Millwrights, Millwright Trainees, and other employees whose duties are connected with Plant machinery operation and maintenance will provide adequate tools for the performance of their duties.
27
ARTICLE 18 ■ SEVERANCE
18.1	a. In the event of termination of employment on account of the permanent closure of the Flour Mill or a major portion, or a Department of it, and the Company has not offered alternative employment for which the employee is capable and qualified within the Flour Mill, then provided the terminated employee has one (1) year or more of continuous service with the Company, the Company will pay to the terminated employee a severance allowance equivalent to two week's pay for each year of service at the employee's current regular rate of pay.
If a displaced employee is offered alternative employment in a lesser paid position than the one (1) held at the time of displacement, their wages shall not be reduced for a period of one (1) year.
b. When an employee’s position is eliminated, he will have the option of selecting another position within the department or he may select the position held by the least senior employee in another department, providing he possesses greater plant seniority than the incumbent in the position.
If the senior employee whose position was eliminated selects a postion within the department, the person that was bumped will have the same opportunity to select another position within the department or bump the position held by the least senior employee in another department.
When more than one (1) position is eliminated, the senior person that has either had their position eliminated or who has been displaced from their position by a senior employee shall have the first opportunity to select their position.
The junior employees that are laid off from the department, but that have enough seniority to prevent being laid off from the plant, will displace the junior employees in the plant. The most senior employee will have the first choice of the vacant positions available and the second most senior will have the second choice, etc., until all affected employees have been assigned to the positions available.
These placements are subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available.
The bumping as outlined above will be limited to two (2) individuals moving into any one department and one (1) moving into the elevator. The bumping limits referred to in this provision may be waived by mutual agreement with the the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee.
28
ARTICLE 19 ■ SCHEDULES ATTACHED TO AGREEMENT
The following Schedules attached hereto shall form part of this Agreement: SCHEDULE A - Job Classifications and Wage Rates SCHEDULE B - GROUP RRSP and Benefit Plans LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Apprenticeship
Cameras
Contractors
29
ARTICLE 20 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall become effective the 1st day of March, 2014 and remain in effect until the 28th day of February, 2018 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing to the other Party that amendments are required, or that the Party intends to terminate the Agreement.
Notice that amendments are required or that either Party intends to terminate the Agreement must be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement or of any annual period, thereafter. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SIGNED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan this $ day of QcJTb 8	(2014.
P&H Milling Group,	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
a Division of Parrish & Fleimbecker,	LOCAL 1400
30
SCHEDULE"A"
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
CLASSIFICATION	Mar. 1, 2014 Mar. 1,2015 Mar. 1, 2016 Mar. 1, 2017
Flour Mill
Shift Miller	$30.55	$31.38	$32.33	$33.38
Assistant Miller 1	$28.16	$28.93	$29.80	$30.77
Assistant Miller 2	$27.09	$27.84	$28.67	$29.60
Cleaning				
Cleaner 1	$26.72	$27.46	$28.28	$29.20
Cleaner 2	$26.04	$26.75	$27.55	$28.45
Caretaker	$26.72	$27.46	$28.28	$29.20
Packing Room Small Package Line Operator	$27.02	$27.76	$28.59	$29.52
Packer Class I	$26.72	$27.46	$28.28	$29.20
Bag Person	$26.72	$27.46	$28.28	$29.20
Warehouse				
Lead Hand	$28.16	$28.93	$29.80	$30.77
Checker	$27.32	$28.07	$28.91	$29.85
Forklift Operator	$26.77	$27.51	$28.33	$29.26
Warehouser Utility	$26.54	$27.27	$28.09	$29.00
Warehouser	$26.16	$26.88	$27.68	$28.58
Maintenance				
Millwright Lead Hand	$30.73	$31.57	$32.52	$33.58
Millwright	$30.38	$31.22	$32.15	$33.20
Millwright Trainee	$26.07	$26.78	$27.59	$28.48
Maintenance Helper	$26.07	$26.78	$27.59	$28.48
Journeyman Tradesperson Leadhand	$34.83	$35.79	$36.86	$38.06
Journeyman T radesperson	$34.48	$35.43	$36.49	$37.68
Elevator				
Lead Hand	$28.16	$28.93	$29.80	$30.77
31
FME Agent	$28.16	$28.93	$29.80	$30.77
Shipper/Receiver	$27.22	$27.97	$28.81	$29.75
Binner	$26.79	$27.53	$28.36	$29.28
Administration and Technical Production Planner	$31.76	$32.64	$33.62	$34.71
Payroll Administrator	$28.23	$29.00	$29.87	$30.85
Transportation Coordinator	$28.23	$29.00	$29.87	$30.85
Quality Assurance Lead	$27.18	$27.93	$28.77	$29.70
Customer Service/Sales Contract Coordinator	$26.67	$27.40	$28.23	$29.14
Quality Assurance Technician	$22.68	$23.31	$24.01	$24.79
Accounts Payable Clerk	$25.20	$25.90	$26.67	$27.54
Office Clerk	$17.38	$17.86	$18.40	$19.00
NOTES RE: SCHEDULE A
1.	Employees with less than one (1) year’s service shall be paid at six dollars ($6.00) per hour under the regular rate for the classification. On each anniversary date of their hire to a regular position, their rate shall increase by one (1.00) dollar/hour relative to the classification rate, until it reaches the regular rate.
2.	The Company will supply uniforms to employees upon completion of the probationary period. Probationary employees will have access to the use of Company coveralls. The Company will pay the cost of the uniforms and coveralls, including laundry and repair.
Effective each January, each employee who has attained seniority will receive an annual allowance for approved safety footwear, which will be prorated during the employee’s first year of service. This allowance will be increased to one hundred and thirty ($130.00) dollars.
Parkas will be supplied by the Company on an "as needed" basis.
3.	Wages for new positions and/or revised positions shall be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union.
32
4.	An additional $1.00 per hour will be paid to employees who have completed an additional approved trade, or diploma approved by management and applicable to their position with the Company.
An additional two ($2.00) dollars per hour premium will be paid to a qualified Millwright designated by the Company to perform PLC programming and PLC/lnstrumentation troubleshooting. An employee designated by the Company to perform part of the function will receive a premium of one ($1.00) dollar per hour while performing the work.
5.	Temporary Employees
The Company shall have the right to hire such number of temporary employees as it reasonably determines to be required during the period May 1st to December 31st. Temporary employees will be paid a rate of sixty percent (60%) of the Cleaner 2 rate.
Temporary Employees shall not gain seniority status. Temporary Employees are not eligible to participate in benefit plans.
In the event that a Temporary Employee is brought back as a regular full time Employee, and completes the probation period, then their seniority date will reflect their accumulated actual time worked since their most recent date of hire as a Temporary Employee.
6.	Employees who obtain an IAOM Diploma will receive seventy-five (75) cents per hour over their normal classification rate. Management may designte other diplomas as eligible for this premium.
7.	An additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour premium will be paid to an employee who is designated by the Company to perform Power Engineer duties and holds a 4th Class Certificate.
8.	Maintenance Trainees will receive an eighty (80) cents increment after successfully completing year 1, 2 and 3 of approved trade school. Millwright classification will be awarded after successfully completing the 4th year academic requirements.
9.	Part-time work
The following positions may be scheduled part-time hours; one (1) Accounts Payable Clerk; two (2) Quality Assurance Technicians; and one (1) Office Clerk. The employees holding these positions shall be covered by this collective agreement and will be entitled to pro-rated benefits.
Should a part-time employee work the forty (40) hours for eight (8) consecutive weeks (with the exception of relieving for vacations, authorized leaves of absence, sickness relief not
33
exceeding six (6) months, parental/maternity leave not to exceed fifty-two (52) weeks) a full-time position shall be deemed to have been created and shall be filled in accordance with the Agreement.
Part-time employees shall receive general holiday pay in an amount equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of the wages they earned in the previous thirty (30) calendar days.
10.	Casual Employees
a.	The parties recognize that the Company may on occasion find itself with insufficient staff to perform the available work and may therefore need to employ “Casual Employees” in the Administration and Technical Department.
b.	“Casual Employees” may not be employed unless all employees in the Administration and Technical Department have been scheduled to work their regular shift.
c.	“Casual Employee” means a worker engaged on a partial day and/or week on an irregular basis, or engaged on a regular working day basis or specific period not to exceed twenty (20) working days.
d.	A continuing staffing need which exceeds twenty (20) working days will be discussed with the Union to reach an agreement on whether it should be a posted position or an extension.
e.	The Company shall not use any system of consecutive hiring to avoid the hiring into a position within the scope of the collective agreement.
34
SCHEDULE"B"
GROUP RRSP AND BENEFIT PLANS
The Company agrees to provide a Group RRSP and a Benefit Plan. The provisions of the Group RRSP and the Benefit Plan are contained in the most current edition of the master policies issued by the current insurance providers.
A summary of the terms and conditions of the Group RRSP and Benefit Plan are listed below. If there is any conflict between this summary and the respective master policies, the master policies shall govern.
The Company reserves the right to select carriers that provide the most efficient, cost effective and qualified service for all negotiated benefits. The Company agrees to discuss a change in the carrier prior to implementation. The negotiated level of benefits and services will not be reduced as a result of a change in carrier. The Company shall provide each employee a copy of the benefit booklet.
GROUP RRSP
ELIGIBILITY - Completion of the probationary period.
BENEFIT - The Company shall provide a Group RRSP for the accumulation of funds to provide for retirement income for employees. The Company shall match the employee contributions of 6% of pensionable earnings to the Group RRSP.
35
BENEFIT PLANS
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	BENEFIT
a.	Employee - two (2) times regular annual earnings to a maximum benefit of $60,000.
b.	Spouse -$3,000
c.	Dependent Child -$2,000
3.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH - The Principle sum to a maximum benefit of $60,000.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DISMEMBERMENT - Depending on the type of dismemberment, an amount up to the principle sum to a maximum benefit of $60,000.
5.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
6.	$3,000 PAID-UP CERTIFICATE - The Company agrees to provide a $3,000 paid-up certificate upon the employee's retirement or on the employee attaining age 65, whichever first occurs.
DENTAL PLAN
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
-	Covers employees and eligible	dependents.
3.	BASIC COVERAGE - 80% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
4.	MAJOR COVERAGE - 50% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
1.	ORTHODONTIC - 50% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
6.	Exam, cleaning and x-ray every twelve (12) months.
7.	$1,800 combined annual max. for basic and major services.
8.	$1,800 lifetime max. for ortho.
For further information check your Dental Plan booklet or consult your immediate supervisor.
36
VISION PLAN
The Company will provide a vision care package subject to the following conditions:
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company paid.
- Covers employees, spouses and eligible dependents.
3.	COVERAGE
a.	The purchase of lenses, frames, and contact lenses if prescribed by an optometrist or opthamologist will be covered.
b.	Maximum of two hundred seventy-five ($275.00) dollars per covered person every twenty-four (24) consecutive months at June 16, 2014. The benefit increases to three hundred dollars ($300.00) on March 1,2015.
c.	Reimbursement will only be provided for the first-time purchase of corrective lenses, or when required due to a change in prescription.
d.	There will be no reimbursement if items are lost, broken, or damaged.
e.	There will be no reimbursement if the cost will be picked up by another source such as WCB.
f.	Reimbursement will not be made for sunglasses or other lenses not required for correction of vision.
g.	The insurance provider will reimburse once per twelve (12) months the cost of an examination to a maximum of one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) for employee and dependents by a licensed opthamologist or optometrist, provided no portion of the cost is covered by the Government Health Plan.
EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN
1 ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Employee 60% and Company 40% paid.
3.
COVERAGE - Employee, spouse and eligible dependents.
37
•	80% co-insurance prescription drugs - managed health care with drug card -life style drugs excluded; generic drugs where available
•	100% of all other expenses as provided by the insurance carrier to indicated maximums
•	No deductibles
COMPANY SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
1.	Company paid.
2.	Employees entitled to payment of wages for earned sick leave shall be paid at the regular rate of pay for the hours they would have worked.
3.	Benefits commence the first day of disability and expire on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
4.	a. Sick leave is earned at the rate of 1 1/4 working days per month of continuous full-
time employment to a maximum of twenty-two (22) working days.
Time worked during the probationary period will be recognized upon successful completion of the probationary period for sick leave from that time on.
b. Sick leave usage is not deducted from earned sick leave.
5.	If an employee who has gained senority status has not earned ten (10) days of
sick leave: they will first be paid the sick leave they have earned. The remainder of the first two (2) weeks of disability is unpaid. If they are still unable to work after this two (2) week period, they will be paid a partial sick leave benefit.
If an employee who has gained senority status has earned between ten (10) and twenty two (22) sick days: they will first be paid the sick leave they have earned. If they are still unable to work after being paid for all of their earned sick days, they will be paid a partial sick leave benefit.
The partial sick leave benefit will be 66.7% of their regular rate of pay for the hours they would have worked, up to the weekly Employment Insurance Commission maximum at the time.
The partial sick leave benefit shall cease on the 30th day of disability.
Benefits under this provision are reinstated immediately on return of an employee to work following an illness.
6.	Employees eligible for Worker's Compensation benefits are not eligible for benefits under this plan.
38
7.	Employees receiving income benefits from SGI will inform the Company of such benefit and have that amount deducted from sick pay that has been or will be paid.
8.	In order to qualify for sick pay, an employee must provide a Doctor’s Certificate from the attending physician upon the third day of absence that confirms the employee’s illness or injury and estimated date of return to work.
9.	After three (3) incidents of absence in a calendar year, sick leave allowance payments for the first day of any subsequent illness may be withheld at the discretion of the Company.
If an employee has had 5 or more incidents of absence in the previous year, sick leave allowance payments may be withheld for the first day of the first 2 incidents, for the first 2 days of next 2 incidents, and for the first 3 days of all subsequent incidents.
10.	Employees absent from work because of sickness or accident shall be obliged whenever it is reasonably possible to notify the Company their approximate length of absence.
WEEKLY INCOME PLAN (WEEKLY INDEMNITY)
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	BENEFIT - 65% of weekly earnings or the Employment Insurance Maximum benefit amount, whichever is the greater.
Benefits commence on the 31st day of disability, and end on the 119th day of disability.
3.	PREMIUMS - Employee paid.
All correspondence relating to the terms and administration of the Weekly Income Plan (Weekly Indemnity), including premium rates and claims experience, will be copied and forwarded to the Union.
LONG-TERM DISABILITY PROGRAM
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of probationary period.
2.	BENEFIT - 65% of regular monthly earnings.
Benefits commence on the 120th day of disability.
3.	PREMIUMS - Employee paid.
All correspondence relating to the terms and administration of the Long Term Disability Plan, including premium rates, will be copied and forwarded to the Union.
39
All employees are required to join the Group Life Insurance and Disability Insurance Plans as a condition of employment upon completion of the probationary period.
40
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Agreement Apprenticeship
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreement that has been reached between P&H Milling Group, a division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited.and the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1400 in respect of the Apprenticeship Program.
This Letter of Agreement shall be considered as forming part of the Collective Agreement and be binding on both the Company and the Union and shall remain in force for the life of the current Collective Agreement.
1.	The Apprenticeship Program shall be that program as provided from time to time by the laws of the province.
2.	The Company will have sole discretion as to whether or not the need exists for an apprentice.
3.	Apprentice vacancies will be posted at the company’s discretion, for a period of five (5) calendar days, so that employees desiring the vacant job may apply.
4.	The selection of apprentices, course content of training programs, evaluation of apprentice performance, or matters related to the Apprenticeship Program as regulated by government regulations shall be the sole discretion of the Company.
5 Those accepted as apprentices will agree to remain as employees with P&H Milling Group for a period of at least two (2) years following the successful completion of their apprenticeship program and will not bid out of the Maintenance department during that time period. Should they not remain with P&H Milling Group Maintenance Department for this period, they will be responsible for repayment of all costs associated with their completion of the program to P&H Milling Group.
6.	In completing the required school terms each apprentice will be provided a maximum of one (1) failure for the entire apprentice program. Upon incurring their second (2nd) failure the individual will return to their pre-apprentice program department. Individuals will not be responsible for repayment of the program costs if they incur a failure,
and return to their pre-apprentice program department, so long as they remain with P&H Milling Group for a period of at least two (2) years following their return to their preapprentice program department.
7.	Rates of Pay: Individuals participating in the apprentice program will be paid as per the classification entitled “Millwright Trainee” in Schedule ‘A’ of the Collective Agreement with increments according to note 8 to Schedule ‘A’.
41
8.	While an apprentice is absent from the job due to attendance at an approved government apprentice school they will be deemed as being on leave of absence.
9.	For each week an apprentice is absent from the job due to attendance at an approved government apprentice school, the company shall pay the apprentice forty (40) hours at their straight time rate less any allowance paid to them by the government (including E.I.). Costs incurred such as testing and enrollment fees, not covered by the government, shall be paid by the Company.
10.	Any cost involved with accommodations or travel will be the responsibility of the employee.
11.	Should an apprentice fail to pass the school term examinations and is permitted to repeat the same, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the apprentice as provided herein while they are repeating the school term.
12.	The apprentice shall not progress to the next pay level until they successfully complete the examinations and any requirements necessary to progress to the next level of the apprentice program.
Dated this
day of
. 2014
United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1400
42
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Agreement Cameras
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreement that has been reached between P&H Milling Group, a division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited.and the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1400 in respect of cameras.
This Letter of Agreement shall be considered as forming part of the Collective Agreement and be binding on both the company and the union and shall remain in force for the life of the current Collective Agreement.
1. The company agrees that camera surveillance will not be used to monitor employee productivity in the work place.
Dated this
8
ft.
day of
0
csro&et^
2014
United Food and Commerci^LWorkers, Local 1400
43
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Letter of Agreement Contractors
This Letter of Agreement sets forth the agreement that has been reached between P&H Milling Group, a division of Parrish & Heimbecker, Limited.and the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1400 in respect of contractors.
This Letter of Agreement shall be considered as forming part of the Collective Agreement and be binding on both the company and the union and shall remain in force for the life of the current Collective Agreement.
1. When the company elects to employ the services of a contractor on site, the union may request, and will receive, an explanation of the work.
Dated this
day of _
2014
United Food and CommerciaLWorkers, Local 1400
44
INDEX	PAGE#
Arbitration (Article 10)................................................................. 8
Bereavement Leave (Article 15)...........................................................25
Boot Allowance (Notes Re: Schedule A)....................................................31
Bulletin Boards (Article 16).............................................................26
Casual Employees (Notes Re: Schedule A)..................................................33
Check Off (Article 7).................................................................... 5
Clothing And Tools (Article 16, Notes Re: Schedule A)................................26, 31
Dental Plan (Schedule B).................................................................35
Emergency Calls/Call Back (Article 13)...................................................21
Floaters (General Holdiays) (Article 13.9)...............................................16
Footwear (Schedule A Notes)..............................................................31
Four (4) On - (4) Off Schedule (Article 13).............................................20
Fumigation - Four (4) On/Four (4) Off Shift (Article 13).................................24
General Holidays (Article 13)............................................................16
Grievances (Article 9)................................................................... 5
Group Life Insurance (Schedule B)........................................................35
Guarantee Of Employment Hours (Article 13)...............................................19
Hours Of Work (Article 13)...............................................................13
Job Classification (Schedule A)..........................................................30
Jury Duty (Article 15)...................................................................26
Layoff (Article 11)..................................................................... 10
Leave Of Absence (Article 12)............................................................12
Letter of Agreement......................................................................40
Cameras...........................................................................42
Apprenticeship....................................................................40
Long Term Disability Program (Schedule B)................................................38
Lunch Periods (Article 13)...............................................................14
Maintenance Trainee Premium (Notes Re: Schedule A).......................................32
Management Rights (Article 5)............................................................ 4
Maternity/Parental Leave (Article 12)....................................................12
Negotiating Committee (Article 3)........................................................ 3
Notice Of Layoff and Shift Changes (Article 13)..........................................19
Overtime (Article 13)....................................................................14
Part-time Work (Notes Re: Schedule A)....................................................32
Payment Of Wages (Article 13)............................................................18
Premiums (Notes Re: Schedule A)..........................................................31
Probationary Period (Article 11)......................................................... 9
Reporting Allowance (Article 13).........................................................14
Rest Periods (Article 13)................................................................14
RRSP.....................................................................................34
Scope (Article 2)........................................................................ 2
Seniority (Article 11)................................................................... 9
Severance (Article 17)...................................................................27
45
PAGE#
Shift Bonus (Article 13)...........................................................17
Sick Leave (Schedule B)............................................................37
Weekly Income Plan (Weekly Indemnity)..............................................38
Temporary Assignment (Article 13)..................................................17
Temporary Employees (Notes Re: Schedule A).........................................32
Termination Or Modification Of Agreement (Article 19)..............................29
Vacancies (Article 11).............................................................11
Vacations (Article 14).............................................................24
Vision Plan (Schedule B)...........................................................36
Wage Rates (Schedule A)............................................................30
Workers’ Compensation (Article 15).................................................26