COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCALS 4S2P AND 401
hereinafter called "the Union”
MAPLE LEAF MILLS INC.
herinafter called “the Company
X
TABLE OF CONTENTS
RTICLE
PAGE
I
II
III
IV
V VI
VI I VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV XVI XVII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
Purpose
Recognition
Management
No Strikes or Lockouts Union Security and Check-Off Relationship
Negotiating and Labour Reiations Committees
Grievance Procedure
Arbitration
Seniority
Lay-Off and Recall
Hours of Work, Overtime and Shift Premium Temporary Assignments Plant Ho?1days Vacations
Rest Periods and Meal Allowance
Leave of Absence
Wages
Health and Welfare Insurance General
Weekly Guarantee
Technological Change and Severance Pay Duration of Agreement
1
1
3
3
A
5
6 7
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 23 23 26 27 27
29
30 32
Appendix A Appendix B-l
Appendix B-2 Appendix C Appendix D Appendix E Appendix F
34
37
40
51
52 57 63
- 1 -
ARTICLE I PURPOSE
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain the harmonious relationship etween the Company and Its employees, and to provide an amicable method of iettUng any difference or grievances which m^ arise from time to time hereunder, md to further provide means of operating the plant locations that are subject to diis Agreement in a manner which will further in all possible ways, the welfare and safety of the employees, betterment of quality of product, economy of manufacture md quantity of output, all to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees md the Company.
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
2.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees at its plant listed hereunder, except:	foremen and persons above the
rank of foreman, salesmen, office and clerical staff (other than Port Colborne), laboratory staff at locations other than Port Col borne and Calgary Renown
PLANT
lOoU) COUCHS’-♦
Port Colborne Office Port Colborne Plant Calgary - Renown
LOCAL UNION NUMBER
452 P 452 P 401
2,2	All conditions of employment for Boat Crew at the Port Colborne plant shall be i n accordance with the special supplement attached hereto as Appendix "A",
- 2 -
2.3	The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement ith any other labour organization affecting these employees.
2.4 MANUAL WORK BY SUPERVISORS:	Supervisors and other salaried employees will
ot perform work which is normally carried out by bargaining unit employees, xcept:
- work that i s normally performed by salaried employees;
■ the training of employees, testing of equipment, developing of methods or standards and emergencies.
The Company agrees to investigate and clarify with the Local Union any questionable aspects of work in this area that may occur. The Company will post a list of the names and job titles of production supervisors.
2.5	CONTRACTING OUT: It 1s the intention of the Company to utilize the skills and experience of its employees. The Company agrees to restrict the hiring of contractors to work where:
the work cannot be performed by bargaining unit employees because of skill requirements;
economic considerations which shall be explained to the Union warrant engaging outside services;
- special equipment to perform the work 1s not available to the plant.
In such cases, the Company shall discuss the situations with the Union prior to proceeding. In an emergency where circumstances do not permit prior discussion, the Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
- 3 -
ARTICLE III MANAGEMENT
3.1	The Union acknowledges that, subject to the express provisions of the .greement, it is the exclusive right and function of the Company to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	direct the working farce, including the right to hire, retire pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan, promote, demote, assign, transfer, suspend or otherwise discipline employees, including discharge for just cause;
c)	general y to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to: determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured; schedule the production, methods, processes and the means of production or handling of Its products; determine the allocation and number of employees required by the Company from time to time.
3,2	It is understood that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion, or transfer,	or a claim by an Employee that he has been discharged or disciplined
without just cause, may be the subject of a grievance under the procedure provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.1	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and .the Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective
- 4 -
Ct1 on which will Stop or interfere with production during the term of this igreement, and that, if such action should be taken, it will instruct its members :o carry out the provisions of this Agreement and return to work and perform their lutles in the normal manner.
ARTICLE V
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
5.1	MEMBERSHIP: It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date o f signing this Agreement i s a member of the Union shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
An employee hired on or after the date of signing this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union on his first working day following his date of hire and maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
For purposes of this Agreement, an employee will be deemed to maintain his membership in the Union in good standing, provided he authorizes and maintains the deduction of Union dues and pays the regularly prescribed Union initiation fee and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the local Union.
5.2 PAYMENT OF DUES: On receipt of written authorization signed by the employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the first payday of each calendar month, such initiation fee and Union dues as are uniformly prescribed for all members of the Union. In the case of a new employee, the deduction of Union dues will commence with the first regular deduction coincident with or following such employees first payday. The total sum deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and the amounts thereof will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Local Union on or before the fifteenth day of that month. When no deduction Is made, the Company will specify on the records forwarded to the Union the reason therefore.
5
5,3	Twice the regular monthly dues shall be deducted 'in any one check-off where he employee has insufficient pay to cover the preceding deduction of dues.
5.4 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:	Upon receipt of proper notification from the Union,
he Company will deduct from Union members such special assessments as are levied y the Union in accordance with its Constitution and By-Laws, and will forward such .ssessment, together with a Record of those from whom deductions were made, to the 'inancial secretary of the local Union.
5.5	The Company will provide a list of employees' names, addresses and telephone lumbers, together with the seniority list. Employees' requests for privacy in this natter will be respected.
ARTICLE VI RELATIONSHIP
6.1	The Company agrees not to discriminate against any employee because of his membership or prospective membership in the Union, The Union agrees that there will be no union activities on the plant premises during working hours without the express permission of the Company, other than as provided by this Agreement.
6.2	It shall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against any employee because of race, colour, creed or nationality. The Union and the Company endorse the Canadian Human Rights Act as proclaimed and will continue to observe all of the provisions of this legislation.
Except where stated to the contrary, or where the sense requires the contrary, the use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered to include the feminine.
6,3	A member of the Local Union Executive shall have the right to meet all new mployees and be provided with up to fifteen minutes orientation time with each new mployee.
ARTICLE VII
NEGOTIATING: AND LABOUR RELATIONS COWITTEES
7,1	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than three Employees from each plant and the office unit to deal with the Company on matters concerning the renewal or modification of this Agreement. Members of the Committee shall be employees with seniority.
7,2	The Company will pay the regular lost time wages for time spent in negotiations with the Company on the basis of eight hours pay per day of meeting. One day's additional pay will be paid for each series of meetings held outside the home province. Effective April 20, 1992 for all contract renewal negotiations held subsequent to this date the amount of additional pay to be paid for each series of meetings held outside the home province shall be increased from one day to two day's additional pay on the basis of eight hours pay per day. Meetings on Saturday or Sunday will be by mutual agreement only if meetings are held on these days. Payment will be 8 hours at their regular straight time rate.
Negotiating Committee eligible for payment are;
2 from Calgary 2 from Port Col borne
- 7-
7.3	During the term of this Agreement, meetings between the Labour Relations ammittee and the management may be held at any reasonable time when either the n1on or the Company submits an agenda of the business to be transacted.
ARTICLE VIII GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8,1	UNION STEWARDS:	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to
ippoint or otherwise select Stewards to assist employees in arriving at just and >qu1table adjustment of matters pertaining to this Agreement. The number of Stewards and the areas of the plant each represents will be established by local igreement between the Company and the Union.
8.2	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE:	The Company further acknowledges the right of the
Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee of not more than three employees to meet with the Company and deal with matters which properly arise from time to time in connection with the administration of this Agreement. One such member shall be designated as the chief spokesman for the Committee.
8.3	The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of Stewards and Grievance Committee members designated to deal with the Company on matters pertaining to this Agreement. It is understood that such employees shall have seniority at the plant or office where appointed.
8.4	PERFORMANCE OF REGULAR DUTIES:	The Union acknowledges that Stewards and
Grievance Committee members have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their jobs to deal with grievances or other Union business without first obtaining the Agreement of the foreman. The foreman will arrange for the relief of the steward or Grievance Committee member as
- 8 -
oon as reasonably possible, subject to operating requirements. It is understood hat such employees will not absent themselves from their duties unreasonably. On his express understanding, the Company agrees that Stewards and members of the rievance Committee will not lose pay for time spent servicing grievances during heir regular working hours.
8.5	EMPLOYEE COMPLAINTS: It i s the mutual desire o f the Company and the Union :hat complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given his Foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint and he may be accompanied by his Steward if he requests such assistance. Such complaint shall be registered within seven days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee.
Upon request by a duly elected representative of the Union at the respective Company location, the Company shall discuss generally with the Union representative the settlement of an employee complaint where no Steward was present at the request of such employee. This request by the Union representative shall be made within seven days o f the settlement coming to the knowledge o f the duly elected Union representative.
8.6	The aggrieved employee may be present during any of the steps of the Grievance Procedure if he wishes, or at the request of either the Union or the Company. When an employee is to be formally interviewed on a matter which may lead to discipline and when an employee is to be disciplined, a Steward or other Union representative must be present.
8.7	GRIEVANCE STEPS: If any employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three working days in the following manner and sequence:
FIRST STEP - between the aggrieved employee accompanied by the steward and the foreman, (when the aggrieved employee is a steward, he may at his request, be
- 9 -
ccompanied by another steward) at which time, a written record of the grievance hall be submitted. Failing a settlement within three working days, then;
SECOND STEP - within three working days following the decision at the 1rst Step the grievance may proceed: between the aggrieved employee, a member of he Grievance Committee, and Plant Management or other authorized representative of ,he Company. A representative of the Union will attend 1f requested by either the lompany or the Union. Falling a settlement within three working days, then;
THIRD STEP - within three working days following the decision at the lecond Step the grievance may proceed:	between the Grievance Committee and Plant
lanagement and/or other authorized representative of the Company and the Union at a nesting arranged for this purpose. A full-time representative of the Union will ittend such meeting if requested by either the Company or the Union. Falling a settlement within five working days, then;
FOURTH STEP - within five working days following the decision at the Third Step, the Grievance Committee and the Plant Management may, if mutually agreeable, refer the grievance to the National Officers of the Union and Head Office officials of the Company who shall endeavour to find a solution. Failing a settlement within five working days following the decision at the Third Step, or the Fourth Step, if invoked, of any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article IX. If no written request for arbitration is received within fourteen days after the decision at the Third Step is given, or the Fourth Step as the case may be, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned. All grievance settlements shall be in writing.
8.8	TIME LIMITS:	Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays and the aggrieved
employees' vacation time will not be counted i n determining the time I i m i t within which any action is to be taken or completed in each of the steps of the Grievance Procedure or under Article IX. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and
10
rtkle IX my at any time be extended by agreement between the Company and the nion.
8.9 RATE OF PAY COMPLAINT OR GRIEVANCE: Wien a complaint or grievance which iff sets the rate of pay of an employee is settled and as a result the employee 'ecelyes an increase in his rate, such increase shall be paid retroactively to the tats the error was mads or such other date as may be agreed upon.
8.10 PROCEDURE TO GRIEVE SUSPENSION CR DISMISSAL:	If an employee is dismissed
or suspended for any reason and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he may inform the Grievance Committee who shall, if a grievance is to be filed, file such written grievance with the Company within seven days of the suspension or dismissal. The dismissal or suspension shall then be dealt with under the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the Second Step. Notice of dismissal or suspension and the reason therefore shall be given in writing with a copy delivered at the plant to the responsible Union officer or his designate on the same day that the employee is notified by the Company of the suspension or dismissal. If subsequently It is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in the former job with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and shall be compensated for all time lost at his regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation for lost wages as may be deemed fair in the circumstances.
8.11 DISCIPLINARY RECORD:	If after eighteen months from the date of a Cy
suspension or warning, there has been no further written discipline for the same reason, the record of such suspension or warning will be removed from the / employee1s file.
Upon request in writing, employees will be given the opportunity to review their personnel files at a mutually convenient time at a place on the premises of the Company's choosing within five days of the date of receipt of the request.
" 11 •
3.12 POLICY GRIEVANCE:	Any difference between the Union and the Company
rising out of the interpretation or the implementation of the provisions of this greement may be submitted in writing by one party to the other at the Third Step f the Grievance Procedure. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart rom the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX ARBITRATION
9.1	If settlement is not reached by the above procedure, the grievance may be referred by the Union or by the Company within fourteen days following the decision at the Third Step or the Fourth Step, if invoked, of the Grievance Procedure to an Arbitration Board of three members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and a third who shall act as Chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the members representing the two parties. The parties may agree to appoint a Single Arbitrator rather than an Arbitration Board in which case all references to "Arbitration Board" shall be read as "Single Arbitrator" throughout this Article.
9.2	Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee; if it fails to do so within two weeks, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment. If agreement cannot be reached within seven days as to the appointment of a third member, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment.
9.3	The Arbitration Board shall meet promptly following its appointment for the purpose of hearing the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision at the earliest possible date.
- 12
9.4	No person shall be selected as a member of the Arbitration Board who has ieen directly involved in attempts to settle the grievance.
9.5	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitration Board unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure except where otherwise noted in this Agreement.
9.6	The Arbitration Board shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to award a reduction of seniority as a penalty, or to deal with matters not covered by this Agreement. The decision of the majority of the Board shall be the decision of the Board and it shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or the employees concerned.
9.7	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE X SENIORITY
10.1 DEFINITION OF SENIORITY DATE:	An employee's seniority date shall be his
last date of employment with the Company within the bargaining unit since which there has been no quit or discharge to break his continuous service. Seniority shall not be interchangeable between plants, unless mutually agreed by the Union and the Company. When two or more employees are hired on the same date, their plant seniority shall be established by alphabetical order of the surname.
- 13 -
1.2	SENIORITY UST:	A seniority list showing each employee's seniority date
ill be prepared by the Company and posted on the plant bulletin boards every inuary, April, July and October. An employee who believes his seniority is icorrectly shown may take the matter up as a grievance.
DTE (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 10.2, the seniority of Port Colborne office staff will be considered separate from other employees covered by this Agreement for purposes of layoff, recall and the posting of job vacancies, When such matters arise in the office, employees of the office department only will be affected by or eligible for the personnel changes that may be involved.
Conversely, office staff will not be affected by or eligible for layoffs, recalls or the posting of job vacancies that may occur in other departments of the plant.
10.3	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE: The probationary period for a new employee shall >e forty-five days worked in a nine month period, As a part of the normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability, job performance and general work attitudes of the employee on probation and where such assessment does not meet acceptable standards, the termination of the probationer will not be the subject of a grievance. Upon request by a duly elected member of the respective Union Local, the Employer will provide written details regarding its assessment of probationary employees who have been terminated. On successful completion of these requirements, the probationary employee shall acquire seniority dating from his first day of work during the nine month period.
10.4	VACATION REPLACEMENTS: Students engaged as vacation replacements for one hundred working days or less during the calendar year shall not accumulate seniority. Should such vacation replacement be retained beyond one hundred days or be reclassified as a regular employee during the one hundred day period, his seniority shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Article X. The Company will keep the Union informed of the names of employees hired as vacation replacements.
0.5 RETURN TO BARGAINING UNIT: Should a supervisor previously employed in the iarga1ning unit be reclassified to a job within the unit, his seniority shall be ;he sum of his service In both capacities to October 16, 1978. The seniority of my member of the bargaining unit who is promoted to supervisor following that date md later reverts to the bargaining unit, shall be the seniority he held at the late of his promotion. Any bargaining unit employee transferred out of the unit ifter March 15, 1984 will, if he returns to the bargaining unit before one year has alapsed, be credited with his full accumulated seniority. If he returns to the Bargaining unit after one year, his seniority at the date of return will be one year.
10.6 PROMOTIONS:	In cases of promotion, demotion or transfer of an employee
resulting from a job posting, the ability and seniority of the employee shall be ^*7 the governing factors, and where ability is sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Experience gained by a junior employee on a temporary assignment will not preclude a more senior employee from being deemed to have sufficient ability. The successful applicant will be allowed an orientation period of up to thirty working days. This orientation period may be extended for valid reasons by written mutual agreement between the Company and Uni on.
10.7 JOB POSTING: Any permanent job within the bargaining unit which becomes vacant shall be posted on all designated bulletin boards for five working days. The Local Union will be provided with a copy of the job posting in advance of the actual posting. Any employee may bid for the job by adding his name to the job poster. A permanent job shall be one which the Company believes will continue or one which does continue for a period exceeding thirty calendar days, but does not include temporary vacancies resulting from vacation, leave of absence, illness or injury. Employees on vacation, Workers Compensation, sick leave, or leave of absence of one month or less, who may be eligible for the vacancy shall be notified of the job posting by mail. Such employees on Workers Compensation, sick leave or leave of absence must apply within seven days from the date of mailing the notification. Employees on vacation must apply within three working days following the completion of their vacation period. A copy of licensing qualifications, if
- 15 -
iy, will be shown to the Union. The successful applicant for the posting may elect o return to his former job within thirty working days. Under these circumstances he remaining applicants for the original posting, i f any, will be considered ubject to the requirements Of paragraph 10.5. The Company will advise the Union n writing of the name of the successful applicant within three working days of the osting award and the successful applicant shall be moved to the position awarded ;S soon as reasonably possible, provided this does not disrupt the efficient iperatlon of the facility. Vacancies resulting from retirement will be posted ;h1rty days in advance of the retirement.
ARTICLE X I LAYOFF AND RECALL
11.1	LAYOFF:	When it is necessary to reduce the working force of employees,
seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are able and willing to do the work that is available or can qualify for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. In cases where an employee accept a lower rated job rather than be laid off, his regular rate will be protected for thirty working days. The Union Local will be advised of the names of employees to be laid off. The Company will provide notice of layoff not later than 3:00 P.M. on the Thursday preceding the week the layoff is effective.
11.2 RETENTION OF SENIORITY ON LAYOFF: An employee with seniority who is laid off will be retained on the seniority list for two years, but unless he reports to work within five working days of recall, he will forfeit any claim to re-employment by the Company. If the employee does not report within five days due to bona fide illness or other legitimate reason approved by the Company, this provision shall be waived. An employee may decline a recall from layoff without losing seniority i f work for ten or more consecutive working days cannot be guaranteed by the Company.
- 16 -
.1.3 RECALL MM LAYOFF:	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis 2>7
>f seniority, provided those recalled can satisfactorily perform the work that is wall able, or can qualify for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. Recalls will be made by telephone and if this means is unsuccessful, the employee will be contacted by telegram or registered letter at the last address he has made known to the Company. A list of those employees recalled from layoff shall be provided to an In Plant Union representative by not later than the conclusion of the second working day the employee performs work for the Company.
11.4	COMPANY TO BE KEPT INFORMED: It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company Informed at all times of his current address and nearest telephone number. Upon receiving the above mentioned information or any changes to such information, the Company shall make the necessary Inclusion of changes etc., as soon as reasonably possible.
11.5	LOSS OF SENIORITY:	An employee shall lose all seniority and his name
shall be removed from the employment records of the Company when:
*) he quits;
b)
c)
he is discharged for just cause;
he is laid off for a period exceeding two years or fails to return from layoff in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11.2;
d)	he receives severance pay as provided for under Article XXII
- 17 -
ARTICLE XII
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND SHIFT PREMIUM
i2.1 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME:	The normal work week shall be forty hours and
;he normal working day shall be eight hours. Normal hours for the office shall be thirty five hours per week and seven hours per day. Authorized work performed in sxcess of the normal work week or normal work day shall be termed as overtime and said at the premium rate of time and one half the employees' regular straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premium. Overtime regulations shall not be a limitation upon the number of hours per day, or days per week, that the Company may operate its plant or schedule its employees. The Company will endeavour to
distribute overtimework as evenly as possible amongst qualified employees within a department and the work will be offered to such employees on this basis. Should an insufficient number of employees volunteer to carry out the work, it will be assigned to the junior employees in the department who are qualified.
12.2	SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS:	Management at the plant shall provide the
Local Union with a Schedule of Working Hours which shall be designated as Appendix B-l	or B-2.	Should	the requirements of the	business necessitate a change	in such
Schedule, the	matter	will be	discussed with the Union. The Company agrees	to give
the	Union ten	days	notice	of change in	the Schedule of Working Hours, except
changes that may occur from time to time in t he scheduling of trucks and related work.	Because of the difficulties in scheduling trucks and related work, the
company agrees that when it is necessary to change starting times between mornings and afternoons during the week, the affected employees will be paid time and one half the straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week.
The Company will provide notice of a change in shift hours by 3:00 P.M. on the	Thursday	preceding the	week .in which	the employee's shift hours	will be
changed. If such notice is not provided, the affected employee will be paid time and one half the straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week.
SATURDAY, SUNDAY AND PLANT HOLIDAY WORK: Time and one half the straight
:1me rate shall be paid for work performed on Saturday and on a plant holiday.’ lork performed on Sunday and work beyond eight consecutive hours on a plant holiday ;hall be paid for at double the straight time rate.
The Company will endeavour to provide notice of overtime for Saturday, Sunday and plant holidays falling on the weekend by 3:00 P.M. on the Thursday preceding.
Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than a calendar day basis and premium pay for work performed shall be paid for those days the employee normally has off work.
12.4	OFFICE CALLS AT HCME:	Wien an office employee 1s required to take and/or
place authorized telephone calls relating to the job, at his home outside of his normal working hours, he shall be paid for the time so spent at the rate of time and one half his straight time hourly rate. The minimum pay for such work shall be one half hour at his regular straight time hourly rate.
12.5 NO COMPOUNDING OF PREMIUM:	No overtime premium payment win be computed
twice on the same time, nor shall any employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours.
12.6	REPORTING ALLOWANCE:	An employee reporting for work at his normal
starting time without previous notification not to do so shall be given a minimum of four hours work or four hours pay at the prevailing hourly rate. In the event of a forced shutdown or in cases where an employee falls to notify his foreman of his intention to return to work following a period of absence, this provision shall not apply.
/

2,7	EMERGENCY CALL-IN: An employee called in to perform emergency work not ontinuous with his regular work period shall be paid a minimum of four hours pay t the prevailing overtime rate. The employee will be free to leave the Company remises when the supervisor deems an emergency no longer exists.
Employees called back for an emergency during the third shift shall be mowed a reasonable period for rest before returning to work on their regular shift. They shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shall be paid as if they had worked their full shift.
0<ra /<? cJ
- 9
H ‘f//
d
12,8 SHIFT PREMIUM: Effective April 20, 1992 employees working on the second shift shall receive a premium of seventy cents per hour, and employees working on the third shift shall receive a premium of one dollar per hour. An employee working overtime into the next shift shall receive the shift premium, If any, applicable to that shift. For purposes of this provision, shifts which start at or after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 P.M. shall carry the second shift premium and shifts which start at or after 8:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M. shall carry the third shift premium.
12,9 JOURNEYMAN PREMIUM:	Maintenance employees who have or who later obtain
journeyman's papers will be paid a premium of fifty five cents per hour. The Company and Union agree that this premium will also be extended to the Utility Leadman Fumigator classlfication(s) so long as this classification is required to be licenced and the incumbent employee in this classification maintains such licence.
ARTICLE XIII TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
13.1 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS:	An employee transferred temporarily to a job
paying a higher rate of pay will receive such higher rate, but an employee
- 20 -
transferred temporarily to a job paying a lower rate will continue to receive his 'egu ar rate of pay, except in cases where the employee requests a lower rated job lue to health or other reason, in which case the lower rate shall apply from the late of transfer.	If a temporary transfer becomes permanent, the employee will be
jaid the scheduled rate for the job.
13.2 SUPERVISOR RELIEF PREMIUM:	An employee charged temporarily with foreman
responsibility shall be paid a premium of seventy-five cents per hour for time worked in this capacity. This premium will not be paid 1f the Company assigns the responsibility to a member of its staff.
ARTICLE XIV
PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.1	PLANT HOLIDAYS:	The Company agrees to recognize the Plant Holidays set jTV
forth in Appendix "C". An employee (at the date of the holiday) shall be paid fur each such holiday at the equivalent of his straight time basic rate for eight hours (seven hours 1n the office), exclusive of shift premium, provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or the week of the holiday. Employees with seniority who are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
14.2	PLANT HOLIDAY ON WEEKEND:	When a plant holiday falls on a Saturday or
Sunday, such holiday will be observed on the Monday following. In the event two plant holidays fall on the same weekend (Saturday and Sunday) such holidays will be observed on the Monday and Tuesday following the weekend. This arrangement, as it applies to any particular plant holiday may be modified on a local basis by agreement between the Company and the Union.
- 21 -
4.3 PLANT HOLIDAY DURING VACATION:	When a plant holiday falls within an
mployee's vacation period, he my elect to receive holiday pay as provided in this rticle XIV or to receive an alternate day with pay as the plant holiday. If the mployee elects to receive an alternate day with pay as the holiday, it shall be ;aken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If iubsequently the employee does work on the day agreed upon as the alternate day, it ihall be considered as work performed on a plant holiday and the employee shall be >a1d In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 14,4,
14.4 WORK ON PLANT HOLIDAYS:	An employee required to work on a plant holiday
tflll be paid for such work at the rate of time and one half the straight time rate exclusive of shift premium, for the first eight hours and double the straight time rate for work beyond eight hours.
ARTICLE XU VACATIONS
15.1 VACATION SCHEDULING:	The Ccmpary will schedule vacations at the time or
times wanted by each employee giving longer service employees preference, subject to maintaining the efficient operation of the plant. Vacations of more than three weeks duration will not normally be scheduled consecutively. Vacations shall be taken in the year in which they fall due and shall not be accumulated. Should it be advantageous to close the plant(s) for a vacation period, eligible employees will take vacation at that time, other than those whose services are required for particular work. In the event of a close-down for vacation, such period will be scheduled during June, July or August.
15.2 POSTING VACATION SCHEDULE:	Notice will be posted February 1st of the
current year requesting employees to state their choice of vacation dates. Such notice will be removed by the Company on February 28th and the vacation schedule prepared in accordance with .the provisions of paragraph 15,1 and posted within
- 22 -
!
;even days. Requests to re-schedule vacations after that date will be considered movided the re-scheduling does not interfere with the vacations of other employees >r with the efficient operation of the plant.
15.3 LENGTH OF VACATION:	Effective 1n 1932, employees will receive vacations
In accordance with the following schedule, based on years of service attained during the current calendar year:
after one year o f service after five years of service after ten years of service after eighteen years of service after twenty-six years of service
two weeks three weeks four weeks five weeks six weeks

15,4 VACATION PAY:	Vacation Fay will be	2% of the employee's wages for the
preceding calendar year or forty	hours pay	at his	basic straight time rate
(provided the employee	works not	less than	sixteen	hundred hours during the
preceding calendar year) for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to the employee's advantage. Vacation pay for an employee who works less than sixteen hundred hours during the preceding calendar year shall be calculated at the ratio that his hours worked bear to sixteen hundred. Vacation pay shall not be reduced due to time lost from work, tu a maxmm of one hundred and four weeks, when the employee is receiving	weekly sick	benefits,	U.I.C.	sick benefits, longterm
disability benefits or Workers Compensation. Application of this paragraph as it applies to the Port Col borne office will reflect the thirty five hour week and a minimum of fourteen hundred hours of work during the preceding calendar year.
15.5 FIRST VACATION:	An employee with less than twelve months service during
th preceding calendar year shall be entitled to a vacation of one day per month of service to a maximum of ten days. Notwithstanding paragraph 15,4, pay for such vacation shall be 4% of the employee's wages for the preceding calendar year.
- 23 -
5.6	VACATIONS ON TERMINATION:	An employee quitting or leaving his employment
or other reasons will receive accumulated vacation pay.
ARTICLE XVI
REST PERIODS AND MEAL ALLOWANCE
16.1	REST PERIODS: There shall be a rest period of ten minutes during the first half of the normal shift and ten minutes in the second half of a normal shift. Rest periods will be scheduled by the Company as close to the mid-point of the half shift as can be arranged, subject to production requirements.
16.2	MEAL ALLOWANCE: An employee working three hours or more overtime continuous with his regular shift will be paid a meal allowance of one hours pay at his regular straight time hourly rate. Except in the case of an emergency, a meal break shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the employee and the foreman.
ARTICLE XVII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.1	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: In the event of death of an Immediate relative, leave of absence of three consecutive days, exclusive of assigned days of rest, will be granted the bereaved employee. Such employee will be paid his straight time rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave. Immediate relative shall mean the employee's sister, brother, mother, father, spouse, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren. "Employee" shall mean a regular full-time employee of the Company. Bereaved employees who return from vacation to attend the funeral will qualify for bereavement pay.
\mvuk
x
- 24
.7,2 JURY DUTY:	When an employee is called by the Crown for jury duty or
iubpoenaed as a witness and must, as a result, lose time from work, the Company igrees to pay such employee the difference between the fee received and the employee's straight time basic rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.
17.3 INJURY ON THE JOB: When an employee, while carrying out his assigned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the employee may receive from Workers Compensation), provided that the accident is classified as compensable by the Workers Compensation Board.
17.4 PREGNANCY LEAVE: An employee will be granted pregnancy leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority provided written application is made to the company at least thirty days before the leave is to commence. Such application will be accompanied by a written note from the attending physician confirming the expected date of birth and his recommendation as to the date from which the employee is unable to continue working. The employee may be required to submit medical certificates attesting to her continuing ability to remain at work prior to the date of leave of absence.
The employee will return to work within three months following the date of birth and will give the Company two weeks notice of her planned date of return. She will be required to present a medical certificate confirming her fitness before resuming work. Upon receiving such notification, the Company will arrange for reinstatement, subject to the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement.
17.5 LEAVE FOR PERSONAL REASONS: Leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon written application by the employee. Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, to try out new work or to venture into business for himself.
- 25 -
Leave of absence without pay for employees 1n Her Majesty's Forces shall be espected, in accordance with Government regulations.
The Company will respond in writing within one week of written application for leave of absence.
Employees chosen to attend to Union business .
L7.6 LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS:
outside the plant which would involve an absence of not more than two weeks shall upon reasonable notice to the Company be granted leave of absence without pay. Such leave shall be limited up to five employees at any one time.
The Company agrees to provide payroll service for employees who are absent on Union business for a period of one day or more but not on a full-time basis. The Union will advise the Company 1n writing, of the hours to be paid such members and on receipt of an account agrees to reimburse the Company promptly for this cost.
An employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union (Business Representatives, International Representative or like position) shall, upon notice, be granted extended leave of absence without pay during the term of this Agreement. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave. There shall be no more than two extended leaves at any one time within the Union Local provided the employees affected are employed 1n different departments, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties.
Upon notice to the Company to return to work, he shall be placed on the job previously held, if the position still exits.
17.7 LEAVE FOR PUBLIC OFFICE:	Special leave of absence without pay up to four
weeks duration will be granted to an employee wlio is a bona fide candidate for Federal, Provincial or Municipal election. Request for such leave will be madeto the Company at least twenty one days before the effective date. Special leave will not be granted to more than one employee from the same department at any one time.
26 -
In the event the employee is elected to the House of Commons, Provincial .eglslature, or an elected full-time job at the Municipal level, he shall, upon iotice be granted leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority during the ier1od he holds office.
ARTICLE XVIII WAGES
18,1	\Abge rates shall be in accordance with the Schedule of \Abge Rates attached hereto as Appendix "E".
18.2 RATE	OF NEW OR	CHANGED JOBS:	If	during the I ife of this Agreement,	the
Company substantially changes the nature of any job or Institutes an entirely new job so that the existing job classification or the rate under the job classification 1s no longer appropriate, the Company will name a new classification and/or set	a new rate,	higher or lower,	or	maintain the existing rate for the	new
or changed	job. The	Company agrees	to	notify the Union in writing of any	new
classification or rate established and agrees to establish such a new rate in l ine with the rates prevailing for the same or substantially similar jobs in this Agreement. If a new rate is so set, or the rate i s continued as before, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union, if so requested, provided such a request 1s received within thirty calendar days of the date when the Union is informed of the rate, the question of whether the rate is appropriate.
18.3 ARBITRATION OF RATE If, as a result of such discussion, the parties disagree that the rate is a proper one, the question may be referred to an Arbitration Board pursuant to Article IX. The Arb tratlon Board will be authorized to establish what It deems to be the proper rate, it being understood that such a rate will be established in conformity with the existing rate structure of the plant, and may also fix the date from which the new rate, whether it be greater or less than the rate set by the Company, shall apply. Such new rate shall continue 1n force during the life of this Agreement.
- 27 -
ARTICLE XIX
HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
19.1 The Company agrees to pay the premium cost of the following insurance plans, subject to the conditions set forth in Appendix "D".
____„_____—7^	t: % 13 < *-±z___
i d
Group Life Insurance Plan
Provincial Medicare
Major Medical Insurance Plan
Prescription Drug Insurance Plan
Lcng Term Disability Insurance Plan
Accident and Sickness Benefits Insurance Plan
Dental Insurance Plan
19,2	PENSION FLAN:	The Company agrees to continue the existing Retirement
Annuity Plan (with amendments) during the term of this Agreement, Copy of the official plan document shall be provided fo the Local Chairperson of the Union. An updated employee's pension booklet will be printed. ‘StOa idS/CD
Effective December 31,	1991 the Pension Plan includes a past service
supplement of sixteen dollars ($16.00) per month for each complete year of service to December 31,	1991 less one year and effective December 31, 1992 Increased to
seventeen Dollars ($17.00) per month for each complete year of service to December 31,	1992 less one year. The supplement is subject to all the terms and conditions
of the Pension Plan.
%
ARTICLE XX GENERAL
20.1 BULLETIN BOARDS:	The Ccmpary will provide bulletin boards in mutually
- 28 -
satisfactory locations in the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such.notices will be signed by an officer of the Jnion Local and submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
20.2 SAFETY AND HEALTH:	The Company shall make reasonable provision for safety
and health of employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other equipment deemed necessary properly to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company.	First Aid facilities shall be
available for employees at all times during working hours.
The Company and the Union endorse and agree to observe the provisions of the Canada Labour Code including legislated matters dealing with safety and the appointment and function of safety committees.
The Company will provide copies of W.C.B. Form 7 (or equivalent) to the
Union.
20.3 SAFETY SHOES: Effective April 20, 1992 upon proof of purchase the Company will reimburse employees with seniority a maximum o f one hundred and thirty dollars in the two year period commencing December 1, 1991 towards the cost of safety shoes.
20.4 TRAINING: The Union agrees that for the purpose of providing experience and training a limited number of employees of Maple Leaf Mills may be moved from department to department within a plant from time to time. The Company agrees that such training will not entail layoff or loss of earnings for regular employees, The Union will be informed of the names of such individuals and the expected duration of their training in the Plant.
20.5	TOOLS-REPLACEMENT:	Where an employee in maintenance or other work is
required to provide his own manual tools, the Company agrees to replace any such
29
;ool that is broken or worn out on the job. It is understood that the Company is lot responsible for replacement of the tool if the breakage Is due to misuse or isgligence or if it is not a basic tool of the trade, The Company will maintain insurance in case of loss (of tools) due to fire or theft while on Company property.
20.6 WORK CLOTHING:	Employees other than office employees will be provided
with with two pairs of work pants and two work shirts on completion of their probationary period, and yearly thereafter by April 1st of each year. This arrangement my be modified by local agreement to provide other suitable clothing provided the cost of such is approximately equal. Effective January 28, 1990 Port Colbome office employees will be paid an annual clothing allowance of seventy-five doll ars,
20.7 LICENSE RENEWAL:	Employees will be reimbursed for renewal of their
Journeyman's licenses, effective Ifom March 3, 1982.
20.8 Union dues deductions will be included on employee T-4 slips.
ARTICLE XXI
WEEKLY GUARANTEE
21.1	The Company will guarantee every employee with seniority forty hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each week that the employee performs work for the Company, subject to the following provisions:
- Notwithstanding the foregoing, when an employee with seniority is called in to replace an employee who has failed to report for work, the replacement employee's guarantee shall be limited to the remainder of the scheduled work week.
-	Shift premium, weekend and plant holiday premiums and overtime shall not be considered when calculating what the guarantee, if any, is to be paid. In the office unit, the guarantee shall be thirty five hours.
- The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will perform conscientiously whatever tasks m^ be assigned to them. If an employee declines to perform the task assigned, the Company shall be absolved from the guarantee in respect to the hours so lost by that employee.
-	An employee who is late or absent from work, including time lost due to justified disciplinary action, on any day or part of a day that he is normally scheduled or called to work, shall have his guarantee reduced by the time so lost. The weekly guarantee shall not apply when an employee is on vacation or leave of absence.
-	Pay received for a plant holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee, provided such holiday Is observed cn the employee's normal work day.
ARTICLE XXII
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
22.1	SEVERANCE PAY:	In the event of a substantial reduction in the work force .y
My
including the elimination of a department as a direct result of techno 1 oglcjJLor economic^ change and where the Qmpary is unable to offer other employment to the employees with seniority who are permanently displaced, severance pay will be paid to each employee on the following basis:
■ An employee with one or more years of continuous service shall be paid the equivalent of one week's pay at his regular straight time for each completed year of service,
- 31 -
When the Company has decided to introduce into any existing operation ubstantial technological change, or the introduction of new or changed equipment, t agrees to notify the Union as soon as reasonably possible prior to the implementation of this decision, Such discussion shall Include a description of ;he project the Company intends to carry out with the foreseeable effects on lanpower levels together with any anticipated realignment of existing staff. The )ompany shall keep the Union informed on the progress of this project as it proceeds.
22.2 CONDITIONS OF PAYMENT:	Severance pay as described in paragraph 22.1 will
not be paid when:
-	An employee is discharged for Just cause,
-	An employee has been on layoff for more than one year at the time notice of the substantial reduction is given,
-	An	employee	is offered and	accepts	employment at another location of
Maple Leaf Mills or at an affiliated company,
-	An	employee	resigns without	Company	approval prior to the date the
substantial reduction is to occur,
-	An employee retires or dies prior to the date the substantial reduction is to occur
4/
22.3 NOTICE OF REDUCTION:	The Company w i 11 give the Union three month’s notice {//ft
of such substantial reduction 1n the work force and will, In co-operation with the ^ Union, advise employees whose employment is to be terminated of Government services that are available to them for retraining and location of other employment.
22.4 MANNER OF PAYMENT:	Severance pay shall be paid in one sum or as requested
by the- employee,	provided that the full amount is paid within a twelve month
perbd.
- 32
To allow employees the necessary time to convert Company paid life and nedlcal insurance plans to a private basis, the Company will continue to pay the >remium for three months beyond the date of termination.
22.5 In the event the plant is closed and relocated elsewhere in the province, laid-off employees will be given first consideration for employment at the new location, based on their suitability for the work available and their seniority. It is understood that employees who move to the new Company location will be given credit for their Company service for vacation eligibility, benefit plan entitlement, etc.
ARTICLE XXIII DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.1	This Agreement shall be effective from December 1, 1991 to November 30, 1993 and thereafter from year to year unless either party notifies the other party in writing within not more than sixty days and not less than thirty days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this Agreement.
23.2	If, pursuant to such negotiations, agreement or terms on renewal, or amendment of this Agreement 1s not reached prior to the expiration date, this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Canada Labour Code and subsequent mediation proceedings agreed to by the parties, whichever should first occur.
33
JNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
C.W. GIBSON
MAPLE LEAF MILLS INC.
J.B. ROHRER
FOR
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18, CANADA
FOR LOCAL NUMBER
L.	FISHER D. TONNELLI
L.	CARON
M.	URE
T. VALOROSO
N.	KINNEY
452 P 452 P 452 P 401 401 401
FOR:
MAPLE LEAF MILLS INC.
G.C. DAVID	PORT COLBORNE PLANT
A. LIU .	CALGARY RENOWN PLANT
- 34 -
APPENDIX A
BOAT CREW SUPPLEMENT PORT COLBORNE PLANT
NOTE :	(Does not include regular elevator staff who assist in boat
unloading)
The Boat Crew shall be broken down into two categories of employees:
UNLOADERS:	these men work on or in the vessel
SPARE HOUSE GANG:	these employees work in the grain receiving
building
The Company and the Union agree that the casual nature of grain unloading operations make it both necessary and desirable that the Boat Crew be specifically exempted from certain of the Agreement provisions as set out below;
ARTICLE V - Union Security ARTICLE X - Seniority ARTICLE XII - Shift Bonus ARTICLE XIV - Plant Holidays ARTICLE XV - Vacations
ARTICLE XVI - Rest Periods and Meal Allowance ARTICLE XVII - Leave of Absence (Except as stipulated below) ARTICLE XIX - Health and Welfare Insurance ARTICLE XXI - Weekly Guarantee
- 35 -
in lieu of Article V - Union Security. The Company will deduct Union dues In the imount fixed by the Union from time to time 1n accordance with its Constitution and Jy-laws and certified in writing to the Company by an authorized officer of the Inion. All such sums deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions vere made will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Union.
In lieu of Article X - Seniority. It Is agreed that seniority shall be granted to an employee in the Boat Crew if he only works on 75 percent of the total number of grain boats unloaded in any one calendar year. Such seniority shall not be plant seniority.
In lieu of Article XIX - Health and Welfare Insurance. The Company agrees to pay the monthly premium for OHIP, Prescription Drug Insurance Plan and Major Medical Insurance Plan for an employee who has attained Boat Gbv seniority, 1n any month that such employee works as a member of the Boat Crew.
It 1s agreed that the following provisions shall specifically apply to grain unloading operations and the Boat CTew:
No. 1 - Unloaders shall be paid for the dipping of all boats which they unload.
No. 2
Boats shall boats shall agreement. be 8:00 a.m.
be started on arrival between 8:00 am. and midnight. No be started after midnight except in emergencies or by mutual On boats arriving after midnight, normal starting time shall
No, 3 - Unloaders shall be paid time and one half the straight time rate for work performed beyond eight hours after the call.
to. 4
No. 5
No. 6 No. 7
No. 8
- 36 -
• Time and one half the straight time shall be paid for work performed on Saturdays and plant holidays, and double the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Sunday.
The Boat Gew shall receive 4 percent of their yearly earnings as vacation pay.
The Boat Gew shall be entitled to be represented by one steward.
Manhas of the Boat Gew shall be eligible to receive Bereavement Leave pursuant to Article 17,1 of the Collective Agreement for the death of an immediate relative as defined in Article 17,1 which occurs while the Employee is performing Boat Clew duties, It is agreed that such payment and leave shall not exceed 24 scheduled hours and will be paid at the straight time rate for the hours the employee would otherwise work during such leave.
- Members of the Boat Gew shall be eligible for reimbursement for the purchase of	safety shoes as specified in Article 20,3, This
reimbursement is not additional to the maximum reimbursement an Individual employee is eligible to receive in a two year period as specified in Article 20,3,
- 37 -
APPENDIX “B-l" SCHEDULE CF WORKING HOURS
PORT COLBORNE PLANT:
Maintenance, Power, Elevator Departments:
Day Shift	8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
£ hr. lunch
illing Department:
Three Shift Operation
Day Shift
8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n.
4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n. 8:00 a.m.
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. £ hr. lunch
Mix Plant & Packing Department
Day Shift Afternoon Shift
Start-up
Warehouse Department:
Day Shift Afternoon Shift Car Conditioning
Truck Drivers
Truck Drivers Truck Drivers
Truck Drivers
i hr. lunch
Subject to Packing Schedule and Bulk Requirements
8:00 am. - 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 7:00 am. - 3:30 p.m.
Loading and Delivery 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m.
8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Tractor Trailer Per Weekly Schedule
(Inter-Plant)
Per Weekly Schedule
£ hr. lunch £ hr. lunch
£ hr. lunch £ hr. lunch
Utility Shift
12:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
- 38 -
aboratory Department:
Day Shift Utility Leadman
8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 1 hr. lunch (following fumigation)
7:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. $ hr. lunch
PORT COLBORNE OFFICE:
Day Shift
8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m
hr. lunch
CALGARY RENOWN PLANT
MILL:
Three Shift Operation
(1)	7:45	am
(2)	3:45	p.m
(3)	11:45	p.m
3:45 p.m 11:45 p.m 7:45 a.m.
Packing:
Three Shift Operation
Utility Day Shift
(1)	7:30	a.m
(2)	3:45	p.m
(3)	11:45	p.m
7:30 a.m.
4:00 p.m. i hr. lunch 11:45 p.m.
7:45 a.m.
4:00 p.m. i hr. lunch
Warehouse :
Three Shift Operation
Shlpper/Recelvable
2nd Man Day Shift
Janitor
Front Dock Loader Day Shift
Mix Orders Day Shift Wrappers Day Shift Feed Man Day Shift
(1)	7:30	a.m.
(2)	3:45	p.m.
(3)	11:45 p.m.
7:00 am. 7:30 a.m. 7:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 11:45 p.m. 7:45 a.m. 3:30 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 3:30 p.m.
i hr. lunch i hr. lunch
7:30 a.m. - 4:00 7:30 a.m. ■ 4:00 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 7:30 a.m. - 4:00
p.m.	i	hr.	lunch
p.m.	I	hr.	lunch
p.m.	i	hr.	lunch
p.m.	i	hr.	lunch
Elevator :
7:30 a.m.
4:00 p.m. i hr. lunch
Mix Plant:
Three Shift Operation
(1)
3)
7:30 a.m. 3:45 p.m. 11:45 p.m.
4:00 p.m. } hr. lunch 11:45 p.m.
7:45 p.m.
Operator Three Shlff	(1)	7:30	a.m.
Operation	(2)	•	3:45	p.m
(3)	11:45	p.m
3:30 p.m. 11:45 p.m. 7:45 a.m.
39 -
Operator Two Shift Operation
Utility Day Shift Bag Label ler Days
Electrical :
Maintenance:
(1)
(2)
7:15 a.m. 3:45 p.m.
7:30 a.m.
7:30 a.m.
7:30 a.m.
7:30 a.m.
3:15 p.m.
11:45 p.m.
4:00	p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
4:00	p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
4:00	p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
4:00	p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
Laboratory:
Three Shift Operation	(1) 7:30	a.m.
	(2) 9:00	a.m.
	(3) 5:00	a.m.
Two Shift Operation	(1) 7:30	a.m.
	(2) 9:00	a.m.
Sanitation Day Shift	7:30	a.m.
4:00 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
5:30 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
1:30 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
4:00 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
5:30 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
4:00 p.m.	£	hr.	lunch
Cartage:
7:00 a.m.
3:00 p.m
- 40 -
APPENDIX B-2 SWING SHIFTS
1) Preamble
The Union and the Company agree that as an alternative to the hours of work referred to in Article 12.2 and identified in Appendix B-l, the Company may Implement a "Swing Shift" arrangement at either the Port Col borne or Calgary Facilities in part, parts or all of the respective locations as circumstances warrant.
The "Swing Shift" contemplated Initially for introduction, calls for the scheduling of employees to work twelve (12) hour shifts on a rotational basis of day shift and afternoon shift. This "Swing Shift" arrangement shall be allocated to a twenty eight (28) calendar day cycle with a maximum of thirteen (13) cycles per year commencing with the date	of initial introduction of this "swing shift"
arrangement. In each of these cycles, the employees affected shall be regularly scheduled to work on the basis of the following normal shift rotation of the cycle.
4 day shift 7 off shift 4 night shift 3 off shift 3 day shift 1 off shift 3 night shift 3 off shift 28 Calendar Days
As the work scheduled on this "Swing Shift" arrangement w1l 1 be allocated over a twenty four	(24) hour period, seven (7) days per week from its implementation,
- 41 -
individual employees may have different commencement points within the above described cycle. They shall be scheduled for work during the cycle in a manner consistent with the sequence of the cycle that follows their commencement point at the date of implementation of this "Swing Shift" arrangement and for its duration, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
Upon implementing the "Swing Shift" arrangement, the following provisions shall be operative and supersede all other specifically related Collective Agreement provisions applicable to employees assigned to work "Swing Shifts". Upon the cessation of the operation of "Swing Shifts", the other specifically related Collective Agreement provisions shall be operative and applicable rather than the provisions listed below 1n this Appendix B-2.
Notwithstanding the above, the Union and the Company further agree that alternative methods of "Swing Shifts" to that described above may be more suitable to the overall efficient operation of the Company's facilities at Port Col borne and/or Calgary or parts thereof. Should the Company decide to implement an alternative method during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to meet with the Union and appropriately revise the respective provisions of this Appendix B-2.
This meeting shall occur prior to the implementation of the alternative method. Such revision of this Appendix B-2 shall be made upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
Aside from the provisions listed below In this Appendix B-2, all other terms of the current Collective Agreement in effect, shall be operative and applicable to employees working ''Swing Shifts".
During the term of this Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union agree to have discussions on recognized problems that arise through the Implementation and operation of Swing Shifts. Such discussions will be consistent with Article I of the Collective Agreement and shall be held in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.3 of the Collective Agreement. The Company and Union further agree that these discussions will endeavour to resolve the problems in a manner mutually satisfactory to the Company and the Union and that such resolution shall be consistent with the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company.
= 42 -
2) Hours of Work and Overtime - (Replaces Article 12.1)
The normal work cycle for operations functioning on "Swing Shifts" as specified in this Appendix B-2, shall be twenty-eight (28) calendar days and shall commence on the first Monday 'In each cycle. The normal work day for employees shall be twelve (12) hours. The normal work week shall alternate between forty eight (48) hours one week, comprised of four (4) twelve (12) hour shifts in a seven (7) day period and thirty six (36) hours the next week, comprised of three (3) twelve (12) hour shifts in the next seven (7) day period and vice versa.
Employees scheduled to work these "Swing Shifts", shall normally be paid at their straight time hourly rate for all such hours they were scheduled and worked in each week (seven (7) day period), unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union. The existing practice regarding the frequency used to pay employees at each of the Calgary and Port Col borne facilities will remain unchanged with the implementation of "Swing Shifts” by the Company. Authorized work performed in excess of the normal work day, shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one half the employees regular straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium.	Overtime regulations shall not be a limitation upon
the number of hours per day, or days per week that the company may operate its plant or schedule Its employees. The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime work as evenly as possible amongst qualified employees within a department and the work will be offered to such employees on this basis. Should an insufficient number o f employees volunteer to carry out the work, it will be assigned to the junior employees in the Department who are qualified or in such other manner as is agreed between the Company and the Union,
3) Schedule of Working Hours - (Replaces Article 12.2)
Management at the plant shall provide the Local Union with a Schedule of Working Hours functioning on "Swing Shifts" which shall be in accordance with this Appendix B-2. Should the requirements of the business necessitate a change 1n such Schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union. The Company agrees to give the Union two (2) weeks advance notice of the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts", at the respective location. . This notice shall be
- 43 -
provided by 3:00 p.m, on the Thursday two weeks proceeding the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts." If such notice is not provided, the affected employee will be paid time and one half their straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first change, due to the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts".
4) Saturday and Sunday Wok - Replaces Article 12,3
For operations functioning on "Swing Shifts", straight time base hourly rates shall be paid to employees working their scheduled normal work day which occurs either on a Saturday or Sunday during the "Swing Shift" cycle.
Payment for authorized work performed in excess of the normal work day on Saturday and Sunday shall be termed as overtime and shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2 of this appendix 8-2.
For operations functioning on "Swing Shifts", Saturdays and Sundays are observed on a shift day basis rather than on a calendar day basts. Premium pay at one and one; half times the employees straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all hours worked at the request of the Company on arty day the employee is normally scheduled off work, except as is otherwise specified in the provisions of Sections 6 and 7 of this Appendix 8-2, In the event the Company requests an employee to work two consecutive days or more he is normally scheduled off, he shall be paid double time his straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, for ai i hours worked on such second consecutive day.
5) No C____________of Premium ■ I____________tide 12,5)
No overtime premium payment will be computed twice cn the same time, nor shall any employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours. No overtime premium shall be calculated on applicable shift premiums paid for hours worked by an employee.
- 44 -
>1 Reporting Allowance - ^Replaces Article 12,6)
An employee working "Swing Shifts" reporting for work at his normal starting time without previous notification not to do so shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his straight time hourly rate. In the event of a forced shutdown, or in case where an employee fails to notify his foreman of his intention to return to work following a period of absence, this provision shall not apply.
71 Employee Call-In - ("Replaces Article 12.7)
An employee working "Swing Shifts" called in to perform work which is not continuous with his regular work shift, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at time and one half their straight time base rate. The employee will be free to leave the Company premises when his presence is no longer required by his supervisor. This section shall also apply to employees called in to perform emergency work not continuous with his regular work shift. In such case, the Employee will be free to leave vdm the supervisor deems an emergency no longer exits. Employees called in for emergency, on a shift immediately preceding their scheduled work shift, shall be allowed a reasonable period for rest before returning to work on their regular shift They shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shall be paid as if they has worked their full shift.
81 Shift Premium - fRenlaces Article 12.8)
Employees working "Swing Shifts" shall receive in addition to their base hourly rate, a shift praiim of One Dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked on such "Swing Shifts". This premium shall be paid in addition to any premium payment earned by the Employee for the work performed on "Swing Shifts" pursuant to this Appendix 8-2, but shall not be included in the rate upon which the premium is calculated,
- 45 -
9) Rest Periods - (Replaces Article 16.1)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", there shall be three 10 minutes rest periods during the full twelve hour Swing Shift. Rest periods shall be scheduled by the Company taken into consideration the production requirements of the facility.
10)	Meal Period
Employees working "Swing Shifts" shall be provided a paid thirty minute meal period which shall normally be scheduled to occur no later than five hours after the starting time of their shift, unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. Should production requirements necessitate, employees may be required to perform work during their meal period. Any employee who has their meal period Interrupted and perform work at the request of the Company, shall first have sufficient time made available to them in order to fully utilize their meal period allotment on such shift if it is practicable for this to be done, Falling this, they then shall receive pay at time and one half their regular rate for the period of time they performed work requested by the Company during the meal period.
11)	Meal Allowance - (ReplacesArticle 16.2)
An employee working "Swing Shifts" who is required to work one or more hours overtime continuous with his regular shiftwill be paid a meal allowance of one hour pay at his regular straight time hourly rate. Except in the case of an emergency the meal period, shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the employee and the foreman.
12)	Plant Holidays - (Replaces Article 14.1)
The Company agrees to recognize the Plant Holidays set forth in Appendix C. Plant Holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than a calendar day basis. An employee working "Swing Shifts" (at the date of Holiday), and has the day off, shall .be paid. for each such holiday at the equivalent of. his straight time basic rate,	exclusive of shift premium, for the hours he has been scheduled to work on
- 46 -
such date, provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or the week of the holiday. Employees with seniority v\ho are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits, or Workers' Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
Employees assigned to work "Swing Shifts", who are not scheduled to work on the date of the holiday, shall be paid the equivalent of his straight time basic rate exclusive of shift premium for twelve hours provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or the week of the holiday. Employees with seniority, who are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers' Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
13) Plant Holidays During Vacation - (Replaces Article 14.3)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", when a Plant Holiday falls within an employees' vacation period, they may elect to receive holiday pay calculated at twelve hours pay at their straight time hourly rate exclusive of shift premium or to receive an alternate day off with pay as the holiday, it shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If subsequently the employee does work on the day agreed upon as alternate day, it shall be considered as work performed on a plant holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 14 of this appendix B-2.
14L_ Work on Plant Holidays - (Replaces Article 14.4)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", If an employee is required to work a Plant Holiday shift, he shall be paid for such work performed at the rate of time and one half h1s basic straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, for the first twelve hours and double the straight time for work performed beyond twelve hours.
In addition to this payment, the employee shall also receive payment for the plant holiday he Is otherwise entitled to under the provisions of Section 12 of this Appendix B-2.
- 47 -
15) Vacation Scheduling ■ (Replaces Article 15.1)
Fcr employees working "Swing Shifts", one week of vacation shall be either thirty six (36) hours or forty eight (48) hours, depending upon the employees scheduled hours for the week the vacation is taken. The Ccmpary will schedule vacations at a time or times wanted by each employee giving longer service employees preference subject to maintaining the efficient operation of the plant. Vacation of more than three weeks duration will not normally be scheduled consecutively. Vacations shall be taken in the year they fall due and shall not be accumulated. Should it be advantageous to close the plant(s), for a vacation period, eligible employees will take vacation at that time, other than those whose services are required for particular work. In the event of a close-down for vacation, such period will be scheduled during June, July, or August. For vacation purposes, the vacation week begins on Monday and ends the Sunday next following.
16) Vacation Pay - (Replacer Article 15.4)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", vacation pay will be calculated at 2% of the employees' wages for the preceding calendar year or forty hours pay at his basic straight time rate, excluding shift premium, (provided the employee woks not less than sixteen hundred hours during the preceding calendar year) for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to employees' advantage.
Vacation pay for an employee who works less than sixteen hundred hours during the preceding calendar year, shall be calculated at the ratio that his hours worked bears to sixteen hundred. Vacation pay as stipulated above, shall not be reduced due to time lost from work to a maximum of one hundred and four weeks, when the employee is receiving weekly sick benefits, long term disability benefit or Workers' Compensation.
17) First Vacation - (Replaces Article 15.5)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", an employees with less than twelve months service during the preceding calendar year should be entitled to a vacation
- 48 -
calculated on the basis of one day per month of service, to a maximum of ten days. Notwithstanding Section 16 of this Appendix B»2, pay for such vacation shall be 4% of the employees' wages for the preceding calendar year.
18}_ Bereavement Leave - (ReplacesArticle 17.11
For employees working "Swing Shifts", in the event of death of an immediate relative as defined in Article 17.1, leave of absence of three consecutive days, exclusive of assigned days of rest, will be granted the bereaved employee. Such employee shall be paid his straight time rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave.
Employee shall mean a regular full time employee of the Company. Bereaved employees who return from vacation to attend the funeral will qualify for bereavement pay.
19I_ Jury Duty - (Replaces Article 17.21
For employees working "Swing Shift", when an employes is called by the Gown for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness and must as a result, lose time from work, the Company agrees to pay such employee the difference between the fee received and the employee's straight time basic rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.
201 Injury on the Job - ^Replaces Article 17.3)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", whai an employee whi 1 e carrying out his
assigned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be
paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the employee may receive from Workers' Compensation), provided that the accident is classified as compensable by the Workers' Compensation Board.
- 49 -
21) Weekly Guarantee - (Replaces Article 21.1)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", and such "Swing Shifts" are cancelled prior to the completion of a 28 calendar day cycle, the Company will guarantee every employee with seniority payment for the hours they were scheduled to work to a maximum of forty eight hours at his regular time, excluding shift premium in the week in which the "Swing Shifts" are cancelled provided the employee performs work for the Company In that week on his Swing Shift, subject to the following provisions:
-	Notwithstanding the foregoing, whai an employee with seniority is called in to replace an employee who has failed to report for work, the replacement employee's guarantee shall be limited to the remainder of the scheduled work week to a maximum of forty eight hours at his straight time hourly rate.
•	Shift premium, Plant Holidays premiums and overtime shall not be considered when calculating what the guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
-	The	Company expects	and the Union	agrees that employees	will perform
conscientiously whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If an employee declines to perform the task assigned, the Company shall be absolved from the guarantee 1n respect to hours so lost by that employee.
- An employee who is late or absent from work, including time lost due to justified disciplinary action on any part of a day he is normal y scheduled or called back to work shall have his guarantee reduced by the time so lost. The weekly guarantee shall not apply when employee is on vacation or leave of absence. •
•	Pay	received for a	Plant' Holiday,	shall be regarded as	part of the
guarantee, provided such holiday is observed on the employee's normal scheduled work day.
- 50 -
The Company and the Union agree that this Weekly Guarantee payment is not in addition to hours scheduled and worked in the same week by an employee on other than a "Swing Shift" basis, Rather, the parties agree it is the maximum payment guaranteed for any one week in which such "Swing Shifts" are cancelled by the Company prior to the completion of the 28 calendar day cycle.
22) Severance Pay - (Replaces Article 22.1)
For employees working ""Swing Shifts", in event of a substantial reduction in the workforce, including the elimination of a department as a direct result of technological or economic change and where the Company is unable to offer other employment to the employees with seniority who are permanently displaced, severance pay will be paid to each employee on the following basis:
An employee with one or more years of continuous service shall be paid the equivalent of forty hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each completed year of service.
23) Accident and Sickness Benefits • (Clarifies appendix D)
For employees working "Swing Shifts", weekly benefits payable pursuant to the Accident and Sickness provisions of Appendix 0, shall be deemed to be on a seven day week basis. Accordingly, daily benefits payable shall be 1/7 of the weekly benefit specified in the Appendix*
- 51 _
APPENDIX "C"
Plant Holidays to be observed and paid by the Company at the plant locations as listed, in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV - PLANT HOLIDAYS
PORT COLBORNE:
Na/v Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, •/'7 Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Day before Christmas Day, Christmas, Day, Boxing Day, Day before New Year's Day.

CALGARY - RENOWN MILL:
Nbn Years
Day, January 2nd, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day.
PERSONAL FLOATER HOLIDAY
An employee who has completed the probationary period will be entitled personal floater holiday to be observed on a date that is mutually agreeable to the * *
employee and the Company, not concurrent with the employee's vacation. Generally not more than one employee from the same department will observe the same day as the holiday.
* Eligible employees at Calgary - Renown floater In lieu of a 12th named holiday.
ill will be entitled to an additional
- 52 -
APPENDIX "D"
HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
The following summarizes health and welfare insurance benefits as listed in paragraph 19,1 of the Collective Agreement. A copy of the plan documents will be provided to the Local Chairperson of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Group Life Insurance Plan underwritten by the National Life Assurance Company. Effect ve February 1, 1990, the	1 fe insurance benefit shall be *$23,000 for an el gible employee ^
and provide double indemnity for the accidental death of such employee. The Company will pay the premium cost of $3,000 life insurance at the time of normal or early retirement (55 years or more, with a minimum of twenty years' service),
*$24,000 effective December 1,
The Company will pay the premium cost of $1,000 life insurance for the spouse of an eligible employee and his eligible dependents over six months of age.	In the case of eligible dependents of less than six months of age,
but more than fifteen days and not confined to a hospital, the life insurance benefit will be $500,
PROVINCIAL MEDICARE:
• The Company will pay the premium cost (where applicable) of Provincial Medicare Insurance (standard ward coverage) for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents;
- 53 -
MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE:
- The Company will pay the premium cost of the Major Medical Plans (excluding drug) for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents. Deductibles will be $25 for the employees and a maximum of $50 for the family with no co-insurance
Effective March 3,	1982 employees who retire with 20 years or more service /
at age 55 or older will be covered by a Major Medical and Drug Plan with a $25 deductible for the retired employee and a maximum of $50 deductible for the family. Effective December 1, 1987, such retiring employees will be given the option of joining a retirement group dental plan at their cost.
Effective December 1, 1987, employees who retire at age 61* or older with 85 points or more will have O.H.I.P. or Alberta Medical Premiums continued until their age 65.
it
60 - Effective December 1, 1988
I
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Prescription Drug Plan (35 cents per prescription) for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents.
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Long Term Disability Insurance Plan for eligible employees, The disability benefit under the Plan shall be 60% of basic earnings, excluding overtime or other premium, to a maximum of $2000.00 per month. No benefits are payable for the first twenty-six weeks of disability and the period of time during which disability benefits are payable under the Unemployment Insurance Act. Canada Pension Plan other legislated benefits shall be integrated with the long term disability benefit.
A subsidy of *$1,300 per month, less the gross monthly benefit currently being received, inclusive of government benefits will be paid to employees on disability benefits for the term of the Agreement.
Effective February 1, 1990
Employees on L.T.D, benefits cn April 18, 1984 and those who subsequently qualify for L.T.D. benefits, will have their coverage continued until age 65 or prior recovery for following benefits:
Medical and Hospital, Basic Group Life Insurance, Dental, Major Medical (Including prescription drugs). It is understood the Major Medical Plan is the one currently in effect for retired employees.
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS BENEFIT'S INSURANCE PLANS:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Accident and Sickness Insurance Plans for eligible employees. The weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3 %) of the employees earnings to a maximum of $425,00 per week *, for a maximum of twenty six weeks. Benefits will be payable from the first day of absence due to accident and from the fourth day where absence is due to bona fide sickness, Benefits will be payable from the first day of absence due to sickness if the employee is confined to hospital on that date. Effective April 1, 1985, benefits will be payable from the first day of absence for surgery performed as out patient at a hospital. Effective April 20, 1992, benefits shall be payable from the first day of absence for surgery performed as an out patient at a hospital, authorized medical clinic or doctor's office.
* Effective February 1, 1990
Effective December 1, 1990, Increase to $450,00 per week.
DENTAL INSURANCE PLAN:
- 55 -
• The Company will pay the premium cost of the Dental Insurance Plan for eligible employees and their eligible dependents. Such Dental Plan provides benefits equivalent to the basic Blue Cross Plan #7. Effective May 1, 1992, the 1991 Provincial Fee Guide shall apply.
Effective January 1, 1993, the 1992 Provincial Fee Guide shall apply.
The Plan will include the following services on the basis of 50/50 co-insurance with an annual $50,00 deductible for each employee and eligible dependent:
Endodontics Periodontics Eent ur es Crowns Bridges
Effective December 1,	1992 the limit of the the plan on major restorative
services will Increase from $2 000 to $3 000 per individual every two years.
VISION CARE PLAN:
Effective February 1,	1990 the Company will implement and pay the premium
cost of a Vision Care Plan for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents. Such Vision Care Plan will provide reimbursement for the purchase of eye glasses of up to maximim of $100,00 every 24 months to employees and their eligible dependents.
GENERAL CONDITIONS:
• Whae applicable, the Chrpny will pay the premium costs for an eligible employee and his eligible dependents commencing from the first of the month following completion of his probationary period.
- 56 -
For the purposes of this Appendix "D", an eligible employee is one who has completed the probationary period, is actively at work on the date the insurance coverage, or a change in coverage, is to be effective, and performs work for the Company during the month in which premiums fall due. The Company agrees, however to continue the monthly payment of health and welfare insurance premiums for a period up to one year beyond the month in which an eligible employee, absent due to bona fide sickness or accident, last performed work for the Company.
The Company may elect at some future date to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these insurance benefits to another Insurance carrier with the understanding that in this event the coverage that will be provided by the new carrier will not be less favourable than the coverage provided at the date of the Collective Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the cost of the benefit program paid by the Company as outlined herein is In lieu of any employee entitlement to rebate under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
If the Federal or Provincial Government brings into operation any Insurance plan which provides benefits that are similar or substantially similar to those described herein and such coverage is available to employees on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the Company reserves the right to discontinue or modify the affected insurance as outlined herein.
- 57 -
APPENDIX "E"
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
No across tie board increase shall be granted to 1n effect as at the date of signing the Memorandum of Agreement, Employees on the active payroll of the Company as of April 20, 1992 shall receive a lump sun cash bonus on the first pay day following receipt of Notice of Ratification In the following amounts:
Plant Employees:	Seven Hundred Dollars ($700.00)
Port Colborne Office Employees:	Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00)
Furthermore, employees on the active payroll of the Company as of December 1, 1992 shall receive a lump sum cash bonus on the first pay day following December 1, 1992 in the following amounts:
Plant Employees:	Seven Hundred Dollars ($700.00)
Port Colborne Office Employees:	Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00)
All lump sum cash bonus payments referred to herein shall be subjected to federal income tax, UIC, CPP, and all other withholding amounts required by law.
Listed below are the applicable wage rates in effect for employees on payroll at each of the Calgary and Port Colborne locations respectively as of April 20, 1992.
PORT COLBORNE PLANT
ELEVATOR DEPARTMENT:
Operator Welghman Operator Repairman Operator leadman
$18.33
$18.11
$17.63
$19.08
MILLING DEPARTMENT:
MG Operator
(after 1 year on the job) Mill Helper**
(Training for MIG Operator) General Help
$18,53
$18.77
$17,00
** Recognizing that this job is 1n part a training job for Mill Operator, the successful applicant under paragraphs 10,6 and 10,7 must be cleaned to have the capacity to acquire the necessary skill, knowledge and ability as to qualify him for the Job of Mill Operator.
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
Leadman	$18.10
Packing Crews	$17.27
WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT:
Leadman Truck Driver:
■ Tractor Trailer - Other Truck Helper
$17.79
$18.14
$17.74
$16.96
It is understood that the provisions of paragraph 10.7 will not apply in cases where drivers are transferred from one type of truck to another.
A tractor trailer driver on returning from a round trip to Toronto or London that lasts between six and eight hours will be offered the opportunity to work out the remainder of the regular shift. In the event wok is not available, such driver will be paid his regular hourly rate for the time between his actual hours of work and eight hours.
59
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT: Millwright, Machinist, Leadhian Class A Class B Class C Helper A Helper B
Electrical, Heat & Fire Maintenance:
$20.94
$19.84
$18.98
$18.66
$17.96
$17.64
MIX PLANT DEPARTMENT:
Control Room Operator Operator
Mix Plant Helper Sanitation
$18.89
$18.39
$17.63
$17.63
LABORATORY :
Senior Lab Tech	$18.89
Lab Tech	$18.30
MISCELLANEOUS :
Ut41ity Leadman Fumigator	$17.79
Utility Gbv and General Help	$16.83
Watchman	$16.83
BOAT CREW:
Rigger and Rope Pull er
Scooper
Towerman
Hold Leadman's Premium
$17.27
$17.01
$17.27
Six cents per hour while actually employed 1n this capacity.
- 60 -
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary period pay a training rate up to fifteen cents below the regular rate for the job.
PORT COLBORNE OFFICE
GRADE 1
Payroll Clerk Accounting Clerk I Traffic Assistant
$17.81
$17.81
$17.81
GRADE 2
Accounting Clerk II Production Clerk Local Sales Clerk
$17.27
$17.27
$17.27
GRADE 3
Accounting Clerk III	$16.18
Traffic CUrk/Typist	$16.18
GRADE 4
Inventory Clerk	$15.48
Inventory/Local Sales Assistant	$15.48
GRADE 5
Switchboard/Telex Oper.
$15.05
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary period pay a training rate up to five percent below the regular rate for the job.
- 61 -
CALGARY - RENOWN PLANT
FLOUR MILL:
Spare Shift Miller Roll Tender Screen Room Utility
$18.39
$17.72
$17.58
$16.83
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
Second Min
Second Man Day Shift Bulk Min
Flour and Feed Packer Bag and Sample Min Utility
$17.68
$17.86
$17.01
$17.01
$17.01
$16.83
ELEVATOR:
Second Min Weigh Min Elevator Min
$17.47
$17.19
$17.03
WAREHOUSE:
Second Min
Cir Loader
Warehouseman
Lift Truck Operator
Janitor
Hler/Stacker
Feedman
Shipper Receiver Palletizer
- 62
PLANT SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
[Electrical (Steam, Water and Air) and Millwright Departments]
Second Man
Lead Hand (Licenced) (Corrigator) Licenced Electrician, Millwright, Boiler Maintenance 4th Year Apprentice 3rd Year Apprentice 2nd Year Apprentice 1st Year Apprentice Helper/OHer
$19.89
$19.59
$19.29
$18.48
$18.33
$18.15
$17.96
$17.36
MIX PLANT DEPARTMENT:
Operator
Packer
Product Handler Bag Labeller Ut4l1ty
$18.39
$17.03
$17.27
$16.88
$16.83
LABORATORY:
Technician
Sanitation
$17.61
$17.61
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary period pay a training rate up to fifteen cents below the regular rate of the job.
- 63 -
APPENDIX "F"
The following schedule lists those Letters of Agreement in effect at the respective Company location as at April 20, 1992,
PORT COLBORNE:
Letters regarding the following subjects:
-	Employment of Students
“	Employee Training (Same as in Calgary; to expire November 30, 1993)
-	Employee Assistance Plan (Same as in Calgary; to expire November 30, 1993)
CALGARY:
Letters regarding the following subjects:
-	Employee Training (Same as in Port Colborne; to expire November 30, 1993)
-	Employee Assistance Plan (Same as in Port Colborne; to expire November 30, 1993)
-	Temporary Assignments
-	Office (Area)
-	Laboratory Second Shift Premium
-	Posting - Layoff Notice
-	Employees' Personnel	File
-	Union Representation	at Interview Stage
-	Supervisory Relief Responsibilities
-	Norm Carpenter
-	Contracting Out
-	Reasonable Period of	Rest
-	Emergency Call-In
-	Shift Trading
-	Overtime Distribution .
-	Laboratory Staffing
Labour Travail Canada Canada
O L) <b 0<- <f"
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PROGRESS REPORT RAPPORT SUR L’ETAT DES NEGOCIATIONS COLLECTIVES
v
FOR THE MONTH OF POUR LE MOI8 DE
Company
Compagnie


§i
bargaining Unit roupe de nOgociation
Dunnq the month indicated above Ihe negotiations between the foregoing parties were at the toilowing stage(s): Durant |e mois indique cidessus les negotiations entre lee parties susmentionr>6es 6taient au stade ci-apr6s:
hJl5 Cola
Number of employees covered: (Indicate in first progress report only)
Nombre d’employ£s vis6s (L ’indiquer settlement dans le premier rapport provisoire)
....., J,	^ ■“
Comments:
Remarques:
N& a
Qjob1 ^6*3
Mow. fi ~ rv0^ ^ 6-
nN7.-rvwA; B
(MWCr-vv.	-rv^uA
Reporting Branch Office Bureau de la Direction dont provient le rapport
Signature
Lab. Tiav ISta <2/77>
For Use cf Branch Office A I’usage du bureau de la Direction
■&o
(4i6>) 0>7H-