MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
between
CSP FOODS LTD
AND
THE GRAIN SERVICES UNION (C.L.C.)
covering
SASKATOON OFFICE AND LABORATORY EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE
FEBRUARY 1, 1987 to JANUARY 31, 1989
00453 (03)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I Article II Article III Article IV Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article IX Article X Article XI Article XII Article XIII Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVIII Article XIX Article XX Article XXI Article XXII Article XXIII Article XXIV Article XXV Schedule A Schedule B
Scope
Spirit and Intention Recognition Company Relations Maintenance of Membership Grievances
Arbitration Board Group Insurance Retirement Plan Sick Leave
Workers' Compensation (Accident Fund) Act
Seniority
Leave of Absence
Probation and Termination of Employment Severance Allowance
Temporary Performance of Higher Duty
Hours of Work
Overtime
Shift Differential Absence From Duty Vacations General Holidays Gender
Scale of Wages and Classifications Effective Date and Duration of Agreement Scale of Wages and Classifications Employee Benefit Programs Memorandum of Agreement
Page
1
2
3
3
3
4
5
6 6 6
8
8
10
12
13
13
14
14
15 15
15
16 17 17
1
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ENTERED into this 15th day of July, 1987 BETWEEN:
csp FOODS LTD., hereinafter called THE COMPANY - and -
the grain services union (C.L.C.), hereinafter called THE UNION
WITNESSETH:
ARTTCLF, T - SCOPE
THE COMPANY recognizes the Union for the duration of this Agreement as the sole bargaining agent for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to wages and other conditions of employment on
behalf of the Company's employees within the following bargaining unit, namely:	all employees employed in the Office and Laboratory of
CSP Foods' Saskatoon location, except casual .employees, and incumbents of the following location positions:	General Manager
Flour & Food Service, Confidential Secretary/Administrative Assistant, Quality Control Manager, Marketing Manager Flour & Food
Service, District Sales Manager Consumer & Food Service, Industrial
& Food-Service Accounts Manager, Territory Manager - Eastern Canada, Manager Export & Customer Services, Distribution Manager, Production Manager, Manager Grain Procurement, Manager Milling & Maintenance, Manager Packing & Warehouse and Bakery Mix, Manager Systemsi * * * * * & Control, Manager Systems Development, Manager Production Accounting Services, Manager Marketing Accounting Services, Manager Agronomic Services, Manager Quality Assurance, Secretary Research & Technology, Technical Project Manager and Process Engineer.
Definitions:
1.	Temporary Employee - Means an employee hired for a period of employment less than ninety (90) days unless such period of employment is extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
2
2.	Service with the Company - Service shall not include periods of casual employment. If employment with the Company is broken by resignation o r termination of employment, service prior to such resignation or termination shall not be included in computing service with the Company. Temporary employment shall be considered as service with the Company only when it is continuous with subsequent regular employment.
Service with the Company shall include service with Saskatchewan Wheat Pool Industrial Division for all former employees of Sasafccbfiferaa.. wheat Pool Industrial. Divioav>u~ whose “eiiTp-LGylfienc
with CSP Foods Ltd. on April, 1,	1975 , was continuous with
employment with Saskatchewan Wheat Pool Industrial Division.
3.	Casual Employee - Means:
at An employee engaged on a partial day and/'xr,. week on an
irregular basis, or
b. An employee engaged on a regular working day basis for a specific period not expected to exceed twenty (20) working days.
Casual employees found to have worked in category (b) for the major part of two (2) pay periods shallbeconsidered -probationary- employees wtfe-h time - served appl-ied- to the probationary period.
4.	Rotating Shift - A rotating shift shall consist of a multiple shift system where workers relieve in rotation to provide continuous coverage on a two-shift or round-the-clock basis.
5.	Promotion	-	Shall	mean	the	movement	of	an	employee	from	a
position to a position bearing a higher pay structure.
6.	Demotion	-	Shall	mean	the	movement	of	an	employee	from	a
position to a position bearing a lesser pay structure.
7.	Transfer	-	Shall	mean	the	movement	of	an	employee	from	a
position to another position bearing the identical pay maximum.
ARTTCLF, II - SPTRTT AND TNTF.NTTON
The spirit and intention of this Agreement is to maintain good and amicable relations between the Company and all of its employees covered by this Agreement so that the solution of all matters perc cirri trig to conditions of employment shall be arrived at by consultation and agreement between the parties hereto and this Agreement is in no sense to be taken as a discouragement to direct negotiations where a solution can be reached by such means without having recourse to the bargaining procedure hereinafter provided.
3
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION
1.	The Union recognizes that the Company has sole authority to manage its affairs, to direct its working forces, including the right to hire, to fix wages within the terms of Schedule A
(Article XXIV) hereinafter referred to, transfer, promote, demote and to suspend or discharge any employee for just cause, and to increase or decrease the working force of the Company, to reorganize, close, disband any Department or sections thereof from time to time as circumstances and necessity may require, subject to the right of any employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided.
2.	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time the rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - COMPANY RELATIONS
It is understood and agreed, inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees' bargaining agency, as evidence of-good faith, the Union assumes responsibility for its members in their relations with the Company and will use its best efforts to have the employees' responsibility under the contract carried out in letter and in spirit and to have its members deliver a fair day's work as called for by the position involved and the reasonable orders of the Company.
ARTICLE V - MAINTENANCE OE MEMBERSHIP
The Company -agrees that as a condition of employment, membership
dues or sums -in lieu Will be deducted from the wages earned
employees in the following categories:
a.	All employees for whom the Union has bargaining authority under this collective agreement, and
b.	All new employees under this collective agreement within thirty (30) days of commencement of employment.
Membership dues or sums in lieu so deducted from salaries shall be paid monthly to the Secretary-Manager of the Union.
ARTICLE VT - GRIEVANCES
4
The Company and Union agree that it is most desirable to resolve misunderstandings and disputes through discussions between the employee and the supervisor, and both the Company and the Union shall encourage employees to discuss their complaints with their supervisors so as to resolve differences quickly and directly without necessarily having to resort to the following formal process:
Formal grievances, whether individual or executive, shall be raised within thirty (30) days of the date on which the grievance becomes apparent, or ought to have become apparent. Grievances shall be in writing on the approved grievance form and shall be dealt with in the following manner without stoppage of work:
Step 1	The grievance shall be taken up with the appropriate
Department Head who shall render a decision witnin three working days of receipt of the grievance. Executive grievances (those submitted by the Union organization rather than the individual) shall dispense with Step 1.
Step 2	Within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the
decision in Step 1 in the case of individual grievance, and within thirty (30) days of the date on which the grievance became apparent or ought to have become apparentin the case of- executive grievances, -the- grievance shall- be taken up with the Production Manager, who shall render a decision within seven (7) working days.
Step 3 In the event that a decision is not rendered within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the decision in Step 2, or the decision does not lead to resolution in the view of the parties, the Secretary-Manager of the Union, or a representative designated by him, shall immediately consult with the General Manager of the Company, or a representative designated by him. If settlement is not reached within a further fourteen (14) working days it may be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided for.
5
Step 4 A grievance is referred to arbitration by either party giving notice to the other in writing of their intention to do so. Such written notice shall be given within ten (10) working days of the receipt of decision at Step 3, or from the expiry of time limits at Step 3, whichever is the earlier. Within seven (7) working days of receipt of such written notice, each party shall appoint an arbitrator. Within a further seven (7) working days the arbitrators shall meet and appoint a chairman to the Board. If the two arbitrators fail to agree and fail to appoint a chairman within seven (7) working days of their initial meeting, they shall request the Minister of labour for Canada to appoint a chairman of the-Arbitration Board and the person so appointed shall be duly empowered to act accordingly.
NOTE:	Time limitations in the preceding process may be extended
by mutual agreement between the parties, provided that requests for extensions are made prior to the expiry of the time limitation. .
Employees may have benefit of representation by Union officials at any of the steps in the procedure, and similarly management representatives may have benefit of counsel from Personnel Department.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION BOARD
1. The Arbitration Board established under Article VI (Step 4) shall not have authority to alter or change any of the provisions of the Agreement, or to insert any new provisions, or to give any decision contrary to the terms and provisions of the Agreement, but it is agreed that where disciplinary action is involved the Arbitration Board shall have the power to award a penalty or amend a penalty imposed by the Company.
2.	The decision of the Board or a majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon any employee or employees concerned. If there is no decision by a majority of the Board, then the decision of the Chairman shall be similarly final and binding.
3 No costs of any arbitration shall be ordered to or against either party, but each party shall be responsible for the expenses and/or fees payable to its representative and for one-half (1/2) the expenses and/or fees payable to the Chairman of the Board.
ARTTCLF, VIII - GROUP INSURANCE
6
All eligible employees who have completed ninety (90) days of continuous service with the Company shall, as a condition of employment, contriuuLt; t o the group insurance “praiTs R*trap-c«ti 'up the
Company and the Union. Such contributions shall be made by payroll deduction in accordance with the terms and conditions of the group life and disability insurance plans outlined in Schedule B.
ARTICLE IX - RETIREMENT PT,AW
1.	All eligible employees who have completed twelve (12) months of
continuous employment with the Company shall, as a condition of employment, join CSP Foods Pension Plan 1977 . However, eligible employees may elect to join the Pension Plan upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous employment.
2.	No employee shall be retained as a perwaxexi: employe beyond the
first day of the month coincident with, or immediately following his sixty-fifth (65th) birth date.-.
3.	Pension Plan eligibility and contribution rates are outlined in Schedule B.
ARTTCTE, X - STCK LEAVE
In the case of sickness, or disability arising out of sickness, all employees who have completed ninety (90)days or more continuous service with the Company, shall be entitled to benefits in accordance with the following plans:
Sick Leave Plan
1.	Employees entitled to payment of wages during sick leave shall be paid at the regular rate of pay that would apply if the employee had not been absent on sick leave during the period of time covered by his accumulated sick leave credits.
2.	Benefits commence the first day of disability and expire on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
3.	Extended sick leave benefits will be provided in the amount of 66 and 2/3rds percent of regular earnings to a maximum earnings ceiling of the Unemployment Insurance Commission program at the time of disability for:
7
a.	the period of absence due to sickness in excess of a two-week waiting period in any one illness,
or
b.	where sick leave credits exceed two weeks, extended sick leave benefits shall commence at the expiration of sick leave credits.
Extended sick leave benefits payable in any one illness shall cease on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
Benefits under this provision are reinstated immediately on return of an employee to work following an illness.
4.	Employees eligible for Workers’ Compensation benefits are not eligible for benefits under this plan.
5 . Sick Leave Credits
a.	Sick leave credits are earned at the rate of 1-1/4 working days per month of continuous full-time employment to a maximum of twenty-two (22) working days.
Sick leave credit accumulation during the probationary period will be recognized upon successful completion of the probationary period for sick leave from that time on.
b.	Once an employee has earned twenty-two (22) working days' sick leave credit, no further credits are required for full coverage under the Short Term Disability Plan.
c.	Sick ’leave usage is not deducted from accumulated sick leave credits.
d.	Present permanent employees will receive sick leave credits on the basis of time served with the Company.
General
1.	Sick leave allowance payments shall not extend beyond normal retirement age.
2.	Sick leave allowance payments for the first day of any sickness may be withheld at the discretion of the Company.
3.	All recipients of sickness and disability allowance payments must provide, on request of the Company, medical reports of their condition.
4.	The maximum period of sick leave on which vacation time shall accumulate shall not exceed two months in any calendar year.
a
5.	Benefits from the three plans, the sick leave plan, the extended sick leave plan and disability income insurance plan, shall be integrated.
ARTICLE XI - WORKERS' COMPENSATION (ACCIDENT FUND) ACT
In all cases of temporary total disability, as defined in the Workers' Compensation (Accident Fund) Act, sustained by an employee as a result of an occupational accident covered by the Workers' Compensation (Accident Fund) Act, the Company agrees to continue to pay the employee an', amount equal to his net earnings (after Lncrsme tax) prior to Injury during the period of such disability whilst he is receiving full compensation from the Workers'	Compensation	Board,	and retain the compensation
received from the Board.
2. In the	event the Workers' Compensation Board reduces compensation payments below 10.0 percent, salary payments will be adjusted to the percentage of compensation as determined by the Board.
3.	The maximum period under Workers’ Compensation (Accident Fund) Act payments on which vacation time shall accumulate shall not exceed two (-2) months in any calendar year.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
1.	No employee shall acquire seniority until he has completed satisfactorily a probationary period of ninety (90) days, at which time his seniority shall be retroactive to the date of hiring.
Seniority shall be calculated, on a cumulative basis, to include all service with the Company including all service with. the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool Industrial Division as referred to in this Agreement in Definitions: 2. Service with the Company.
2. a.	In the matter of demotion and lay-off, seniority on a
bargaining unit basis shall prevail subject to qualifications, ability and merit.
it is elected by the Company to fill a vacancy to a position within the scope of this Agreement, the position shall be posted for a minimum of five (5) working days and such postings shall be placed in all departments. In the selection process, seniority on a bargaining unit basis shall prevail subject to qualifications, ability and merit. An “apfijAccnrct having mote seniority than the appointed applicant may request reasons in writing for not receiving the appointment.
9
c.	Employees on an authorized leave of absence, vacation or sick leave shall be considered by the Company as applicants for a vacancy which Management elects to fill.
d.	Notwithstanding b. , the Company in its sole discretion may
elect to fill a vacancy to a position within the scope of this Agreement by transfer. Employees may submit requests for transfer and the Company shall maintain such requests on a transfer list. The Union may make representation to the Company where the circumstances of the transfer in its view warrants such representation or where the Union feels that the transfer interferes with the rights accorded by this Agreement.
e.	Where the selection process described in b) does not result in appointment being made, the Company may fill the position by other means.
3.	It shall be the policy of the Company that in filling staff vacancies, present members of the staff will be given first consideration.
4.	No employee shall have the right to exercise seniority rights to promotion beyond the bargaining unit to which he belongs or beyond the Office at which he is employed.
5.	An employee who is appointed to an out-of-scope position shall not accumulate seniority but shall retain the. seniority he earned prior to his appointment. Within one year of such appointment, he may exercise his earned seniority to return to his former in-scope position but after one year, he may exercise his earned seniority only to return to a vacant in-scope position graded not higher than that which he occupied prior to his out-of-scope appointment.
6.	In the case of staff reduction, employees shall’ be entitled to exercise seniority rights on a service-with-the-Company basis with respect to transfers to positions of the same or lower grade within the bargaining unit. The exercising of seniority rights under this provision shall be confined to those positions which have been designated by agreement of the Company and the Union, as having qualification requirements which are equal to, or less than, those possessed by the employee wishing to exercise such rights.
7.	Seniority lists shall be updated and posted quarterly.
10
ARTICLE XTTT - T.F.AVF. OF ABRF.NCF.
1.	Leave of absence without pay may be granted regular employees for valid reasons which shall include educational purposes, compassionate grounds, maternity leave and prolonged illness after sick leave credits have been expended.
2.	Leave for Employees with Child Care Responsibilities
Every employee who has completed six months continuous service with the Company is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment as follows:
a.	Where an employee provides the Company with a certificate of a qualified medical doctor certifying that she is pregnant, that employee is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of six (6) months:
i) The term of leave shall be for a minimum of seventeen weeks unless the employee provides notice as provided
	in sub-section (iii) shorter period.	that	she	wishes	it to be a
ii)	The commencement of	the	leave	shall	be at the
discretion of the employee.
iii) The return from leave shall be at the discretion of the employee subject to the employee giving the Company four weeks prior written notice of her intent to return to work.
b.	Where an employee has or will have the actual care and custody of a new-born child, that employee is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of up to twenty-four weeks commencing, as the employee elects:
i)	In the case of a female employee:
A)	On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment taken by her under paragraph (a)
B)	On the day the child is born or
c) On the day the child comes into her actual care and custody, and
ii)	In the case of a male employee:
A) On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment taken in respect of the child by a female employee under paragraph (a)
11
B)	On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment taken in respect of the child by a female employee who is entitled to such leave on account of her pregnancy under the laws of a province
C)	On the day the child is born or comes into his actual care and custody, and
c.	Where an employee commences legal proceedings under the laws of a province to adopt a child or obtains an order under the laws of a province for the adoption of a child, that employee is entitled, to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of up to twenty-four weeks commencing on the day the child comes into the employee's care.
d.	Aggregate leave:	the aggregate amount of leave of absence
from employment that may be taken by two employees under paragraphs (b) and (c) in respect of the birth or adoption of any one child shall not exceed twenty-four weeks.
e.	Notice to the Company - every employee who intends to take a leave of absence from employment under this section shall:
i)	Give at least four weeks notice in writing to the Company.
ii)	Inform the Company in writing of the length of leave to be taken.
£. Seniority - employees on approved leaves of absence shall continue to accumulate seniority.
3.	a. An employee on leave of absence shall not accumulate
seniority, vacations, or sick leave, but he shall retain the seniority, vacations or sick leave he earned prior to commencing his leave of absence.
b. Provided leave of absence does not extend beyond six (6) months the employee may return to his former position, but should his leave of absence be of longer duration, then he may only exercise his seniority to return to a vacant position for which he is qualified, except that where leave of absence is for education purposes or for maternity leave, the period of six (6) months may be extended at the discretion of the Company to a period not in excess of twelve (12) months. 4
4.	Employees on leave of absence shall be required to apply for an
extension annually.
12
5. Leave of absence with pay chargeable to an employee's sick leave credits may be granted for matters of pressing necessity. Requests to use-sick leave credits for this purpose shall be made in writing to location management. Requests may be rejected or granted to an extent consiv/tetek1 2 to be fair and reasonable to management on the basis of the particular situation encountered.
6.	In keeping with the policy that an employee not suffer a loss of pay while serving as a juror, the remuneration to be received by the employee on any working day the employee reports for or serves on jury duty, shall be the employee's regular rate of pay for the day less jury duty fees ’receivable for that day.
7.	After ninety (90) calendar days or more service, leave of
absence with pay up to three (3) consecutive days shall be granted to an employee for the pntpo.se of arranging or attending the funeral of members of his immediate family. Where major travel or special circumstances are involved, approval may be given to extend the three (3) day limit to five (5) days. Immediate family shall be defined to include only the employee's mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, daughter, son, sister, brother,	sister-in-law,	brother-in-law,
grandmother, grandfather, grandchild and spouse's grandparents.
ARTICLE XIV - PROBATION AND TERMINATION QF-EMPLOYMENT
1. a.	On initial	appointment or on promotion, all monthly
employees shall be required to serve a probationary period of ninety (90)days.
b.	The probationary period may be extended to one hundred and eighty (180) days by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
c.	Employees who fail ta qualify on promotion during the probationary period, shall revert to their former position without loss in seniority.
2. a.	Probationary employees on initial appointment - Upon
termination of employment by the Company for reasons other than just cause, the Company shall give employees serving, a probationary period on initial appointment, seven (7) calendar days' written notice, or salary in lieu thereof, and termination for just cause may be without notice,
13
b. Regular employees - Upon termination of employment by the Company for reasons other than just cause, the Company shall give regular employees fourteen (14) calendar days' written notice, or salary in lieu thereof, and termination for just cause may be without notice.
3.	a. Probationary employees on initial appointment, may terminate their employment on seven (7) calendar days' written notice to the Company.
b. Regular employees may terminate their employment on fourteen (14) calendar days! written notice to the Company.
ARTTCLF, XV - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
1.	When a classification covered by this Agreement is permanently discontinued due to automation or reorganization then the displaced employee shall be entitled to transfer to another position in accordance with the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
2.	Should an employee accept a demotion to a lesser-paid position under the provisions of Section 1 above, then his salary shall be reduced in accordance with the formula in Schedule A. 5(d).
3. When the Company is unable to provide comparable employment to a displaced employee referred to in Section 1. above or the employee is unwilling to accept alternate employment involving a demotion, then provided the employee has ninety (90) days or more continuous service with the Company, he shall on termination be entitled to a se'WiAOiallowance prorated on the basis of two (2) weeks pay for each year of service.
ARTTCTE XVT - TEMPORARY PERFORMANCE OF HTGHFR DUTY 1 2 3
1.	An employee assigned to relieve in a higher-paid position shall be paid temporary performance pay at the rate of pay he would have received had he been promoted to the position.
2.	Management reserves the right to make the determination as to whether temporary performance assignment is actually necessary.
3.	Application of temporary performance of higher duty shall be limited to temporary substitution of sixty (60) days or less, except in cases of compassionate leave or in cases of sickness where medical advice indicates the regular incumbent of the position will be able to return to the position.
14
4.	When it is known that temporary performance will be for a period of sixty (60) days or more, the position shall be posted as a temporary position.
5.	It is further understood that experience obtained by an employee in temporary performance of higher duty shall not be considered in qualification of an employee for promotion to a position on a regular basis.
ARTICLE XVII - HOURS OF WORK
1.	Office Employees
The normal hours of work for office employees shall be confined to a five (5) day week and shall be thirty-five (35) hours.
2.	Laboratory Employees
Effective	December 1,	1983,	the normal	hours of	work for
laboratory employees shall be seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week. Laboratory	technicians	will be	rotated to	provide seven (7) day
coverage.	The normal hours of	work shall	be between	0700 hours
and 1700 hours as determined by the workload. Days of work and hours of	work shall	be arranged and	scheduled,	by mutual
agreement between the Union and the Company to meet the needs of the plant operation.
ARTICLE XVIII - OVERTIME
Overtime shall be worked when authorized by the Company. Employees shall co-operate with the Company in performing overtime. However, when the Company determines that it is necessary to work overtime and there are no or insufficient volunteers, the Company has the right to assign employees to work overtime.
1.	Office Employees
a.	Authorized overtime for hours worked in excess of thirty-five (35) hours per week shall be paid for at one and one-half (1^-1/2) times the normal rate of pay,
b.	All time worked on Saturday will be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the normal rate of pay.
o.	A minimum of three (3) hours pay at overtime rate will be paid to an employee who is called out for duty by management after the employee has left the Company premises.
15
2.	Laboratory Employees
Authorized overtime for hours in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per w^eek shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) time the normal rate of pay.
3.	A minimum of three (3) hours' pay at regular overtime rates shall be paid for “call-outs”.
ARTTCT/F. XTX - SHIFT DIFFF.RF.NTIAt
Employees in all classifications, except Caretakers and working rotating shifts, shall be paid a shift differential of twenty cents (20/) per hour for hours worked outside regular normal working hours as established in Article XVII. The differential shall not apply when overtime rates are being paid.
ARTICLE XX - ABSENCE FROM DUTY
No employee shall absent himself from the Employer’s premises during
the hours of work except with the consent of supervisory personnel.
. ARTICLE 'XXI - VACATIONS-
1.	Employees shall be entitled to three (3)weeks annual vacation on completion of each full year of service.
2.	Effective February 1, 1982, employees who have completed nine (9) years of service will be entitled to earn vacation at the rate of four (4) weeks during the tenth (lOth)and subsequent
years of employment. The fourth (4th) week of vacation shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company, but the Company shall give consideration to all reasonable requests for vacation to be taken at one time.
3.	Effective February 1,	1982, employees who have completed
eighteen (18) years of service will be entitled to earn vacation at the rate of five (5) weeks during the nineteenth (19th) and subsequent years of service. The fifth (5th) week of vacation under this section shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company, but the Company shall give consideration to all reasonable requests for vacations to be taken at one time.
16
4.	Effective February l, 1982, employees who have completed
twenty-si::	(26) years of service will be entitled to earn
vacation at the rate of six (6) weeks during the twenty-seventh (27th) and subsequent years of service. The sixth (6th) week of
vacation under this section shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company, but the Company shall give consideration to all - reasonable requests for vacations to be taken at one time.
5.	Vacation pay shall be the greater of:
a.	The employee's current rate of pay,
OR
b.	The percentage of the employees total earnings during the
period in which the vacation time was earned, oasis eligibility . . follows:	3 weeks vacation -	6% ,• 4 w/^sks
vacation - 8%; 5 weeks vacation - 10%; 6 weeks vacation -
12%.
6.	In the case of termination of employment, the Company shall pay to the employee any vacation pay owing to him in respect of any prior completed year of employment plus the vacation pay owing to him for the current year.
7.	If in the opinion of the Supervisor the workload ‘permits,
extended vacation leave without pay may be given.
ARTICLE XXII - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
New Year’s Day,	Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day,
Saskatchewan Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day/ Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and two additional days, shall be recognized as general holidays and employees shall be entitled to the above-named general holidays with full pay; the two additional days shall be designated by the Company in consultation with the Union. If an additional Statutory Holiday is declared one of the two additional days named above shall be used. In the event that an employee is required to work the whole or part of a general holiday, he shall be entitled to one and one-half (1-1/2) times his normal rate of pay for the period so worked in addition to the regular day's pay for the general holiday.
Employees on rotating shifts who work on a General Holiday which is also their scheduled day of rest shall in addition to the foregoing be assigned an alternate day of rest with pay or receive payment in lieu.
ARTTCLF, XXTTT - GENDER
17
In this Agreement, where the masculine gender is used, it shall include females unless otherwise specifically stated in the context of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIV - AT.E OF WACEE ANF) CT.RRRTFTCRTTOKS
1.	Scale of Wages and Classifications shall be as set forth in
Scedule A attached hereto, and such schedule shall form part of this Agreement.
2.	-The salaries for new positions ’or revised positions shall be the
subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union, When a job description for a new position or a revised position has
been submitted to the Union by the company, negotiations shall commence respecting the scope and salary for the position within fifteen (15) calendar days. Where agreement cannot be reached regarding the rate of pay within five (5) working days of commencement of negotiations, the position may be advertised at the lesser of the two rates proposed by the parties and may be filled on this basis. The advertisement of the position will note the fact that negotiations relative to the pay rate are continuing. The actual rate for the position remains the subject of continued negotiations or may be referred to an appeals procedure (to be devised within the life of this contract). Exceptions to this procedure shall. be subject to discussion between the Company and the Union.
3.	Eligible employees shall be advised of new positions not listed in Schedule A, Salary Grades and Classifications, by posting.
ARTICLE XXV - EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OE AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective_____from_the__first ciagf of Febrnagj;,
1987 and shall be valid until the thirty-first day of January. 1989 and thereafter from year to year unless a written notice is given by either party not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to January 31st in any year, of their desire to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereof, in which case this Agreement shall remain in effect without prejudice to any retroactive clause cf a new Agreement until negotiations for revision or amendment hereto have been concluded and a new Agreement superseding this Agreement has been duly executed.
18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto subscribed their hands the day and year first above written.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED IN THE PRESENCE OF THE GRAIN SERVICES UNION (C.L.C.)
CSP FOODS LTD
19
SCHEDULE A - SCALE OF WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
1. Salary Schedule - Effective February 1/ 1987
GRADE
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
9
10
11
12
Caretaker
Lab Assistant Lab Assistant Clerical Lab Technician I Lab Technician II Chemist
Food Technologist Commercial Services Tech Bakery Services Tech Bakery Technician
1st STEP $1,191 1,265 1,309 1,391 1,484 1,584 1,691 1,812 1,936 2,073 2,222 2,379 2,553 1,556
1.315
1.315 1,634
2.230 2 , 230
2.230
2.230 2,355
2nd STEP $1,242 1,322 1,383 1,471 1,570 1,678 1,795 1,923 2,058 2,203 2,364 2,532
2.713 1,600
1.374
1.374
1.714 1,974
2.355
2.355
2.355
2.355 2,476
3rd STEP $1,296 1,379 1,457 1,557 1,660 1,778 1,903 2,035 2,177 2,335 2,505 2,683 2,880
1,43 5 1,435 1,799
2,074
2.476
2.476
2.476
2.476 2,735
4th STEP $1,350 1,435 1,531 1,639 1,751 1,878 2,003
2	,146 2,297 2,465 2,643 2,837
3	,048
1,884 2, 174 2,602 2,602 2,602 2,602 2,87 1
20
2. Salary Schedule - Effective February 1, 1988
GRADE
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
9
10
11
12
13
Caretaker Lab Assistant Lab Assistant Clerical Lab Technician I Lab Technician II Chemist ••
Food Technologist Commercial Services Tech Bakery Services Tech Bakery Technician
1st STEP $1,266 1/340 1,38 4 1,466 1,559 1,65.9 1,766 1,887 2,011 2,148 2,297 2,454 2,628 1,631
1.390
1.390 1,7 0.9
2.305
2.305
2.305
2.305 2,430
2nd STEP $1,317 1,397 1,458 1,546 1,645 1,753 1,870 1,998 2,133 2,278 2,439 2,607
2.788 1,675
1.449
1.449
1.789 2,049
2.430
2.430
2.430
2.430 2,551
3rd STEP $1,371
1,454 1,532 1,632 1,735 1,853 1,978 2,110 2,252 2,410 2,580 2,758 2,955
1.510
1.510 1,874 2,149
2.551
2.551
2.551
2.551 2,810
4th STEP $1,425 1/510
1 ,606 1,714 1,826 1,953 2,078 2,221 2,372 2,540 2,718 2,912 3,123
1,959 2,249
2.677
2.677
2.677
2.677 2,946
21 -
SCHEDULE A - SCALE OF WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - Continued
3.	Salary Grades and Classifications
Salary
Grade	Position Title
12	Sales Representative
Sales Representative
11	Credit Supervisor
Operations Assistant
9	Traffic Co-ordinator
Senior Accounting Clerk-Marketing
Senior Accounting Clerk-Production
8	Grain Co-ordinator
7	Payroll Clerk
Traffic Clerk
Purchasing Clerk Shipping Clerk
6	Credit Clerk	II
5	Grain Clerk
Senior Clerk	Stenographer
Senior Clerk	Stenographer
Sales Administration Clerk Inventory Reconciliation Clerk Jr. Accounting Clerk - PT
3	Receptionist
Department
Marketing
Marketing
Systems & Control Production
Marketing Systems & Control
Systems & Control
Production
Systems & Control
Marketing Systems & Control Production
Systems & Control
Production Systems ■ Control Marketing Marketing Systems & Control Systems & Control
Systems & Control
4.	Job Evaluation
22
If the responsibilities and duties of a jobchange, the position shall be examined when so requested by the employee. The request by the employee can be made at any time, providing a request respecting the position to be examined has not been processed rir t’ne -preceding si::	(6-) months of the date of
request. The request for examination by the employee shall be on the prescribed form in writing, and shall besubmitted to the immediate supervisor of the work area. The supervisor shall add comment to the form respecting the request and shall within three (3) working days of the receipt of the request forward it to the Production Manager for examination. The Production Manager shall notify the employee and the signatory supervisor in writing of the result of that examination.
The employee may, if not satisfied, (i) request verbal elaboration from the Production' Manager, and/or (ii) enter into the grievance process as outlined in Article VI.
Notwithe	teser.”ja? the right to
examine and re-evaluate positions where in the view of the Company circumstances warrant it, even though no' request to do so has been received.
5'. Administration of Pay Plan for -Monthly-Salaried Employees
a.	i) Increments - An employee shall receive a regular
increment within the salary range established for the assigned position on his anniversary date. In cases where an employee has not performed satisfactorily, increments may be withheld. In such cases , the ' employee shall be	told why	his work is	not
satisfactory and every assistance will be given to help the employee improve his performance. Following normal practice, _ serious cases of unsatisfactory work may lead to dismissal.
ii) Method of Payment - Annual salary divided by 26 to equal bi-weekly rate of pay.
b.	Anniversary Date
ii Effective date of ratification the anniversary date of payment of annual increments	shall be	the day
coincident with completion of twelve (12) full months in the employment of the Company.
23
ii)	Effective date of ratification the anniversary date for the payment of annual increments shall be adjusted on promotion when the promotion provides a minimum increase of one increment to the day coincident with completion of twelve '(12) full months in the employment of the Company.
iii)	An employee absent on lay-off or leave of absence without pay for three (3) months or more shall have his anniversary date advanced by the period of absence without pay.
c.	Promotion
i)	An employee, on promotion, shall have his salary adjusted to the minimum of the salary range for the position or to a step in the salary range for the new position which shall provide a minimum increase of one (1) increment.
ii)	Whenever an employee’s anniversary date occurs on the same date as a promotion, the employee shall receive his increment before the promotion formula is applied.
iii)	Increment shall mean upon promotion, an employee shall receive not less than the dollar increment utilized in the pay scale of the vacated position of which the employee was the incumbent.
d.	Demotion	Formula	- When	due to	staff reductions, an
employee who has completed three (3) or more years' service, accepts a demotion to a lesser-paid position and his current salary is above the maximum for the newly assigned position, his salary shall be reduced to the maximum of his new range according to the following formula:
i)	one	third	(1/3)	reduction on assignment to new
position;
ii)	one	third	(1/3)	reduction six (6) months	after
assignment to new position;
iii)	one	third (1/3) reduction	one (1) year after
assignment to new position.
e.	Transfer	Formula -	Where a	person	is transferred from one
class to another	having	the same maximum but having
different steps in number and/or value, and where the rate of the transferee before transfer does not coincide with a step in the new range, the transferee shall be placed at the step in the range next higher to the rate before transfer.
24
SCHEDULE R - FMPLOYF.F, RF.NF.FTT PROGRAMS
The provisions of the benefit 'juans' hereinafter described -aL«
contained in the master policies titled G.c. 433 and g.l. 433 issued by Co-operative Insurance Services or in the text of the pension plan titled CSP Foods Ltd, Pension Plan 1977.
The final interpretation of the benefits available under these plans or the interpretation of any specific provisions is governed by the insurance policies or the pension plan text.
The said benefit plans will be administered pursuant to the terms and conditions of an agreement between the parties hereto dated the 3rd day of February A.D., 1977.
1.	Group Life Insurance
Eligibility - Completion of Ninety (90) days' continuous service.
Benefit - Two (2) times the regular annual earnings to a maximum benefit to $50,000.
Accidental Death - The principle sum to a maximum benefitof
$50,000.
ABciagufa-al Dismemberment - Depending on the type of
dismemberment, an amount up to the Principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
Premiums - Company Paid.
2.	$2,500 Paid-up Certificate
The Company agrees to provide a $2,500 paid-up certificate upon the employee's retirement or on his attaining age 65, whichever first occurs.
3.	Disability -Insurance
Eligibility - Completion of Ninety (90) days' continuous service.
Benefit - 65% of regular monthly earnings to a maximum monthly benefit of $2,000.
Premiums - Employee paid.
Pension Plan
25 -
Eligibility - Employees must join the pension plan upon
completion of twelve (12) months continuous service. However, employees may elect to join the pension plan upon completion of ninety (90) days' continuous service.
Contribution - Employee - 5.5% of earnings.
Company - 6,5% of employee's earnings.
These contributions are integrated with Canada
Pension Plan payments.
5.	Dental Plan
Premiums - Company paid.
Eligibility - Covers employees and eligible dependents.
Basic Coverage - 80% of current Dental Fee Schedule
Restorative Coverage - 60% of current Dental Fee Schedule
Orthodontic Coverage - 30% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
For further information check your dental plan booklet or consult your immediate supervisor.
- 26 -
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Pension
Agreement in principle that employees with capped-off benefits under the swp/gsu Pension Plan have all their credits transferred to the CSP Foods Pension Plan. Arrangements to implement this are to be worked out between the two pension plans.
Equity
The parties agreed to meet to develop an Employment Equity Program over the life of this agreement.