COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between

MAPLE LEAF MILLS, INC. hereinafter called the "company"
- AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCALS 452P and 401
hereinafter called "the Union"
December 1, ^993 to November 30, 1995

* r -u ■
1	4.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XIS
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
Purpose
Recognition
Management
No Strikes or Lockouts Union Security and Check-off Relationship
Negotiating and Labour Relations Committees
Grievance Procedure
Arbitration
Seniority
Lay-Off and Recall
Hours of Work, Overtime and Shift Premium Temporary Assignments Plant Holidays Vacations
Rest Periods and Meal Allowance
Leave of Absence
Wages
Health and Welfare Insurance General
Weekly Guarantee
Technological Change and Severance Pay
Duration of Agreement
Appendix A
Appendix B-l
Appendix B-2
Appendix C
Appendix D
Appendix E
Appendix F
PAGE
1
1
3
3
4
5
6 7
11
13
16
18
21
21
22
24
25 28
29
30
31
32 34 36 38 41
49
50 54 59
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain the harmonious relationship between the Company and its Employees, and to provide an amicable method of settling any difference or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder, and to further provide means of operating the plant locations that are subject to this Agreement in a manner which will further in all possible ways, the welfare and safety of the Employees, betterment of quality of product, economy of manufacture and quantity of output, all to the mutual interest and advantage of the Employees and the Company.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent
for the Employees at its plants listed hereunder, except:	foremen and
persons above the rank of foreman, salesman, office and clerical staff (other than Port Colborne), laboratory staff at locations other than Port Colborne and Calgary Renown.
PLANT	LOCAL UNION NUMBER
Port Colborne Office	452	P
Port Colborne Plant	452	P
Calgary - Renown	401
2.2	All conditions of employment for Boat Crew at the Port Colborne plant shall be in accordance with the special supplement attached hereto as Appendix "A."
2.3	The Company will not bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement with any other labour organization affecting these Employees.
-.4 MANUAL WORK BY SUPERVISORS:	Supervisors and other salaried Employ-
ees will not perform work which is normally carried out by bargaining unit Employees, except:	f'
a)	work that is normally performed by salaried Employees;
b)	the training of Employees, testing of equipment, developing of methods or standards and emergencies,
c)	to assist, provided it does not displace a bargaining unit Employee. This is not intended to effect layoff or restrict recall of bargaining unit Employees.
The Company agrees to investigate and clarify with the Local Union any questionable aspects of work in this area that may occur. The Company will post a list of the names and job titles of production supervisors.
2.5 CONTRACTING OUT:	It is the intention of the Company to utilize the
skills and experience of its Employees. The Company agrees to restrict the hiring of contractors to work where:
b)	economic considerations which shall be explained to the Union warrant engaging outside services;
c)	special equipment to perform the work is not available to the
Union prior to proceeding. In an emergency where circumstances do not permit prior discussion, the Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
a)	the work cannot be performed by bargaining unit Employees because of skill requirements;
plant.
In such cases, the Company shall discuss the situations with the
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
3.1	The Union acknowledges that, subject to the express provisions of the Agreement, it is the exclusive right and function of the Company to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	direct the working force, including the right to hire, retire pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan, promote, demote, assign, transfer, suspend or otherwise discipline Employees, including discharge for just cause;
c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the
Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to:	determine the products to be handled, produced, processed
or manufactured; schedule the production, methods, processes and the means of production or handling of its products; determine the allocation and number of Employees required by the Company from time to time.
3.2	It is understood that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion, or transfer, or a claim by an Employee that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause, may be the subject of a grievance under the procedure provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.1	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its Employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production during the term of this Agreement, and that, if such action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and return
-3-
to-work and perforin their duties in the normal manner.
ARTICLE V - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
5.1	MEMBERSHIP:	It shall be a condition of employment that any Employee
who, at the date of signing this Agreement, is a member of the Union shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
An Employee hired on or after the date of signing this Agreement i
/
shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union on his first working day following his date of hire and maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
For purposes of this Agreement, an Employee will be deemed to maintain his membership in the Union in good standing, provided he authorizes and maintains the deduction of Union dues and pays the regularly prescribed Union initiation fee and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the local Union.
5.2	PAYMENT OF DUES:	On receipt of written authorization signed by the
Employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the first payday of each calendar month, such initiation fee and Union dues as are uniformly prescribed for all '/i members of the Union, In the case of a new Employee, the deduction of Union dues will commence with the first regular deduction coincident with or following such Employee’s first payday. The total sum deducted, together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and the amounts thereof, will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Local. Union on or before the fifteenth (15 th) day of that month. When no deduction is made, the company will specify on the records forwarded to the Union the reason
4
therefore.

^5.3 Twice the regular monthly dues shall be deducted in any one checkoff where the Employee has insufficient pay to cover the preceding deduction of dues,
5.4	SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS: Upon receipt of proper notification from the Union, the Company will deduct from Union members such special assessments as are levied by the Union in accordance with its Constitution and By-Laws, and will forward such assessment, together with a record of those from whom deductions were made, to the financial secretary of the Local Union.
5.5	The Company will provide a list of Employees' names, addresses and telephone numbers, together with the seniority list. Employees' requests for privacy in this matter will be respected.
ARTICLE VI - RELATIONSHIP
6.1	The Company agrees not to discriminate against any Employee because of his membership or prospective membership in the Union, The Union agrees that there will be no union activities on the plant premises during working hours without the express permission of the Company, other than as provided by this Agreement.
6.2	It shall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against any Employee because of race, colour, creed or nationality, The Union and the Company endorse the Canadian Human Rights Act as proclaimed and will continue to observe all of the provisions of this legislation.
Except where stated to the contrary, or where the sense requires the contrary, the use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered to include the feminine,
-5
'wi.3 A member of the Local Union Executive shall have the right to meet all new Employees and be provided with up to fifteen (15) minutes orientation time with each new Employee.
ARTICLE VII - NEGOTIATING AND LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEES
7.1	The company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than three Employees from each plant and the office unit to deal with the Company on matters concerning the renewal or modification of this Agreement. Members of the Committee shall be Employees with seniority.
7.2 The Company will pay the regular lost time wages for time spent in negotiations with the Company on the basis of eight (8) hours pay per day of meeting. one (1) days additional pay will be paid for each series of ings held outside the home province, Effective April 20,	1992, for all contract renewal negotiations held subsequent to this date, the amount of additional pay to be paid for each series of meetings held outside the home province shall be increased from one (1) day to two (2) days additional pay on the basis of eight (8) hours pay per day. Meetings on Saturday or Sunday
¥
will be by mutual agreement only if meetings are held on these days. Payment will be eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate.
Negotiating Committee eligible for payment are:
Two (2) from Calgary Two (2) from Port Colborne
The Company will pay up to a maximum of sixteen (16) days for each plant, in total, under this paragraph.
7.3	During the term of this Agreement, meetings between the Labour
-6-
Rel-w^ions Committee and the management may be held at any reasonable time when either the Union or the Company submits an agenda of the business to be transacted.
ARTICLE VIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.1	UNION STEWARDS:	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to
appoint or otherwise select Stewards to assist Employees in arriving at just and equitable adjustment of matters pertaining to this Agreement. The number of Stewards and the areas of the plant each represents will be established by local agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.2	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE; The Company further acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) Employees to meet with the Company and deal with matters which properly arise from time to time in connection with the administration of this Agreement. One such member shall be designated as the chief spokesman for the Committee.
8.3	The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of the Stewards and Grievance Committee members designated to deal with the Company on matters pertaining to this Agreement. It is understood that such Employees shall have seniority at the plant or office where appointed.
8.4	PERFORMANCE OF REGULAR DUTIES:	The Union acknowledges that Stewards
and Grievance Committee members have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their jobs to deal with grievances or other Union business without first obtaining the Agreement of the foreman. The foreman will arrange for the relief of the steward or Grievance Committee member as soon as reasonably possible, subject to operat-
-7-
intj-wrequirements. It is understood that such Employees will not absent themselves from their duties unreasonably, On this express understanding, the Company agrees that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee will not lose pay for time spent servicing grievances during their regular working hours.
8.5	EMPLOYEE COMPLAINTS: 11 is the mutual desire of the Company and the Union that complaints of Employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an Employee has no grievance until he has first given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint and he may be accompanied by his Steward if he requests such assistance. Such complaint shall be registered within seven (7) days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the Employee.
Upon request by a duly elected representative of the Union at the respective Company location, the Company shall discuss generally with the Union representative the settlement of an Employee complaint where no Steward was present at the request of such Employee. This request by the Union representative shall be made within seven (7) days of the settlement coming to the knowledge of the duly elected Union representative.
8.6	The aggrieved Employee may be present during any of the steps of the Grievance Procedure if he wishes, or at the request of either the Union or the Company. When an Employee is to be formally interviewed on a matter which may lead to discipline and when an Employee is to be disciplined, a Steward ox other Union representative must be present,
8.7	GRIEVANCE STEPS: If any Employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three (3) working days in the following manner and sequence:
First Step - between the aggrieved Employee accompanied by the
-a-
Steward and the Foreman, (when the aggrieved Employee is a Steward he may, at his request, be accompanied by another Steward) at which time a written record of the grievance shall be submitted. Failing a settlement within three (3) working days, then;
Second Step - within three (3) working days following the decision at the First Step the grievance may proceed between the aggrieved Employee, a member of the Grievance Committee, and Plant Manager or other authorized representative of the Company. A representative of the Union will attend if requested by either the Company or the Union. Failing a settlement within three (3) working days, then;
Third Step - within three (3) working days following the decision at the Second Step, the grievance may proceed between the Grievance Committee and Plant Management and/or other authorized representative of the Company and the Union at a meeting arranged for this purpose. A full-time representative of the Union will attend such meeting if requested by either the Company or the Union. Failing a settlement within five (5) working days, then;
Fourth Step - within five (5) working days following the decision at the Third Step, the Grievance Committee and the Plant Management may, if mutually agreeable, refer the grievance to the National Officers of the Union and Head Office officials of the Company who shall endeavor to find a solution. Failing a settlement within five (5) working days following the decision at the Third Step, or the Fourth Step, if invoked, or any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement including any question as to
-9-
whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or questions may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article IX. If no written request for arbitration is received within fourteen (14) days after the decision at the Third Step is given, or the Fourth Step as the case may be, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned. All grievance settlements shall be in writing.
8.8	TIME LIMITS: Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays and the aggrieved Employee's vacation time will not be counted in determining the time limit within which any action is to be taken or completed in each of the steps of the Grievance Procedure or under Article IX. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article IX may at any time be extended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.9	RATE OF PAY COMPLAINT OR GRIEVANCE: When a complaint or grievance which affects the rate of pay of an Employee is settled and as a result the Employee receives an increase in his rate, such increase shall be paid retroactively to the date the error was made or such other date as may be agreed upon.
8.10	PROCEDURE TO GRIEVE SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL: If an Employee is dismissed or suspended for any reason and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he may inform the Grievance Committee who shall, if a grievance is to be filed, file such written grievance with the Company within seven (7) days of the suspension or dismissal. The dismissal or suspension shall then be dealt with under the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the Second Step, Notice of dismissal or suspension and the reason therefore shall be given in writing with a copy delivered at the plant to the responsible Union officer or his designate on the same day the Employee is notified by the Company of the suspension or dismissal. If subsequently it is decided that
-10-
thfe~'£mployee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in the former job with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and shall be compensated for all time lost at his regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation for lost wages as may be deemed fair in the circumstances e
8.11	DISCIPLINARY RECORD: If after eighteen (18) months from the date of a suspension or warning, there has been no further written discipline for the same reason, the record of such suspension or warning will be removed from the Employee's file.
Upon request in writing, Employees will be given the opportunity to review their personnel files at a mutually convenient time at a place on the premises of the Company's choosing within five (5) days of the date of receipt of the request.
8.12	POLICY GRIEVANCE: Any difference between the Union and the Company arising out of the interpretation or the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted in writing by one party to the other at the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure, Discussions between the Company and the Union apart from the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX - ARBITRATION
9.1	If settlement is not reached by the above procedure, the grievance may be referred by the Union or by the Company within fourteen (14) days following the decision at the Third step or the Fourth Step, if invoked, of the Grievance Procedure to a single arbitrator. The parties may agree to appoint an Arbitration Board rather than a single arbitrator in which case
-11-
al preferences to a "Single Arbitrator" shall be read as an "Arbitration Board" throughout this Article. The Arbitration Board shall consist of three (3) members, one to be appointed by the Union, one by the Company and a third who shall act as Chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the members representing the two (2) parties,
9.2	In regards to an arbitration board selection, upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee; if it fails to do so within two (2) weeks, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment, if agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days as to the appointment of a third member, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment.
9.3	The Arbitrator shall meet promptly following his/her appointment for the purpose of hearing the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision at the earliest possible date.
9.4	No person shall be selected as a member *of the Arbitration Board who has been directly involved in attempts to settle the grievance.
9.5	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitrator unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure except where otherwise noted in this Agreement.
9.6	The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to award a reduction of seniority as a penalty, or to deal with matters not covered by this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the Employee
-12-
or Employees concerned.
9.7	The expenses of the arbitrator will be shared jointly by both parties.
ARTICLE X - SENIORITY
10.1	DEFINITION CF’ SENIORITY DATE:	An Employee's seniority date shall be
his last date of employment with the Company within the bargaining unit since which there has been no quit or discharge to break his continuous service. Seniority shall not be interchangeable between plants, unless mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company. When two (2) or more Employees are hired on the same date, their plant seniority shall be established by alphabetical order of the surname.
10.2	SENIORITY LIST:	A seniority list showing each Employee's seniority
date will be prepared by the Company and posted on the plant bulletin boards every January, April, July and October. An Employee who believes his seniority is incorrectly shown may take the matter up as a grievance.
NOTE (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 10.2, the seniority of Port Colborne office staff will be considered separate from other Employees covered by this Agreement for purposes of layoff, recall and the posting of job vacancies. When such matters arise in the office, Employees of the office department only will be affected by or eligible for the personnel changes that may be involved.
Conversely, office staff will not be affected by or eligible for layoffs, recalls or the posting of job vacancies that may occur in other departments of the plant.
10.3	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE:	The probationary period for a new Employee
shwi.1 be one hundred twenty (120) days worked in a twelve (12) month period. As a part of the normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability, job performance and general work attitudes of the Employee on probation and where such assessment does not meet acceptable standards. The termination of a probationary Employees will not be the subject of a grievance. upon request by a duly elected member of the respective Union Local, the Employer will provide verbal details regarding the assessment of probationary Employees who had been terminated. On successful completion of these requirements, the probationary Employee shall acquire seniority dating from his first day of work during the twelve (12) month period.
10.4	VACATION REPLACEMENTS: Students engaged as vacation replacements for one hundred (100) working days or less during the calendar year shall not accumulate seniority. Should such vacation replacement be retained beyond one hundred (100) days or be reclassified as a regular Employee during the one hundred (100) day period, his seniority shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Article X, The Company will keep the Union informed of the names of Employees hired as vacation replacements.
10.5	RETURN TO BARGAINING UNIT: Should a supervisor previously employed in the bargaining unit be reclassified to a job within the unit, his seniority shall be the sum of his service in both capacities to October 16/ 197 8. The seniority of any member of the bargaining unit who is promoted to supervisor following that date and later reverts to the bargaining unit, shall be the seniority he held at the date of his promotion. Any bargaining unit Employee transferred out of the unit after March 15, 1984, will, if he returns to the bargaining unit before one (1) year has elapsed, be credited with his full accumulated seniority. If he returns to the bargaining unit after one (1) year, his seniority at the date of return will be one (1) year.
-14-
'ard.6 PROMOTIONS: In cases of promotion, demotion or transfer of an Employee resulting from a job posting, the ability and seniority of the Employee shall be the governing factors, and where ability is sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Experience gained by a junior Employee on a temporary assignment will not preclude a more senior Employee from being deemed to have sufficient ability. The successful applicant will be allowed an orientation period of up to thirty (30) working days. This orientation period may be extended for valid reasons by written mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
10.7	job POSTING: Any permanent job within the bargaining unit which becomes vacant shall be posted on all designated bulletin boards for five (5) working days. The Local Union will be provided with a copy of the job posting in advance of the actual posting. Any Employee may bid for the job by adding his name to the job poster. A permanent job shall be one which the
exceeding thirty (30) calendar days, but does not include temporary vac resulting from vacation, leave of absence, illness or injury. Employees on vacation, Workers Compensation, sick leave, or leave of absence of one (1) month or less, who may be eligible for the vacancy shall be notified of the job posting by mail. Such Employees on Workers Compensation, sick leave or leave of absence must apply within seven (7) days from the date of mailing the notification. Employees on vacation must apply within three (3) working days following the completion of their vacation period. A copy of licensing qualifications, if any, will be shown to the Union. The successful applicant for the posting may elect to return to his former job within thirty (30) working days (as a result of doing so, he shall not be allowed to apply for the same job for a period of twelve (12) months). Under these circumstances,
Company believes will continue or one which does continue for a
15
theS/emaining applicants for the original posting, i f any, will be considered subject to the requirements of paragraph 10.6. The Company will advise the Union in writing of the name of the successful applicant within three (3) working days of the posting award and the successful applicant shall be moved to the position awarded as soon as reasonably possible, provided this does not disrupt the efficient operation of the facility. The successful applicant for the job posting shall, after thirty (30) days, remain on the job for a period of twelve (12) months. The only exceptions axe for a higher paying job, a steady day job if he is not on one, or because of medical or physical restraints. Vacancies resulting from retirement will be posted thirty (30) days in advance of the retirement.
ARTICLE XI - LAYOFF AND RECALL
11,1	LAYOFF:	When it is necessary to reduce the working force of Employ-/
ees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of Employees who are able and willing to do the work that is available or can qualify for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. In cases where an Employee accept a lower rated job rather than be laid off, his regular rate will be protected for thirty (30) working days. The Union Local will be advised of the names of Employees to be laid off. The Company will provide notice of layoff not later than 3?00 PM on the Thursday preceding the week the layoff is effective.
11 RETENTION OF S_________TY ON LAYOFF:	An Employee with seniority who is
laid off will be retained on the seniority list for two (2) years, but unless he reports to work within five (5) working days of recall, he will forfeit
-16
anywlaim to re-employment by the Company. If the Employee does not report within five (5) days due to bona fide illness or other legitimate reason approved by the Company, this provision shall be waived. An Employee may decline a recall from layoff without losing his seniority if work for ten (10) or more consecutive working days cannot be guaranteed by the Company.
11.3 RECALL FROM LAYOFF:	Employees will be recalled from layoff on
basis of seniority, provided those recalled can satisfactorily perform
work that is available, or can qualify for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. Recalls will be made by telephone and if this means is unsuccessful, the Employee will be contacted by telegram or registered letter at the last address he has made known to the Company. A list of those Employees recalled from layoff shall be provided to an in plant Union representative by not later than the conclusion of the second working day the Employee performs work for the Company.
11.4	COMPANY TO BE KEPT INFORMED:	It shall be the responsibility of the
Employee to keep the Company informed at all times of his current address and nearest telephone number. Upon receiving the above mentioned information or any changes to such information, the Company shall make the necessary inclusion of changes etc., as soon as reasonably possible.
11.5 LOSS OF SENIORITY: An Employee shall lose all seniority and his name shall be removed from the employment records of the Company when:
a)	he quits;
b)	he is discharged for just cause;
c)	he is laid off for a period exceeding two (2) years or fails to ^ return from layoff in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11.2; '^Lj
d) he receives severance pay as provided for under Article XXII;
e) he fails to call in within three (3) working days when absent
17
other than when on leave of absence or Workers Compensation, unless prevented from doing so.
ARTICLE XII - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND SHIFT PREMIUM
U
12.1	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME:	The normal work week shall be forty
hours and the normal working day shall be eight (8) hours. Normal hours for the office shall be thirty-five (35) hours per week and seven (7) hours per day. Authorized work performed in excess of the normal work week or normal work day shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one-half (1£) the Employee's regular straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premium, Overtime regulations shall not be a limitation upon the number of hours per day, or days per week, that the Company may operate its plant or schedule its Employees. ^//^The Company will endeavor to distribute overtime work as evenly as possible amongst qualified Employees within a department and the work will be offered to such Employees on this basis.MQ
Should an insufficient number of Employees volunteer to carry out the work, it will be assigned to the junior Employees in the department who are qualified.
i
12.2	SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS :	Management at the plant shall provide
the Local Union with a Schedule of Working Hours which shall be designated as Appendix B-l or B-2. Should the requirements of the business necessitate a change in such Schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union. The Company agrees to give the Union ten (10) days notice of change in the Schedule of Working Hours, except changes that may occur from time to time in the scheduling of trucks and related work. Because of the difficulties in
scheduling trucks and related work, the Company agrees that when it is
18
nebv6sary to change starting times between mornings and afternoons during the week, the affected Employee will be paid time and one-half (lj) the straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week .
The Company will provide notice of a change in shift hours by 3:00 PM on the Thursday preceding the week in which the Employee’s shift hours will be changed. If such notice is not provided, the affected Employee will be paid time and one-half (li) the straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week.
12.3 SATURDAY. SUNDAY ANT) PLANT HOLIDAY WORK: Time and one-half (lj) the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Saturday and on a plant holiday. Work performed on Sunday and work beyond eight (8) consecu-
tive hours on a plant holiday shall be paid for at double the straight time The Company will endeavor to provide notice of overtime for Satur-
rate.
day, Sunday and plant holidays falling on the weekend by 3:00 PM on the Thursday preceding.
Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than a calendar day basis and premium pay for work performed shall be paid for those days the Employee normally has off work.
12.4	OFFICE CALLS AT HOME;:	When an office Employee is required to take
and/or place authorized telephone calls relating to the job at his home outside of his normal working hours, he shall be paid for the time so spent at the rate of time and one-half (1J) his straight time hourly rate. The minimum pay for such work shall be one-half ($) hour at his regular straight time hourly rate.
12.5	NO COMPOUNDING OF PREMIUM:	No overtime premium payment will be
19
contpdted twice on the same time, nor shall any Employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours.
12.6	REPORTING ALLOWANCE:	An Employee reporting for work at his normal
starting time without previous notification not to do so shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at the prevailing hourly rate. In the event of a forced shutdown or in cases where an Employee fails to notify his foreman of his intention to return to work following a period of absence, this provision shall not apply.
12.7	EMERGENCY CALL-IN; An Employee called in to perform emergency work not continuous with his regular work period shall be paid a minimum of four
(4) hours pay at the prevailing overtime rate. The Employee will be free to leave the Company premises when the supervisor deems an emergency no longer
exists.
Employees called back for an emergency during the third shift shall be allowed a reasonable period of rest before returning to work on their regular shift. They shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but work will be made available, at straight time, to complete
the normal eight (8) hour shift.
12.8	SHIFT PREMIUM:	Effective April 20, 1992, Employees working on the
second shift shall receive a premium of seventy cents (709) per hour, and Employees working on the third shift shall receive a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour. An Employee working overtime into the next shift shall receive the shift premium, if any, applicable to that shift. For purposes of this provision, shifts which start at or after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 PM shall carry the second shift premium and shifts which start at or after 8:00 PM but before 4:00 AM shall carry the third shift premium.
12.9	JOURNEYMAN PREMIUM:	Maintenance Employees who have or who later
20
obtiw'n journeyman's papers will be paid a premiiiift of fifty-five cents (55$) per hour. The Company and Union agree that this premium will also be extended to the Utility Leadman Fumigator classification(s) so long as this classification is required to be licensed and the incumbent Employee in this classification maintains such license.
ARTICLE XIII - TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
13.1	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS: An Employee transferred temporarily to a job paying a higher rate of pay will receive such higher rate, but an Employee transferred temporarily to a job paying a lower rate will continue to receive his regular rate of pay, except in cases where the Employee requests a lower rated job due to health or other reason, in which case the lower rate shall apply from the date of transfer. If a temporary transfer becomes permanent, the Employee will be paid the scheduled rate for the job.
13.2	SUPERVISOR RELIEF PREMIUM: An Employee charged temporarily with foreman responsibility shall be paid a premium of seventy-five cents (75$) per hour for time worked in this capacity. This premium will not be paid if the Company assigns the responsibility to a member of its staff.
ARTICLE XIV - PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.1	PLANT HOLIDAYS; The Company agrees to recognize the Plant Holidays set forth in Appendix "C." An Employee (at the date of the holiday) shall be paid for each such holiday at the equivalent of his straight time basic rate for eight (8) hours (seven (7) hours in the office), exclusive of shift premium, provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or
-21
•ih^-^eek of the holiday. Employees with seniority who are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to twenty-six (26) weeks of absence.
14.2	PLANT HOLIDAY ON WEEKEND:	When a plant holiday falls on a Saturday
or Sunday, such holiday will be observed on the Monday following. In the event two (2) plant holidays fall on the same weekend (Saturday and Sunday) such holidays will be observed on the Monday and Tuesday following the weekend. This arrangement, as it applies to any particular plant holiday may be modified on a local basis by agreement between the Company and the Union.
14.3	PLANT HOLIDAY DURING VACATION:	When a plant holiday falls within an
Employee's vacation period, he may elect to receive holiday pay as provided in this Article XIV or to receive an alternate day with pay as the plant holiday. If the Employee elects to receive an alternate day with pay as the holiday, it shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the Employee. If subsequently the Employee does work on the day agreed upon as the alternate day, it shall be considered as work performed on a plant holiday and the Employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 14.4.
14.4	WORK ON PLANT HOLIDAYS:	An Employee required to work on a plant
holiday will be paid for such work at the rate of time and one-half (1$) the straight time rate exclusive of shift premium, for the first eight (8) hours and double the straight time rate for work beyond eight (8) hours.
ARTICLE XV - VACATIONS
15.1	VACATION SCHEDULING:	The Company will schedule vacations at the
-22-
timV-<ir times wanted by each Employee giving longfeir service Employees prefer-
ence, subject to maintaining the efficient operation of the plant. Vacations of more than three (3) weeks duration will not normally be scheduled consecutively. Vacations shall be taken in the year in which they fall due and shall not be accumulated. Should It be advantageous to close the plant(s) for a vacation period, eligible Employees will take vacation at that time, other than those whose services are required for particular work. In the event of a close-down for vacation, such period will be scheduled during
June, July or August.
15.2	POSTING VACATION SCHEDULE:	Notice will be posted February 1st of
the current year requesting Employees to state their choice of vacation dates. Such notice will be removed by the Company on February 28th and the vacation schedule prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
15.1	and posted within seven (7) days. Requests to re-schedule vacations af-
ter that date will be considered provided the re-scheduling does not interfere with the vacations of other Employees or with the efficient operation of the plant.
15.3	LENGTH OF VACATION:	Effective in 1982, Employees will receive
vacations in accordance with the following schedule, based on years of
service attained during the current calendar year:
a)	after one (1) year of service
b) after five (5) years of service
c) after ten (10) years of service
d)	after eighteen (18) years of service
e)	after twenty-six (26) years of service
_
two (2) weeks °L'°\ three (3) weeks four (4) weeks 6l0~ _ five (5) weeks - ° c six (6) weeks ^ “
15.4	VACATION PAY:	Vacation pay will be two percent (2%) of the Employ-
ee's wages for the preceding calendar year or forty (40) hours pay at his
basic straight time rate (provided the Employee works not less than sixteen
hundred (1,600) hours during the preceding calendar year) for each week of
-23-
vacation entitlement, whichever is to the Employee's advantage, Vacation pay for an Employee who works less than sixteen hundred (1,600) hours during the preceding calendar year shall be calculated at the ratio that his hours worked bear to sixteen hundred (1,600). Vacation pay shall not be reduced due to time lost from work, to a maximum of twenty-six (2 6) weeks, when the Employee is receiving weekly sick benefits, U.I.C. sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers Compensation. Application of this paragraph as it applies to the Port Colborne office will reflect the thirty-five (35) hour week and a minimum of fourteen hundred (1,400) hours of work during the preceding calendar year.
15.5	FIRST VACATION:	An Employee with less than twelve (12) months
service during the preceding calendar year shall be entitled to a vacation of one (1) day per month of service to a maximum of ten (10) days. Notwithstanding paragraph 15.4, pay for such vacation shall be at four percent (4%) of the Employee's wages for the preceding calendar year.
15.6	VACATIONS ON TERMINATION:	An Employee quitting or leaving his
employment for other reasons will receive accumulated vacation pay.
ARTICLE XVI - REST PERIODS AND MEAL ALLOWANCE
16.1	REST PERIODS:	There shall be a rest period of ten (10) minutes
during the first half of the normal shift and ten (10) minutes in the second half of a normal shift. Rest periods will be scheduled by the Company as close to the mid-point of the half shift as can be arranged, subject to production requirements.
16.2	MEAL ALLOWANCE:	An Employee working four (4) hours or more over-
time, continuous with his regular shift, will be paid a meal allowance of
-24
tweWe dollars ($12.00). This does not apply if the Employee has been notified of the overtime by the end of his previous shift. Except in the case of an emergency a meal break shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the Employee and the Foreman.
ARTICLE XVII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.1	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: In the event of death of an immediate relative, leave of absence of three (3) consecutive days, exclusive of assigned days of rest, will be granted the bereaved Employee. Such Employee will be paid his straight time rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave, Immediate relative shall mean the Employee's sister, brother, mother, father, spouse, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren. "Employee" shall mean a regular, full-time Employee of the Company. Bereaved Employees who return from vacation to attend the funeral will qualify for bereavement pay. p
17.2	JURY DUTY: When an Employee is called by the Crown for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness and must, as a result, lose time from work, the Company agrees to pay such Employee the difference between the fee received and the Employee's straight time basic rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.
17.3	TN.TURY ON THE JOB: When an Employee, while carrying out his assigned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the Employee may receive from Workers Compensation), provided that the accident is classified as compensable by the Workers Compensation Board.
-25-
•	V/. 4 PREGNANCY LEAVE:	An Employee will be granted pregnancy leave of
absence without pay and without loss of seniority provided written application is made to the company at least thirty (30) days before the leave is to commence. Such application will be accompanied by a written note from the attending physician confirming the expected date of birth and his recommendation as to the date from which the Employee is unable to continue working. The Employee may be required to submit medical certificates attesting to her continuing ability to remain at work prior to the date of leave of absence, The Employee will return to^work within three (3) months following
the date of birth and will give the Company two (2) weeks notice of her planned date of return. She will be required to present a medical certificate confirming her fitness before resuming work. Upon receiving such notification, the Company will arrange for reinstatement, subject to the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement.
17.5 LEAVE FOR personal REASONS:	Leave of absence without pay,may be
granted to an Employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon written application by the Employee. Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an Employee to take another position temporarily, to try out new work or to venture into business for himself.
Leave of absence without pay for Employees in Her Majesty’s Forces shall be respected, in accordance with Government regulations.
The Company will respond in writing within one (1) week of written application for leave of absence.
17.6	LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS:	Employees chosen to attend to Union
business outside the plant which would involve an absence of not more than two (2) weeks shall, upon reasonable notice to the Company, be granted leave of absence without pay. Such leave shall be limited up to five (5) Employees
26
at M y one time.
The Company agrees to provide payroll service for Employees who are absent on Union business for a period of one day or more but not on a fulltime basis. The Union will advise the Company in writing of the hours to be paid such members and on receipt of an account agrees to reimburse the Company promptly for this cost.
An Employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union (Business Representatives, International Representative or like position) shall, upon notice, be granted extended leave of absence without pay during the term of this Agreement. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave. There shall be no more than two (2) extended leaves at any one time within the Union Local, provided the Employees affected are employed in different departments, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties.
Upon notice to the Company to return to work, he shall be placed on the job previously held, if the position still exists.
17.7	LEAVE FOR PUBLIC OFFICE. Special leave of absence without pay_up to four (4) weeks duration will be granted to an Employee who is a bona fide candidate for Federal, Provincial or Municipal election. Request for such leave will be made to the Company at least twenty-one (21) days before the effective date. Special leave will not be granted to more than one (1)
4
/ V '
employee from the same department at any one time.
Provincial Legislature, or an elected full-time job at the Municipal level, he shall, upon notice be granted leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority during the period he holds office,
In the event the Employee is elected to the House of Commons,
27
ARTICLE XVIII - WAGES
18.1	Wage rates shall be in accordance with the Schedule of Wage Rates attached hereto as Appendix "E."
18.2	RATE OF NEW OR CHANGED JOBS:	if during the life of this Agreement,
the Company substantially changes the nature of any job or institutes an entirely new job so that the existing job classification or the rate under the job classification is no longer appropriate, the Company will name a new classification and/or set a new rate, higher or lower, or maintain the existing rate for the new or changed job, The Company agrees to notify the Union in writing of any new classification or rate established and agrees to establish such a new rate in line with the rates prevailing for the same or substantially similar fobs in this Agreement. If a new rate is so set, or the rate is continued as before, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union, if so requested, provided such a request is received within thirty
(30) calendar days of the date when the Union is informed of the rate, the question of whether the rate is appropriate.
18.3	ARBITRATION OF RATE:	If, as a result of such discussion, the
parties disagree that the rate is a proper one, the question may be referred to an Arbitrator pursuant to Article IX. The Arbitrator will be authorized to establish what is deemed to be the proper rate, it being understood that such a rate will be established in conformity with the existing rate structure of the plant, and may also fix the date from which the new rate, whether it be greater or less than the rate set by the Company, shall apply. Such new rate shall continue in force during the life of this Agreement.
28
ARTICLE XIX - HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
19.1	The Company agrees to pay the premium cost of the following insur-
ance plans, subject to the conditions set forth in Appendix "D,./ ^	-
a)	Group Life Insurance Plan	rf,o	___
b) Provincial Medicare	___--—
c)	Major Medical Insurance Plan	^
d)	Prescription Drug Insurance Plan	i &■
e)	Long Term Disability Insurance Flan
f)	Accident and Sickness Benefits Insurance Plan
g)	Dental Insurance Plan



$
19.2	PENSION PLAN:	The Company agrees to continue the
ment Annuity Plan (with amendments) during the term of this Agreement. Copy of the official plan document shall be provided to the Local Chairperson of the Union. An updated Employee's Pension booklet will be printed,
Effective December 31, 1991, the Pension Plan includes a past service supplement of sixteen dollars ($16.00) per month for each complete year of serv?ce,lTo, December 31, 1991, less one (1) year and effective December 31, 1992, increased to seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month for each complete year of service to December 31, 1992, less one (1) year. The supplement is subject to all the terms and conditions of the Pension Flan.
The Company will increase pension from seventeen dollars ($17 00) to eighteen dollars ($18.00) effective December 31, 1993, for future service. Additionally, the Company will increase pensions from eighteen dollars ($18.00) to nineteen dollars ($19.00) effective December 31, 1994, for future service. These two (2) increases will be made only should the Company prevail in the current arbitration case dealing with pensions (Helen Alvin Grievance,	27, 1992).
-29-
ARTICLE XX - GENERAL
20.1	BULLETIN BOARDS: The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations in the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such notices will be signed by an officer of the Union Local and submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
20.2	SAFETY AND HEALTH: The Company shall make reasonable provision for the safety and health of Employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other equipment deemed necessary to properly protect Employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. First Aid facilities shall be available for Employees at all times during working hours.
The Company and the Union endorse and agree to observe the provisions of the Canada Labour Code including legislated matters dealing with safety and the appointment and function of safety committees.
The Company will provide copies of W.C.B. Form 7 (or equivalent) to the Union.
20.3	SAFETY SHOES: Effective April 20, 1992, upon proof of purchase the Company will reimburse Employees with seniority a maximum of one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) in the two (2) year period commencing December 1, 1991, towards the cost of safety shoes.
20.4	TRAINING: The Union agrees that for the purpose of providing experience and training a limited number of Employees of Maple Leaf Mills may be moved from department to department within a plant from time to time. The Company agrees that such training will not entail layoff or loss of earnings for regular Employees. The Union will be informed of the names of such
indw'iduals and the expected duration of their training in the Plant.
20.5 TOOLS REPLACEMENT: Where an Employee in maintenance or other work is required to provide his own manual tools, the Company agrees to replace any such tool that is broken or worn out on the job. It is understood that the Company is not responsible for replacement of the tool if the breakage is due to misuse or negligence or if it is not a basic tool of the trade. The Company will maintain insurance in case of loss (of tools) due to fire or theft while on Company property.
20.6	WORK CLOTHING:	Employees other than office Employees will be
provided with two (2) pairs of work pants and two (2) work shirts on completion of their probationary period, and yearly thereafter by April 1st of each year. This arrangement may be modified by local agreement to provide other suitable clothing provided the cost of such is approximately equal. Effective January 28, 1990, Port Colborne office Employees will be paid an annual clothing allowance of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
20.7	LICENSE RENEWAL:	Employees will be reimbursed for renewal of their
Journeyman's licenses, effective from March 3, 1982.
20.8	Union dues deductions will be included on Employee T-4 slips.
ARTICLE XXI - WEEKLY GUARANTEE
21.1	The Company will guarantee every Employee with seniority forty (40) hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each week that the Employee performs work for the Company, subject to the following provisions:
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when an Employee with seniority is called in to replace an Employee who has failed to report for work, the replacement Employee's guarantee shall be limited to the remainder
-31-
'of the scheduled work week.
b)	Shift premium, weekend and plant holiday premiums and overtime shall not be considered when calculating what the guarantee, if any, is to be paid. In the office unit, the guarantee shall be thirty-five (35) hours.
c)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that Employees will perform conscientiously whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If an Employees declines to perform the task assigned, the Company shall be absolved from the guarantee in respect to the hours so lost by that Employee.
d)	An Employee who is late or absent from work, including time lost due to justified disciplinary action, or any day or part of a day that he is normally scheduled or called to work, shall have h i s guarantee reduced by the time so lost. The weekly guarantee shall not apply when an Employee is on vacation or leave of absence.
e)	Pay received for a plant holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee, provided such holiday is observed on the Employee's normal work day.
ARTICLE XXII - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
22.1	SEVERANCE PAY:	In the event of a substantial reduction in the work
t
force including the elimination of a department as a direct result of technological or economic change and where the Company is unable to offer other
employment to the Employees with seniority who are permanently displaced, severance pay will be paid to each Employee on the following basis:
a)	An Employee with one (1) or more years of continuous service
Vt/	-32-
shall be paid the equivalent of one (1) week's pay at his regular straight time for each completed year of service. j ^
When the Company has decided to introduce into any existing operation substantial technological change, or the introduction of new or changed equipment, it agrees to notify the Union as soon as reasonably possible prior to the implementation of this decision. Such discussion shall include a description of the project the Company intends to carry out with the foreseeable effects on manpower levels together with any anticipated realignment of existing staff. The Company shall keep the Union informed on the progress of this project as it proceeds.
22.2	CONDITIONS OF PAYMENT:	Severance pay as described in paragraph 22.1
will not be paid when:
a) An Employee is discharged for just cause,
b) An Employee has been on layoff for more than one (1) year at the time notice of the substantial reduction is given,
c)	An Employee is offered and accepts employment at another location of Maple Leaf Mills or at an affiliated company,
d)	An Employee resigns without Company approval prior to the date the substantial reduction is to occur,
e)	An Employee retires or dies prior to the date the substantial reduction is to occur.
22.3	NOTICE OF REDUCTION:	The Company will give the Union three (3)
months’ notice of such substantial reduction in the work farce and will, in cooperation with the Union, advise Employees whose employment is to be terminated of Government services that are available to them for retraining and location of other employment.
22.4	MANNER OF PAYMENT:	Severance pay shall be paid in one sum or as
-33
reqWsted by the Employee, provided that the full amount is paid within a twelve (12) month period.
To allow Employees the necessary time to convert Company paid life and medical insurance plans to a private basis, the Company will continue to pay the premium for three (3) months beyond the date of termination.
22.5	In the event the plant is closed and relocated elsewhere in the province, laid-off Employees will be given first consideration for employment at the new location, based on their suitability for the work available and their seniority. It is understood that Employees who move to the new Company location will be given credit for their Company service for vacation eligibility, benefit plan entitlement, etc.
ARTICLE XXIII - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.1	This Agreement shall be effective from December 1, 1993, to November-30. 199 , and thereafter from year to year unless either party notifies the other party in writing within not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this Agreement.
23.2	If, pursuant to such negotiations, agreement or terms on renewal, or amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the expiration date, this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion of the conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Canada Labour Code and subsequent mediation proceedings agreed to by the parties, whichever should first occur.
34
Signed in Toronto this ----- day of _____________, 1993
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION	MAPLE LEAF MILLS INC.
G-bT'. COHHUDLY	P.G. AIZLEWQOD
L. FISHER
K. KEATING
FOR :
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, REGION 18, CANADA
L. FISHER D. TONNELLI ■t5-g»ROW-J. MAASWINKLE T, VALOROSO N. KINNEY
FOR :
FOR LOCAL NUMBER
452 P 452 P 452 P 401 401 401
MAPLE LEAF MILLS INC.
K. KEATING
PORT COLBORNE PLANT CALGARY RENOWN PLANT
35
APPENDIX A
BOAT CREW SUPPLEMENT PORT COLBORNE PLANT
NOTE :	(Does not include regular elevator staff who assist in boat unload-
ing) .
The Boat Crew shall be broken down into two categories of Employees:
UNLOADERS :	these men work on or in the vessel
SPARE HOUSE GANG:	these Employees work in the grain receiving
building.
The Company and the Union agree that the casual nature of grain unloading operations make it both necessary and desirable that the Boat Crew be specifically exempted from certain of the Agreement provisions as set out below:
Article V Article X Article XII Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XIX Article XXI
Union Security Seniority Shift Bonus Plant Holidays Vacations
Rest Periods and Meal Allowance
Leave of Absence (Except as stipulated below)
Health and Welfare Insurance
Weekly Guarantee
In lieu of Article V - Union Security. The Company will deduct Union dues in the amount fixed by the Union from time to time in accordance with its Constitution and By-laws and certified in writing to the Company by an authorized officer of the Union. All such sums deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions were made will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Union.
In lieu of Article X - Seniority: . It is agreed that seniority shall be granted to an Employee in the Boat Crew if he only works on seventy five percent (75%) of the total number of grain boats unloaded in any one (1) calendar year. Such seniority shall not be plant seniority.
In lien of Article XIX - Health and Welfare Insurance. The Company agrees to pay the monthly premium for OHIP, Prescription Drug Insurance Plan and Major Medical Insurance Plan for an Employee who has attained Boat Crew seniority, in any month that such Employee works as a member of the Boat Crew.
It is agreed that the following provisions shall specifically apply to grain unloading operations and the Boat Crew:
No. 1 - Boats shall be started on arrival between 8:00 a.m. and midnight.
No boats shall be started after midnight except in emergencies or by
36
mutual agreement. On boats arriving after midnight, normal starting time shall be 8:00 a.m.
No. 2 No. 3
No. 4
No. 5 No. 6
No. 7
Unloaders shall be paid time and one-half (1J) the straight time rate for work performed beyond eight (8) hours after the call.
Time and one-half (It) the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Saturdays and plant holidays, double the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Sunday.
The Boat Crew shall receive four percent (4%) of their yearly earnings as vacation pay.
The Boat Crew shall be entitled to be represented by one steward.
Members of the Boat Crew shall be eligible to receive Bereavement Leave pursuant to Article 17.1 of the Collective Agreement for the death of an immediate relative as defined in Article 17.1 which occurs while the Employee is performing Boat Crew duties. It is agreed that such payment and leave shall not exceed twenty-four (24) scheduled hours and will be paid at the straight time rate for the
hours the Employee would otherwise work during such leave.
Members of the Boat Crew shall be eligible for reimbursement for the purchase of safety shoes as specified in Article 20.3. This reimbursement is not additional to the maximum reimbursement an Individual Employee is eligible to receive in a two (2) year period as specified in Article 20.3.
37
APPENDIX "B-l" SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS
PORT COLBORNE PLANT:
Maintenance, Power, Day Shift
Elevator Departments: 8:00 a,m. -	4
30 p.m. J
Milling Department:
Three Shift Operation
8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n.
4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n. 8:00 a.m.
Day Shift
8:00 a.m.
4:30 p.m. J
Mix Plant & Packing Department:
Day Shift	8:00 a.m.
Afternoon Shift	4:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m. i 12:30 a.m.
Start-up
Warehouse Department: Day Shift Afternoon Shift
Car Conditioning
Truck Drivers
Truck Drivers
Subject to packing schedule
8:00 a,m,	-	4:30	p.m.	J
4:30 p.m.	-	12:30	a.m.
7:00 a.m.	-	3:30	p.m.	{
Loading and Delivery 7:00 a.m.	-	3:30	p.m.	J
8:00 a.m.	-	4:30	p.m.	j
Truck Drivers	Tractor Trailer
Per Weekly Schedule
Truck Drivers	(Inter-Plant)
Per Weekly Schedule
Utility Shift
Laboratory Department: Day Shift
Utility Leadman
12:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.	\
(following fumigation)
7:00 a.m. -	3:30 p.m. j
PORT COLBORNE OFFICE: Day Shift
8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 1
38
hour lunch
hour lunch hour lunch
and bulk requirements
hour lunch
hour lunch
hour lunch hour lunch
hour lunch hour lunch hour lunch
CAIi^fcY RENOWN PLANT
Mill:
Three Shift Operation
Packing :
Three Shift Operation
Utility Day Shift Warehouse:
Three Shift Operation
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Elevator:
Mix Plant:
Three Shift Operation
Operator Three Shift Operation
Operator Two Shift Operation
Utility Day Shift Bag LabelLer Days
Electrical:
Maintenance:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
7; 45 a.m. 3:45 p.m. 11:45 p,m.
7:30 a.m, 3:45 p,m, 11:45 p.m. 7:30 a.ra
Shipper/Receivable
2nd Man Day Shift Janitor
Front Dock Loader Day Shift Mix Orders Day Shift Wrappers Day Shift Feed Man Day Shift
7:30
3:45
11:45
7:00
7:30
7:00
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
a.m.
p.m.
p.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
7:30 a,m
7:30 a,m. 3:45 p.m. 11:45 p.m.
7:30 a.m. 3:45 p.m. 11:45 p.m.
{1)	7:15 a.m.
(2)	3:45 p.m.
7:30 a.m. 7:30 a,m.
7:30 a.m.
7:30 am.
3:45 p.m, 11:45 p.m. 7:45 a.m.
4:00 p.m. £ hour lunch 11:45 p.m.
7:45 a.m.
4:00 p.m. I hour lunch
4:00 p.m.	£	hour	lunch
11:45 p.m.
7:45 a.m.
3:30 p.m,
4:00 p.m.	£	hour	lunch
3:30 p,m,
4:00 p.m.	$	hour	lunch
4:00 p.m.	j	hour	lunch
4:00 p.m,	£	hour	lunch
4:00 p.m.	j	hour	lunch
4:00 p.m,	£	hour	lunch
4:00 p.m. J hour lunch 11:45 p,m,
7:45 a.m.
3:30 p.m. 11:45 p.m. 7:45 a,m»
3i15 p.m.
11:45 p.m,
4:00	p.m.	£	hour	lunch
4:00	p.m,	j	hour	lunch
4:00	p.m,	$	hour	lunch
4:00	p.m,	£	hour	lunch
39
Latiwatory :
Three Shift Operation	(1)	7:30	a.m.
	(2)	9:00	a.m.
	(3)	5:00	a.m.
Two Shift Operation	(1)	7:30	a.m.
	(2)	9:00	a.m.
4:00 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m.
4:00 p.m. 5:30 p.m.
£ hour lunch \ hour lunch £ hour lunch
£ hour lunch £ hour lunch
Sanitation Day Shift
7:30 a.m.
4:00 p.m
£ hour lunch
Cartage :
7:00 a.m
3:00 p.m
The Letter of Understanding Laboratory 2nd and 3rd shift premium letter to be incorporated into this Appendix B-l after the Sanitation Schedule.
40
APPENDIX "B-2"
SWING SHIFTS
l) Eysaroials
The Union and the Company agree that as an alternative to the hours of work referred to in Article 12.2 and identified in Appendix B-l, the Company may implement a "Swing Shift" arrangement at either the Fort Colborne or Calgary facilities in part, parts or all of the respective locations as circumstances warrant.
The "Swing Shift" contemplated initially for introduction, calls for the scheduling of Employees to work twelve (12) hour shifts on a rotational basis of day shift and afternoon shift. This "Swing Shift" arrangement shall be allocated to a twenty-eight (28) calendar day cycle with a maximum of thirteen (13) cycles per year commencing with the date of initial introduction of this "swing shift" arrangement. In each of these cycles, the Employees affected shall be regularly scheduled to work on the basis of the following normal shift rotation of the cycle.
As the work scheduled on this "Swing Shift" arrangement will be allocated over a twenty-four (24) hour period, seven (7) days per week from its implementation, individual Employees may have different commencement points within the above described cycle. They shall be scheduled for work during the cycle in a manner consistent with the sequence of the cycle that follows their commencement point at the date of implementation of this "Swing Shift" arrangement and for its duration, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union.
Upon implementing the "Swing Shift" arrangement, the following provisions shall be operative and supersede all other specifically related Collective Agreement provieions applicable to Employees assigned to work "Swing Shifts." Upon the cessation of the operation of "Swing Shifts," the other specifically related Collective Agreement provisions shall be operative and applicable rather than the provisions listed below in this Appendix "B-2."
Notwithstanding the above, the Union and the Company further agree that alternative methods of "Swing Shifts" to that described above may be more suitable to the overall efficient operation of the Carrpany's facilities at Port Colborne and/or Calgary or parts thereof. Should the Company decide to implement an alternative method during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to meet with the Union and appropriately revise the
4 day shift 7 off shift
4 night shift
3 off shift 3 day shift 1 off shift
3 night shift 3 off shift 28 calendar days
41
re&^ctive provisions of this Appendix "B-2."
This meeting shall occur prior to the implementation of the alternative method. Such revision of this Appendix B-2 shall be made upon mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
Aside from the provisions listed below in this Appendix B-2, all other terms of the current Collective Agreement in effect, shall be operative and applicable to Employees working "Swing Shifts.”
During the term of this Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union agree to have discussions on recognized problems that arise through the implementation and operation of "Swing Shifts." Such discussions will be consistent with Article I of the Collective Agreement and shall be held in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.3 of the Collective Agreement. The Company and Union further agree that these discussions will endeavor to resolve the problems in a manner mutually satisfactory to the Company and the Union and that such resolution shall be consistent with the mutual interest and advantage of the Employees and the Company.
2)	Hour8 of Work and Overtime - (Replaces Article 12.11
The normal work cycle for operations functioning on "Swing Shifts" as specified in this Appendix B-2, shall be twenty-eight (28) calendar days and shall commence on the first Monday in each cycle. The normal work day for Employees shall be twelve (12) hours. The normal work week shall alternate between forty-eight (48) hours one week, comprised of four (4) twelve (12) hour shifts in a seven (7) day period and thirty-six (36) hours the next week, comprised of three (3) twelve (12) hour shifts in the next seven (7) day period and vice versa.
Employees scheduled to work these "Swing Shifts" shall normally be paid at their straight time hourly rate for all such hours they were scheduled and worked in each week (seven (7) day period), unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Company and the Union. The existing practice regarding the frequency used to pay Employees at each of the Calgary and Port Colborne facilities will remain unchanged with the implementation of "Swing Shifts" by the Company. Authorized work performed in excess of the normal work day, shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one-half (11) the Errployee's straight time rate of pay, exclusive of shift premium. Overtime regulations shall not be a limitation upon the number of hours per day, or days per week that the company may operate its plant or schedule its Employees. The Company will endeavor to distribute overtime work as evenly as possible amongst qualified Employees within a department and the work will be offered to such Employees on this basis. Should an insufficient number of Employees volunteer to carry out the work, it will be assigned to the junior Employees in the Department who are qualified or in such other manner as is agreed between the Company and the Union,
3)	Schedule of Working Hours - Replaces Article 12.2)
Management at the plant shall provide the Local Union with a Schedule of Working Hours functioning on "Swing Shifts" which shall be in accordance with
-42-
thi^. Appendix B-2.	Should the requirements of the business necessitate a
change in such Schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union. The Company agrees to give the Union two (2) weeks advance notice of the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts", at the respective location. This notice shall be provided by 3:00 p.m. on the Thursday two (2) weeks proceeding the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts." If such notice is not provided, the affected Employee will be paid time and one half (li) their straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first change, due to the implementation, alteration, or cessation of "Swing Shifts".
4)	Saturday and sundav Work - Replaces Article 12.3
For operations functioning on "Swing Shifts", straight time base hourly rates shall be paid to Employees working their scheduled normal work day which occurs either on a Saturday or Sunday during the "Swing Shift" cycle.
Payment for authorized work performed in excess of the normal work day on Saturday and Sunday shall be termed as overtime and shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2 of this Appendix B-2,
For operations functioning on "Swing Shifts”, Saturdays and Sundays are observed on a shift day basis rather than on a calendar day basis. Premium pay at one and one-half (li) times the Employees straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all hours worked at the request of the Company on any day the Employee is normally scheduled off work, except as is otherwise specified in the provisions of Sections 6 and 7 of this Appendix B-2. In the event the Company requests an Employee to work two consecutive days or more he is normally scheduled off, he shall be paid double time his straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, for all hours worked on such second consecutive day,
5)	No Compounding of Premium - (Replaces Article 12.5 ^
No overtime premium payment will be computed twice on the same time, nor shall any Employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours. No overtime premium shall be calculated on applicable shift premiums paid for hours worked by an Employee.
6)	Reporting Allowance - (Replaces Article 12.6)
An Employee working "Swing Shifts" reporting for work at his normal starting time without previous notification not to do so shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his straight time hourly rate. In the event of a forced shutdown, or in case where an Employee fails to notify his foreman of his intention to return to work following a period of absence, this provision shall not apply.
7)	Employee Call-In - (Replaces Article 12.7)
An Employee working "Swing Shifts" called in to perform work which is not continuous with his regular work shift, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at time and one half their straight time base rate. The Employee
-43-
Wilv_,oe free to leave the Company premises when his presence is no longer required by his supervisor. This section shall also apply to Employees called in to perform emergency work not continuous with h i s regular work shift. In such case, the Employee will be free to leave when the supervisor deems an emergency no longer exits. Employees called in for emergency, on a shift immediately preceding their scheduled work shift, shall be allowed a reasonable period for rest before returning to work on their regular shift. They shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shall be paid as if they have worked their full shift.
8)	Shift Premium - (Replaces Article 12.8)
Employees working "Swing Shifts" shall receive in addition to their base hourly rate, a shift premium of One Dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked on such "Swing Shifts". This premium shall be paid in addition to any premium payment earned by the Employee for the work performed on"Swing Shifts" pursuant to this Appendix B-2, but shall not be included in the rate upon which the premium is calculated.
9)	Rest Periods - (Replaces Article 16.11
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", there shall be three (3) ten (10) minute rest periods during the full twelve (12) hour swing Shift. Rest periods shall be scheduled by the Company taking into consideration the production requirements of the facility.
10)	Meal Period
Employees working "Swing Shifts" shall be provided a paid thirty (30) minute meal period which shall normally be scheduled to occur no later than five (5) hours after the starting time of their shift, unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. Should production requirements necessitate, Employees may be required to perform work during their meal period. Any Employee who has their meal period interrupted and perform work at the request of the Company, shall first have sufficient time made available to them in order to fully utilize their meal period allotment on such shift if it is practicable for this to be done. Failing this, they then shall receive pay at time and one-half (1 i) their regular rate for the period of time they performed work requested by the Company during the meal period.
11)	Meal Allowance - (Replaces Article 16.2)
An Employee working "Swing Shifts” who is required to work one (1) or more hours overtime continuous with his regular shift will be paid a meal allowance of one (1) hour pay at his regular straight time hourly rate. Except in the case of an emergency the meal period shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the Employee and the foreman.
12)	Plant Holidays - (Replaces Article 14.11
The Company agrees to recognize the Plant Holidays set forth in Appendix C. Plant Holidays are observed on a shift day basis rater than a calendar day basis. An Employee working "Swing Shifts" (at the date of Holiday) , and has
-44-
t-h^iay off, shall be paid for each such holiday at the equivalent of his straight time basic rate, exclusive of shift premium, for the hours he has been scheduled to work on such date, provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or the week of the holiday. Employees with seniority who are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits, or Workers' Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
Employees assigned to work "Swing Shifts", who are not scheduled to work on the date of the holiday, shall be paid the equivalent of his straight time basic rate exclusive of shift premium for twelve (12) hours provided he works during the week preceding, the week following, or the week of the holiday. Employees with seniority who are receiving weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers' Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
13)	Plant Holidays During Vacation - (Replaces Article 14.3)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", when a Plant Holiday falls within an Employees' vacation period, they may elect to receive holiday pay calculated at twelve (12) hours pay at their straight time hourly rate exclusive of shift premium or to receive an alternate day off with pay as the holiday, it shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the Employee. If subsequently the Employee does work on the day agreed upon as alternate day, it shall be considered as work performed on a plant holiday and the Employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 14 of this Appendix B-2.
14)	Work on Plant Holidays - (Replaces Article 14.4^
For Employees working "Swing Shifts”, if an Employee is required to work a Plant Holiday shift, he shall be paid for such work performed at the rate of time and one-half {11) his basic straight time rate, exclusive of shift premium, for the first twelve (12) hours and double the straight time for work performed beyond twelve (l2) hours.
In addition to this payment, the Employee shall also receive payment for the plant holiday he is otherwise entitled to under the provisions of Section 12 of this Appendix B-2.
15)	Vacation Scheduling -__(Replaces Article 15.1)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", one (1) week of vacation shall be either thirty six (36) hours or forty eight (48) hours, depending upon the Employees scheduled hours for the week the vacation is taken. The Company will schedule vacations at a time or times wanted by each Employee giving longer service Employees preference subject to maintaining the efficient operation of the plant. Vacation of more than three (3) weeks duration will not normally be scheduled consecutively, Vacations shall be taken in the year they fall due and shall not be accumulated. Should it be advantageous to close the plant(s), for a vacation period, eligible Employees will take vacation at that time, other than those whose services are required for
-45
paf^'cular work. In the event of a close-down for vacation, such period will be scheduled during June, July, or August. For vacation purposes, the vacation week begins on Monday and ends the Sunday next following.
16)	Vacation Pay - (Replaces Article 15.4)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", vacation pay will be calculated at two percent (2%) of the Employees' wages for the preceding calendar year or forty (40) hours pay at his basic straight time rate, excluding shift premium, (provided the Employee works not less than sixteen hundred (1,600) hours during the preceding calendar year) for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to Employees' advantage.
Vacation pay for an Employee who works less than sixteen hundred (1,600) hours during the preceding calendar year, shall be calculated at the ratio that his hours worked bears to sixteen hundred (1,600). Vacation pay as stipulated above shall not be reduced due to time lost from work to a maximum of one hundred and four (104) weeks when the Employee is receiving weekly sick benefits, long term disability benefit or Workers' compensation.
17)	First Vacation - (Replaces Article 15.51
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", an Employee with less than twelve (12) months service during the preceding calendar year should be entitled to a vacation calculated on the basis of one (1) day per month of service, to a maximum of ten (10) days, Notwithstanding Section 16 of this Appendix B-2, pay for such vacation shall be four percent (4%) of the Employees' wages for the preceding calendar year.
18)	Bereavement Leave - (Replaces Article 17.1)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", in the event of death of an immediate relative as defined in Article 17.1, leave of absence of three consecutive days, exclusive of assigned days of rest, will be granted the bereaved Employee, Such Employee shall be paid his straight time rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave.
Employee shall mean a regular full time Employee of the Company. Bereaved Employees who return from vacation to attend the funeral will qualify for bereavement pay.
19)	Jury Duty - (Replaces Article 17.2)
For Employees working "Swing Shift", when an Employee is called by the Crown for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness and must as a result, lose time from work, the Company agrees to pay such Employee the difference between the fee
received and the Employee's straight time basic rate, excluding shift or
other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.
20)	Injury on the Job - (Replaces Article 17.3)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", when an Employee while carrying out his
-46-
ass^ned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the Employee may receive from Workers’ Compensation), provided that the accident is classified as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
21)	Weekly Guarantee - (Replaces Article 21.11
For Employees working "Swing Shifts"/ and such "Swing Shifts" are cancelled prior to the completion of a 28 calendar day cycle, the Company will guarantee every Employee with seniority payment for the hours they were scheduled to work to a maximum of forty eight (48) hours at his regular time, excluding shift premium in the week in which the "Swing Shifts" are cancelled provided the Employee performs work for the Company in that week on his Swing Shift, subject to the following provisions:
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when an Employee with seniority is called in to replace an Employee who has failed to report for work, the replacement Employee’s guarantee shall be limited to the remainder of the scheduled work week to a maximum of forty eight (48) hours at his straight time hourly rate.
b)	Shift premium, Plant Holidays premiums and overtime shall not be considered when calculating what the guarantee, if any, is to be paid.
c)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that Employees will perform conscientiously whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If an Employee declines to perform the task assigned, the Company shall be absolved from the guarantee in respect to hours so lost by that Employee.
d)	An Employee who is late or absent from work, including time lost due to justified disciplinary action on any part of a day he is normally scheduled or called back to work shall have his guarantee reduced by the time so lost. The weekly guarantee shall not apply when Employee is on vacation or leave of absence.
e)	Pay received for a Plant Holiday, shall be regarded as part of the guarantee, provided such holiday is observed on the Employee’s normal scheduled work day.
The Company and the Union agree that this Weekly Guarantee payment is not in addition to hours scheduled and worked in the same week by an Employee on other than a "Swing Shift" basis, Rather, the parties agree it is the maximum payment guaranteed for any one (1) week in which such "Swing Shifts" are cancelled by the Company prior to the completion of the 28 calendar day cycle.
22)	Severance Pav - (Replaces Article 22. Ih
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", in the event of a substantial reduction in the work force, including the elimination of a department as a direct result of technological or economic change and where the Company is unable to offer other employment to the Employees with seniority who are permanently
-47-
didv/aced, severance pay will be paid to each Employee on the following basis:
An Employee with one (1) or more years of continuous service shall be paid the equivalent of forty (4 0) hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each completed year of service,
23)	Accident and Sickness Benefits - (Clarifies Appendix D)
For Employees working "Swing Shifts", weekly benefits payable pursuant to the Accident and Sickness provisions of Appendix D, shall be deemed to be on a seven (7) day week basis. Accordingly, daily benefits payable shall be one-seventh (1/7) of the weekly benefit specified in the Appendix,
48
APPENDIX "C"
Plant Holidays to be observed and paid by the Company at the plant locations as listed, in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV - PLANT HOLIDAYS.
PORT COLBORNE;
New Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Day before Christmas Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Day before New Year’s Day.
CALGARY - RENOWN MILL;
New Years Day, January 2nd, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day .
PERSONAL FLOATER HOLIDAY
An Employee who has completed the probationary period will be entitled to a person floater holiday to be observed on a date that is mutually agreeable to the Employee and the Company, not concurrent with the Employee's vacation. Generally not more than one Employee from the same department will observe the same day as the holiday.
Eligible Employees at Calgary - Renown Mill will be entitled to an additional floater in lieu of a 12th named holiday.
49
APPENDIX "D" - HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
The following summarizes health and welfare insurance benefits as listed in paragraph 19.1 of the Collective Agreement. A copy of the plan documents will be provided to the Local Chairperson of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Group Life Insurance Plan underwritten by the National Life Assurance Company. Effective February 1, 1990, the life insurance benefit shall be *$23,000 for an eligible Employee
and provide double indemnity for the accidental death of such Employee. The Company will pay the premium cost of $3,000 life insurance at the time of normal or early retirement (55 years or more, with a minimum of twenty years' service).
"$24,000 effective December 1, 1990.
The Company will pay the premium cost of $1,000 life insurance for the spouse of an eligible Employee and his eligible dependents over six months of age. In the case of eligible dependents of less than six months of age, but more than fifteen days and not confined to a hospital, the life insurance benefit will be $500.
PROVINCIAL MEDICARE:
The Company will pay the premium cost (where applicable) of Provincial Medicare insurance (standard ward coverage) for eligible Employees and for their eligible dependents.
MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Major Medical Plans (excluding drug) for eligible Employees and for their eligible dependents. Deductibles will be $25 for the Employees and a maximum of $50 for the family with no coinsurance .
Effective March 3, 1982 Employees who retire with 20 years or more service at age 55 or older will be covered by a Major Medical and Drug Plan with a $25 deductible for the retired Employee and a maximum of $50 deductible for the family. Effective December 1, 1987, such retiring Employees will be given the option of joining a retirement group dental plan at 'their cost. IQ
Effective December 1, 1987, Employees who retire at age 61* or older with 85 points or more will have 0>H>I>P or Alberta Medical Premiums continued until their age 65.
*60 - Effective December 1, 1988.
50
PRE RIPTION DRUG PLAN:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Prescription Drug Plan (35 cents par prescription) for eligible Employees and for their eligible dependents.
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the' Long Term Disability Insurance Plan for eligible Employees, The disability benefit under the Plan shall be 60% of basic earnings, excluding overtime or other premium, to a maximum of $2/000.00 per month. No benefits are payable for the first twenty-six weeks of disability and the period of time during which disability benefits are payable under the Unemployment Insurance Act. Canada Pension Plan other legislated benefits shall be integrated with the long term disability benefit *
A subsidy of *1/300 per month, less the gross monthly benefit currently being received, inclusive of government benefit8 will be paid to Employees on disability benefits for the term of the Agreement.
*Effective February 1/ 1990.
Employees on L.T.D. benefits on April 18, 1984 and those who subsequently qualify for L.T.D. benefits, will have their coverage continued until age 65 or prior recovery for following benefits:
Medical and Hospital, Basic Group Life Insurance, Dental, Major Medical (including prescription drugs). It is understood the Major Medical Plan is the one currently in effect for retired Employees.
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS BENEFITS INSURANCE PLANS:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Accident and sickness insurance Plans for eligible Employees. The weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the Employees earnings to a maximum of $450.00 per week *, for a maximum of twenty six weeks. Benefits will be payable from the first day of absence due to accident and from the fourth day where absence is due to bona fide sickness. Benefits will be payable from the first day of absence due to sickness if the Employee is confined to hospital on that date. Effective April 1, 1986, benefits will be payable from the first day of absence for surgery performed as out patient at a hospital. Effective April 20, 1992, benefits shall be payable from the first day of absence for surgery performed as an out patient at a hospital, authorized medical clinic or doctor's office,
*Effective February 1, 1990
Effective December 1, 1990, increase to $450.00 per week.
DENTAL INSURE_____PLAN:
The Company will pay the premium cost of the Dental Insurance Plan for eligible Employees and their eligible dependents, Such Dental Plan provides benefits equivalent to the basic Glue cross Plan #7. Effective May 1, 1992,
-51-
th&._i991 Provincial Fee Guide shall apply. Provincial Fee Guide shall apply as follows:
1992	- Schedule to date of ratification
1993	- Schedule upon ratification
1994	- Schedule January 1, 1995.
The Plan will include the following services on the basis of 50/50 co-insurance with an annual $50.00 deductible for each Employee and eligible dependent:	Endodontics, Periodontics, Dentures, Crowns, and Bridges.
Effective December 1, 1992 the limit of the plan on major restorative services will increase from $2,000 to $3,000 per individual every two years.
VISION CARE FLAN:	fO
Effective February 1, 1990 the Company will implement and pay the premium cost of a Vision Care Plan for eligible Employees and for their eligible dependents. Such Vision Care Plan will provide reimbursement for the purchase of eye glasses of up to maximum of $100.00 every 24 months to Employees and their eligible dependents.
NE CONDITIONS:
Where applicable, the Company will pay the premium costs for an eligible Employee and his eligible dependents commencing from the first of the month following completion of his probationary period.
For the purposes of this Appendix "D", an eligible Employee is one who has completed the probationary period, is actively at work on the date the insurance coverage, or a change in coverage, is to be effective, and performs work for the Company during the month in which premiums fall due. The Company agrees, however to continue the monthly payment of health and welfare insurance premiums for a period up to one year beyond the month in which an eligible Employee, absent due to bona fide sickness or accident, last performed work for the Company,
The Company may elect at some future date to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these insurance benefits to another insurance carrier with the understanding that in this event the coverage that will be provided by the new carrier will not be less favourable than the coverage provided at the date of the Collective Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the cost of the benefit program paid by the Company as outlined herein is in lieu of any Employee entitlement to rebate under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
If the Federal or Provincial Government brings into operation any insurance plan which provides benefits that are similar or substantially similar to those described herein and such coverage is available to Employees on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the Company reserves the right to discontinue or modify the affected insurance as outlined herein.
52
The'wooklets describe the principal features of the group benefit plan sponsored by the Company, but the Great-West Plan Document is the governing document. If there are variations between the information in the booklet and the provisions of the plan document, the plan document will prevail.
-53
APPENDIX "E" - SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
No across the board increase shall be granted to rates in effect as of the date of signing the Stipulation of Agreement. Employees on the active payroll of the Company shall receive a lump sum cash bonus an the first pay day following receipt of Notice of Ratification in the following amounts:
Plant Employees:	Seven Hundred Dollars ($700.00)
Port Colborne Office Employees:	Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00)
Furthermore, Employees on the active payroll of the Company as of December 1, 1994 shall receive a lump sum cash bonus on the first pay day following December 1, 1994 in the following amounts:
Plant Employees:	Seven Hundred Dollars ($700.00)
Port Colborne Office Employees:	Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00)
All lump sum cash bonus payments referred to herein shall be subjected to federal income tax, UIC, CPP, and all other withholding amounts required by law.
Listed below are the applicable wage rates in effect for Employees on payroll at each of the Calgary and Port Colborne locations respectively as of April 20, 1992.
PORT COLBORNE PLANT
EVfl____DEPARTMENT
Operator Weighman Operator Repairman Operator Leadman
MILLING DEPARTMENT:
Mill Operator (after 1 year on the job)
Mill Helper* **
(Training for Mill Operator)
General Help
** Recognizing that this job is in part a training job for Mill Operator, the successful applicant under paragraphs 10.6 and 10.7 must be deemed to have the capacity to acquire the necessary skill, knowledge and ability as to qualify him for the job of Mill Operator.
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
$18.33
$18.11
$17.63
$19.08
$18.58
$18.77
$17.00
$17.63
$16.83
$18.10
$17.27
-54-
Leadman Packing Crews
WARL JUSE DEPARTMENT:
Leadman Truck Driver:
Tractor Trailer Other
Truck Helper
It is understood that the provisions of paragraph 10.7 will not apply in cases where drivers are transferred from one type of truck to another.
A tractor trailer driver on returning from a round trip to Toronto or London that lasts between six and eight hours will be offered the opportunity to work out the remainder of the regular shift. in the event work is not available, such driver will be paid his regular hourly rate for the time between his actual hours of work and eight hours.
$17.79
$18.14
$17.74
$16.96
MAINTEMAUrF! DEPARTMENT*
Millwright, Machinist, Electrical, Heat & Fire Maintenance:
Leadman Class A Class B Class C Helper A Helper B
MIX PLANT DEPARTMENT;
Control Room Operator Operator
Mix Plant Helper Sanitation
LABORATORY :
Senior Lab Tech Lab Tech
MISCELLANEOUS:
Utility Leadman Fumigator Utility Crew and General Help Watchman
BOAT CREW :
Rigger and Rope Puller
Scooper
Towerman
Hold Leadman’s Premium
$20.94
$19.84
$18.98
$18.66
$17.96
$17.64
$18.89
$18.39
$17.63
$17.63
$18.89
$18.30
$17.79
$16.83
$16.83
$17.27
$17.01
$17.27
Six cents per hour while actually employed in this capacity.
New hires will have a starting rate of twelve dollars ($12.00) per hour and will receive an increase of fifty cents (50$) per year of service until such time they attain the job rate.
GRADE 1
PORT COLBORNE OFFICII
Payroll Clerk	$17.81
Accounting Clerk I	$17.81
Traffic Assistant	$17.81
GRADE 2
Accounting Clerk II Production Clerk Local Sales Clerk
GRADE 3
Accounting Clerk III Traffic Clerk/Typist
$17.27
$17.27
$17.27
$16.18
$16.18
GRADE 4
Inventory Clerk	$15.48
Inventory/Local Sales Assistant	$15.48
gMPE..9
Switchboard/Telex Operator	$15.05
New hires will have a starting rate of twelve dollars will receive an increase of fifty cents (50$) per year time they attain the job rate.
56
($12.00) per hour and of service until such
CALGARY - RENOWN PLANT
FLOUR MILL:
Spare Shift Miller Roll Tender Screen Room Utility
$18.39
$17.72
$17.58
$16.83
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
Second Man
Second Man Day Shift
Bulk Man
Flour and Feed Packer Bag and Sample Man Utility
$17.68
$17.86
$17.01
$17.01
$17.01
$16.83
ELEVATOR -
Second Man $17.47 Weigh Man $17.19 Elevator Man $17.03
WAREHOUSE -
Second Man
Car Loader
Warehouseman
Lift Truck Operator
Janitor
Piler/Stacker
Feedman
Shipper Receiver Pelletizer
$17,47
$16.94
$16.88
$17.12
$16.83
$16.88
$17.12
$17.47
$17.37
PLANT SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
[Electrical (Steam, Water and Air) and Millwright Departments]
LeadnHaMdn(Licensed) (Corrugator) Licensed Electrician, Millwright,
Boiler Maintenance
4 th Year Apprentice
3rd Year Apprentice 2nd Year Apprentice
1st Year Apprentice
Helper/Oiler

$19.29
$18.48
111:23
$17.96
$17.36
57-
MIXV .ANT DEPARTMENT:
Operator Packer
Product Handler Bag Labeller
Utility
$18.39
$17.03
$17.27
$16.88
$16.83
LABORATORY t
Technician	$17.61
Sanitation	$17.61
New hires will have a starting rate of twelve dollars ($12.00) per hour and will receive an increase of fifty cents (504) per year of service until such time they attain the job rate.
-58-
APPENDIX "F"
The following schedule lists those Letters of Agreement in effect at the respective Company location as of April 20, 1992.
PORT CQLBORNE;
Letters regarding the following subjects:
a)	Employment of Students
b)	Employee Training (Sameas in Calgary; to expire November 30, 1993)
c)	Employee Assistance Plan (Same as in Calgary; to expire November 30, 1993)
CALGARY:
Letters regarding the following subjects:
a)	Temporary Assignments
b)	Supervisory Relief Responsibilities
c)	Reasonable Period of Rest
d)	Shift Trading
e)	Overtime Distribution
f)	Laboratory Staffing
g)	Work Clothing - should the Company provide laundried uniforms, this
Letter does not apply.
-59
JURISDICTION
FED X
PROV
PSSRA
AGREEM, EFFEC, DATE:	931201
AGREEM, EXP, DATE:	951130
NO. OF EMPLOYEES:	200

SETTLEMENT DATE: W£GE EFFECTIVE DATE: AGE REOPENER DATE:
STAGE OF SETTLEMENT:
940714
931201
CO
LOCATION: Port Colborne, Ont
COLA:	NONE X DELETED
COMMENTS:
>	Now a division of CONAGRO
>	Amend wage rates to reflect
EXISTS	INACTIVE
I
<
occupation and location change to Fort Colborne, <
OCCUP,:	GENERAL HELP
HOURS WORKED:	40.00
PREV, NEG, BASE RATE:	16,830 t COLA FOLD-IN AMT: ( 0.000 ) = 16.830
• - >
DATE RATE 931201	16.830
%
0.00
DATE RATE % 941201	16.830	0.00
DATE RATE % 0.000 0.00
- - >
WAGE INCREASES:
> 0.0%-0.0%
>
LUMP 9LM PAMNTS ;	> 940715 Ratification bonus -$700 Plant and $600 Office
CHNGS, IN INCH,:	> 941201	i	,i $700	"	$600	»
SPEC. ADJ,:	>
OTHER :
> Occupation Change to show Port Colborne and also Utility worker in Calgary.
<
<
<
<
<
<
> <
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION ***
CARRY-OVER FLOAT =	FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:	(Y or N)
DATE AMOUNT | DATE	AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT
CPI TYPE:	>
COLA TYPE :
TRIGGER:	:>
CAP:	>
COMP, PER.:
>
>
FOLD-IN DTS : > OTHER:
***
CURRENT COLA INFORMATION ***
< ft OF CALC,
COMP, FQ
<
C
C
<
C
C
>
>
>
..... END REPORT
<
<
C