SOURCE
EFF.
TERM.
JLoj
cm
OW*.
CH
r\U
iP-
ti.
to Aj
No. OF EMPLOYEES
CONTRACT
between
KELli0a<a gana^inc. ?ndthe;
^Ri^rc:m-cx:c
Loc|til54
It is the intention of the Company and the Union to direct their efforts towards the following Philosophy:
Provide job security for its employees by being the most cost effective, high quality producer of ready-to-eat cereals;
Provide a work environment which will recognize the importance of employee health, safety and motivation;
Create an environment which encourages meaningful communication at all levels and ensures that employees are kept informed about the organization and the general state of the business;
Have equitable and non-discriminatory employee practices, policies and procedures;
Design meaningful, challenging, and responsible work roles, which allow employees the freedom to act;
Design work in a manner which enables employees to accept accountability for agreed objectives;
Provide effective leadership in an environment which promotes employee participation in decision making;
Maintain a constructive relationship between the parties through timely sharing of information and debate in an environment of mutual trust and respect;
Ensure a competitive reward system that recognizes employee contribution to agreed objectives;
Provide opportunities for employees to grow, develop and utilize their skills and abilities.
April 14. 1991 to April 16, 1994
CONTRACT
between
KELLOGG CANADA INC.
LONDON PLANT
and the
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS
A.F.L.-C.I.O.-C.L.C.
Local 154
AGREEMENT
This agreement is made and entered into this 14th day of April,
1991.
Between:
Kellogg Canada Inc., hereinafter called the Company, of the First Part.
-and-
Local 154, American Federation of Grain Millers and the American Federation of Grain Millers affiliated with A.F.L.-C.I.O., C.L.C., hereinafter called the LTnion, of the Second Part.
SECTION CLARIFICATION
Joint Philosophy Statement Agreement
Page Subject	Section
ARTICLE I 1 Recognition I Students, Probationary
ARTICLE II
1	Purpose of Agreement
2	Pledges
2 Discrimination 2	Job Conversion
2	Job Discontinuance
5	Severance Provision 5 Plant Closure
1.01
1.02
2.01
2.02
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
ARTICLE 111
6	Maintenance of Membership
6	Exceptions
7	Union Check off
3.01
3.02
3.03
ARTICLE IV 8 Company Rights 8 Outside Contractors 8 Exception
4.01
4.02
4.02
*
ARTICLE V
9	Seniority
10	Administration of Department 10 Record of Seniority
10 Loss of Seniority
jj Probationary Employees and Student Utilization 12 Layoff
12	Recall From Layoff
13	Time To Accept Recall
14	Department Realignment 14 Layoff From a Department
14	Hiring New Employees
15	Absence For Union Business 15 Bidding Procedure
5.01	*
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
5.08
5.09
5.10
5.11
5.12
5.13
SECTION CLARIFICATION
Page Subject
Section
17	Openings During	An Employee's	Absence
18	Opportunities For	Transfer to	Another
Department
18 Disqualification-Classification 2 & 3 18 Inspection Records
18	Openings Not covered by Agreement
19	Protest of Work	Assignment
19	Transfer Due to	Disability
20	Scheduled For Less Than 40 Hours 20 Sp ecial Scheduling Provisions
22	Procedure For Scheduling Floaters
5.14
S.15 & 5.16
5.17
5.18
5.19
5.20
5.21
5.22
5.23
5.24
ARTICLE VI
22	Hours of Work
23	Hours of Work
24	Double Back
24	Preferred Shifts
25	Extra Shifts
28	Daily Opportunities
29	Daily Opportunity Stay Over
29	Daily Opportunity Call-Ins
30	Recording of Overtime Hours 30 Procedure for Employee Call-In 3 I Overtime Unbroken Hours
32 No Overtime Offset 32 MaiirttKVi\nrijf]/sT u'tEurSection
55	Wheel
56	Holiday Schedule 58 Holiday Eligibility 58 Weekend Worker
6.01, 6.02
6.03
6.03
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.05
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
6.11
6.11
6.12
ARTICLE VII	.
62 Rates of Pay/Change in Job Content	7TO 1
62 Job Rate-Temporary or Permanent Assignment	7.02
64 Overtime Premium Holiday Work Rate	7,03
ARTICLE VIII
64	Classification and Rate Schedule	8.01
64	Job Classification	S.02
65	Disqualification-Trainees & Classifications	8.03
SECTION CLARIFICATION
Page Subject
Section
65 Training and Progression 73 Skillet! Trade Rate Exception
73	Shift Premium
74	Processing Operator Categories
75	Job Classification/Rates
8.04
8.05
8.06 8.07 8.07'
„ ARTICLE IX.
78	Vacation Entitlement
78	Vacation Scheduling Procedure,
79	Vacation Pay in Lieu of Time Off
80	Holiday Within Vacation Period
80	Vacation Pay Entitlement
81	Termination Vacation Pay
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04 9.05 & 9.06
9.07
ARTICLE X
81 Grievance Procedure
8	I Grievance Procedure
83 Policy Grievance
83 Labour Relations Monthly Meeting
83	Suspension Hearing
84	Purging of Files
10,01 & 10.02 10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
ARTICLE XI 84 Arbitration
11.01 to 11.07
ARTICLE XII
86	No Strikes - No Lockouts	12.01, 12.02 & 12.03
ARTICLE XIII
87	Union and Company Co-operation -Plant Efficiency 87 Article Headings Bulletin Boards
87	Jurisdictional Dispute
88	Union Activity Validity
91	Salaried Personnel Performing Hourly Functions
91	Union Elections
92	Union and C-ssrapTOv Decisions 92 Union Negotiations Committee
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
13.08
13.09
13.10
in
SECTION CLARIFICATION
Page Subject
Section
92	Jury Duly
93	Bereavement Leave
94	Union Counseling
ARTICLE XIV Duration of Agreement
94 OUTLINE OF BENEFITS 94 Policy Letters 108 Addendum
13.12
An asterisk (*) shown beside a section means there is a reference letter.
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION
SECTION 1:01
By the terms of this contract, the Company recognizes the said Union as the exclusive hM&uo.i.a?, npjMtiy for all regular employees with the exception of the following: All First Line Supervisors, Chief Engineer, Office Staff, Draftsperson, Plant Security Guards, and persons above the rank of the First Line Supervisors.
Employees who are not included in classifications that come under the scope of collective bargaining representation will not be eligible for membership in the Union.
SECTION 1:02
It is agreed that students, and probationary employees are not to be considered regular employees for the purposes of Section 1:01 above.
ARTICLE II
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 2:01
The PURPOSE of the agreement is to promote and ensure harmonious relations, co-operation and understanding between the Company and its employees; to encourage economy and efficiency of operation, maintenance of high standard of product quality; elimination of waste, cleanliness of plant, protection of property and safety of employees; to ensure true collective bargaining on ma-t-ters relating to hours Of labour, wages, seniority, promotion, discharge and layoffs, working conditions and the general welfare of its employees.
The parties of the contract feel that this Agreement represents more than mere understanding regarding words to express certain procedures and policies, and reflects the attitudes of respect for the responsibilities of each other. This or other agreements between the parties do not represnt a deviation from such recognized responsibilities as have been in existence in the past, except as may be specifically modified in this agreement.
It is understood that the specific provisions in this Contract shall be final and binding on all parties, and that a method is provided for orderly settlement of disputes which might arise regarding interpretation of the terms of the Agreement.
SECTION 2:02
The Company pledges itself to give its employees considerate and courteous treatment and employees, in turn, pledge themselves to render the Company loyal and efficient service.
PLEDGES
The Company and the Union agree to cooperate with each other in developing fair and just working conditions, and in carrying out the terms and conditions laid down in this Agreement.
DISCRIMINATION
It is agreed that the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied "Y to all bargaining unit employees without discrimination in regard to race, colour, religion, sex, age, handicap, or national origin. Such employee who claims that he or she has been discriminated against with regard to rights guaranteed by this Agreement, may grieve as provided in Article X,
JOB CONVERSION
SECTION 2:03
The Company agrees it will not convert any present hourly rated job classifications to salary status throughout the term of this Agreement without first discussing the matter with the Union committee.
Prior to discontinuing or transferring a product line, the Company will. rjrnyjde the Union with information pertaining to the contemplated change (e.g.: lack of capacity, unprofitability, etc.). This information, to be provided in a timely manner, will enable the Union to provide its input, prior to the decision being finalized.
JOB DISCONTINUANCE
SECTION 2:04
On the introduction or implementation of technological change, change in mechanization or change in operating methods that might affect tmt xnmote Viilptuytfc^iiicrcanrrpaijy wllrseiv ways
and means of minimizing the effect on employees which might result from such changes.

■«
At least ninety (90) days prior to the introduction 'or implementation of any change covered by this section, the Company will notify the Union in writing of such change and then shall furnish the Union with information respecting all phases of technological change, change in mechanization or change in operating methods to be introduced or implemented in Kellogg Canada Inc.
As soon as reasonably practicable after notice is given, the Company will provide the necessary information to the Union concerning the effects of the changes on each respective individual or'tias'sTncSuiWiOs/"hrTmjtlo’ytcs.
Subsequent to the notice provided in paragraph 2:
(a)	Upon request 'of the Union or the Company, or
(b)	Upon request of the Union where no notice- has been
provided and where the Union can establish reasonable cause for such a meeting to be held, a meeting between the parties will be arranged within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such request or such longer time as the parties may mutually agree to.
All employee(s) who are rendered surplus due to changes ^
outlined above will be given ninety (90) days advance written A, notice followed by a personal interview to diSCUiS their options.	'
The following procedures will be implemented to assist employees who are affected by the changes stated above.
Employee(s) (employee A) in the initial classification(s) affected will be offered severance pay in accordance to Section 2:05 by y seniority prior to the implementation of claiming a job below.
The Company will canvass plantwide for employee(s) B equal to the number of unplaced positions remaining. Severance will be offered by seniority until the list is exhausted.
Skilled Trades are not eligible for severance pay as Employee B.
A. Claiming a job within an Emnloveefsl Department
0 Employees will utilize their seniority first on their, shift and claim the most junior position for which they are qualified or can qualify within the qualifying period as stated in Section 8:07 excluding groups 4 and 5, If the employee does not have sufficient seniority on their own shift he/she will move to another shift within the department and exercise their seniority and claim the most junior job as described above.
ji) If the employee does not have sufficient seniority to claim a job under (i), the employee will be counseled by the Company as to most junior positions he/she could claim within the qualifying period as stated in Section 8:07 excluding groups 4 and 5,
Procedures
In order to assist employees in making their selection of a position outside their regular department, the Company will allow the employee(s) by seniority to familiarize on jobs listed above in the following manner.
i)	As soon as it is determined that an employee cannot remain in his/her own department, the Company will meet with the employee(s) and a Union representative and provide guidance as to the options available.
ii)	If necessary, employee(s) will be given the opportunity to familiarize on any job(s) for which they could claim under this section. The familiarization will be for a maximum of one week on each job.
The Company will make every effort to ensure the employee receives fair treatment while familiarizing.
iii)	Once the employee decides on the position he /she will claim, the Company will arrange to move—the employee within thirty (30) days.
iv)	The employee would receive their regular card rate
throughout the familiarization process.
v)	The Company will determine the number of employees to be familiarized at any one time. This is to minimize operational disruption. Prior to implementation this number will be reviewed with the Chief Steward.
vi)	Employees who require basic skills training to assist them in securing another position will be given training on specific pieces of equipment.
C.	The junior employees who have been displaced will be notified as soon as possible so they can be counseled on their options and prepare themselves to exercise their rights under this section.
The employees who aye displaced will have ninety (90) days to claim a-position as stated in the sequence above.
D.	Claiming and changes will be made at a rate that will ensure an orderly and efficient transition.
E.	Jobs that require Apprenticeship cannot be claimed under this Section. Jobs in South Processing Module Group III, may not be open to claim depending on specific plant operational circumstances at the time.
F- Employees who do not claim a job during the ninety (90) day notification period will be assigned to the floaters list.
Employees covered under Section 2:04 will be paid the rate of the job assigned or their card rate, whichever is higher, for a period of one year.
SECTION
SEVERANCE PROVISION ? &	3-32:05	"^7	B
Employees accepting severance under the terms outlined in Section 2-04_(Fmplnypp. A or B) will receive payment under the following schedule:
PAYMENT SCHEDULE
0	up	to	3	years	continuous	service
3	up	to	7	years	continuous	service
7	up	to	13	years	continuous	service
13	up	to	20	years	continuous	service
20 up to 25 years continuous service 25 or more years continuous service
1,000
3.000
6.000 9,000
13.000
14.000
Employees shall not be eligible for severance pay under the Payment Schedule above in the event of termination for any reason'except as outlined in Section 2:04.
I. It is also understood that this Section does not cover the following situations or conditions:
(a)	Short-term layoffs due to changes in weekly schedules unrelated to technological change.
(b)	Layoffs caused by fluctuations in sales demand.
SECTION 2:06
Prior tuthe closure of the plant or a major portion thereof the Company shall provide the Union with a minimum of ninety (90) days notice.
3
Any regular employee whose employment is terminated as a direct result of the closing of the plant, or a major portion, shall receive pay as follows:
One (1) week for every year of service for employees with up to ten (10) years of service and two (2) weels for every year of service for employees with over ten (10) years.
A weeks pay shall be forty (40) hours at the employee's straight time hourly rate.
It is	that if applicable Provincial or Federal
legislation is more favorable to employees in the event of the closure of the plant, then government rules will take precedent.
ARTICLE III UNION MEMBERSHIP
Maintenance of Membership
SECTION 3:81
All employees covered bv the agreement who have acquired and who hold seniority under the provisions of Article V, will be required to become members of the Union and will be required as a condition of employment to maintain their membership in good standing in the Union for the life of this Agreement. All employees whom the Company may hire in the future will be accepted as members when they have acquired seniority under this Agreement, but will not be required to become members until they have completed the probationary term, and have acquired
seniority.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of current addresses of all regular employees on January 31st, and July 31st of each year.
EXCEPTIONS
SECTION 3:02
Notwithstanding anything contained in this article, the Company shall not be required to discharge any employee to whom membership in the Union has been denied or terminated on some ground other the refusal of such employee to tender the initiation fee and dues uniformly required in order to acquire or maintain membership in the Union, unless the Company agrees that ihc
grounds upon which the Union refused or terminated such employee's membership are valid, or in the alternative, unless the matter is referred to arbitration in the same manner hereinafter prescribed by this Agreement, and a Board of Arbitration decides that the grounds upon which the Union refused or terminated the membership of such employee were sufficient to justify his/her discharge by the Company.
UNION CHECK-OFF
SECTION 3:03
The Company agrees to deduct the regular weekly Union dues from the pay of each hourly rated employee, commencing on the first week following his/her successful completion of the probationary period. The deduction of dues will be made from each weekly pay cheque, in an amount determined by the Constitutional Bylaws of the American Federation of Grain Millers Local 154: similarly, Union dues will be deducted from all vacation cheques. One day worked or eight (8.) hours in one week shall be considered a full week for the purpose of deducting dues.
The sums collected for weekly dues shall be forwarded by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union not later than the last day of each week. A record showing from whom the deductions were made shall be forwarded by the Company to the Financial secretary of the Union not later than the last day of the current month.
The initiation fee becomes due upon the first week the employee successfully completed his/her probationary period to the satisfaction of the Company and has obtained the status of regular employee.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the 'Company harmless against all claims or other forms of liability that may arise out of, or by reason of, deductions made or payments made in accordance with this article.
Tt is understood student employees will commence payment of regular Union dues on the first week of actual work, as defined in Section 5:05. However, this will not change their status as non-regular employees, as defined in the Contract. Payment of dues would commence in the first week of subsequent periods of summer relief employment.
ARTICLE IV COMPANY RIGHTS
SECTION 4:01
Subject to limitations provided in this Agreement, the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to manage its plant; to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to direct the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause; to assign and reassign employees to job; to transfer employees from department to department; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the product to be handled, produced, processed or
manufactured' l'-*'	"Jirfi
methods, processes, and the tfteans of production or handling of its products.
OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS SECTION 4:02 •
(a)
During the time that any outside contract is in effect for work which could be done by the Company’s own
mechanics, no regular mechanic will be transferred out or laid off, nor scheduled for less than a five (5) day. work week. An exception will apply when work is fabricated elsewhere in order to secure the materials.
This does not in any sense limit the number of regular mechanics to be carried by the Company. The Company agrees that whenever it is necessary to have work done by outside contractors, Union labour will be procured if available in the city, provided other considerations such as quality or workmanship, cost and service are satisfactory.
(b) The Company agrees to notify the Chief Steward. and the Maintenance Department Steward before a contract is “Let” for such work. This is for the purpose of informing them so that the steward can answer questions ifj'they should arise when “outside” workers come into the plant.
EXCEPTION
(C) This section will^ not apply during a planned Christmas and New Year's sche'dule, However, outside contractors will not perform work covered under the contract.
(d)	The Company will meet with the International
Representative and the Union Negotiating Committee quarterly to review oiltside contracting experience.
It is agreed that, during the period between the reviews, no regular employee will be laid off as the result of an outside contract for work that the bargaining unit is currently doing and employees are qualified to perform that work.
(e)	The Company agrees to notify the Union 48 hours before
any work is started by an outside contractor unless equipment in production is down or will not be starting as scheduled or we do not have the required skills, and the Company has utilized all qualified resources.
If the Company faiIsVi"gwv'pTffpc”ntA,:ec under paragraph
three above the Company will either leave the job down until 48 hours has elapsed and proper notification is provided or complete the job with bargaining unit employees.
(f)	In the event the Company uses off-site warehouses in the
London area for storage of its product, the off-site warehouse will not ship directly to customers, unless staffed by American Federation of Grain Millers, Local 154 bargaining unit employees.
It is the intent of the Company and the Union through this process to work towards cost effective methods of operation, without undermining the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE V SENIORITY
SECTION 5:01 *
Plantwide seniority as used herein shall mean the period reflected .bythe Company’s employment records of an employee's continuous service in the plant.
In determining plantwide seniority where such seniority is equal, the alphabetical order of the employee's surname, at date of hire, shall govern.
It is agreed that, with respect to lay-offs, recalls, transfers, bidding promotion or demotions, plantwide seniority will be utilized.
s-7_______
A- ft
9
SECTION 5:02
For purposes of administration, the plant shall be divided into
departments as designated under Classifications Article VIII,
RECORD Or sENTKfKn'7''
SECTION 5:03
To certify the period of continuous service, the Company records will be the determining factor. The Company will publish and post on its Bulletin Board, quarterly, a seniority list. If an error is not protested within two (2) weeks, the records will be considered conclusively correct. This shall not limit the rights of employees to secure a correction of their seniority date if not protested as above but shall limit the rights of employees to grieve over any action taken while the error existed on layoff, recalling or distributing overtime.
An hourly employee who accepts a salaried position with the Company, would not continue to accumulate seniority within the bargaining unit after being out for two (2) yurt.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
SECTION 5:04
An employee will lose seniority and employment will be terminated under any of the following circumstances:
(a)	If employee voluntarily quits employment with the Company.
(b)	If dischargedfoi jmt x'truvt'initi1 ts~a(icteiavibt&rptii»uant to
the grievance procedure.
(e) If absent from work without leave for three consecutive days, unless there was reasonable justification for such absence; or if an employee obtains a leave of absence for the purpose of accepting unaifftnmzefc eTnjAuyTnerfti or if an employee overstays a leave of absence or vacation for more than three (3) consecutive days, unless there was reasonable justification for such overstay. Where illness or injury is claimed as a reasonable justification, the Company may require certification by a Company doctor. If a dispute should arise out of the operation of this clause it will be decided by additional medical consultation in accordance with procedure outlined in Section 5:21.
10
(d)	If the employee has been off work for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more, for reasons other than established cases of bona fide illness, accident, injury, or approved leave of absence.
(e)	The Union’s Chief Steward will be notified forty-eight (48) hours before terminating employment and continuous service record for reasons covered in paragraph (c). This is for the purpose of permitting a personal contact, if desired, and consideration of special circumstances, if necessary.
(f)	It is understood that a probationary employee or a student may be terminated at any time at the sole discretion of management. Such termination shall be deemed for just cause and shall not be reviewable in any manner by any Arbitrator or Arbitration Board appointed under the Collective Agreement or the Labour Relations Act.
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES AND STUDENT UTILIZATION
SECTION 5:05
(a) An employee will be considered probationary for the first
^ten (10) weeks of employment. During the period or periods when an employee is regarded as a probationary employee, rhe Company will not be responsible for the continuation of employment, or for re-employment, and such employee shall ^0 not have recourse to the grievance procedure until after the tenth week. A week, for the purpose of this section, shall be counted as any week during which the employee shall have worked ttact \V, 'kvyi'v. mvit. If as asipteyes’s sasvices are satisfactory to the Company during the probationary period, at the completion of such period, he/she will attain the status of a regular employee, will be placed on the seniority lists, and will be given a seniority date as of the commencement of the original employment, unless a‘ continuous period of three (3) months intervenes prior to completion of the probationary period.
(b) Students will be utilized for vacation and temporary assignment for training or absent regular employees between May 1 St and September 30 and they will have no seniority rights or right to the grievance procedure.
(O No emplo'yee (student and probationary) may waive a recall during the term of the Agreement.
u
It is understood that students and probationary employees will not accumulate any seniority rights.
STUDENT UTILIZATION OCTOBER THROUGH TO APRIL 30TI1.
jruy'.«Uo be 'lO.Uted <n.	absent enn^lnyeas. on.a
one fot one basis during this period under the following guidelines.
I- Student help will not be used until all regular employees have had the opportunity in their own department and there are no Out of the Department employees available for extra shifts, or daily opportunities.
If regular employees are not available for voluntary daily overtime then students may be called in for an eight hour shift.
2. Student help will be used on the shift where vacancies occur. Preferred shift will be granted to regular employees if possible.
A student is defined as a person who has attended a full-time educational institute and will be returning for further studies.
SECTION 5:06
LAY OFF
During the slack period when it is necessary to make staff reductions in a department, the employee(s) to be laid off will be selected according to his / her plant seniority rights and his /her ability, and qualifications to perform the work at hand. The Chief Steward will be notified in advance if a layoff or recall is to be out-of-line of seniority order.
RECALL FROM LAYOFF
SECTION 5:07
(a)

o
In making recalls to a department, the senior laid off employee who has acquired seniority will be entitled to
recall to a department other than his/her regular department
in advance of a junior employee providing he/she has the necessary skill and ability to perform satisfactorily the work that is available.
12
(b)	When the Company requires additional employees it will recall qualified employees from layoff rather than work overtime.
(c)	The Company will identify itself initially when telephoning an employee or leaving a message on the answering machine.
The following procedure will be utilized when employees are being called in from layoff:
(i)	The employees that are on the call-in list should be
telephoned only once.
(ii)	Should an employee not be available for work either because of no answer or unable to accept the call-in he/she will be by-passed and not called again until his/her turn arises after a full rotation.
During the time when the Company is using the call-in list to get employees back from lay-off; a recording from an answering machine will be considered as a contact and the employee will be by-passed.
TIME TO ACCEPT RECALL
SECTION 5:08
mi employee oil long term (thirty (30) days of more) layoff
status, upon notification of recall to work, shall have not more than twenty-four hours from receipt of such written notice in which to decide whether to accept the recall. If it is not accepted, he/she will be dropped from the recall list and continuous service cancelled. Up to fifteen days will be granted if time is required for making necessary arrangements for return to work. The Company is not responsible for notification of recall from layoff 11 vi.'i	give proper notice to the Company
of current address and telephone number where he/she may be reached.
An employee is responsible for checking the schedules for his/her next scheduled shift, if they are absent from work for sickness, vacation and short term lay-off (one (1) to five (5) days).
If an employee with ten (10) years or more of seniority who is on long term lay-off as defined above, he/she will be offered training as follows:
a) First on a position where a junior employee could be displaced within ten (10) weeks in their own department.
13
b) If not available on a positron where a junior employee could be displaced within ten (10) weeks in another department.
DEPARTMENT REALIGNMENT SECTION 5:09
As layoffs occur, realignment according to seniority and qualifications shall occur. That is, employees will not be laid off when they are qualified for a transfer to a different department unless they would be required to work consecutive shifts.
EXCEPTION
This section and all overtime departmental procedures do not apply in the event of an interruption of production beyond the control of the London Plant.
LAYOFF FROM A DEPARTMENT
SECTION 5:10
When employees are scheduled to be laid off from their regular department, those with sufficient seniority to work will be assigned to jobs in-the following manner:
(a)	Vacancies in other departments ■ For the start of a work
week the senior unscheduled employees will be assigned to available jobs in seniority order to the highest rated open jobs for which they are qualified on their regular shift or secondly to an off shift if necessary. When possible, the assignment will be made to permit return to their own shift and department if recalled during the week.
(b)	Bumping - Employees who do not have sufficient seniority
to be assigned to available work in other departments will
replace the junior employees scheduled for work on jobs for which the senior employees have the qualifications and ability to perform the work.
HIRING NEW EMPLOYEES
SECTION 5:11
No new employees will be hired until all regular employees temporarily laid off have been offered an opportunity to return to work if they have the skill and ability for the opportunity that is available.
14
ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS SECTION 5:12
(a)	Elected Officers of the Union who may be called upon to
transact business for the Union which requires their absence from duty with the Company shall, upon application and six (6) h ours notice to the proper representative of the Company, be allowed to absent themselves sufficient time f,'1, to transact such business. The Company will likewise/ . cooperate, if requested three (3) days in advance, by */ excusing up to (3) employees who may be selected by the Union, to serve as delegates at a conference or convention for the Union, providing satisfactory arrangements can be made for their replacement.
(b)	Any regular employee who may be elected to political office . or appointed to the Canadian Labour Congress and/or provincial body or an office in the International UniojK^T which will require the employee to be absent from work with / the Company for an extended period of time shall be granted
a leave of absence without pay to serve in such office. At the expiration of such term of office, employee shall be reinstated to former classification including all seniority rights. It is understood that in case of the return of such an employee, other employees will consent to such demotions as are necessary to make room for said employee.
BIDDING PROCEDURE
SECTION 5:13
Definition of Departmental Opening and Procedures:
(a)	An opening shall occur when a regular employee on a job classification as listed in Section 8:07, leaves such job classification for any reason, and future operation would require replacement to fill the jobs which are operating.
Determination will be made, in not more than thirty days, as to Whether a job is to be considered as temporary or permanent.
Vacancies related to advertising or promotional programs would not be posted.
(b)	Announcements of vacancies will be posted on all
designated Company bulletin boards from Wednesday noon until the following Monday noon and will include
15
information about job classification, rate and number of vacancies. In the event there is a holiday within the week of the posting, the Company will extend the posting for an additional day. Any regular employee of the department may apply ^A'.hir .’.hr Airr* sAVattfi tompltUr.j tht designated job bid form.
An employee interested in bidding will complete the bid form, take same to the First Line Supervisor in the department where the vacancy exists. The Supervisor will explain details of the job to the applicant and affix his/her signature to the bid form and return the bid form to the applicant. The applicant will then deliver the completed bid form to the Employee Relations Office, or the Health Centre, where an authorized staff member will accept the bid form, sign it and return the receipt.
(c) It is agreed that an employee accepting a bid job shall not be allowed to bid on another job until completing th^ qualifying period defined in Section 8:02, unless he/she is removed from the job because of inability to qualify, or because the position has not been actively utilized for an eight week period.
Employees who currently hold qualifications on a job listed in Section 8:07, which has not significantly changed, will not be required to complete another qualifying period.
It is agreed that if the qualifications of a departmental bid position are a part of the qualifications of a related bid position, the employee would be allowed the opportunity to bid on that position, however, he/she must complete both qualifying periods. This does not apply to apprenticeship programs.
Employees are not allowed to switch jobs or shifts on a permanent basis.
(d)
In filling job openings for department vacancies, the Company will award the senior eligible employee who has the skill, qualifications, and ability required to learn and perform the work involved. The selection will be made within five working days after the_posting is terminated, unless a longer period is necessary to complete aptitude testing, as provided in Section 8:04, and the name posted of the applicant selected.
16
An employee who bids to another position may be held by the Company for up tq ten (10) weeks however, if the posting is the result of the Company adding a new product line or introduces a significant change in methods of operations, then this period could be extended.
In this event the Company would discuss in advance the circumstances with the Chief Steward.
Trade employees will be held for up to ten (10) weeks from the date of hire if the replacement is a new employee.
(e)	“A“ Industrial Mechanics in the Packaging Department will be allowed the first opportunity to bid Packaging Millwright Apprenticeship in the Maintenance Department and will be credited with two (2) years of training in that trade.
They must demonstrate their ability to apply the training, they hare received, >h? iVMrovwvs1 frees the apprenticeship,' program and returned to their former position.
(f)	For the replacement, or addition, of “A” Industrial Packaging Mechanic the following procedure .will be utilized:
The initial posting will be bid departmentally as an “A” Industrial Mechanic. If there are no bids the position will be posted plant-wide for a qualified “A” Industrial Mechanic. If the position remains vacant the Company would post plant-wide for an Industrial Mechanic “Trainee”.
It is understood that “A” Industrial Mechanic will be equalized on all three shifts according to established procedures.
(8) The U ti I ity/S weeper and Dressing Room Attendant positions on 3-11 and 11-7 shifts in the Plant Service department will be bid as fixed shifts.
SECTION 5:14
Employees on vacation, or temporarily absent (which will not exceed six (6) weeks from the date the job is to be awarded) due to illness, injury, lay-off or leave of absence, may apply for job openings by notifying the Employee Relations office. However, the Company is not obligated to give notice of those openings to such employees.
17
OPPORTUNITIES FOR TRANSFER TO ANOTHER DEPARTMENT
SECTION 5:15
Opportunities for transfer to another department will be handled according to the same procedure defined in Section 5: 13.
SECTION 5:16
Opportunities for temporary transfer may be available as part of the porting and bidding procedure, dependent on each individual
case and will not exceed six (6) months.
Circumstances will be reviewed with the Union prior to the decision being finalized.
Temporary Relief-position(s) which replace absenteeism or vacation situations in Plant Service, Maintenance ,or Gluer Operator, will be posted as temporary relief for group one (1) classification or less in accordance with the agreement between the parties.
DISQUALIFICATION ■ CLASSIFICATION 2 & 3 SECTION 5:17
An employee permanently transferred who fails to qualify as regular member of a new department as set forth in Section 8:02, Classification 2, and 3, will be returned to his/her former department, shift and job.
SECTION 5:18
The Company’s records of transfers and posting procedure results will be available for inspection, as necessary, by any Union Steward.
It is agreed that tho Company will be free to select employees to fill openings or positions which do not come under the jurisdiction of this Agreement without such selections being subject to review in the grievance procedure.
18
PROTEST OF WORK ASSIGNMENT SECTION 5:20
Employees in any classification are required to perform any duties to which they may be reasonably assigned. In event of any protest regarding work assign™'!"'., the work will be performed without delay or interference, and supervision will investigate the problem without undue delay, during-that Shift. Normally this contact will be made during the first halfof the shift.
The Company, Union, and employees will comply with the regulations as stated in the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
TRANSFER DUE TO DISABILITY SECTION 5:21
Any employee becoming unable to perform the duties to which he/she is assigned as a result of infinnities of age or-disability will be transferred by the Company to any job at the regular job rate for such job, providing his/her plant seniority is sufficient and only for the duration of the disability.
This employee shall become a regular member of the shift and department and will not be required to bid the assigned position. The junior employee of the assigned shift will be displaced as a result of the above including a person already disabled, provided another 5:21 position is not available.
Employee(s) displaced by the above will retain departmental bidding rights for regular or temporary positions for a period of two years. Such displaced employees will be utilized in the department before bid temporary employees are used provided they are available.
The existence of such disabilities will be certified by the Company doctor.
iran employee'is* inSVai i s nt'd- w (hr u.€ 'tr&nrp'a'.i} doctor s diagnosis or recommendations, employee may consult his/her own personal physician at his/her own expense. Employee’sown doctor's findings would then be furnished to the Company. If the Company still wants to make the change in a job, a third doctor would be selected by the Comapny’s doctor and the employee's doctor. The decision of the third doctor would be accepted by both parties.
19
Employees with short term disabilities (certified by the Company doctor) will be assigned to positions on a weekly basis, as they’ become available.
When an employee is under a work restriction covered by a doctor’s certificate and is on an overtime assignment., the employee cannot displace another bid employee to accommodatj the overtime.
SCHEDULED, SECTION 5:22
FOR LESS THAN 40 HOURS
(a)	Except for weeks which include the holidays covered by
Section 6:11, employee with less than four years’ service will be laid off from their departments prior to employees who remain in the department being scheduled for less than forty hours.
Employees so displaced will immediately exercise their seniority in other departments where they are able to perform the available work.
This section and all overtime departmental procedures do not apply in the event of an interruption of production beyond the control of the London Plant.
(b)	The Company will not be expected to operate this clause in a manner which would conflict with a special training program, provided, however, that a trainee shall not be kept on at the expense of laying off a senior employee in that particular department.
SECTION 5:23
The following system for scheduling Packaging, and Warehouse employees is not to be interpreted in conflict with other provisions of the contract:
(a)	Shifts 1 & 2 shall alternate weekly.
(b)	The 3rd shift shall be composed as follows:
1.	Those who prefer that shift as a regular assignment.
2.	Those employees with insufficient seniority to maintain a place on shifts one or two.
20
(c)	Employees who are not required on their regular job will be scheduled to available work for which they are qualified before being scheduled off shift or out of department.
However when scheduling employees on other than their regular shift, in order to provide 5 days of work if available in a week (or 5 days' pay in a week in which a holiday occurs), every attempt will be made to place them on a shift on the first day of the work week in their classification or to available work for which they are qualified. Employees would return to their regular shift and job the next day or as soon as possible.
(d)	Opportunities within a department to move to a more
favourable shift shall be administered according to Section 6:03 (d\. Where an employee is required on a less favourable shift, the most junior employee will be assigned.
(#) Employees will have the preference of returning to their regular shift on any day of the week, when the opportunity occurs, before other employees exercise their option under the above.
(f)	In cases of crew reduction in a department, junior
employees will leave their regular department first. In making recalls to a department, the most senior of those so displaced shall be recalled first or as soon as possible.
(g)	Unscheduled employees who are recalled from layoff will
work where an opening occurs. Adjustments considering seniority and qualifications will be made on the day of the recall when possible and no later than the day following the day of recall.
(h)	When available, the privilege of being excused early
will be offered to the senior regular member of the shift who asks to be excused within the two hours of the shift start time.
(i)	The administration of the repack position will be done by warehouse supervision.
The repack position is not part of the Warehouse and will not be required to provide relief for the sorting table, or hold any bidding or overtime rights in this department.
Additional labour for this area will be secured and scheduled from the Packing Department. Packing Operators assigned to the repack area will share in the overtime of their classification and return to their department as required.
21
<j> If the Company has additional labour requirements in the Packaging Maintenance department,	Industrial
Mechanics who are surplus to their job would be canvassed by seniority to provide assistance.
The Industrial Mechanics will not carry the pager or answer calls alone. but assist Trades on a one on one basis.
SECTION 5:24
PROCEDURE FOR SCHEDULING FLOATERS
Floaters will be scheduled on Friday for the following week in seniority order to the highest hourly rated job available.
Rotation to a more preferential shift will be considered when floaters are scheduled as in #1 above and assigned, whenever possible, but not in conflict with #1.
Any job that has been posted plant wide and not claimed will be assigned to the senior floater who has been on the floaters list for one year or more.
ARTICLE VI HOURS OF WORK
SECTION 6:01
For the purpose of pay computations, the work week Will commence at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday.
SECTION 6:02
(a) The regular hours of work and shifts of operation will be:
Day Shifts l st Shift 2nd Shift 3rd Shift
8:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m, 11:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. I 1:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.
Weekend Worker "DM and "E" Shift	7:00 a.m.
"D" and "E" Shift	7:00 p.m.
Crews alternate shifts weekly.
7:00 p.m. a.m.
22
^y/^y
provide for instances that necessitate exceptions be made in order to ensure sufficient and continuous plant operations.
Effective ApriLl<lth1»I222<nl I overtime, over eight (8) in a day or beyond the nonnal forty (40) hour work week including Holidays li^tfdjn Section 6:11 will be on a voluntary basis. '	"
DOUBLE BACK
(c)	In the event that employees are scheduled to work a full shift after “Doubling Back" without having had sixteen (16) hours free lima kttwtts .shift®, they will be paid hour
extra at straight time.
EXCEPTION
The one hour will slot apply when reporting for regular shift after working overtime the previous day or if premium rate is being paid'or if the double hack in .arranged at employee’s request.
PREFERRED SHIFT POLICY
(d)	An employee who has signed the appropriate list and is eligible for a preferred shift opening will be assigned in . rotation.
Opportunities within a department to move to a more favourable shift shall be divided as equally as possible among all qualified employees who have registered for such opportunities.
If the required number are not secured as above, the opportunity will be offered the junior employee in seniority order and, if necessary, the junior employee will be required to accept the assignment. Daily and weekly opportunities will be recorded separately.
Daily and wnkly preferred shift lists will be posted on the bulletin board Wednesday with the names of employees next entitled to more favourable shift opportunities, if such opportunities are expected to occur. Those wishing to accept the opportunities may do so by signing their name in-
24
If an employee is utilized in this manner he/she will be deemed qualified for future overtime opportunities on this specific job.
(c)	Qualified employees will be by-passed and charged if absent due to illness, layoff, vacation, leave of absence, or being excused.
(d)	Normally an employee who is temporarily out of department would be eligible for extra shifts in own department if available. Employees shall not work two consecutive shifts to receive an extra shift but will be by-passed and not charged.
Employees working 3rd shift at their own request will be charged. Employees unavailable because they are working 3rd shift will not be charged.
(e)	In determining shift assignment for extra shifts, the
following rule will apply:
The 1st shift will be worked by the crew scheduled for first shift that week. The same rule will apply to 2nd and 3rd Shift.
Should extra crew be required, preference will be given to 1st and 2nd shifts before taking employees from 3rd shift.
(f)	Regular day shift employees will not share in the extra shift or overtime work normally performed by rotating shift employees nor will regular rotating shift employees share extra shifts or overtime work normally performed by regular day shift employees except when relieving for vacation or illness.
1.	Employees will not necessarily be transferred from one shift to another within a department for the sole purpose of balancing extra shift credits.
2.	Records of hours charged on extra days including the previous three (3) weeks will be posted on Bulletin Boards weekly. Hours charged for call-in assignments will not be charged to the extra day Records.
3.	(I) Employees who wish to work on extra shift assigmnents
must “Book On" by 10:00 A.M. Tuesday of each week. In weeks in which Monday is a Holiday “Book OnsH must be in by 10:00 A.M. Wednesday.
26
(VIII)NON CHARGING OF HOURS
i. When an employee receives a weekly preferred shift, but does not work at least three days on the preferred shift, he/she would not be charged the hours for a missed Sunday extra shift (during that week) which results from him/her being scheduled on the preferred shift.
ii) When an employee misses an extra shift, as a result of being involved in training, he/she would not be charged the hours for the missed extra shift.
(g)	OUT OF DEPARTMENT OVERTIME
Extra shifts will be divided as equally as possible under the
following guidelines:
1.	The overtime list will be compiled in descending order by seniority.
2.	The person lowest in hours will be assigned the “extra shift” in the same manner as outlined in Section 6:04 (c) and (e) of the collective agreement.
3.	Hours will be charged in the same manner as the department in which the employee worked the assignment.
4.	If an employee is absent without a bona fide reason for two assignments during a year, they will be removed from the list and will be required to discuss the matter with the Employee Relations Department before considered back on the list.
5.	Employee scheduled on 11-7 could be scheduled on a 7-12 cleanup shift Saturday, if booked on.
DAILY OPPORTUNITIES
SECTION 6:05
When employees are needed for daily overtime, selection will be made in rotation from the list of employees of the shift in the department who have “Booked On” and are qualified for the assignments. Daily overtime assignments will be reported on a separate list for each shift as “opportunities” rather than in actual hours worked and persons unqualifies for assignments will be
28
by-passed and charged, Employees on temporary bid assignments would share daily overtime according to seniority and qualifications.
If sufficient employees are not secured in the normal selection, then any employee who is capable may be assigned or scheduled on that shift.
If an employee is utilized in this manner he/she will be deemed qualified for future overtime opportunities on this specific job.
Those accepting such assignments but failing to report as scheduled would he charged f«?r two opportunities.
Daily overtime of two (2T hours or less would not be charged or recorded.
DAILY OPPORTUNITY STAY OVER
(a)	Employees who volunteer to work beyond his/her regular shift hours without one hour notice shall be paid double time for all hours worked, unless he/she is replacing an absent employee.
EXCEPTION
When an opportunity for daily overtime occurs prior to the employee’s next scheduled shift, an employee off ill or excused will not be called, and would be charged and by-passed.
DAILY OPPORTUNITY CALL-INS
(b)	1) Employees called in over and above the scheduled number of employees will be paid double the straight time rate for the extra hours worked.
EXCEPTION
2) Section 6.05 (b) (1) will not apply if the call-in is a
result of absenteeism, or recall from lay-off.
29
NORMAL DAILY OPPORTUNITY CALL-IN
3) Employees who are called to report for work early ahead of their scheduled shift will be paid one hour of straight time in addition to time and one-half for the actual hours worked preceding their regular shift.
DAILY OPPORTUNITY ■ NOTIFIED OF SCHEDULE
(c)	Employees who are notified the previous day to report for work early ahead of their scheduled shift on the next day or are receiving fltnrtfte'foiE TtfguiVr rjit; will not be paid the “one hour reporting time" referred to in Section (b)(3) above.
If sufficient Industrial Mechanics are not available to cover the overtime opportunities, two “A” Industrial Mechanics will be assigned the responsibilities of three Packing lines which are in close proximity supported with an assigned help.
The assigned help will be responsible for loading cartons into the magazines, placing cases, filling glue pots, clearing jam-ups, line clean-up, etc.
This procedure will not be utilized to overcome a continuing shortage of Industrial Mechanics.
RECORDING OVERTIME HOURS SECTION 6:06
The extra shift, daily opportunities, and shift preference lists will continue from year to year in sequence.
PROCEDURE FOR EMPLOYEE CALL-IN SECTION 6:07
On extra shift and daily overtime assignments, employees will be charged on the work list when their turn comes for an assigmnent, regardless of whether they work or not, subject to provisions of Section 6:04.
30
Employees who expect to be called for such extra assignments will be responsible for keeping their telephone numbers up to date on their Pcrsnnnf.I Records.
The Company will initially identify itself when telephoning an employee for a daily opportunity, whether it is a direct contact or via an answering machine.
The telephone system will automatically record the number called in, the date, the time of the call, and the duration of the telephone call.
TA AT/wr	e>n.ooppdi,ru7.v.5aj-e/'-efvf-_fh.p call_ the
following procedure will be utilized:
(a)	The first call will be for one minute duration from the time of the ring or busy signal.
(b)	If a second call is required, there will be a one minute
interval between calls and the same procedure followed in
(a)	above.
(c)	No more than two calls will be made to any one person.
Any dispute pertaining to a questionable call will be reviewed with the Employee Relations Department and the Chief Steward.
OVERTIME UNBROKEN HOURS SECTION 6:08
When employees are called in to work overtime and have not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since the completion of their last regular W'\slri<?.?e,np«rvt such employees shall not continue
working into the next regular day. The Company will not allow employees to work more than twelve (12) hours in a twenty-four hour period unless:
(a)	It is an emergency.
(b)	Employees are on a double back
(c)	Employees are on second and third shift and staying for a five hour extra shift.
(d)	Employees were attending a meeting of two (2) hours or
less, before or after a shift.
31
NO OVERTIME OFFSET
SECTION 6:09
Employees who have been called in for overtime work, over and above their regularworkday, will not he required to take time off, during the remainder of the workweek to offset such overtime.
SECTION 6:10 Maintenance Department
1.	REGULAR SHIFTS
Regular shifts - The regular Maintenance Department shifts
b)
are
Core Shift	8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m,
Shift 1 (Day Shift)
Shift 2 (Afternoons)
Shift 3 (Nights)
Powerhouse shifts
8:00 a.m.
8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. - Midnight Midnight - 8:00 a.m. as amended February 16, 1986 to provide 24 hour coverage per day year round.
Normal Start-up Shifts for trades and storeskeepers are: 3:00 p.m. to midnight SUNDAY
11:00 p.m. SUNDAY - 8:00 a.m. MONDAY (9 hours at double time)
7:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. MONDAY (1st hour at double time, 8 hours at regular time)
NOTE: Some start-up shifts may be of shorter duration to accommodate operational schedules. (Start-up shift may be delayed one day on holiday weekends).
(c) Staffing of Regular Shifts • Maintenance employees will be assigned as either “Shift“ or “Core” employees.
“SHIFT” employees are scheduled for production or start-up support on any day.
Shift employees who do not work their shifts as scheduled -time of day - for at least three weekdays are considered as “Core” employees.
“CORE” employees are employees scheduled for maintenance work on a day shift.
n
d)	Corn Mill • 1 Millwright - days only
The company reserves all rights as defined under Section 4.01 of the Collective Agreement which includes the Company’s right to adjust shift staffing.
e)	Special Shifts • The Company reserves the right to schedule Special Shifts as required to complete a major project or to take advantage of downtime on production equipment.
These shifts would be scheduled for a one-week duration. Selection of trades people would be completed one week in advance (except in case of emergency).
Employee selection will be based on:
i)	Canvass non-rotating trade members for volunteers to fill Special Shifts, or
ii)	Fill shift requirements on basis of inverse seniority
with the condition that no trade member will be required to work two consecutive weeks off day shift.
f)	Shift Vacancies. Temporary Replacements ■ Shift vacancies as a result of vacation, illness, leave of.absence, training, union business, jury duty, or funeral leave will be filled by the junior non-rotating trade member who may be assigned as “shift” employee every week, subject to working off day shift only every other week (provided the number of employees permits).
If two or more shift vacancies occur on a simultaneous basis, the more senior assigned non-rotating trade member will receive his choice of the vacancies.
Replacements to cover unscheduled vacancies of short duration will be arranged as follows, at the Company’s discretion:
i)	Coverage on an overtime basis - twelve-hour shifts (generally used to cover one-shift vacancies)
-	replacements who stay over beyond regular shifts are paid time and a half (1 1/2) for hours worked beyond regular shifts.
-	replacements scheduled during a regular shift to report for work early ahead of their next scheduled shift
33
are paid time and a half (1 1/2) for actual hours worked
preceding their regular shift.
-	replacements called to report early ahead of their next scheduled shift are paid time and a half (1 1/2) for actual hours worked preceding their .'tfg&’A&'.'shif; plus one hour’s pay for reporting.
ii)	Coverage by junior non-rotating employees (generally used for two or more consecutive shift vacancies).
iii)	No Coverage
-	Should the Company elect not to provide a replacement, but should it be necessary to call in an employee from the call-in list for the purpose Of correcting a specific breakdown, the employee called in is paid for a “Daily Opportunity Call-in”.
iv)	Full shift coverage with selection from the call-in list (generally used when vacancy is filled off (fay shift by Shift Maintenance Supervisor).
-	replacements called in from the call-in list for an
entire shift for ASw p&vpese af juv'ering calls are paid
time and a half (1 1/2) for the shift plus one hour’s pay
for reporting.
v)	Powerhouse
-	for unscheduled vacancies of one shift duration, extend preceding and following shifts to 12-hour shifts.
-	for vacancies if known in advance: assign day relief employee, or use employee scheduled off and low in
hours subject to employee not working, more than 12 hours in a 24 hour period.
g)	Shift Vacancies: Permanent Replacements - A vacancy shall, occur if a regular employee leaves a shift position, or if future operations require additional shift coverage. A vacancy will not be filled if future operations do not require the shift coverage.
Such vacancies shall be posted according to Section 5:13 of the agreement.
34
h)	Miscellaneous Items
i)	No machinists are provided off day shift; hence Millwrights are required to complete minor machining operations within their own capabilities (and subject to ensuring personal safety and safety of others) as required to keep production equipment running.
ii)	On regular afternoon and night shifts, work priorities for breakdowns are determined by Maintenance Shift Supervisors.
iii)	All trade employees on afternoon and night shifts will
prepare daily a log of work performed for review by the trade supervisor.
iv)	If operations require reassignment of Millwrights or Packaging Maintenance Millwrights in excess of one month, the requirements will be posted as temporary positions. The selected employee(s) will be added to extra shift list(s) and given the same charges as the next senior employee, and added to the call-in list(s).
If insufficient employee(s) apply, the junior qualified employee(s) will be assigned to fill the vacancies, and added to the extra shift and call-in lists.
For requirements of one week or less, junior Millwrights or Packaging Maintenance Millwrights will be assigned; however, this will not change their status in respect to over time lists.
v)	No employee will be allowed to work more than sixteen hours In a t.wenty-four hour period. The twenty-four hour period will commence at the start of their regular scheduled shift or the first hour of the overtime, whichever occurs first.
Any employee who works sixteen hours in a twenty-four hour period must have eight hours unbroken time off before he/she is eligible to work further hours.
vi)	The opportunity for double backs or preferred shifts will be divided equally as possible in rotation to eligible employees who have registered for such opportunities.
35
2.	DAILY OPPORTUNITY STAY-OVER
a)	Day shift work will be passed to the afternoon shift where practical. In situations where this is not practical, day shift employees may volunteer to complete the assignment. Where necessary, a day shift employee may be requested to stay over a sufficient length of time to familiarize an afternoon shift employee.
b)	The Company will ask the employee that is on a scheduled shift/core assignment in the plant to either stay over or come in early for shift support.
i)	The rights and responsibility of core will be from 4;00 a.m. through to 8:00 p.m. for daily opportunity for all assignments, except to replace shift absenteeism. The 4:00 a.m. through 8:00 a m. daily opportunity will be scheduled primarily for crewing start-ups over and above the full shift support compliment.
j() The rights and responsibility of the shift group will be for a 4-hour opportunity before or after their shift to replace absenteeism and a 4-hour opportunity after their shift to complete a job assignment carried over from 2nd or 3rd shift.
c)	Employees will be assigned to daily opportunity stay-over at the Company’s discretion, on the basis of:
i)	first, job continuation
ii)	selection of volunteer(s) in rotation from the daily opportunity sign-up list
in) selection of volunteers through a canvas of other employees readily located and as time permits
d)	Afternoon shift employees may stay over at the
Company’s request to complete an assignment, unless the supervisor decides to call employees from the call-in list in which case afternoon shift employees will stay over until replacements arrive.
e)	Any employee who volunteers to work beyond his/her regular shift without one hour notice will be paid double time for all hours worked, unless replacing an absent employee, The timing of the request, not the acceptance, will be the determining factor in whether
36
employees are paid time and a half (1 1/2) or double
time for stay-over beyond regular shift hours.
f)	Powerhouse -'employees will be assigned based on:
j)	day shift - assign maintenance employee first, then relief employee, then operator presently on shift
jj) afternoon/night shift - assign operator presently on shift
. Employees will be asked to stay for up to a maximum of four (4) hours after their regular shift.
Should continued work be required beyond the twelve (12) hour point and there is insufficient shift and call-in coverage, employees will be given the opportunity to work beyond the twelve (12) hour point up to a maximum of sixteen (16) hours.
3.	DAILY OPPORTUNITY CALL-IN
a)	Additional employees will be called in on afternoon or night shifts if the Company decides that the breakdown requires additional manpower or expertise, and that the breakdown cannot wait until the following day shift.
b)	i) The company will make an out-of-plant telephone
call to the employee from the call-in list, in rotation for the overtime assignment to a maximum of 16 hours in a 24 hour period.
ii) When an employee is called in to provide shift relief because the scheduled employee for that shift is in on a call-in, the shift relief employee called in will provide shift coverage until the scheduled shift employee has finished the call-in and he/she will be offered the opportunity to return to his/her scheduled shift and the employee called in to replace him/her will comply with #3, (G).
Shift employees on call-in are not considered absent; if replacement shift employees are required they must be arranged through the call-in list and paid at double time.
d) Selection of additional employees will be made from the call-in rotation list. The call-in list:
37
j) will include all employees with "B" trade status or higher (but exclude probationary employees)
jj) will be kept in strict alphabetical order iii) will be revised each Friday
e)
f)
g)
h)
J
k)
iv) is perpetual
If all available employees are called on the call-in list, and all decline, “last man” called will remain as if no calls were made, even if an employee who is marked as “do not call” accepts.
When a maintenance employee is called in out-of-line, a maintenance department steward will be advised of the reason as soon as possible; in the event the steward is unavailable, the employee(s) by-passed will be notified. If it is anticipated that an employee will be called in out-of-line, the steward will be notified in advance of the call-in.
Any employee who, after having completed his/her call-in assignment has less than eight hours before the start of his/her normal shift, may exercise the following options, subject to working not more than 16 hours in a 24 hour period:
i)	complete an additional 8 hours, or any part of the 8 hours at straight time before going home;
ii)	go home and report at his/her normal starting time;
iii) go home and report at any time during his/her regular 8 hours for the day.
Any employee(s) presently working a “call-in'’ may be asked to stay and complete an additional assignment. If the employee(s) decline, another employee will be selected through the call-in procedure.
(except to cover absenteeism) will be paid at double time (4 hours minimum pay) until completion of the job.
Powerhouse employees will be selected as follows:
- call employee lowest in hours among maintenance, relief, day operator, or employee(s) scheduled off.
Call-ins on Saturday, Sunday or Holidays are recorded
38
but not charged (Powerhouse has one list for all overtime).
4.	EXTRA SHIFTS
Definition • an “extra shift” is any shift or split shift scheduled for a department on a Saturday, Sunday, or Holiday.
A “split shift” is normally for a minimum of four (4) hours at the start or prior to the end of the shift unless it is a startup shift which is of a shorter period depending on the job and department.
A)	Book On
a)	Employees are required to book on their assigned shifts only - “Shifts” and “Core”.
b)	Employees will be considered as volunteers for
other shifts, or core assignments if they indicate their availability.
B)	Staffing of Extra Shifts
a) “Shift” vs. “Core” • “Shift” employees and “Core” employees are considered as separate groups in administering extra shift overtime. The extra shift list will group employees assigned as “shift” by each shift and “core”.
i) “Shift” employees have first opportunity for extra shifts for their given shifts of the week only. (Note: “Shift” employees who do not work their shifts as scheduled • time of day • for at least three (3) weekdays are considered as “Core”).
jj) “Shift” employees surplus from their given shifts are generally not eligible (see volunteer replacement) for extra shifts of other production support shifts, and are only considered for “Core” extra shifts after all “Core” employees have had an opportunity, and if they indicate their availability.
39
iii)	Core employees scheduled for extra shifts “on core” have all rights and responsibilities to au extended or additional assignment that may develop.
Shift employees scheduled for extra shifts “on shift”, have all rights and responsibilities to an extended or additional shift that may develop.
Any employee who trades for, a full week will assume all rights and responsibilities for any extra shifts during that week; however, if the trade is for less than a week, the originally assigned employee will retain the rights and responsibilities for extra shifts of that week.
In cases of temporary replacements for shift vacancies, the employee normally assigned retains the rights and responsibilities for extra shifts, if available, and if not absent for all regular shifts. Junior non-rotating temporary replacements will be considered as core employees, when relieved of temporary shift assignments.
Employees scheduled for extra shifts may decline a portion of the shift, without charge, if they worked a “stay-over’’ or “call-in” during the six hours preceding the scheduled extra shift.
Employees declining a portion of an extra shift are required to leave notice of their intentions for supervisors, and must report to work not later than 8 hours out of the plant, provided this allows them to report not later than the mid-point of the extra shift. Hours worked of the extra shift will be hours charged.
Powerhouse - assign employee low in hours among maintenance, relief, or employee(s) scheduled off.
C)	Volunteer Replacement
When securing a volunteer replacement for scheduled overtime employee(s) lowest in extra shift hours will be given first consideration for the trade. Trade is subject to approval of the supervisor.’
The Company will provide a list indicating lowest
unscheduled/"Shift" and “Core” employees in sequence. “Shift” employees are to be considered first for shift work; “Core” employees are to be considered first for “core” work. Employees who decline are not charged.
The scheduled employee is responsible for seeking his/her volunteer replacement, and will be single charged for the opportunity declined.
D)	Job Continuation
a)	When a particular assignment(s) started on a week day extends into extra shifts for completion, Company practice will be to carry over only the number of qualified employees, originally assigned, necessary for job continuation. Employees originally assigned will be carried into the extra shift based on employee(s) lowest in hours.
b)	When a particular assignment(s) started on an
extra shift takes an additional extra shift for completion, the qualified employees who are originally assigned to the work are entitled to complete it. Should only one employee of the original crew be required, selection will be based on qualified employee lowest in hours.
E)	Extended or Additional Shifts
jT When employees are unable to complete their planned assignments within the scheduled extra shifts, or should completion of additional unplanned assignments be required and extend beyond the scheduled extra shifts, employees presently on the shifts may volunteer to complete the assignments.
Extended, or additional assignments (“a” above) if completed by those presently working the extra shifts will be completed either as a “stay-over” or an additional “extra shift” on the following day, as the Company decides. Refer to “daily opportunity stay-over”, or “job continuation - extra shifts”, to determine employee selection.
41
F)	Charged Hours and Overtime Policy
a) The extra shift list will be divided to indicate "shift" employees by shift, and "core" employees. Employees will be charged either as "shift" or "core" employees - not both - based on their assignments.
Surplu's shift employees who volunteer to work core assignments will not be charged; and surplus core employees who volunteer to work shift assignments will not be charged.
As assignments change, employees names will be moved on the list, and accumulated hours will be based on those of the next senior employee to him/her on that "shift" or i n the "core".
A voluntary trade for an individual's personal reasons is not considered as a change in assignment: hence, names will not be moved on the list, and accumulated hours will not change. Individuals will be charged as if no trade had taken place. Hence, any employee receiving the opportunity will only be charged for any opportunity traded away, and not the opportunity received.
k) Extra shifts on Saturday will be scheduled for a specific length of time.
The Company will guarantee hours of work at least as scheduled. Should an employee request to go home early after having completed his/her assignment(s), he/she will be charged based on scheduled hours. Charged hours will be 1 1/2 times hours scheduled, of I 1/2 hours worked (to a maximum charge of 12 hours) if hours worked exceed hours scheduled.
Hours worked beyond the scheduled extra shift hours will be considered daily opportunity stay over and will be paid at double time.
Extra shifts on Sundays and Elolidays will be scheduled for length of time as required to complete the assignment. Charged hours will be at double time based on hours worked to a maximum charge of 16 hours per day.
d) Any employee absent for any reason from the first extra shift which results in his/her missing subsequent e'xfra shiftvnivolving jobirutfairaaticm will be charged for all extra shifts missed.
5., TOOL BOX AGREEMENT
a)	Trainees will receive a $130 credit towards the
purchase of a B89 Tool Chest when they start in the Maintenance or Packaging Department.
b)	All tool chests will be approved by the Department Supervisor prior to purchase.
c)	Tool chests will be issued by the Stores Department and a record will be kept.
d)	Termination of employment, transfers or
discontinuation of trade:
When the employee leaves the Company or department, the tool chest must be returned to the Company and the employee will receive a portion of what he paid or if he wishes to keep the tool box, the employee will pay the company a portion of what the tool box cost the Company on a prorated basis as follows:
After 1 year, the employee will receive $22.50 or pay the Company $97,50.
After 2 years, the employee will receive $ 15.00 or pay the Company $65,00.
After 3 years, the employee will receive $7.50 or pay the Company $22.50.
After 4 years, the employee keeps the tool box.
e)	Any tool boxes not purchased under the plan must:
a)	Meet Kellogg sanitary conditions (e.g.: no wood).
b)	Will not be fabricated on Kellogg premises or use Kellogg materials.
6. TOOL INSURANCE
The Company will insure (at replacement cost) the tools of any Industrial Mechanic/Maintenance Trades against theft, subject to a $25.00 deductible, provided that the employee has prepared, and has had verified by a Company
43
representative, a detailed inventory of the tools including both accurate description and manufacturer.
TRADE CLASSIFICATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
IN ALL CASES, THE MAJOR QUALIFICATIONS OF THE TRADES LISTED BELOW ARE TO BE CONSIDERED AS THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE AND SHALL NOT LIMIT THE SCOPE OF DUTIES THAT NORMALLY FALL WITHIN THE TRADE. '
THE AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITIES ARE GUIDELINES AND ARE NOT TO BE INTERPRETED IN SUCH A WAY THAT WOULD RESTRICT REPAIRS AND/OR MODIFICATIONS NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN OPERATIONS WHERE REPAIRS CAN SAFELY AND QUICKLY BE MADE BY MAINTENANCE TRADES.
ELECTRICIANS
Electricians shall be responsible for installation, check-out, start-up, adjustment, trouble-shooting, and repair of power distribution/lighting systems, electric drives, audio/video systems, equipment control systems, indication/alarm systems, and related hardware/components, wherever it is possible and practical.
Qualifications:
—	Must hold a certificate of qualification as an Industrial Electrician Trade MIX4,0/. M.equivj'.tsA certificate acceptable to the Company.
—	Must have electronics experience, be competent in the use of electronics test equipment, and be able to interpret drawings and schematics.
—	Must have PLC training, and be able to read and trouble-shoot PLC programs.
—	Must be capable of preparing written reports on systems and equipment serviced.
—	Must have experience in the installation, check-out, start-up, adjustment, maintenance, trouble-shooting and repair of control loops and repair of electrical devices.
44
Responsibilities:
—	Power distribution, including main station at 27600/13800V, substations at 13800/600V, conduit/raceways/cabletrays, power feeders, power distribution panels, motor control centres, and power distribution to electrical devices.
—	Electric drives - fixed speed AC, variable speed AC, variable speed DC including motor control, trouble-shooting, and connect/disconneet.
—	Lighting systems, including lighting panels conduit/wiring and fixtures. (See reference on file November, 1987 Light Bulb Replacement)
—	Audio/video systems - installation and repair of conduit and cables.
—	Equipment control involving relay logic, programmable controllers from control centres to field devices, and from field devices back to control centres. (Engineering responsible for programming).
—	Safe work practices, and housekeeping/sanitation for shop and field work areas.
—	Indication/alarm systems including: equipment status/alarms; smoke/heat/fire indication/alarms device replacement and field wiring; exterior door monitoring.
—	Adjustment of hydraulic proportional cards.
INSTRUMENT TECHNICIANS
Instrument Technicians shall be responsible for installation, check-out, calibration, start-up, maintenance, trouble-shooting, and repair of process instrumentation/control systems, audio/video systems, and related hardwarelcomponents wherever it is possible and practical.
Qualifications:
— Must hold a certificate of qualification as an Instrument Technician, or equivalent certificate acceptable to the Compny. (Completion of a formal approved program).
45
Must have .electronics experience, be competent in the use of electronic test equipment and be able to interpret drawings and schematics.
Must have PLC training, and be able to read and trouble-shoot PLC programs.
Must be capable of preparing written reports on systems and equipment serviced.
Must have experience in the installation, check-out, calibration, start-up, maintenance, trouble-shooting and repair of control loops and electronic and pneumatic instrumentation devices.
Responsibilities:
—	Process instrumentation and control - pneumatic and electronic - involving temperature, pressure, flow, speed, scaling/mass flow, level, density, metal detection, colour, pH, flame detection, etc.
___ Installation/replacement of instruments including
bracket fabrication, panel installation, modifications to local tubing, provision of tubing guides/hangers,
—	Modifications to local tubing either flexible or hard tubing located within ten (10) feet of a field device.
___ Service/repair of all components including sensors,
actuators, transducers, transmitters, receivers, processors, controllers, positioners, etc. electronic and pneumatic,
___ Connection and disconnection of:
—	All low voltage signals up to 120v (ac/dc) used for process measurement and calibration of speed pressure level flow, temperature and position controls of the processing system.
—	All tubing that has function of transmitting pneumatic or hydraulic signals, including compressed air supply tubing downstream of the pressure regulator connected to the plant compressed air system.
—	Audio/video systems - installation/replacement
/ repair of intercoms, radios, pagers, cameras,
46
monitors, etc.
—	Process Control, relay logic, programmable controllers, microprocessors -- used for process monitoring and control, (Engineering responsible for programming).
—	Main Valves: includes in place
trouble-shooting/service of variable position actuators, repair of variable position valves, repair of variable position actuators, including motorized actuators.
—	Control Valves: includes low voltage ( 48V) solenoid valve replacement in modules, and limit switch disconnectheconnect valve positioner repair/replacement, solenoid valve repair (except in wet system) hydraulic, adjustment of hydraulic proportional cards.
__ Safe work practices, and
housekeeping/sanitation for shop and field work areas.
PACKAGING MILLWRIGHTS
Packaging shall be responsible for the maintenance, modifications, and installation of packaging equipment, and auxiliary systems and equipment within the packaging area which directly affect the performance of packaging operations, wherever it is possible and practical.
Regular Packaging Equipment Individuals Packaging Equipment Assemblies Packaging Equipment Warehouse Equipment Ututizers & Wrappers Case Packing Equipment Hot Melt Systems
Cold Glue Central Supply Systems (repair only)
Cold Glue Application
Pneumatic Power & Control (repair only)
Mechanisms
Fabrications (structural and sheetmetal)
Welding
Carpentry
Rigging
47
Repair work on packaging equipment and auxiliary equipment and systems shall be carried out by these Millwrights whenever possible and practical and, providing such work conforms with safety, legal and other mandatory regulations. Major installations and modifications of equipment and systems shall be carried out by the appropriate trades involved.
Conveyers within the packaging areas and those sections of the discharge conveyers originating in the packaging areas (including “policemen”) shall be repaired and maintained by these Millwrights.
Qualifications:
Must hold a certificate of qualification as an “Industrial Mechanic/Millwright”, or an equivalent certificate acceptable to the company.
—	Must have strong mechanical trouble-shooting/repair abilities. Equipment is high speed and component fits are close tolerance. Equipment service involves mechanical timing/tuning through cams, levers, shafts, gears, chains, belts, gearboxes, etc.
—	Must be proficient in: trouble-shooting/repair of pneumatic power and control systems; structural and sheetmetal fabrication; structural and sheetmetal welding; rigging; and miscellaneous carpentry.
—	Must be experienced in installation, overhaul, modification, check-out, start-up, adjustment, maintenance, trouble-shooting, and repair of packaging and related to Packaging equipment operations.
Responsibilities:
—	The repair and maintenance of all Packaging lines and related Packaging equipment.
—	Carton and Case Conveyers, case packers. Packaging millwrights are responsible for all conveyers within the packaging areas, and those sections of discharge conveyers originating in the packaging areas (including “policemen”). Packaging millwrights are also responsible for the Bushman case conveyor in the Warehouse.
—	Robopal Unitizers, Automatic Guided Vehicles.
__ Trouble-shooting/repair of adhesive systems; cold glue
48
central supply system (repair only) and cold glue applicators, etc.
—	Trouble-shootinghepair and minor modifications to pneumatic power and control systems, including: piping/tubing downstream of packaging equipment compressed air isolation valves; control valves replacement/repair.
—	Carton and case cube size changeovers in a non-food condition.
—' Service/repair of auxiliary systems which directly affect packaging line operation.
—	Overhaul of in-line piston pumps used for adhesives and lubricants.
—	Safe work practices, and housekeeping/sanitation for shop and field work areas.
—	Warehouse unitizers and its conveyors.
—	All Warehouse Wrappers.
PROCESSING MILLWRIGHTS
Processing shall be responsible for the- maintenance., modifications, and installation of processing equipment, building service equipment, and production services equipment wherever it is possible and practical.
Processing Equipment Building Equipment Corn Mill Equipment
Warehouse (Excluding Unitizers & Wrappers) Pneumatic/Hydraulic Power (repair only)
Mechanisms
Fabrication.(structural & sheetmetal)
Welding
Carpentry
Rigging
Pneumatic Conveying Systems.
Air Handling Systems International Gluer
Repair work on this equipment shall be carried out by these Millwrights whenever possible and practical and providing such work conforms with safety, legal and other mandatory
49
regulations. Major installations and modifications shall be carried out by the appropriate trades involved.
Conveyers within the processing areas up to and including rotary hoppers shall be repaired and maintained by these Millwrights.
Qualifications:
—	Must hold a certificate of qualifications as an "Industrial Mechanic/Millwright”, or an equivalent certificate acceptable to the Company.
—	Must be proficient in: trouble-shootinghepair of
pneumatic power and control systems;
trouble-shootinghepair of hydraulic power and control systems; structural and sheetmetal fabrication; structural and sheetmetal welding, rigging; and miscellaneous carpentry.
—	Must be experienced in installation, overhaul, modification, check-out, start-up, adjustment, maintenance, trouble-shooting and repair of production, materials handling, and building service equipment.
Responsibilities:
Processing equipment, including Corn Mill.
—	Materials Handling equipment.
—	Building Service equipment including HVAC units, fans,
compressors, vypur. as required dwedM'. v'.Mities
supervisor.
—	Vacuums cleaning systems, and production related air handling systems.
—	Trouble-shootinghepair of hydraulic power and control, including: hydraulic hose fabrication, removal/replacement of all flanged in-line devices, excluding: rigid piping and in-line devices from the back of manifolds to equipment isolation valves; isolation valves; screwed, welded, or flared connections.
—	Trouble-shootinghepair and minor modifications to pneumatic power and control systems including piping/tubing downstream of equipment compressed air isolation valves.
50
—	Overhaul of rotary valves, blowers, rotary lobe pumps, rotary piston pumps, shaf^earing assemblies for centrifugal pumps.
—	Valves and actuators "within the operating units dry systems.
—	Safe work practices, and housekeeping/sanitation for shop and field work areas.
MACHINISTS
Machinists shall be responsible for fabrication/machining of parts, manufacture/maintenance of tooling, repair/modification of parts and tooling, and assistance in resolution of equipment and tooling problems.
Qualifications:
Must hold a certificate of qualification as a “General Machinist”, or an equivalent certificate acceptable to the Company.
Must have job shop experience involving application of hand and power tools, power saws, drill press, lathes, milling machines, grinders, etc.
Must be able to work from drawings and produce quality work meeting defined tolerance and finish specifications.
Must be a competent welder capable of producing sound and neat welds in all gauges of metal 14 ga. or heavier.
Must be experienced in manufacturing, measuring/documenting, inspecting, modifying, and repairing both new and existing machined and fabricated items.
Responsibilities:
__ Manufacture of new machined or fabricated items for
stores inventory or maintenance department use.
Manufacture and maintenance. of tooling such as rolls, knives, dies, etc.
—	Repair/modifications to equipment components or tooling to support maintenance activities and production operations.
—	Maintenance department assistance to investigate equipment and tooling problems, recommend solutions, and complete changes.
—	Safe work practices; and housekeeping/sanitation for shop and field work areas.
STEAMFITTERS
Steamfitters shall be responsible for the maintenance, modifications, and installation of piping tubing consisting of stainless steel tubing, soft and hard copper tubing, PVC, CPVC, ABS, steel, galvanized, etc; systems throughout the plant, hdatlng equipment (except powerhouse equipment) and pressure vessels wherever it is possible and practical, and providing the work is in conformance with safety, legal, and other mandatory regulations.
Process/Sanitary/Storm Sewers Chilled/Cooling-Tower Water Systems Steam and Condensate Piping Natural Gas Piping Compressed Air Piping Sprinkler System Fire Extinguishers Halon Gas Systems ,
Hydr^ulic/PneumatiQ Pipijlg Systems (except repair work on the machine side of the isolating valve)
Liquid Sugar Systems Vitamin Application Systems Flavour Piping System
Cold Glue Central Supply Systems (installation only)
Alcohol Systems	'	'	'
Heating,Equipment consisting of hot water heaters, steam coils, and gas burners.
Pressure Vessels (including Cookers, Vitamin Kettles)
Plumbing Fixtures
Valve overhaul may involve several trades; however, in general:
—	instrument repair to inspect and diagnose fault if not apparent
__ appropriate trade to correct fault
—	instrument repair to reassemble and test
52
Qualifications:	u	, H
—	- Must hold a certificate of qualification as a “Steamfitter ,
or an equivalent certificate acceptable to the Company.
Must hold a gas fitters license, preferable Gas Fitter II
—	Must have a working knowledge of plumbing techniques, and code requirements.
—	Must be proficient in: trouble-shooting/repair of piping systems, pneumatic power and control systems, and combustion equipment; fabrication of piping and supports: pipe and structural welding (able to obtain specialty pipe welding certificate); rigging.
___ Must be experienced in installation, check-out, start-up,
maintenance, trouble-shooting and repair of utility and process piping systems, heating systems, fire protection systems, and all related equipment.
Responsibilities:
—	Domestic water systems
—	Process/Sanitary/Storm drains and sewers; plumbing
fixtures.
___ Natural gas distribution systems
___ Steam and condensate systems.
—	Compressed air systems -- main and branch piping up to isolation valves at equipment. ,
___ Chilled/cooling tower water systems.
—	Fire protection systems -- sprinklers, extinguishers, Halon gas systems.
___ Liquid ingredient systems - sugar, vitamins, flavour, etc.
—	Clean-In-Place systems including blocking valve and catch pans.
—	Alcohol Systems.
—	All jwj-ssurt. rDjDijj,9._jand welded-in-line devices including hydraulic power piping.
53
—	Generally, repairs to existing flexible or hard controls tubing that penetrates a floor, a wall, a ceiling, or through a level in the space frame that extends beyond ten (10) feet from a field device are the responsibility of the steamfitters.
—	New controls tubing installations (except for terminations) including an increase or decrease in tube size, that penetrates a floor, a wall, ceiling or a level in the space frame are the responsibility of the steamfitters.
__ Pressure vessels -- cookers, vitamin kettles, etc.
__ Heating-equipment -- hot water heaters, steam coils, gas
burners and Glycol systems.
—	Heat exchangers.
__ Pumps including: in-place service on liquid end of pump,
complete pump exchange (excluding alignment).
—	Main valves on liquid/gas systems: on gas trains includes repair/replacement of all valves and actuators on wet systems.
—	Control valves: includes solenoid valve (main or pilot) replacement, except for hydraulic valves and low voltage valves in modules.
__ Safe work practices, and housekeeping/sanitation for shop
and field work areas.
PAINTER
Qualifications:
—	Must hold a certificate of qualification as an Industrial Painter, or an equivalent certificate acceptable to the Company;
—	Must be competent in the application of Industrial coatings by brush. roller. conventional and airless spray.
Responsibilities:
__ Installation/removal of temporary protection: tarpaulins,
plastic sheeting, drop cloths, taping, wrapping, etc.
__ Erection/removal of temporary access platforms:
54
swingstage, scaffolding, portable walkaways, etc
—	Surface preparation including hand and powered washing, dry cleaning, degreasing, miscellaneous patching, scraping, burning, blasting, etc.
—	Mixing of multi-component coatings in accordance with manufacturers specifications.
__ Coating application to building surfaces,
mechanical/electrical services, furniture, and equipment.
—	Site clean-up at completion of project.
__ Caulking removal/repair/instailation.
__ Sign making/installation; label application to mechanical
services.
__ Safe work practices, and housekeeping/sanitation for shop
and field work areas.
HOLIDAY SCHEDULE
SECTION 6:11
a) All regular employees shall receive a day’s pay at straight time in recognition of the following holidays:
1991
Monday, May 20 Monday, July 1 Monday, August 5 Monday, September 2 Monday, October 14 Tuesday, December 24 Wednesday, December 25 Thursday, December 26 Friday, December 27 Monday, December 30 Tuesday, December 31
Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Floater
Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Floater Floater
56
Wednesday, January I Friday, April 17 Monday, April 20 Monday, May 18 Monday, June 29 Monday, August 3 Monday, September 7 Monday, October 12 Thursday, December 24 Friday, December 25 Monday, December 28 Tuesday, December 29 Wednesday, December 30 Thursday, December 3 I
1993
Friday, January 1 Friday, April 9 Monday, April 12 Monday, May 24 Friday, July 2 Monday, August 2 Monday, September 6 Monday, October 11 Friday, December 24 Monday, December 27 Tuesday, December 28 Wednesday, December 29 Thursday, December 30 Friday, December 3 I
57
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Floater
Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Floater Floater
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Christmas Day Boxing Day Floater Floater Floater Floater
1994
Monday, January 3 Friday, April 1 Monday, April 4
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday
provided the following qualifications are met:
HOLIDAY ELIGIBILITY
(b)	1. Regular employees shall be eligible to receive pay for
a holiday listed in paragraph (a) provided:
(I)	They work one day or are on regular scheduled
vacation in the calendar month in which the holiday is observed.
(II)	They work the holiday, if scheduled
2.	Employees shall not receive holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during a strike, work stoppage or lockout, except this limitation shall not apply to employees who are on regular scheduled vacation during such a strike, work stoppage or lockout.
3.	If a holiday is observed during an employee’s vacation period, he/she shall receive holiday pay in addition to his/her vacation pay.
4.	An employee who terminates prior to a holiday would not be eligible for holiday pay.
SECTION 6:12
The following special provisions apply only to employees holding bid weekend worker positions *!
Processing:	Groups I, 111, and IV
Packaging:	Industrial Mechanics
Packaging
Maintenance:	Instrument Repair
Electricians Packing Millwrights
58
Steamfitters
Processing Millwrights Stores
Warehouse:	T.O.L.U.C. ***
Plant Service:	Plant Cleaner
Corn Mill:	Second Miller
* . .
The Company retains the right under Section 4.01 to
increase or decrease the work force.
The parties agree that any increase in weekend workers will not be cause for lay-off of regular weekly workers.
** Position is for weekend worker only. If additional help is required, this position would do packing supply.
*** Will require Transfer Room qualifications.
It is understood that employees in this group may be assigned wherever required within their areas and qualifications.
A)
SHIFT ROTATION AND HOURS OF WORK
There will be 4 twelve hour shifts beginning at 7:00 a.m
Saturday.
7:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m. The groups Maintenance schedule.
Saturday to 7:00 Saturday to 7:00 Sunday to 7:00 Sunday to 7:00 will alternate weekly. hours will be delayed
p.m. Saturday a.m. Sunday p.m, Sunday a.m. Monday
by one hour to the
above
B)	PAY	...
Hours on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half the hourly rate for all hours worked.
Hours on Sunday will be paid at double the hourly rate for all hours worked.
Shift premium will be paid as per the Collective Agreement.
59
C)	FILLING THE WEEKEND POSITIONS
Openings will be posted and awarded departmentally under Section 5.13 of the current Collective Agreement.
An employee may bid out of the Weekend System to available jobs, however, the employee may be required to stay until an eligible replacement has been assigned.
D)	OVERTIME
i)	Employees working the weekend system will be permitted to work a 4 hour daily opportunity after all other department shift/core employees have had the opportunity.
ii)	Employees may cover eight (8) hour vacancies for
absenteeism or vacation, after all other department shift/core employees have had the opportunity.
iii)	The total offi) & (ii) above will not exceed twenty (20) working hours during the week.
Employees on this schedule cannot work if it would conflict with their weekend schedule.
Weekend employees would sign in advance for i) and ii) indicating they are available for such overtime.
E)	VACANCIES ON WEEKEND SYSTEM
Vacancies on weekend system due to vacation, illness, short-term (one weekend) will be filled according to Section 6:04 of the Contract.
Illness that may last for more than tmfnnnfdt (4 'weftkenta)
(long term) will be posted for temporary replacement through the bidding procedure, departmentally.
F)	VACATION
One weekend is comparable to a week’s vacation.
Employee would start vacation as of their first shift in the weekend system and return the following weekend to their scheduled shift, i.e.:	Employee schedules vacation for a
week and the schedule was to start 7:00 a.m. Saturday, employee would not report but take weekend off and return the following Saturday at 7:00 p.m.
60
Weekend workers vacation periods run from the first Saturday of their vacation until the following Friday inclusive for every week of vacation.
Example:
Scheduled	Vacation	Scheduled
Sat/Sun - Available	Sat/Sun - Not Sat/Sun
Mon to Friday
Available Mon to Friday
Available Mon to Friday
Employees would start their vacation as of their first shift in the weekend system and return the following weekend to their scheduled shift.
G)	HOLIDAYS
Employees will be paid for eligible holidays as listed in Section 6:11.
H)	PENSION CREDITED SERVICE Hours calculated as hours paid.
I)	JURY DUTY
Same as for weekday workers
J)	BEREAVEMENT
Should the required days off as outlined in the Collective Agreement involve Saturday/Sunday then the Company will pay the normal rate of pay for the Saturday and/or Sunday involved.
K)	LAY-OFF
In the event of a plant-wide lay-off bumping provisions ofthe Collective Agreement shall apply for the week. It is understood that in the event of such a bump an employee could work consecutive weeks on the same rotation.
L). WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Employees will qualify after one day.
61
ARTICLE VII RATES OF PAY
SECTION 7:01
(a)	It is agreed that the schedule of basic rates and classifications included as a part of this Agreement will continue in effect, without change, during the lifetime of this Contract.
CHANGE IN JOB CONTENT
If the job content of any job should be changed, during the jterm of this Contract, to a sufficient extent that either an or decrease in the job rate should be considered, it will be subject to negotiation. The rate that the Company established for any new job during the term of this Contract will likewise be subject to negotiation.
JOB RATE
TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT ASSIGNMENT SECTION 7:02
(a)	If an employee's regular job is not available and he/she is temporarily or permanently assigned to another department he/she will receive the rate of pay for the job to which he/she has been transferred.
Any temporary opportunity for advancement to a higher rated job will be offered to the senior qualified regular employee on that shift of the department.
If more than one move is involved, the senior employee will have the right to the highest rated job.
Employees assigned to a temporary job will retain their right to return to their former job when the temporary job is terminated.
(b)	In the event of a temporary discontinuance of any job within a department which would necessitate an employee being assigned to a lower paid job within the department, such an employee will receive the rate of pay for the job to which he/she has been transferred except that if established:
1.	In a Class 1 job no reduction will be made for part of a single day, and further, if employees are asked to take a lower paid job for the convenience of the Company,
62
their rate will not be reduced for the period of time that they are on the lower paid job.
2.	In a Class 2 job will retain their current rate for ten (10) weeks.
3.	In a Class 3 job will retain their current rate for twenty (20) weeks.
4 In a Class 4 job will retain their current rate for fifty (50) weeks.
(c)	In the operation of the provisions specified in this subsection (b), the Company will assign people to jobs which will provide the most orderly operations and the least number of changes in crew assignments, without displacing employees established on regular assignments who have sufficient seniority to remain in their department, except when necessary to reassign due to physical limitations of the individuals involved.
EXCEPTION
This provision does not apply in any case where an employee has been demoted for cause.
(d)	In the event of a job being discontinued, as a result of a
change in manner of handling an operation, the employee affected will be treated in line with his/her Company service rights. If, as a result of such a change, an employee has to be transferred to a job paying a lower hourly rate, he/she will be permitted to continue to carry on any job to which he/she might be assigned, for a period of not more than one year from the date of change, the hourly rate for the job which he/she was regularly established on. In the event that the effect of such discontinuance is staggered over a period of time for some or all the individuals involved, it is understood that the year’s period will not be less than 52 weeks of three or more days in a week during the year’s period, the Company will attempt to place an “out-of-line” rate employee on a job paying his/her normal rate, but will not “bump” another employee for that purpose, or place him/her ahead of a senior employee in filling any open job that might arise.
(e)	If an employee is shifted to a higher rated job he/she shall receive the rate for the job and Rate Classification to which he/she is assigned.
63
OVERTIME PREMIUM
SECTION 7:03
(a)	Tir^e and one-half the regular hourly rate will be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours in one day from Monday to Friday inclusive and for all hours worked outside the employee’s regular assigned shift for that day, as provided in Section 6:02.
(b)	Except as provided in Section 6:05 of this Agreement, an
employee will be paid time and one-half his/her regular rate for all hours worked on Saturday (7:00 a.m. Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Sunday) and donhla his/her regular hourly rate for all hours worked on Sunday (7:00 a.m. Sundav to 7:00 a.m.

(d) If an employee is required to work more than eight hours on a holiday, he/she will be paid triple time for the actual hours worked in excess of eight.
ARTICLE VIH
CLASSIFICATION AND RATE SCHEDULE SECTION 8:01
Probationary employees will start at a rate as indicated in Section 8:07 for all straight time hours worked.
JOB CLASSIFICATION
SECTION 8:02
All jobs are classified into one of five classifications, except as noted in Section 8:04, depending on the length of the training period.
In addition to the differentials specified in Section 8:01 for employees with less than fifty-two (52) weeks service, the rate paid for the training periods specified below will be twenty-five (25) cents per hour less than the regular rate for the job.
Monday).
HOLIDAY WORK RATE
64
Classification No. 1
The regular Job Rate will be paid from time of commencement oh 'me 110*0 except as provided in Section 8:01.
Classification No. 2
The regular Job Rate will be paid after completion of a ten (10) week learning period on the job except as provided in Section 8:01.	“■
Classification No. 3
The regular Job Rate will be paid after completion of a twenty (20) week learning period on the job except as provided in Section 8:01.
Classification No. 4
The regular Job Rate will be paid after completion of a fifty (50) week learning period on the job except as provided in Section 8:01.	"
Classification No. 5
The regular Job Rate will be paid as soon as contractual qualification requirements are met.
DISQUALIFICATIONS • TRAINEES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION 8:03
An employee who does not qualify for the regular rate of the job as outlined in Section 8:02, Classification 4 or a trainee beyond the first six-month review, will not be continued on the job. In that event, such an employee would be returned to his/her fonner department to a job which is available and for which he/she is qualified or in the same department to his/her fonner job.
The Company will decide as to whether an employee is qualified to advance to the regular job rate for the job, subject to right use of grievance procedure.
TRAINING AND PROFESSION SECTION 8:04 *
(a)	PTUgnsh '	‘
The Company may provide apprenticeship programs in the following departments:
65
-	Maintenance ■ Packaging
-	Warehouse, motor vehicle
Determination of the number of apprentices in any of the programs is the exclusive right of the Company.
•(b) Eligibility
In order to be eligible for consideration for an apprenticeship, an applicant must meet the requirements established by the Company for each specific trade.
(c)	Qualification & Selection
Opportunities for an apprenticeship program will be posted plant wide. If the Company is unsuccessful in securing qualified applicants through this procedure, the Company may hire candidates externally. The requirements for entrance into a certified Trade apprenticeship are as follows;
1.	Successful in attaining the established scores on the aptitude tests, as established by the Company.
2.	Certified medically fit by the Plant Physician for the specific trade applied for.
i
3.	Plant wide seniority will apply for those applicants who meet requirements in one (1) and two (2) above.
Apprentices must be successful throughout the prescribed training and schooling, or will be removed from the program.
If an employee in an apprenticeship position fails to qualify and is removed by the Company or the employee requests to be removed from the apprenticeship, he/she will not be allowed to bid another apprentice position for a period of nine (9) months.
The Company and the Union Executive agree to initiate and maintain a Trades Advisory Committee comprised of hourly and salaried employees to fulfil the following mandate:
1.	To examine apprenticeship programs and recommend pertinent changes and improvements.
2,	To recommend apprentice levels by trade, with consideration to workload, skilled trade efficiency, and efficient cost control.
66
3)	To monitor pending retirements by skilled trade
classification and make recommendations regarding new trainees.
4)	When a vacancy occurs through attrition and the
Company intends to replace that position, an apprentice will be considered, even if it means a core person is placed on shift to cover an operational opening.
This committee will make its recommendations to the Company and the Union Executive prior to their semiannual meeting.
The Company and the Union Executive will review the recommendations of the Trades Advisory Committee semi-annually.
Opportunities for apprenticeships will be identified and if deemed feasible, vacancies will be posted at the appropriate time.
(d)	Progression
The training program will be divided into the following
advancement levels with appropriate rate increases, as established in Section 8:07.
Basic	0 ■ 6	Months
Basic	6 * 12	Months
Intermediate	12 - 18	Months
Intermediate	18 - 24	Months
C Level	24 . 36	Months
B Level	36 - 48	Months
A Level	Journeyman	
It is understood that monthly reviews are used as a guideline and advancement to the next level is contingent upon hours worked and successful completion of the prescribed training and/or schooling for each level.
(e)	Evaluation
All apprentices will receive interviews and written evaluations throughout their training progression at each level identified in (d) above of the program.
67
An apprentice will be removed from the program if progress does not meet the established standards at any level up to completion of the program: However, an apprentice who experiences difficulty at a particular level and has the ability to progress after additional training (in the opinion of the Company), may be allowed additional time. Also, advancement will be delayed if an apprentice is on layoff, illness or injury over one week.
(f)	Classroom Training
When the Company schedules employees for classroom training it will be done on the appropriate day shift.
PROCESS OPERATOR
1,	Eligibility Requirements:
I.	Three years of seniority in the department.
II.	The. ability to do five (5) jobs within a specific Product Group as outlined in Section 8:07 if requested and be competent on the related quality specifications of the area.
Employees in this classification will be assigned on any job within the department when necessary to accomplish most efficient operation, handle problems or facilitate training or re-training of themselves or others.
IV.	Employees will have up to six month's experience on each of the designated skills of their Product Group to be eligible.
V.	If a "B" operator cannot progress to Process Operator because ‘tot number^vfJtfth<:.l.n. a group are not aomlafek.,
qualifications in another group would be accepted as valid qualifications for the rate.
VI.	Employees must be deemed qualified by the supervisor on each of the designated jobs of their Group to be eligible.
2.	Selection:
! To be selected, the employee is not required to bid into, but must be qualified in five (5)j obs within a specific product group.
68
II. Resource, vitamin preparation, packaging inspector, lab I & II do not qualify towards the process operator rate.
3.	Progression
Groups 1, II, * III (* Qualified on Three Modules).
"E" Operator has successfully completed the ten (10) week learning period on an operating job any group, (including related quality control functions) and up to six (0) months' experience on the job.
TlniS":'fi Operator category also includes reclaim, and feed,
"D" Operator has successfully completed the ten (10) week learning period on two operating jobs any group (including related quality control functions) and up to six (6) months' experience on each of the jobs.
This "D" Operator category also includes vitamin preparation, packaging inspector and Lab I & II,
If the bid vitamin preparation and packing Inspector, lab I or lab II employees choose to bid a Product group, they would retain the rate outlined in this section. If they bid into the process resource (tanks/additive reclaim, or feed) and have no other qualifications they lose the rate.
"C" Operator has successfully completed the ten (10) week learning period on three operating jobs any group (including related quality control functions) and up to six (6) months' experience on each of the jobs.
"B" Operator has successfully completed the ten (10) week learning period on four operating jobs any group (including related quality control functions) and up to six (6) months' experience on each of the jobs.
For clarification see Policy Letter 11.
4.	Progression Group IV
Process Operator Group IV Material Handling must be qualified on all five (5) jobs in the Group as outlined below:
1)	Material Observer Support
2)	ICC Observer Support
3)	Material Handling Systems Operator:
a)	Operation of Software Interfaces that control MHS
69
system.
b)	IDT troubleshooting, overall support system, and
thorough understanding of MHS system integration.
c)	Start-up.and shutdown of MHS equipment, change over of PKG and PRO programs, and’start-up and shutdown of the Monorail through IDT.
"D" Operator has successfully completed the ten (10) week learning period on two operating jobs as designated in this group as deemed by the Company.
"C" Operator rate after completion of "D" criteria and operator training begins, and has successfully completed MHS observer qualifications.
"B" Operator has successfully qualified as MHS operator
5,	MISCELLANEOUS:
Resource - Tank/Additive (Does not qualify towards process operator rate).
There will be no limit on the number of process operators on any shift,
To be eligible employees are not required to bid a group.
A Process Operator as defined by this section bidding from a group into a resource position, or another group will retain the rate.
If one of their qualifying jobs becomes redundant, the Process Operators affected must actively seek to meet the criteria of this Agreement.
Should the number of jobs in any group become redundant IOd it is not possible to obtain the required qualifications, as let out above, the processing operator will not lose his/her rate.
Anyone holding a Process Operator rate prior to date of ratification that does not conform to the Agreement will not lose the rate. They should however, actively seek to meet the Process Operator criteria of this Agreement. If no attempt is made to meet the criteria, the rate will be adjusted to reflect their existing qualifications.
For clarification see Policy Letter 12.
70
WAREHOUSE
PROGRESSION
The entry level to the warehouse is the tractor operator position. After successfully completing the ten (10) week learning period, the employee would be a qualified tractor operator (T.O.). Once qualified, the tractor operator would begin a five (5) week learning period,' to qualify on the Unititer.
After qualifying as a Tractor Unitizer Operator (T.U.O.P.) the employee would begin to qualify as a Tractor Operator Loader Unloader and Checker (T.O.L.U.C.). Upon successful completion of the twenty (20) week learning
period/hft'umilftjyvL'traiJ/i.'M.q’iiUftt.il mt.T.O.AAJ.C.
Employees who are unable to complete a training period due ■to circumstances beyond their control will be paid the rate at the end of the qualifying time stated above.
CORN MILL
The entry level into the Corn Mill is the resource position, however it is not considered as part of the progression.
Resource employees will be afforded first opportunity to bid into the Mill progression. After the appropriate testing the job will be awarded to the senior successful candidate as Der Section 5:13.
Resource employees will be trained as Sweeper Utility, Bulk Storage Utility, and Grain Unloaders to provide relief within the mill.
If resource positions are not required, the employees would be scheduled as per Section 5:10.
The only method nf	to First and Second Miller
positions will be through the training progression.
Details of the program are on file between the parties.
First and Second Miller vacant positions will be filled by bidding departmentally and subsequently awarded to the senior qualified employee who has successfully completed the mill progression.
In the event that no one bids a First or a Second Miller position, the junior qualified employee who has successfully 'completed the progression will be assigned to the vacancy.
71
Employees may advance through the Mill progression up to the Second Miller pay level. They will be utilised on any job below First Miller. If qualified and assigned to the First Miller position they will be paid the appropriate rate during the assignment.
Vacant positions listed in Section 8:07 will be filled by bidding departmentally and subsequently awarded to the senior qualified employee who has successfully completed the Mill Progression.
Employees who are unable to complete a training period due to circumstances beyond their control will be paid the rate at the end of the qualifying time stated below.
PROGRESSION:
Basic i^vel	0	to	3	Months
Basic	3	to	6	Months
Intermediate	6	to	9	Months
Intermediate	9	to	12	Months
Advanced (OJT 2nd Miller)	12	to	24	Months
OJT 1st Miller	24	to	3 6	Months
MAINTENANCE
Trade: Primary (Electrical II, Machinist, Maintenance Mechanic, Steamfitter, Instrumentation, Insulator, Cement Finisher, Electrical Cleaner, 1st and 2nd Class Engineer.)
Basic		0 -	6	Months
Basic		6 -	12	Months
Intermediate		12 -	18	Months
Intermediate		18 -	24	Months
Advanced		24 -	36	Months
Advanced		36 -	48	Months
Journeyman A,	2nd Class Eng.			
1 Vi. Class Eng.				
PACKING				
INDUSTRIAL	MECHANIC:			
Basic		0 -	6	Months
Basic		6 -	12	Months
Intermediate		12 -	18	Months
Intermediate		18 -	24	Months
	72			
Advanced Industrial
Mechanic Advanced Industrial	24 -	36 Months
Mechanic	36	48 Months
Industrial Mechanic A
BASIC SKILLS TRAINING
The Company will provide basic training in the operation of equipment such as transporters, power scrubber, sweeper, and fork-lift, etc. to employees who may be laid off as a result of not being qualified to operate the above equipment.
Empl'i'ji't'. imv.te&'.'dp.r. In .Employee. RelvJ/imAft indicate their interest in this training and must have sufficient seniority to enable them to bump in the event of a lay-off.
SKILLED TRADE RATE EXCEPTION SECTION 8:05
In the event that it becomes necessary to employ a new trade person when a qualified person ia HQJ avai.l/ih.l.e. r.omnarahle. and recent experience in their trade will be considered in establishing their rate and grade regardless of the time requirements under Section 8:01 and 8:02.	/
SHIFT PREMIUM /
SECTION 8:06	y '//0 0 4 2.JZ
The Company agrees that all hourly paid employees covered by this Agreement will receive, in addition to the regular hourly rate, the following shift premium:
A premium of thirty-five (35) and fifty-five (55) cents for hours worked on the second and third shifts respectively.
The shift premium to be paid for all of the hours worked in a day, will be according to the premium for the shift in which the employee worked.
The shift premium will be included in the calculation of daily and extra shift bonus hours and Holiday pay. The calculation of the shift premium on Holiday pay will be based on the shift the employee has worked the greatest number of hours during the week in which the Holiday occurs.
73
During the Christmas week when there are four days scheduled as holidays, the shift premium will be paid on the previous week's shift.
SECTION 8:07 PROCESSING Dual/AU Bran Group I
Wheat
Group II
Modules Group III
Material Handling Group IV
Packing Laboratory Laboratory Technician I & 11 Vitamin Preparation
Resource
OPERATOR CATEGORIES
Cookers
Mill/Ovens
Utility
Flavour
Control Room
Cookers
Shredders
Utility
Coater
Coater Utility Coater Inspector
Cookers
Utility
Rolls
Oven
Mini Wheat Cookers
Shredders
Coater
Combination Module TWO Jobs DX Module Two Jobs Coating Module One Job
Material Observer Support ICC Observer Support Material Handling Systems Operator a, b, c.
Feed
Tank/Additive
Reclaim
74
INS.	APR. APR. APR.
CODE	14/91 12/92 17/93
Tank Additive Reclaim Resource Feed
Vitamin Lab Packing Lab Lab Tech I & II Operator E 0-6 Months Operator D 6-12Months Operator C 12-18Months Operator B 18-24Mgnths Process Operator
II
11
II U
III Ill 111
II
III 111
IV
V
17.37	18,33	19.24
17.70	18.67	19.61
17.37	18.33	19,24
17.70	18.67	19.61
18.15	19.15	20.10
18.15	19,15	20.10
18.15	19.15	20.10
17.70	18.67	19.61
18.15	19.15	20.10
18.41	19.43	20.40
18.79	19,82	20.81
19.51	20.58	21,61
MAINTENANCE
TRADE: Pcjmary (Electrical II, Machinist. Maintenance Mechanic. Steamfitter. Instrumentation. Insulator. Cement Finisher. Electrical Cleaner. First & Second Class Eng.)
INS.	APR. APR. APR.
CODE	14/91 12/92 17/93
Basic
Basic
Intermediate Intermediate Trade C Trade B
Trades A.
0-6 Months II 6-12 Months II 12-18 Months 18-24 Months 24-36 Months 36-48 Months
2nd Class Eng., Trades A, Cement Finisher
II
III 111
IV
1st Class Eng., V
12.73	13:43	14.10
13.78	14.54	15.27
15.90	16.77	17.61
16.95	17.89	18.78
18.03	19.02	19,97
20.14 21.25	22.31
21.34	22.67	23,95
TRADES: Secondary PAINTER:
Basic
Intermediate Trade C Trade B Painter A Lubrication Mech 0- 6 Mos Lubrication Mech 6-12 Mos
II
II
0 - 6 Months 6-12 Months 12-24 Months III, 24-36 Months III V II II
Lubrication Mech 12-18 Mos. Ill
Lubrication Mech 24 bfes.
IV
12.02	12.69	13.32
13.04	13.75	14.44
16.05	16.93	17.78
18.05	19.04	20,00
20.05	21.16	22.21
17,63	18.60	19.52
17.98	18.97	19.91
18.32	19.33	20.29
18,71	19,74	20.73
75
INS. CLASS APR. APR. APR.
CODE
Helper	II
♦Utility (Lamp	Service)	III
Storeskeeper	IV
Head Storeskeeper	IV
14/91	12/92	17/93	(
1
2	19,45	20.42
2	18,68	19.71	20.69
3	20.05	21.16	22.21
NOTE: Appropriate testing required for entry into this department.
* Plant-wide Bidding
INS. CLASS APR. CODE	14/91
PACKING
Glue Machine Operator Packing Operator Packing Supply Unitizer
Utility
HelDer
Industrial Basic Basic
Intermediate Intermediate Industrial Mechanic C Industrial Mechanic B Industrial Mechanic A
Mechanic:
0-6 Months 6-12 Months 12-1 8 Months 18-24 Months
III
III
III
III
III
II
n
II
II
III
III
III
V
2	18.44
1	17.88
2	18.15
2	18.15
2	18.15
I	17.37
17.37
17.53
17.70
17.88
18.15
18.44
20.05
APR.
12/92
19.45 18.86
19.15
19.15
19.15
18.33
18.33 18.49 18.67 18.86
19.15
19.45
21.16
APR.
17/93
20.42
19.81 20.10 20.10 20.10
19.24
19.24
19.42 19.61
19.81
20.10
20.42
22.21
CORN MILL
Resource
Utility Helper/Sweeper Grain Unloader Bulk Storage Basic Level (0-3Mos.) Basic Level (3-6Mos.) Inter Level (6-9MOS.) Inter Level (9-12 Mos.) Advanced (12-24 Mos.) 2nd Miller 1st Miller
INS. CLASS	APR.
CODE	14/91
II	1	17.37
II	17.37
IV	2	18.68
V	4	19.51
II	17.37
III	17.63
HI	18.15
V	18.68
V	19.51
V	4	20.21
V	4	20.72
APR. APR. 12/92 17/93
18.33	19.24
18.33	19.24
19.71	20.69
20.58	21.61
18.33	19.24
18.60	19.52
19.15	20.10
19.71	20.69
20.58	21.61
21.33	22.39
21.86	22.96
76
WAREHOUSE
Repacks ***
Sorting Table Tractor Operator •
Entry Level (0- 10 Wks) Tractor Operator Qualified Unitiz«r Op«r, (10-15 Wks) Tractor Umtizer Oper. Qual T.O.L.U.C, Train( 15-35 Wk T.O.L.U.C, Qualified Shunt Driver **
T.O.L.U.C, Utility Truck/Re-c/Unload/Chtcker Warehouse A (All-Round) Transfer Room Operator
INS. CLASS APR. CODE	14/91
II	1	17.37
II	!	17.63
II	17.63
HI	2	17,88
ill	17.88
III	18,44
s) III	18.44
IV	3	18.96
IV	18.96
IV	3	18,96
IV	3	18.96
IV	19,16
IV	19,16
Motor Vehicle and Lift Truck
Mechanic A	V 5	21,34
APR.
12/92
18.33
18.60
18.60
18.86
18.86
19.45
19.45 20.00 20,00 20,00 20.00 20.21 20.21
22,67
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION REQUIRED ** REQUIRES AH "A" DRIVERS LICENCE
*** BID PLANT-WIDE
PLANT SERVICE
Plant Cleaner Dressing Room Attendant Laundry Attendant
INS. CLASS APR. APR. CODE	1	14/91	12/92
II	1	17,37	18.33
17,37 18,33 II	1	17,63	18.60
Probationary: (EXCLUDES TRADES AND APPRENTICESHIPS)
New Hire
(1st Week to 10th Week)	12,22	12,89
(11 th Week to 26th Week)	14,65 15.46
(27th Week to the 52ad Week)	16.49 17,31
OTHER
Student 1 st Year	10.99	U.60
Student 2nd Year, or more	12.46	13.15
*7*7
APR.
17/93
19,24
19.54
19,52
19.81
19.81
20.42
20.42 21,00 21.00 21,00 21.00 21,22 21.22
23.95
APR.
17/93
19.24
19.24 19,52
13,53
16.23
18.17
12.18
13.80
ARTICLE IX VACATIONS
VACATION ENTITLEMENT
SECTION 9:01
The Company will grant annual vacations with pay on the following basis to those employees who qualify fir sains under all of the provisions of this article.	■>	/ O / - - d
(a)	Two weeks vacation with pay after one year .of continuous service.	O S“' — <3
(b)	Three weeks vacation with pay after five years of continuous
service.	} ; — ° Y
(c)	Four weeks vacation with pay after elevenj!lears of
continuous service.	/^
(d) Five weeks vacation continuous service.
with pay after nineteen,years
-2- s.—— ej*'
of
(e) S ix weeks vacation with pay after twenty-five years of continuous service.
VACATION SCHEDULING PROCEDURE SECTION 9:02
(a)	Vacations will be granted at such times through the calendar year as is found most suitable, considering both the wishes of the employees and the Company.
However, they will be scheduled in such a manner as to provide for even distribution of the number of people who are absent due to vacation. Vacation weeks will begin on Sunday, however, the Company may permit a change, if practical, for individual employees. Except as modified hereafter, senior employees on the shift will be given first preference for vacation dates within the schedule, provided they have indicated their preference to their supervisor.
Preference will be indicated in advance, in writing, and separated into two time frames of January 1st to the 2nd Sunday in June, and the 2nd Sunday in June to December 31st. '	'
78
(b)	Vacation lists will be posted prior to October 1st for the first time frame, and prior to April 1st for the second time frame.
Protest of assignment of vacation dates must be made within two weeks following the posting of the lists. Otherwise, allotted dates will be assumed as correct.
(c)	Employees who are not eligible for three or more weeks
vacation will be given preference in selecting their vacations as against the second portion of the vacation of those entitled to three weeks vacation who wish to split such vacation period.
Senior employees who split their vacation but take one portion outside the holiday season (2nd Sunday in June to the year end) will still have preference over junior employees in obtaining one vacation period between the above dates.
(d)	In the event that additional people can be permitted on
vacation at any period upon short notice, first consideration will be given to those who did not have sufficient seniority to get a scheduled vacation in either July or August.
(e)	Vacation will be completed each calendar year.
(f)	* Employees with more than three weeks vacation must take
that excess vacation outside of the prime period (2nd Sunday in June to September 1st), unless there are additional openings after all other employees have scheduled they-vacation.
VACATION PAY IN LIEU OF TIME OFF SECTION 9:03
In the event an employee has been absent from work during the current calendar year for a full calendar week because of layoff, an excused absence, approved leave of absence or illness, but not because of a disciplinary suspension or dispute between the Company or Union, he/she may have the option of electing to receive vacation pay in lieu of being required to take vacation time off, to the extent such periods of absence are within the amount of vacation time off for which the employee is eligible.
Employees would not be allowed to work their vacation if regular employees are on layoff.
79
Employees entitled to more than two weeks vacation may carry-over up to two (2) weeks vacation to be taken the following year between the first full week in January up to the week before March break. or in the month of November.
HOLIDAY WITHIN VACATION PERIOD SECTION 9:04
Sundays occurring during vacation period shall count as part of such vacations. If an employee is eligible for a holiday with pay which falls during a regular scheduled vacation week, the Company may grant that holiday off with pay on the last day preceding or the first day following the vacation, but if not convenient to operating schedules, he/she will receive a days pay in lieu of the day off.
SECTION 9:05
If an employee should have earned a vacation in accordance with the terms of this article, and should die before taking his/her vacation, vacation pay will be paid to his/her estate.
VACATION PAY ENTITLEMENT SECTION 9:06
(a)	For each week of vacation entitlement as under Section 9:01, an employee shall receive as vacation pay an amount equivalent to 2% of total earnings paid to him/her by the Company during the preceding calendar year.
(b)	If an employee with five or more years service works a
minimum of twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year (one or more days of work to constitute a week) and is off the remainder of the year because of illness or injury, his/her vacation pay for the following year would be based on forty (40) hours at his/her previous year end rate or 2% of his/her previous calendar year’s earnings including WCB payments, whichever is greater.
To qualify for this, an employee must be off a minimum of two (2) calendar weeks because of illness, injury or layoff.
80
TERMINATION VACATION PAY SECTION 9:07
(a)	.Employees who have ceased to be employed by the Company will receive a cash payment, in lieu of any vacation which they would otherwise have been entitled to take as time off, as of the date of termination, and which they had not already received during the calendar year in which termination occurs. Settlement will be computed for each week not already received, on the basis provided under Section 9:06 above.
(b)	Employees will also receive, in respect to earnings, during
the current year-to-date of termination, including any payment under (a), such as vacation pay as may be due them under the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
(c)	If termination is due to retirement at normal retirement date, or by reason of incapacity after twenty (20) years of service, or after attaining the age of sixty-two (62). they will also receive 2% of their wages for the current year for each week of vacation for which they are qualified by years of service instead of the amount provided under (b) of this section.
ARTICLE X
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION 10:01
A grievance is defined as a dispute involving a question of the application or interpretation of the terms of this Agreement. Grievances will be filed and processed promptly, and in all instances will be handled according to the procedure outlined in this article.
SECTION 10:02
An employee believing he/she may have a grievance shall discuss it in the first instance with his/her Supervisor within three (3) work days of the event occurring, or of its becoming known to the employee. He/she has the option of requesting that the departmental Union Steward accompany him/her. The Supervisor will give his/her answer within three (3) work days. Following that reply, if an employee believes he/she may have a grievance as defined above, he/she may prepare-it in writing, sign it, and present it to the Department JHeward for further
81
processing. When an employee’s Steward is absent from work he/she may contact another Steward in the department on that shift or if unavailable, a member of the Union Negotiation Committee.
STEP 1: After the previous procedure has been completed and within five (5Jwork days of the time that the Supervisor gave his/her reply, the employee and the Union Steward may proceed by presenting a copy to the employee’s Supervisor. The Supervisor will give his/her reply to the employee and the Department Steward within three (3) work days of the time he/she receives the written grievance, unless mutually agreed to extend that time. At completion of this step, the Supervisor and Steward will initial and date the grievance. If the matter has not been settled, the Union Steward within five (5) work days may take the grievance up at the next step.
STEP 2: The grievance will then be discussed by the Department Steward and Department Supervisor and the Department Supervisor will give his/her reply within three (3) work days from the time he/she received the written grievance unless it is mutually agreed to extend that time. The Steward and Department Supervisor will then initial and date the grievance. If the grievance has not been settled it may be taken up at the next step within five (5) work days.
STEP 3: If the Chief Steward feels that the grievance is justified, the Chief Steward may request that it be investigated by the Employee Relations Department. A reply will be given within five (5) days unless it is mutually agreed to extend that time. They will initial and date the grievance and note their comments.
STEP 4: If the grievance has not been settled by Step 3, it may be submitted for the next joint meeting of the Union and Management Committee. If it is not settled there, the matter may then be submitted to the arbitration procedure within ten (10) work days of such a meeting upon request of either party and, if necessary, an additional twenty (20) days may be allowed by agreement of the parties.
82
POLICY GRIEVANCE
A,Union or Company policy grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of this Agreement concerning all or a substantial number of the employees in the 'bargaining unit, may be lodged by the Company or by the local Union Executive at Step 3 of the grievance procedure at any time within five (5) full working days after the circumstances giving rise to such grievance occurred or originated. If it is not satisfactorily settled it may be processed by Step 4 and to arbitration in the same manner and to the same extent as the grievance of an employee.
LABOUR RELATIONS MONTHLY MEETINGS
SECTION Itf:03
The parties agree that .the Negotiations Committee will meet, in the forenoon during the third week of each month for the purpose of considering grievances which have been processed in accordance with Article X, and discussion of other matters of mutual interest.
SUSPENSION HEARING
SECTION 10:04
(a)	A regular employee who is suspended for afull shift or more for cause will be entitled to have a hearing with Supervision .and the Labour Relations Department, to be held, if possible, within 24 hours (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excepted), and will have the option of having the Department Steward and the Chief Steward present at the hearing. The hearing will provide an opportunity for all concerned to be fully informed, and for the Company to receive full information from the employee before making itsdecision as to the nature of the disciplinary action to be taken IF AN EMPLOYEE CHOOSES NOT TO HAVE THE UNION REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT, HElSHE WILL SIGN A WAIVER FORM INDICATING HE/SHE WAIVED THIS OPTION.
(b)	Any grievance claiming that the disciplinary action was
unjustified must be filed within three (3) work days of the time. that the action was taken, and will be considered promptly at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
If illness or injury renders the aggrieved employee incapable of filing such a grievance within the prescribed time; then
83
such a grievance may be filed on his/her behalf by any member of the Union Executive or by his/her Steward within seven work days after the employee in question was given notice of the disciplinary action to be taken.
PURGING OF FILES
SECTION 10:05
Non safety related offenses will be removed from an employee’s file according to the following structure:
GROUP f OFFENSES:	After five (5) years from the time
of the incident.
GROUP II OFFENSES:	After two (2) years from the time of
the incident, provided that no further	violations/offenses
occurred within that 2 year period.
GROUP III OFFENSES:	After two (2) years from the time of
the incident, provided that no further	violations/offenses
occurred within that 2 year period.
ARTICLE XI ARBITRATION
SECTION 11:01
Any grievance involving interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement which is unresolved after completion of the provisions of Article X and which is to be taken up in arbitration at the request of either party after the meeting at Step 4 of the grievance procedure will be handled in the following manner. SECTION 11:02
The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as chairperson chosen by the other two members of the Board.
SECTION 11:03
Within forty-eight (48) hours of the request by either party for a Board,each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
84
SECTION 11:04
Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union fail to agree on a third person within seven days of the notification mentioned in Section 11:03 above, the Ministry of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a member of the judiciary of the Province of Ontario to act as chairperson.
SECTION 11:05
The decision of the Board of Arbitration constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both parties.
SECTION 11:06
(a)	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(b)	An arbitration board considering a discharge grievance, is empowered to sustain the Company’s action, or reinstate the employee either with compensation off-setting net loss, if temporarily employed elsewhere, or any other adjustment related to reinstatement which the Board (or Chairperson if there is no majority opinion) deems equitable based on facts, and consistent with provisions of this Contract.
SECTION 11:07
Each of the parties of this Agreement will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairperson.
The Board of Arbitration may be waived in favour of a single arbitrator, selected from the following list:
Disciplinary Matter Mr. M. Teplitsky Mr. R. H. McLaren
Ms. G. Brent Mr. J. W. Samuels Prof. I. Hunter Mr. D. Beatty Mr. J. W, Kilgour
Contract Interpretation
Mr. E. E. Palmer Ms, M. Saltman Ms. P. Picher Mr, R. L, Kennedy Mr. K. Burkett Ms. A. Bartlett Mr, O. Shinie
Choice of arbitrators from the list above will be made alternatively by the parties based on the last case arbitrated,
85
whether it be a discipline matter or a contract interpretation case.
The parties are restricted to selecting only arbitrators from the appropriate lists shown above according to the type of case to be arbitrated and cannot select an arbitrator from the other list.
It is further agreed that neither party can select the same arbitrator consecutively.
In the event the parties are unable to obtain an arbitrator under the above process, they will mutually select an arbitrator or ask the Ministry to appoint one.
The arbitratof selected will be bound by the conditions applying to the Board of Arbitrators, as indicated in Section 11:06.
ARTICLE XII
NO STRIKES • NO LOCKOUTS SECTION 12:01
In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the, life, of this Agreement	will be no
strike, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout. It is understood that this Section will not prohibit either party from requesting the use of the conciliation services provided under the Ontario Labour Relations Act after the anniversary date of the contract, if negotiations for amendments have not been completed satisfactorily.
SECTION 12:02
The Union further agrees that, even where it could legally go on strike without violating the terms of this Agreement or of any portion of same, it will not call, or authorize a strike unless and until written authorization for such action from the President of the American Federation of Grain Millers (A,F,L, - C.I.O., C.L.'C..'/ ‘ififa’t/tfWi I'MTiY'A'it'i T> the Company.
SECTION 12:03
(a) It is further agreed that, should a strike take place at any time in the future, even though the remainder of this Agreement may have expired, and even though the strike would not be in violation of this Agreement or any existing laws in force in the Province of Ontario, all of the employees who may be needed for adequate plant and property
Rfi
protection during such strike shall be permitted to perform such work faithfully without interference from the Union.
Hourly employees shall not be required to, or be penalized for refusing to, cross a picket line where a legal strike is in progress.
ARTICLE XIII UNION AND COMPANY CO-OPERATION - PLANT EFFICIENCY SECTION 13:01
As a condition of this Agreement, the Union, its officers and the employees will cooperate fully in a joint effort with the Company to eliminate inefficiency, neglect, ineffectiveness, lethargy and indolence, or-other detraction from efficiency, thereby mutually assisting in the improvement of productivity.
ARTICLE HEADINGS
SECTION 13:02
Article headings are supplied in this Agreement for convenience only and shall be given no legal effect.
BULLETIN BOARDS
SECTION 13:03
The Company agrees to permit the Union to place designated bulletin boards in the plant for the purpose of posting official LTnion notices. These boards shall not be used for posting propaganda TTiuLcfiar'aifu1 uu fiOtiCc Shall be placed upon SUCo boards or any other place in the plant without first receiving authorization from the Company to such notice.
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTE SECTION 13:04
The American Federation of Grain Millers agrees that there shall be no jurisdictional dispute with employees of the Company who are members of the A.F.L, - C.I.O., C.L.C. or any affiliated union and that the Company will be required to deal only with Local 1'54 of the American Federation of Grain Millers international Union as to all matters covered by this Agreement.
a 1
UNION ACTIVITY
SECTION 13:05
Union activity is not permitted on Company property, or time,
except as may be agreed upon by Company and Union.
UNION ACTIVITY
(a)	Union Representation
The Company agrees that the Chief Steward will be1 privileged to visit any part of the plant in order to investigate a specific grievance which has not been settled within the department in accordance with the regular grievance procedure, and must attempt to contact the Supervisor of the department which he/she wishes to visit. Stewards or other Union Representatives and Officers shall avoid neglecting their regular jobs during work hours or interfering with the work of others. In the event that it is necessary to investigate a matter immediately, such a Representative shall be excused from his/her job for a short period by contacting his/her supervisor and arrangements will be made to have his/her job taken care of, With respect to this latter point, it is understood that in many situations, a job can be taken care of by fellow crew members without the necessity for a specific replacement, where on other occasions, a specific replacement may be necessary. The Union pledges that their Representatives will not abuse the arrangement. This does not represent a new plan, but is purely an explanation of a past practice which is to be continued.
(b)	Chief Steward & President
The Company and the Union agree to allow the President and the Chief Steward to have the option of working day shift during the incumbents’ term of office.
It is agreed these positions are not an addition to the crew and may result in the displacement of a junior employee. This letter does not connote a change in the method of conducting Union business. Members of the Union Committee or Stewards shall not leave their work stations without authorization from their supervisors. It is understood that either party may terminate the above portion (refers to (b) portion) should it become unsatisfactory.
88
Assignments of extra shifts to the Chief Steward and the President will be on day shift only, according to the following guidelines:
1.	His/her hours will be recorded on one list for Saturdays and Sundays/Holidays and also according to the shift (A, B, or C) on which the assignment extra shift happens to fall.
2.	For extra shift assigmnents (A, B, or C shifts) the Chief Steward and/or the President of the Union will take the hours of rAe rre'xt'sembr-e frrp I'o y ee plus applicable charged hours (if any) from the previous week to determine as to whether they are to be scheduled.
(c)	In cases where the Employee Relations Department requests the attendance of the Chief Steward and it is necessary to call this person into work, the Company will pay the hours involved. The decision of payment will be the exclusive right of the Company.
UNION SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
We are obligated by law, and because of Kellogg's commitment, j we are morally obligated to ensure that the Union Safety Representative is permitted to perform his/her duties outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Attempts will be made to cause the least disruption to the department or areas where the Union Representative works. Communication from the Safety Department, will outline the known schedule of meetings and audits. However, it is not always possible to know, or to give advanced notice, regarding Ministry of Labour Audits, critical injuries, refusal to work, or miscellaneous functions requiring the Safety Representative. In such cases, the Company will make every effort to cooperate. If it is possible to give prior notice it will be given. The Safety Representative will notify his/her supervisor when he/she is leaving a job, and will identify the requester.
The following outlines the representative's responsibilities under the Act:
—	Identify situations that may be a source of danger or hazard L to workers.
—	Make recommendations to the employer and the workers for the improvement of the health and safety of workers.
89
Recommend to the employer and the workers the establishment, maintenance and monitoring of programs, measures and procedures respecting the health and safety of workers; and
/
Obtain information from employer respecting,
(i) The identification of potential or existing hazards of materials, -process or equipment, and
(,ii) Health and safety experience and work practices and standards/in similar or other industries of which the constructor or employer has knowledge.
The Union. Saffttv RetjreneniatLve shall -
— Inspect the physicakcondition of the work place not more often than once a month or at such intervals as a Director may direct, and it is the duty of the employer and the workers to afford that member such information and assistance as may be required for the purpose of carrying out the inspection.
The Union Safety Representative shall
V,
Investigate cases where a worker is killed or critically injured at a work place from any cause and one of those members may, subject to sub-section 25 (2), inspect the place where the accident occurred and any machine, device or thing, and shall report his/her findings to a Director and to the committee.
The Union Safety Representative shall ■
e entitled to such time from his/her work as is necessary to attend meetings of the committee and to
carry, out. his/her duties, under sub-sections, (8) and .(9) and'the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time
for which he/she shall be paid by his/her employer at his/her regular or premium rate as may be proper.
Upon refusing to work or do particular work, the worker shall promptly report the circumstances of his/her refusal to his/her employer or supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the worker and, if there is such, in the presence of the health an4 safety representative who shall be made available and who shall attend without delay.
90
VALIDITY
SECTION 13:06
It is hereby agreed that none of the provisions included in the Contract may be interpreted in any manner which would be in conflict with any Government Statutes. If any provision of this Contract shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Contract shall not be affected.
SALARIED PERSONNEL PERFORMING HOURLY FUNCTIONS
SECTION 13:07 '
\
First Line Supervision, salaried personnel, and hourly employees who are temporarily replacing First Line Supervision will not be permitted or assigned to do work covered by the bargaining unit except as outlined below:
(a) Instruct and/or train employees
(b)	Demonstrating the correct use of tools or equipment.
(c)	Acting to prevent an accident or injury to an employee or to prevent product or equipment damage.
<d) Exp erimental or developmental assignments not for production and not replacing employees on bargaining unit work.
UNION ELECTIONS
SECTION 13:08
In order to assist the Union in securing a fully representative vote for the election of officers of the Local Union, a system will be worked out under the direction of the Union Elections Committee, whereby such elections will be held on Company property without interference by the Company.
91
UNION AND COMPANY DECISIONS SECTION 13:09
It is understood that the Union membership will in all instances support its officially authorized representatives in any decision or agreement which they might reach with the officially authorized representatives of the Company. The Company likewise guarantees that it will support any decisions or agreements its officially authorized representatives might make with the officially authorized representatives of the Union.
UNION NEGOTIATIONS COMMITTEE SEGTWW, 13:10
The Union agrees that there will be a single Committee known as the Union Negotiations Committee which shall include the functions of a Grievance Committee and of a Negotiating Committee and which Committee shall deal with the Company in all matters between them. The Committee will be composed of the President, Vice-president and Chief Steward and two other members of the union as regular members, all of whom will be selected from regular employees of the Company. It is understood that an International Representative for this Union may also be a member of that Committee.
The Company agrees to allow the attendance of the Recording Secretary at Contract Negotiations and at all Union/Company meetings for the purpose of recording minutes. It is understood this position will not be considered as a member of the Negotiating Committee.
JURY DUTY
SECTION 13:11	/
If employee(s) are called to serve on coroner/jury duty or are subpoenaed as witness(es) except in their own defense during a period when they would otherwise have been working for the Company. they will be paid the difference between the amount which they receive for jury duty and the wage which they would
UT
have received while working for the Company, computed at their normal base rate, for regular hours of work missed up to forty (40) hours in a week. This is contingent upon their notifying their supervisor as soon as such jury notice is received, and furnishing of proof satisfactory to the Company as'to the amount paid for jury duty.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
SECTION 13:12
An employee who loses time on a scheduled work day on account of death of his/her spouse or other members of his/her immediate family will be paid, at normal daily straight time hours, for working time lost as a result of making arrangements or attendance at the funeral, in accordance with the following:
(a)	Up to five (5) days as a result of death of his/her spouse or children.
(b)	Up to three (3) days as a result of death of a member of
his/her immediate family. This ’wxmiVi* include his/her
mother or father, brother or sister, stepmother, stepfather, stepbrother or half brother, stepsister or half sister.
A brother-in-law or sister-in-law is defined as either an employee’s brother’s or sister’s brothers or sister’s spouse or an employee’s spouse’s sister or brother.
If an employee attended the funeral on a day he/she is
scheduled .wink, Jujishe would be allowed that day off
with pay (at nonnal daily straight time hours) provided the funeral was that of his/her mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.
TbU provision docs not apply in the case of the death of a
step-brother-in-law or step-sister-in-lath.
An employee who is acting as a pallbearer for a fellow employee will be allowed the day off with pay.
93
SECTION 13:13
■2. I
UNION COUNSELLING
The Company and the Union have a strong interest in encouraging early treatment and help to resolve employee problems related to substance abuse, emotional, medical, family or financial difficulties and will endeavour to assist in the promotion of a full and healthy lifestyle through employee assistance programs.
ARTICLE XIV
DURATION OF AGREEMENT SECTION 14:01
This Agreement shall remain in force for a.period of three (3) years from. thg 14th day of April. 1991 to the 16th day of April, 1933”"and shall continue in force from year to year fhereaTter unless in any year not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days before the date of its termination either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of or proposed revisions oi this Agreement.
OUTLINE OF BF.NEF-TJ PLANS FOR KELLOGG CANADA INC.
The Company Insurance Plans provide substantial protection for you and your dependents through contracts underwritten by insurance companies. The description is available in a booklet intended to give you a general explanation of insurance benefits. but it should be understood that the master insurance contracts are the governing documents.
POLICY LETTERS:
LETTER 1.
SFPTinN 5:01
Clarification of seniority status of employees hired prior to August 28, 1983,
For those employees who are hired after August 28, 1983, the alphabetical order of the employee's surname, at date of hire, shall govern their relative seniority.
94
For those who were in Kellogg’s employ as of August 28, 1983, the order seniority which prevailed on August 28, 1983 (ratification date), as it pertains to those employees is the official order and is not subject to any further change.
Reached: March 2, 1984
LETTER 2,
PROCEDURE .EflRi-RETURN-TQ -W QRK. CERTIEIC AIIQH
Employees vriitriAiVe been absent for three consecutive days or more for health reasons must be certified by the Plant Physician or designate (Nurse on duty) before returning to work.
Employees who lose time due to a work related injury must be certified by the Plant Physician before returning to work. Employees who lose time due to W.C.B., long term disability, surgery, pregnancy, communicable diseases (other than flu or colds), psychological disorders or recurring illness must be certified by the Plant Physician.
Employees who lose time due to colds, flu, upper respiratory infections, or general malaise must report to the nurse on duty for clearance upon their return to work. If, in the opinion of the nurse, an employee is not physically or mentally capable of ‘returning to work safely, the employee would not be allowed to work, and would then be required to be certified by the Plant Physician before being permitted to return to work.
Employees who have been cleared by the nurse to return to work may from time to time be required to report to the Plant Physician during their shift for further consultation.
Employees who are required by the Company to be certified by the riant rnystctan, will be compensated at the flat rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) provided they provide a valid return to work certificate from their personal physician upon reporting to the Plant Physician.
Reached: February 18, 1980
95
LETTER 3.
POLICY FOR CLEANUP OF PACKAGING AND PROCESSING DEPARTMENTS
The following guidelines will be utilized in the Processing/Packaging Department to ensure a quality, timely and safe cleanup of the area:
1- For any given cleanup shift, the Packing and Processing crew will consist of 70% capable employees.
Note: Flavour, All Cookers, and C.I.P. will require 100% qualified employees.
2,	All cleanup shifts will be scheduled for eight hours duration on a run through.
3.	Regular qualified department employees may be offered an option to complete five hour assignments past their shift on 3-1 l/l 1-7 Friday where applicable.
Reached: 1985 Negotiations Revised: 1988 Negotiations
LETTER 4.
DEFINITION:	“SPOUSE” SHALL MEAN EITHER:
(a)	The employee's lawfully married spouse to whom he/she
was so married at the date as of which a determination of the
marital status is required, or
(b)	The employee’s ’’common-law spouse”, which phrase shall
mean a person of the opposite sex who
(i) Has resided with the employee for at least two (2) full years immediately prior to the date as of which a determination of the employee’s marital status is required, and
(") Has been represented by the employee as his/her spouse during that period.
If an employee is survived by both a lawfully married spouse and a common-law spouse as defined above, the term ’’Spouse” shall mean the married spouse. If, however, the employee has designated his/her common-law spouse as his/her beneficiary, the term “Spouse” will mean the designated common-law spouse.
Reached: 1985 Negotiations
96
declare that,
is my common-law spouse and this relationship has existed for at least 24 months.
Signed
Date
LETTER 5.
The Company agrees to place the Union Logo on the cereal cartons and the front of the Collective Agreement.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 6.
PENSION AND SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
The Company will agree to negotiate with the Union any options that are available due to necessary modifications required to the plans as the result of the Federal or Provincial changes to the various Acts covering the above mentioned plans.
It is further understood that the Company will maintain the present economic contribution within the Federal or Provincial guidelines in an appropriate manner.
Reached: 1985 Negotiations Revised: 1991 Negotiations
97
LETTER 7.
Additional vacation request may be granted above 'the fifteen (15) per cent allotment on a departmental basis provided operational schedules permit.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 8.
The Company will agree to include the Union Executives hours in the calculation of regular hours worked for the purpose of overtime limitations.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 9.
The Company will schedule a meeting for the first week of December at which time the parties will discuss planned contract work scheduled during the Christmas shutdown.
Maintenance employees will be asked to indicate their availability for work if required during the Christmas shutdown by means of a sign-up sheet to be completed by the first week in December.
The Company will notify employees by the second week of December if they are required to work.
All trades people who volunteer, will be scheduled to work before any outside contractor is used provided the work involved would normally be done by our trades.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 10.
For purposes of clarification of an outside contracting notification the Company will designate a Maintenance management contact to answer questions from the Union representative should they arise.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
98
LETTER 11,
Letter of Understanding (For Reference Only) Processing Department • Rate Progression
Between:
KELLOGG CANADA INC. (LONDON PLANT) ■ and -
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS, LOCAL 154, A.F.L. • CJ.O. - C.L.C.
Reached: the 1ST day of DECEMBER 1989
PROCESS	5 JOBS IN GROUP *
OPERATOR TO BECOME PROCESS OPERATOR MUST BE QUALIFIED IN 5 JOBS IN ONE OF THE GROUPS
NO LIMIT OF THE NUMBER OF PROCESS OPERATORS ON ANY SHIFT
•	NOT REQUIRED TO BID INTO THE GROUP
*	THREE YEARS SENIORITY IN THE DEPARTMENT
A PROCESS OPERATOR AS DEFINED BY THIS PROPOSAL, BIDDING FROM A GROUP INTO A RESOURCE POSITION OR ANOTHER GROUP WILL RETAIN THE RATE.
IF ONE OF THE PROCESS OPERATOR'S QUALIFYING JOBS BECOMES REDUNDANT. THE INDIVIDUAL(S) AFFECTED MUST ACTIVELY SEEK TO MEET THE CRITERIA OF A PROCESS OPERATOR TO MAINTAIN THE RATE REQUIRED.
SHOULD THE NUMBER OF JOBS IN ANY GROUP BECOME REDUNDANT AND IT IS NOT POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN THE REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS. AS SET OUT ABOVE, THE PROCESSING OPERATOR WILL RETAIN HIS/HER RATE FOR THE LIFE OF THE AGREEMENT.
oo
IF A "B" OPERATOR CANNOT PROGRESS TO A, PROCESS OPERATOR BECAUSE THE NUMBER OF JOBS IN A GROUP ARE NOT AVAILABLE, QUALIFICATIONS IN ANOTHER GROUP WOULD BE ACCEPTED AS VALID QUALIFICATIONS FOR THE PROCESS OPERATOR RATE.
ANYONE HOLDING A PROCESS OPERATOR RATE PRIOR TO JANUARY 1, 1990 THAT DOES NOT CONFORM TO THE PROPOSAL WILL NOT LOSE THE RATE. THEY SHOULD, HOWEVER, ACTIVELY SEEK TO MEET THE PROCESS OPERATOR CRITERIA IN THE PROPOSAL. IF NO ATTEMPT IS MADE TO MEET THE CRITERIA, THE RATE WILL BE MODIFIED TO REFLECT THEIR EXISTING JOB QUALIFICATIONS.
THE THREE PROCESS OPERATOR POOL POSITIONS WILL BE ABSORBED INTO GROUP III AS PROCESS OPERATOR AND THB, POOL POSITION WILL BE CONSIDERED REDUNDANT.
B RATE 4 JOBS (OPERATING) ANY GROUP CRATE L JOBS (OPERATING)	GROUP
D RATE 2 JOBS (OPERATING) ANY GROUP OR
ANY QUALIFIED MHS OBSERVER, OR BID VITAMIN PREP OR PKG. INSP. LAB.
IF THE BID VITAMIN PREP. AND PACKAGING LAB EMPLOYEE CHOOSE TO BID A PROCESS OPERATING GROUP, THEY WOULD RETAIN THE RATE OUTLINED IN T¥.\^ Vk'Crt'CAAL. IF Prim' BID /iV'T'* TfeYV
RESOURCE (TANKS/ADDITIVE) LAB 1, 2, RECLAIM, OR FEED AND HAVE NO OTHER QUALIFICATIONS, THEY WOULD LOSE THE RATE.
E RATE 1 OPERATING JOB ANY GROUP OR LAB 1, LAB 2, RECLAIM, FEED RESOURCE TANK/ADDITIVE MHS, VITAMIN PREP, PKG. INSP, LAB. AND RESOURCE JOBS DO NOT QUALITY TOWARDS THE PROCESS OPERATOR RATE.
ALL RATES WILL BE MADE. EFFECTIVE ACCORDING TO THE PROPOSAL ON JANUARY 1, 1990,
100
Note modified in Section 8r04, 8:07 re, Pay Equity (January
1990)
LETTER 12.
SECTION 8:04 (Letter of Understanding For Reference Only) 04-Jan-1991
GROUP IV JOB CRITERIA and PROGRESSION
4	GROUP IV JOBS PER SHIFT
2 WEEKEND WORKER JOBS PER WEEKEND SHIFT (12 hour shifts)
D Rate (2) Twd operating jobs MHS Observer
i)	Monorail Observer Support
ii)	ICC Observer Support
5	weeks classroom and theory training
5	weeks OJT above the schedule 4-hrj ICC instruction with trainer
6	- 12 mos, on the job experience
C Rate Progression after the above and operator training begins. MHS Operator -••> 3 jobs
i)	Execution of software interfaces to run MHS system
ii)	Execution of IDT troubleshooting and overall support and job understanding of integrated MHS systems.
iii)	Follow through of MHS job starts/shutdowns, follow through of PKG and PRO job changeovers, Monorail start-ups and shutdowns through IDT system.
8 weeks OJT, After immediately completing 8 weeks training there will be a written evaluation by the respective Supervisor.
Successful pass of Supervisory evaluation.
There will then be an additional 8 weeks of on the job experience. Aft&the eight weeks of on the job experience a written test will be given.
101
Successful pass of written evaluation — "B" Rate 3 years within the Process/MHS department -- P.O. Rate
Note:	By Jan. 1991 there will be a compliment of at least 2
trained Material Handling operators per shift and additional operator training will continue as scheduled.
During the full transition period Operator relief will come from
i)	MHS Observers
ii)	MHS Supervision
iii)	“IT” Shift support
Retroactive pay increases will apply where appropriate.
LETTER 13.
The Company agrees to modify form 565 “Union Notification of Contract Work” to include “Approximate Man-Hours and Days Duration”.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 14.
As a result of the recent arbitration case the parties agree that between the date of ratification and April 19, 1992, employees may be required to work up to forty-eight (48) hours in a week.
After April 19, 1992 all overtime will be voluntary as per the new negotiated agreement.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER IS.
If an employee on weekend work accepts an Executive Board position or an employee already holding an Executive Board office successfully bids a weekend worker position his/her weekend worker job would be posted as a temporary bid and held until he/she no longer holds an Executive Board office.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 16,
During the term of this Agreement, employees currently in the progression will continue as previously agreed including the
102
filling of vacant first and second Miller positions.
Vacancies other than first and second Miller positions will be bid departmentally according to Section 5: 13.
If an employee is assigned to a higher rated position, he/she will be paid the appropriate rate.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 17.
Transfer Roan: Core J<±> (Section6:04)
The transfer room operators’ overtime opportunities will come from the transfer room or warehouse. The core employee will be positioned on extra shifts as they occur (A shift and B shift) and will take the next senior person's oId/starting hours prior to application of charged hours, then the core employee’s charged hours will be added, to determine new hours for extra shift scheduling.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER-M
Receiving and Transfer Room hours of work The normal hours of work for the above crews are as follows: Receiving (Bullgang)	7:00 a.m. • 3:00 p.m,
Transfer Room
Core Employee	7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Other crew members rotate weekly 7:00 a.m. • 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. Night shift crew is fixed 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 19,
The Company may utilize temporary weekend workers from June through September.
103
If required, these positions would be posted in May of each year as temporary openings and would be awarded to the senior employees who apply in Group III or less as outlined in Section 8:07. Jobs in Groups IV and V will be posted as qualified. These positions would work 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, shift only.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 20.
The parties agree to develop and implement availability list that will be used to secure employees for daily opportunity and extra shift overtime.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 21.
The Company and LTnion have agreed to “Zero" out the extra shift hours on a one time basis effective January 1, 1992 to coincide
with the transition to the one list for extra shift overtime hours.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 22.
The Ccnpany .aerees to develop a system for the option to Bank overtime which will be implemented by April 19, 1992.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 23.
The Company will develop and maintain a computerized Skills and Qualifications Inventory system for all hourly employees.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 24.
Clarifications of Job Classifications under Section 2:04:
The only classifications that cannot be bumped or claimed (unless stated in Section 2:04) are classification four (4) and five
(5).
The following jobs are currently in class four:
Bulk Storage Utility Second Miller
104
First Miller
Class five includes skilled trades and positions requiring apprenticeships.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 25. (Reference Only)
24 Hour Clock shown in Section 6:10:
June 21, 1990 Letter of Understanding Maintenance Department Contract Language Call In (Page 8- 10, #3 (a-k))
The Company will make an out-of-plant phone call to the
employee from the call-in list in rotation for the overtime assignment, to a maximum of 16 hours in a 24 hour period.
Daily Opportunity (Page 6 & 7, #2 (a-f))
The Company will ask the employee that is on a scheduled shift/assignment in the plant to either stay over or come in early for shift support.
Core Group
The rights and responsibility of the core group will be from *4:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m, for a daily opportunity for all assignments, except to replace shift absenteeism. Should the core employees decline the initial opportunity, after all alternatives have been exhausted by the Company, the junior non-rotating core employee would be required to accept the assignment.
*■ Note: The 4:00 a.m. • 8:00 a.m. dally opportunity for core employees will be scheduled primarily for crewing start-ups over and above the full shift support compliment.
Shift Group
The rights and responsibility of the shift group will be for a 4 hour opportunity before or after their shift to replace absenteeism. Also a *4 hour opportunity after their shift to complete a job assignment carried over from a 2nd or 3rd shift. Should the shift employees decline the initial opportunity, then after all alternatives have been exhausted by the Company, the junior shift employee will be required to accept the assignment.
* Note: Page 7 #2 (c). In the event	is
not afforded the initial opportunity to stay for a
105
potential 4 hour opportunity after their shift, because the Company has elected to go to the call-in system first. The shift employee will not be required to stay after his/her shift.
Call-In (Page 8, Section #3 (c))
When an employee is called in to provide shift relief because the scheduled employee for that shift is in on a call-in. The shift relief employee called in will provide shift coverage until the scheduled shift employee has finished the call-in and he/she will be offered the opportunity to return to his/her scheduled shift and the employee called in to replace him/her will comply with Page 9(g).
As it relates to call-ins. no employee will work more than 16 hours in a 24 hour period on a call-in.
Understanding of Book Off/Book On (Page 10, Section #4 (a)) Book Offs granted to all employees are for a 24 hour period. Book Ons requested by core employees are for a 24 hour period. Book Ons requested by shift employees are for core days.
Extra Shifts (Page 13, #4 (e). also Page 11, #4 B (a))
Core employees scheduled for Extra Shifts “on core”, have all rights and responsibilities to an Extended or Additional assignment that may develop. Shift employees scheduled for Extra Shifts “on shift”, have all rights and responsibilities to an Extended or Additional shift that may develop.
Understanding of Exhausting All Alternatives The exhausting of all alternatives will entail:
(1)	The employee has declined the initial offer of Daily
Opportunity.
(2)	The Company will utilize the call-in list system of that
particular trade to secure a replacement.
(3)	1) The Company will then telephone the “DO NOT
CALLS” from the call-in list.
ii) Failing the above, the employee initially offered the opportunity will be required to stay. Should the
employee indicate he will be unable to stay, the Company will start with the junior employee on the call-in list and require them to come in.
(4)	When the Company has utilized the above steps, a
replacement will be secured from other like capable trades
106
(i.e,: Proc, M.W, • Pkg, M.W., like trades).
(5)	Failing the above, the Company will notify the Chief Steward that they will be staffing the job -as required to maintain operations. Should a bargaining unit employee be secured after the fact, and is on-site, ready to work, the employee will displace the non-bargaining unit individuals on a one for one basis.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 26.
Changes to Crew Sheets
When a supervisor makes a change to a crew sheet, the employee affected will be notified.
Reached: 1991 Negotiations LETTER 27.
The Company will not force a senior hourly employee off shift to cover a shift assignment while a junior hourly employee is working as a relief supervisor.
The exception would be if junior employees arc' involved in
training.
Revised: 1991 Negotiations
LETTER 28.
SECTION 6:04 and 6:05 Packing Department Overtime
Overtime in this department will be offered initially to employees within their classifications, as follows:
Industrial Mechanics Packing Operators Glue Machine Operator Carton/Case Supply
Helper/Utility/Unitizer (Tank Room over Family Lines)/Spoilage Reached: 1991 Negotiations
107
NEGOTIATIONS 1991
Sections in this addendum will change on the designated dates to the new contract language.
SECTION 6:04 •
Employees will work extra days over five in a week, when needed if they receive forty (40 clock) hours advance bulletin board notice, and will cooperate with emergency assignments when that, notice cannot be given. When extra shift assignments are required, they will be handled in accordance with the following provisions.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
An “Extra Shift” means any shift or split shift worked in a department on Saturdays, Sundays or Holidays. Saturdays will be recorded on one list, and Sundays and Holidays will be recorded on a separate list and scheduled accordingly.
r>IT « *T/^T7C T * XT T T i tlV 1	1
tnanuEsjAnurtai i. l
(b) Regular employees on each shift of a department will be scheduled in order of seniority and lowest number of hours on each respective extra shift list when qualified for the available job.
CHANGES JANUARY 1. 1992
SECTION 6:04 (0 3.	(I)
Employees who may wish to waive an extra shift assignment must notify their department on the designated form by 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, and will be charged double on the list if they were scheduled to work and failed to give such notice.
CHANGES JANUARY 1, 1992 SECTION 6:04
Employees who have been forced to work both Saturday and Sunday of one weekend will not be forced to work either Saturday or Sunday the following weekend, unless all qualified employees
108
have been utilized on their respective shifts. DELETE APRIL 19. 1992
DAILY OPPORTUNITIES
SECTION 6:05 •
When employees are needed for daily overtime assignment, selection will be made by dividing equitably among qualified employees of the shift in the department. Daily overtime assignments will be reported on a separate list for each shift as “opportunities” rather than in actual hours worked and persons unqualified for assignments will be by-passed and charged. Employees on temporary bid assignments would share daily overtime according to seniority and qualifications.
if sufficient employees are not secured in the normal selection,
the junior qualified employees assigned or scheduled on that shift will be required to accept the assignment.
If an employee has already been forced to accept a stay over and he/she is the next person to be forced on a consecutive day, he/she will be by-passed and the next employee higher on the list will be required to accept the opportunity unless all qualified employees have already been utilized.
If an employee trades shifts with another employee and an opportunity arises which would have resulted in that employee being forced to accept an assignment, the employee exchanging shifts will be forced to accept the respective assignment(s),
In the event of a forced opportunity, the starting point on the list will revert to the most senior employee.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
DAILY OPPORTUNITY STAY-OVER
(a)	An employee asked or required to work beyond his/her regular shift hours without one hour notice shall be paid double time for all hours worked, unless he/she is replacing an absent employee.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
109
OVERTIME WAIVER
SECTION 6:07
On extra shift and daily overtime assignments, employees will be charged on tho work list when their turn comes for an assignment, regardless of whether they work or not, subject to provisions of Section 6:04, Employees who prefer to waive any such calls may sign a register for that purpose, and then not be called on any such occasion, unless they were needed for an emergency and other employees were not available. However, they would be charged for each occasion, Employees may request that their name be added or subtracted from the “Waiver List” on or before the 15th day of any month.
Employees who expect to be called for such extra assignments will be responsible for ‘keeping their telephone numbers up to date on their Personnel Records.
CHANGES JANUARY 1, 1992
LETTER 7.
SECTION 6:05
POLICY FOR FORCING (EXCLUDING MAINTENANCE)
When all regular department employees who are eligible and qualified have been offered and have declined a daily opportunity in that department, it will be offered according to qualifications:
(a)	first to a floater(s) assigned to that department for that week - accorirliqf itr semunvy lVmwe'ifi’air one' rToafer
is assigned, and
(b)	subsequently to a student assigned to that department
for that week.
Should a forcing situation arise, a floater or student, if assigned to that department for the week, will be forced ahead of a regular employee. However, with the exception of Processing (until such time as work groups are established),’ supervision will not be required to rearrange employees within a department, to accommodate the forcing of a non-qualified student or floater.
If no floaters or students are assigned to that department for that week, or should additional employees be required, the regular employee(s) will be forced.
110
In all situations above, employees who are assigned or forced must be qualified to perform the function in question.
e.g.: In the Packing Department, an Industrial Mechanic or Helper would not be entitled to a daily opportunity to perform an Operator’s function.
DELETED APRIL 19. 1992 LETTER 14.
HOURLY REPLACEMENT OF SUPERVISION
The Company will not force an hourly employee to accept an overtime assignment if an hourly employee is replacing a salaried supervisor in that department.
This does not apply in the case of an hourly employee who is being utilized as a trainer.
DELETE APRIL 19, 1992
SECTIONS TO BE CHANGED/DELETED IN SECTION 6:10
2. DAILY OPPORTUNITY STAY-OVER
a)	Day shift work will be passed to the afternoon shift where practical. In situations where this is not practical, day shift employees will complete the assignment. Where necessary, a day shift employee may be requested to stay over a sufficient length of time to familiarize an afternoon shift employee.
b)	Employees will be assigned to daily opportunity
stay-over at the Company's discretion, on the basis of:
i)	first, job continuation
ii)	selection of volunteer(s) from the daily opportunity sign-up list
iii)	selection of volunteers through a canvas of other
employees readily located and as time permits
iv)	assignment to junior non-rotating employee. CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
III
DAILY OPPORTUNITY STAY-OVER
c)	Afternoon shift employees will stay-over at the Company’s request to complete an assignment, unless the supervisor decides to call employees from the call-in list in which case afternoon shift employees will stay-over until replacements arrive.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
d)	Any employee required to work beyond his/her regular shift without one hour notice will be paid double time for all hours worked, unless replacing an absent employee. The timing of the request, not the acceptance will be the,determining factor in whether employees are paid I 1/2 or double time for stay-over beyond regular shift hours.
CHANGES APRIL 19. 1992
SECTION 6:10 #3
Daily Qyxtmity nail-in
e)	If all available employees are called on the call-in list, and all decline, “last man” called will remain as if no calls were made, even if an employee who is marked as “do not call” accepts, or a junior employee is forced.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
SECTION 6:10 4 B
c) When additional support is required beyond the normal shift coverage, or when replacement is required for an employee forced the previous weekend, the junior non-rotating employee will be assigned as the addition.
Should the addition be required on a night shift, the employee will be allowed to work up to 12 hours - any portion of the 12 hours within his regular shift will be paid at time and a half (1 1/2)
DEL tilt, APklCTy," IsW
112
SECTION 6:10 4 B
e) .If more than the. required number of employees book .off on any extra shift, the junior qualified employees, on the shift at the beginning of the week, may arrange suitable volunteers to cover the shift or will be forced to work the extra shift if no volunteers are available.
DELETE APRIL 19, -1992 SECTION 6:10
E) Extended or Additional Shifts
a)	When employees are unable to complete their planned assignments within the scheduled extra shifts, or should completion of additional unplanned assignments be required and extend beyond- the scheduled extra shifts, employees presently on the shifts are required to complete the assignments, unless suitable replacements, satisfactory to the Company, can be arranged.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992 SECTION 6:10
(e) Maintenance Department employees who have been forced to work both Saturday and Sunday of one weekend will not be forced to work either Saturday or Sunday the following wtitbta&.'uitaM.iJJ. qualified employees hav-tteM, utilized.
It is understood that core employee(s) may be forced to accept shift assignments to comply with this policy.
DELETE APRIL 19, 1992
LETTER #6 - SECTION 6:05 - DAILY OPPORTUNITY SIGN-UP LISTS
Employees would be eligible for a daily opportunity, a stay-over or call-in in strict rotation when qualifications are sufficient:
There will be two sign-up lists, one for “Stay-over Opportunities” and another for “Call-in Opportunities”.
The Stay-over Opportunity list will be taken down by a Supervisor two hours prior to the shift change and employees who
have signed will be. contacted as soon as possible when daily opportunities are required.
Should an employee who has signed and is contacted to stay-over, finds he/she is unable to stay, he/she will secure a qualified replacement or.accept the opportunity.
A sign-up list for call-in opportunities will also be available on a daily basis, however, if an employee’s name is on the list at the end of the shift, and he/she is called to come in, he/she will be required to accept the opportunity.
Should no one sign-up on a particular day, Section 6:05 will
apply.
DELETE’jANUAK'f x, 1992
SECTION 6:08 - OVERTIME UNBROKEN HOURS
When employees are called in to work overtime and have not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since the completion of their last regular working period such employees shall not be required to continue working into the next regular day. Further, employees will co-operate in emergencies but the Company will not allow employees to work more than twelve (12) hours in a twenty-four hour period unless:
(a)	It is an emergency.
(b)	Employees are on a double-back.
(c)	Employees are on second and third shift and staying for a
five hour extra shift.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
SECTION <;10 - EXTRA SHIFTS #4 A A) Book Offs
a)	Employees are required to book off their assigned shifts - only - "Shifts” and “Core”.
b) Employees will be considered as volunteers for other shifts, or core assignments if they indicate their availability.
CHANGES JANUARY 1, 1992
SECTION 6:05 (c)
If sufficient Industrial Mechanics are not available to cover the overtime opportunities, two (2) “A” Industrial Mechanics will be assigned the responsibilities of three Packing lines which are in close proximity supported with an assigned help.
The assigned help will be responsible for loading cartons into the magazines, placing cases, filling glue pots, clearing jam-ups, line. clean-up, etc.
This procedure will not be utilized to overcome a continuing shortage of Industrial Mechanics.
NEW LANGUAGE EFFECTIVE APRIL 19, 1992
SECTION 6:10 (e)
e) If all available employees are called on the call-in list, and all decline, “last man” called will remain as if no calls were made, even if an employee who is marked as “do not call” accepts, or a junior employee is forced.
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
SECTION 6:10 #4 (B) c)
c)	When additional support is required beyond the normal shift coverage, or when replacement is required for an employee forced the previous weekend, the junior non-rotating employee will be assigned as the addition.
Should the addition be required on a night shift, the employee will be allowed to work up to 12 hours - any portion of the 12 hours within his regular shift will be paid at I 1/2.	“
DELETED APRIL 19, 1992
SECTION 6:12 • WEEKEND WORKERS (Dt Overtime
“employees will not be forced to accept assignment under (I) and
(II) above,
CHANGES APRIL 19, 1992
115
SECTION 13:05 (b) 1
Assignments of extra shifts to the Chief Steward and the President will be on day shift only, according to the following guidelines:
1, His/her hours will be recorded separately for Saturdays and Sundays/Holidays and also according to the shift (A, B or C), on which the assignment extra shift happens to fall.
CHANGES JANUARY 1, 1992
SIGNED FOR
LOCAL 1S4, AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOUR
M. Konesko


L. Munn


International Vice Resident
President
P. Temmerman
Vice President
P. Blaney
Chief Steward
yard sj
i nuLZ
L. Firmani fYjPJyhnAA
Bargaining Cominittee
J. Parachuk
Bargaining Com
FOR KELLOGG CANADA INC.
117
CALENDAR
JANUARY
5	M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6	7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 U 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
APRIL
3 M T W T F 8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 I4 15 16- 17 18 is 2C !1 22 23 24 25 26 27 !8 29 30
JULY
8 M T W T F 8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 I4 15 16 17 18 19 20 >1 22 23 24 25 26 27 !8 29 30 31
OCTOBER
5	M T W T F 9
1 2 3 4 5
6	7 8 9 10 11 12 3 14 15 16 17 18 19 I0 21 22 23 24 25 25
!7 28 29 30 31
FEBRUARY 3 M T W T F S I 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
MAY
8 M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST
3	M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER S	M T	W	T F	S
1 2
3	4 5	6	7 8	9
10	11 12	13	14 15	16
17	18 19	20	21 22	23
24	25 26	27	28 29	30
MARCH
S M T W T F 9 I 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	28	29	30
31
JUNE
3 M T W T F 8
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	,12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
SEPTEMBER 8 M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 3 0
DECEMBER S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 25 27 28
29 30 31
1992
CALENDAR
JANUARY
5	M	T	W	T	F	8
12	3	4
6	6	7	8	9	10	11
12 13	14	15	16	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	28	29	30	31
APRIL
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 « 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY
8 M T W T F S
12	3 4
5 « 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 23 29 30 31
OCTOBER
S M	T	W	T	F	S
1	■ 2 3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
FEBRUARY S M T W T F S
I
2	3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
MAY
S U T W T F S
1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST
$	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	8	7	8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MARCH
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
6	9 10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
JUNE
S M T W T F S
12	3	4	5	6
7	8 9 10 11 1 2 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER S M T W T F S
1	2 3	4	6
8	7 S 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5
6	7	8	3 10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28 29 30 31
Kellogg Canada Inc., London and American Federation of Grain Millers. Local 154 (AFL-CIO/CLC) (570 employees] i: A 36-monlh renewal agreement effective from April 15,1991, to April lv, 1994, settled in July at the bargaining stage. Duration of negotiations - 5 months.
Wages:	Effective	April 15/91 April 12/92 April 17/93
General Increases 6.5%
5.5%	5.0%
Cost-of-Living
Allowance:
J
Hours of Work:
Skilled Trades	150
Adjustments
Hourly Rates
Helper - Bagger	$17.37
($16.31)
150	150
$18.33
Tractor Operator,	$18.96	$20.00	$21.00
Loader	($17.80)
Trades “A”	$21.34	$22.66	$23.94
($19.90)
If die CPI for December 1992 exceeds that of December 1991 by more than the third year negotiated increase of 5 per cent, wage rates will be increased by 1 per cent for each full per cent increase in excess of that figure (previous formula, which was similar, did not trigger).
40 per week. The 8-hour day includes a one-hour paid lunch period (unchanged).
J
shift Premium:
Paid Holidays: yPaid Vacation:
Health and Welfare:
0-350-550 (0-300-500).
14 (unchanged).
2 weeks after 1 year, 3 after 5,4 after 11,5 after 19, and 6 after 25 (unchanged).
Life Insurance - $24,000-$28,000 ($23,000-$27,000); April 15, 1992, $25,000-$29,000; April 15, 1993, $26,000-$30,000.
Weekly Indemnity - Benefit levels vary by job rate and are to be increased by the annual percentage wage increases. Not to be less than U.I. maximum. (Previous benefit levels ranged nom $371.25-$460.00 per week).
Dental Plan - Effective August 14,1991, coverage based on 1990 (1989) Ontario Dental Association fee schedule; April .1?	1991 fee schedule;
April 17,1993,1992 fee schedule.
Basic Benefit Per Month Per Year of Service - $28-$30 ($26-$28); . April 15,1992, $30-$32; April 15,1993, $32-$34.
Pension Plan:
JURISDICTION
FED
PROV x PSSRA
.DATE 26 MAY 94	10:53:28 REPORT GENERATION CAS
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0045103
AGREEM, EFFEC. DATE: 910415 AGREEM. EXP. DATE: 940416 NO. OF EMPLOYEES: 570
SETTLEMENT DATE : 910714 WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE: 910415 WAGE REOPENER DATE:
STAGE OF SETTLEMENT:	B
DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:	05
SIC: 105
COMPANY:	Kellogg Canada Inc.
UNION:	American Federation of Grain Millers
LOCATION:	London, Ont
COLA :	NONE	DELETED	EXISTS X INACTIVE
COMMENTS:
> AMENDMENT - AGREEMENT EXPIRY DATE DECREASED BY ONE DAY TO ACCORD WITH	c
> AGREEMENT AND BASE RATE DECREASED BY $0.01 IN THIRD YEAR TO REFLECT RATE	c
>	QUOTED IN COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT	c
OCCUP,:	HELPER-BAGGER
HOURS WORKED:	4 0.00
PREV, NEG. BASE RATE:	16.310 + COLA FOLD-IN AMT: ( 0.000 ) = 16.310
DATE	RATE
910415	17.370
-O
DATE	RATE	%
920412	18.330	5.53
DATE	RATE	%
930417	19.240	4.96
WAGE INCREASES:
> ACTUAL INCREASE DATES - 910415 - 6.5%	920412 - 5.5%	930417 - 5.0%
> AMENDMENT - ADJUST BASE RATE DUE TO ERROR IN ROUNDING ON LAST WAGE CARD LUMP SUM PAMNTS:	>
CHNGS. IN INCR.:	>
SPEC. ADJ. :	>
OTHER :
>
<
<
<
<
<
<
>	C
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION ***
CARRY-OVER FLOAT = 0.000	FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT: , (Y or N)
DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT | DATE AMOUNT
*** CURRENT COLA INFORMATION *** CPI TYPE:	> CAN81	< # OF CALC. :
COLA TYPE:
> % FOR FULL % ABOVE TRIGGER
01 COMP. FQ.: 12
C
TRIGGER:	>5%
CAP:	>
COMP, PER.:
>	1992 CALENDAR YEAR
>
FOLD-IN DTS: > 930417 OTHER:
>
C
<
C
C
<
C
>
>
END REPORT
C
C
.DATE 08 AUB 91 16:25:29	REPORT GENERATION	HARRTDY
WAGE CARD FOR AGREFMFNT WO. 0045103
AGREEM. EFFEC. DATE: 910415 AGREEM. EXP. DATE: 940417 NO. OF EMPLOYEES: 570
it
SIC:	105
COMPANY:	Kellogg Canada Inc. (Plant)
UNION:	American Federal-inn nf- Grain Mi 1 1 <=>r«.
RFTTI FMFNT DATE:
UIARF FFFFOTTVE DATE: WAGE RFnPFNFR DATE:
RTARF GF RFTTI EMENT: miR. nr nfrdttaticN:
910714
910415
D
05
LOCATION:	London, Ont -
DELETED
EXISTS
INAPTTVF
COLA:	NONE
COMMENTS:
>	SHOULD CPI FOR CALENDAR YEAR 1992 EXCEED THIRD YFAR NFRGTTATED INCREASE BY A
>	FULL PERCENTAGE POINT - WAGES WILL BF TNPRFARFD BY 1V. FOR EACH SUCH FULL
>	PERCENT INCREASE ABOVE 57.	.
OCCUR.:	HELPER-BAGGER
HOURS WORKED:	40.00
PREV. NEG. BASE RATE:
DATE
RATE
910415	17.370
7.
6.50
nATF
920415
32
RATF 18.330
■ ( O. OOO ) as	1 A. 310	
7. ! DATF	RATE	/*
		
53 ! 930415	1 9.2/0	5.02
; n	n A	
WAGE INCREASES:
> ACTUAL INCREASE DATES - 910415 - 6.57.	970417 - 5.57.	930417	5.07.
> AMENDMENT - ADJUST BASE RATE DUE TO FRRGR TN RGI INnTNR ON I AST WAGE CARD LUMP SUM F'AMNTS:
CHNGS. IN INCR.:
SPEC. ADJ.:
OTHER:
*■** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION **■*
CARRY-OVER FLOAT " 0.000	Fill D-1 NS GF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:	(Y or N)
DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT I DATE AMOt INT ! OATF AMOIINT I DATE AMOUN'I
CAN81
CPI TYPE:
COLA TYPE:
> 7. FOR FULL 7. ABOVE TRIGGER
*** CIIRRFNT mi A INFORMATION **■*
< tt OF CAI C. •
Ol COMP. FQ.:	11
TRIGGER:	> 57.
CAP :
COMP. PER.:
1992 CAL.ENDAR YEAR
FOLD-IN DTS: OTHER:
930417
FND RFPORT