FLOUR & FOOD SERVICE DIVISION
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
between
CSP FOODS LTD.
AND
THE GRAIN SERVICES UNION (C.L.C.)
covering
SASKATOON OFFICE, LABORATORY, ELEVATOR, STEAM, SEED PLANT AND OIL PACKAGING
EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE
FEBRUARY 1, 1991 to JANUARY 31, 1993
OO HELLOS,
- 2 -
Schedule A Scale of Wages and Classifications Schedule B Employee Benefit Programs Group Tife Insurance $2,500 Paid-Up Certificate Disability Insurance Pension Plan Dental Plan Vision Care Memorandum of Agreement
Employment Equity Labor Relations Committee Pension
20
28
28
28
28
28
29
29
31
31
31
31
1
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
ENTERED into this 24th day of April, 1991 BETWEEN:
CSP FOODS LTD., hereinafter called THE COMPANY - and -
THE GRAIN SERVICES UNION (C.L.C.), hereinafter called THE UNION
WITNESSETH.
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE
THE COMPANY recognizes the Union for the duration of this Agreement as the sole bargaining agent for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to wages and other conditions of employment on behalf of the Company’s employees within the following bargaining unit, namely:	all employees
employed in the Office, Laboratory, Elevator, Steam, Seed Plant and Oil Packaging of CSP Foods' Saskatoon location, eucept casual' employees, and incumbents of the following location positions: General Manager Flour & Food Service; Confidential Secretary/Administrative Assistant; Technical Services Manager; Marketing Manager Consumer/Industrial/Export; Marketing Manager Food Service; Territory Manager - Central; Sales Representatives; Industrial Sales Manager; Manager Export & Customer Services; Distribution Manager; Baking Centre Manager; Baking Centre Assistant Manager; Production Manager; Manager Grain Procurement; Manager Milling & Maintenance; Manager Packing, Warehouse & Bakery Mi;: Departments; Project Manager; Manager Systems & Control; Manager Systems Development; Manager Production Accounting Services; Manager Marketing Accounting Services; Manager Purchasing; Manager of Research and Quality Assurance; Administrative Secretary Research & Technology; Technical Project Manager; and Process Engineer.
Definitions:
1. Temporary Employee - Means an employee hired for a period of employment less than ninety (90) days unless such period of employment is extended by mutual agreement between the Company *and the Union.	.....
2.	Service with the Company - Service shall not include periods of casual employment. If employment with the Company is broken by resignation or termination of employment, service prior to such resignation or
2
termination shall not be included in computing service with the Company.
Temporary employment shall be considered as service with the Company
only when it is continuous with subsequent regular employment.
Service with the Company shall include service with Saskatchewan Wheat
Pool Industrial Division for all former employees of Saskatchewan Wheat
Pool Industrial Division whose employment with CSP Foods Ltd. on April
1,	1975/ was continuous with employment with Saskatchewan Wheat Pool
Industrial Division.
3.	Casual Employee
a.	An employee engaged on a partial day and/or week on an irregular basis, or
b. An employee engaged on a regular working day basis for a specific period not expected to exceed twenty (20) working days.
Casual employees found to have worked in category (b) for the major part of two (2) pay periods shall be considered probationary employees with time served applied to the probationary period.
4.	General Duties Employees - Plant
- a group . f employees to be known as "General Duties Employees" may be
hired subject to the following terms and conditions:
a.	General Duties classification shall be included in Schedule "a" of the Collective Agreement.
b.	General Duties Employees shall become members of the union as per the requirements of Article V.
c. A list of such employees shall be provided to' the union semi-annually and shall show the employee's name, cumulative hours worked, and the benefit threshold reached.
d. General Duties Employees may have their hours of work vary. Nonetheless, overtime shall be paid at the prescribed rates in the agreement times their hourly rate for all hours exceeding 40 hours per week or 8 hours per day. The same overtime hours shall not be counted more than once when calculating premiums.
e.	General Duties Employees shall be given as much notice as possible prior to layoff and being recalled to work. Layoff and recall will be accordingseniority subject to immediate qualifications. The employer will "post" tentative work schedules for each job indicating the approximate length, and date of job completion expected.
3
General Duties Employees shall become eligible for benefits on the following basis:
0 -	519
520 - 1,039
cumulative hours worked:	Probationary period.
cumulative hours worked:	Seniority recognized
retroactive to the date of hire on the basis of hours worked. Seniority shall accumulate and be reported by hours, with each 8 hours equalling i day's seniority; eligible to contribute into the pension plan; qualify for Safety Boot Allowance provision.
1,040 - 2,079
cumulative hours worked: benefit commences.
Short Term Sick Leave
2,080	cumulative hours worked and over:	Full benefits as
contained in Schedule "B" of the Collective Agreement.
5.	Rotating Shift - A rotating shift shall consist of a multiple shift system where workers relieve in rotation to provide continuous coverage on a two-shift or round-the-clock basis.
6.	Prompti on - Shall mean the movement of an employee from a position to a position bearing a higher pay structure.
7.	Demoti on - Shall mean the movement of an employee from a position to a position bearing a lesser pay structure.
8.	Transfer - Shall mean the movement of an employee from a position to another position bearing the identical pay maximum.
ARTICLE II - SPIRIT AND INTENTION
The spirit and intention of this Agreement is to maintain good and amicable relations between the Company and all of its employees covered by this Agreement so that the solution of all matters pertaining to conditions of employment shall be arrived at by consultation and agreement between the parties hereto and this Agreement is in no sense to be taken as ‘a distroaragement to direct negotiations where a solution can be reached by such means without having recourse to the bargaining procedure hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE III • RECOGNITION
1.	The Union recognizes that the Company has s.ole authority to manage its affairs, to direct its working forces, including the right to hire, to fix wages within the terms of Schedule A '(Article XXIII) hereinafter referred to, transfer, promote, demote and to suspend or discharge any employee for just cause, and to increase or decrease the working force
4
of the Company, to reorganize, close, disband any Department or sections thereof from time to time as circumstances and necessity may require, subject to the right of any employee concerned to lodge a grievance in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided.
2.	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage it.s ’rjosi'hfcss in all respects in accordance with its- commitments
and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time the rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - COMPANY RELATIONS
It is understood and agreed, inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees' bargaiiVjhRf' agency, as evi^daivn^ of good faith, the union assumes responsibility for its members in their relations with the Company and will use its best efforts to have the employees' responsibility under the contract carried out in letter and in spirit and to have its members deliver a fair day's work as called for by the position involved and the reasonable orders of the Company.
ARTICLE V • MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
The Company agrees that -as a condition of employment, membership dues or sums in lieu will be deducted from the wages earned by employees in the following categories:
a.	All employees for whom the Union has bargaining authority under this collective agreement, and
b.	All new employees under this collective agreement within thirty
(30)days of commencement of employment.
Membership dues or sums in lieu so deducted from salaries shall be paid monthly to the Secretary-Manager of the Union.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCES
The Company and Union agree that it is most desirable to resolve misunderstandings and disputes through discussions between the employee and the supervisor, and both the Company and the Union shall encourage employees to discuss their complaints with their supervisors so as to resolve differences quickly and directly without necessarily having to resort to the following formal process :
Formal grievances, whether individual or executive, shall be raised within thirty (30) days of the date on which the grievance becomes apparent, or ought to have become apparent. Grievances shall be in writing on the approved grievance form and shall be dealt with in the following manner without stoppage of work: .	. ,
Ste~~ 1 The grievance “'‘sulil be taken up with the appropriate Department
Head who shall render a decision within three (3) working days of receipt of the grievance. Executive grievances (those submitted by
5
the Union organization rather than the individual) shall dispense with Step 1.
step 2 Within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the decision in Step 1 in the case of individual grievance, and within thirty (30) days of the date on which the grievance became apparent or ought to have become apparent in the case of executive grievances, the grievance shall be taken up with the Production Manager, who shall render a decision within seven (7) working days.
step 3 In the event that a decision is not rendered within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the decision in Step .2, or the decision does not lead to resolution in the view of the parties, the Secretary-Manager of the Union, or a representative designated by him, shall immediately consult with the General Manager of the Company, or a representative designated by him. If settlement is not reached within a further fourteen (14) working days it may be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided for.
Step 4 A grievance is referred to arbitration by either party giving notice to the other in writing of their intention to do so. Such written notice shall be given within ten (10) working days of the receipt of decision at Step 3, or from the expiry of time limits at Step 3, whichever is the earlier. Within seven (7) working days of receipt of such written notice, each party shall appoint an arbitrator.
Within a further seven (7) working days the arbitrators shall meet and appoint a chairman to the Board. If the two arbitrators fail to agree and fail to appoint a chairman within seven (7) working days of their initial meeting, they shall request the Minister of Labor for Canada or Saskatchewan, whichever is appropriate to the jurisdiction, to appoint a chairman of the Arbitration Board and the person so appointed shall be duly empowered to act accordingly.
NOTE:	Time limitations in the preceding process may be extended by mutual
agreement between the parties, provided that requests for extensions are made prior to the expiry of the time limitations. Employees may have benefit of representation by Union officials at any of the steps in the procedure, and similarly management representatives may have benefit of counsel from Personnel Department.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION BOARD
1.	The Arbitration Board established under Article VI (Step 4) shall not have authority to alter or change any of the provisions of the Agreement, or to insert any new provisions, or to give any decision contrary to the terms and provisions of the Agreement, but it is agreed that where disciplinary action is involved the Arbitration Board shall have the power to award a penalty or amend a penalty imposed by the Company.
2.	The decision of the Board or a majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon any employee or employees concerned. If there is no decision by a majority of the
6
Board, then the decision of the Chairman shall be similarly final and binding.
3.	No costs of any arbitration shall be ordered to or against either party, but each party shall-be responsible for the expenses and/or fees payable to its representative and for one-half (1/2) the expenses and/or fees payable to the Chairman of the Board.
ARTICLE VTTT - CROUP INSURANCE
All eligible employees who have completed ninety (90) days of continuous service with the Company shall, as a condition of employment, contribute to
the group insurance plans adopted by the Company and the Union. Such contributions shall be made by payroll deduction in accordance with the terms and conditions of the group lifeand disability insurance plans outlined in Schedule B.
ARTICLE IX - RETIREMENT PLAN
1.	All eligible employees who have completed twelve (12) months of continuous employment with the Company shall, as a condition of employment, join CSP Foods Pension Plan 1977. However, eligible employees may elect to join the Pension Plan upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous employment.
2.	No employee shall be retained as a permanent employee beyond the first day of the month coincident with, or immediately following his/her sixty-fifth (65th)birth date.
3.	Pension Plan eligibility and contribution rates are outlined in Schedule B.
ARTICLE X - SICK LEAVE
1.	the case of sickness, . r disability arising . . t . f sickness, . i i
employees who have completed ninety (90) days or more continuous service
with the Company, shall be entitled to benefits in accordance with the
following plans:
Sick Leave Plan
1.. Employees entitled to payment of wages during sick leave shall be paid at the regular rate of pay that would apply if the employee had not been absent on sick leave during the period of time covered by his/her accumulated sick leave credits.
2.	Benefits commence the first day of disability and expire on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
3.	Extended sick leave benefits wll be provided in the amount of 66 and 2/3rds percent of regular earnings to a maximum earnings ceiling of the Unemployment Insurance Commission program at the time of disability for:
a.
7
the period of absence due to sickness in excess of a two-week waiting period in any one illness,
or
b. where sick leave credits exceed two weeks, extended sick leave benefits shall commence at the expiration of sick leave credits.
Extended sick leave benefits payable in any one illness shall cease on the thirtieth (30th) day of disability.
Benefits under this provision are reinstated immediately on return of an employee to work following an illness.
4.	Employees eligible for Workers’ Compensation benefits are not eligible for benefits under this plan.
Sick Leave Credits
a.	Sick leave credits are earned at the rate of 1-1/4 working days per month of continuous full-time employment to a maximum of twenty-two
(22) working days.
Sick leave credit accumulation during the probationary period will be recognized upon successful completion of the probationary period for sick leave from that time on.
b.	Once an employee has earned twenty-two (22)working days’ sick leave credit, no further credits are required for full coverage under the Short Term Disability Plan.
c.	Sick leave usage is not deducted from accumulated sick leave credits.
Present permanent employees will receive sick leave credits on the basis of time served with the Company.
General
1.	Sick leave allowance payments shall not extend beyond normal retirement age.
2.	Sick leave allowance payments for the first day of any sickness may be withheld at the discretion of the Company.
3.	All recipients ''of sickness and disability allowance payments must provide, on request of the Company, medical reports of their condition.
4.	The maximum period of sick leave on which vacation time shall accumulate shall not exceed two months in any caheaadar year.
5.	Benefits from the three plans, the sick leave plan, the extended sick leave plan and disability income insurance plan, shall be integrated.
8
ARTICLE XI - WORKERS COMPENSATION [ACCIDENT FUNDI ACT
1.	In all cases of temporary total disability, as defined in the Workers, Compensation (Accident Fund) Act, sustained by an employee as a result of an occupational accident covered by the Workers-’ Compensation
(Accident Fund) Act, the Company agrees to continue to pay the employee an amount equal to his/her net earnings (after income ta::) prior to injury during the period of such disability whilst he/she is receiving full compensation from the Workers, Compensation Board, and retain the compensation received from the Board.
2.	In the event the Workers, Compensation Board reduces compensation payments below 100 percent, salary payments will be adjusted to the percentage of compensation as determined by the Board.
3.	The maximum period under Workers’ Compensation (Accident Fund) Act payments on which vacation time shall accumulate shall not exceed two (2) months in any calendar year.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
1.	No employee shall acquire seniority until he/she has completed satisfactorily a probationary period of ninety (90) days, at which time his/her seniority shall be retroactive to the date of hiring.
Seniority shall be calculated, on_a cumulative basis, to include all service with the Company includiuy all service with the Saskatchewan
Wheat Pool Industrial Division as referred to in this Agreement in Definitions:	2. Service with the Company.
In the matter of promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff and recall, seniority shall prevail subject to qualifications, ability and merit. For the purpose of this	wc^rrino-ity «haii be df5.fi.ned
to include employees in the Office, Laboratory, and Plant (i.e. those positions identified in Schedule "A" of this Agreement) .
Where it is elected by the Company to fill a vacancy to a position within the scope of this Agreement, the position shall be posted for a minimum of five (5) working days and such postings shall be placed in all departments. In the selection process, seniority on a bargaining unit basis shall prevail subject to qualifications, ability and merit. An applicant having more seniority than the appointed applicant may request reasons in writing for not receiving the appointment.
Employees on an authorized leave of absence, vacation or sick leave shall be considered by the Company as applicants for a vacancy which Management elects to fill.
Notwithstanding b., tkesrCompany in its sole discretion may elect to fill a vacancy to a position within the scope of this Agreement by transfer. Employees may submit requests for transfer and the Company shall maintain such requests on a transfer list. The Union
may make representation to the Company where the circumstances of
in
2. a.
b
c
d
9
the transfer in its view warrants such representation or where the Union feels that the transfer interferes with the rights accorded
by this Agreement.
e. Where the selection process described in (b) does not result in appointment being made, the Company may fill the position by other means.
3.	It shall be the policy of the Company that in filling staff vacancies, present members of the staff will be given first consideration.
4.	An employee who is appointed to an out-of-scope position shall not accumulate senioritybut shall retain the seniority ne/she earned prior to his/her-appu'uJtment. 'tf/i'n’nin one year of such appointment, he/she may exercise his/her earned seniority to return to his/her former in-scope position but after one year, he/she may exercise his/her earned seniority only to return to a vacant in-scope position graded not higher than that which he/she occupied prior to his/her out-of-scope appointment.
5.	in the case of staff reduction, employees shall be entitled to exercise seniority rights on a service-with-the-Company basis with respect to transfers to positions of the same or lower grade within the bargaining unit. ""-me- exerbising of seniority rights under this provision shall be confined to those positions which have been designated by agreement of the Company and the Union, as having qualification requirements which are equal to, or less than, those possessed by the employee wishing to exercise such rights.
6.	Seniority lists shall be updated and posted quarterly.,
7.	Seniority for General Duties employees will be calculated on the basis of forty (40) hours = seven (7) calendar days.
with the exception of probationary employees, shall continue to earn seniority credits while on Workmen’s Compensation.
ARTICLE XIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	Leave of absence without pay may be granted regular employees for valid reasons which shall include educational purposes, compassionate grounds, maternity leave and prolonged illness after sick leave credits have been expended.
2.	Leave for Employees with Child Care Responsibilities
Every employee who has completed six months continuous service with the Company is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment as follows:
a.	Where an employee provides the Company with a certificate of a qualified medical doctor certifying that she is pregnant, that employee is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of six (6) months:
10
i)	The term of leave shall be for a minimum of seventeen weeks unless the employee provides notice as provided in sub-section
(iii) that she wishes it to be a shorter period.
ii)	The commencement of the leave shall be at the discretion of the employee.
iii)	The return from leave shall be at the discretion of the employee subject to the employee giving the Company four weeks prior written notice of her intent to return to work.
b. Where an employee has or will have the actual care and custody of a new-born child, that employee is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of up to twenty-four weeks commencing, as the employee elects:
i)	In the case of a female employee:
A)	On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment taken by her under paragraph (a)
B)	On the day the child is born or
C)	On the day the child comes into her actual care and custody, and
ii)	In the case of a male employee:
A)	On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment: taken in respect of the child by a female employee under paragraph (a)
B)	On the expiration of any leave of absence from employment taken in respect of the child by a female employee who is entitled to such leave on account of her pregnancy under the laws of a province
C)	On the day the child is born or comes into his/her actual
care and custody, and
c. Where an employee commences legal proceedings under the laws of a province to adopt a child or obtains an order under the laws of a province for the adoption of a child, that employee is entitled to and shall be granted a leave of absence from employment of up to twenty-four weeks commencing on the day the child comes into the employee's care.
d.	Aggregate leave:	the aggregate amount of leave of absence from
employment that may be taken by two employees under paragraphs (b) and (c) in respect of the birth or adoption of any one chiid- shal-i not exceed twenty-four weeks.
e.	Notice to the Company - every employee who intends to take a leave of absence from employment under this section shall:
11
i)	Give at least four weeks notice in -writing to the Company.
ii)	Inform the Company in writing of the length of leave to be taken.
f. Seniority - employees on approved leaves of absence shall continue to accumulate seniority .
General Provisions
a.	An employee on leave of absence shall not accumulate seniority, vacations, or sick leave, but he/she shall retain the seniority, vacations or sicjcleave he/she earned prior to commencing his/her leave of absence.
b.	Provided leave of absence does not eutend beyond si:: (6) months the employee may return to his/her former position, but should his/her leave of absence be of longer duration, then he/she may only euercise his/her seniority to return to a .vacant position for which he/she is qualified, eucept that where leave of absence is for education purposes or for maternity leave, the period of six (6) months may be extended at the discretion of the Company to a period not in excess of twelve (12) months.
c.	Employees on leave of absence shall be required to apply for an extension annually.
d.	Leave of absence with pay chargeable to an employee's sick leave credits may be granted for matters of pressing necessity. Requests to use sick leave credits for this purpose shall be made in writing to location management. Requests may be rejected or granted to an extent considered to be fair and reasonable to management on the basis of the particular situation encountered.
e.	In keeping with the policy that an employee not suffer a loss of pay while serving as a juror, the remuneration to be received by the employee on any working day the employee reports for or serves on jury duty, shall be the employee's regular rate of pay for the day less jury duty fees receivable for that day.
f.	Alter ninety (90)calendar days or more service, leave of absence
with pay up to three (3) consecutive days shall be granted to an employee for the purpose of arranging or attending the funeral of members of his/her immediate family. Where major travel or special circumstances are involved, approval may be given to extend the three (3) day limit to five (5) days. Immediate family shall be defined to include only the employee's mother, father, mother-in-law,	father-in-law,	spouse, daughter, son, sister,
.EissM. brother, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild and spouse’s grandparents.
ARTICLE XIV - PROBATION AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
12
1. Monthly Salaried Employees
a.	i) On initial appointment or on promotion, all monthly employees shall be required to serve a probationary period of ninety (90) days.
ii)	The probationary period may be extended to one hundred and eighty (180) days by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
who fail to qualify on promotion during the probationary period, shall revert to their former position
without loss in seniority.
b. i) Probationary employees on initial appointment - Upon termination of employment by the Company for reasons other than just cause, the Company shall give employees serving a probationary period on initial appointment, seven (7) calendar days' written notice, or salary in lieu thereof, and termination for just cause may be without notice.
ii) Regular employees - Upon termination of employment by the Company for reasons other than just cause, the Company shall give regular employees fourteen (14) calendar days' written notice, or salary in lieu thereof, and termination for just cause may be without notice.
c.	i) Probationary employees on initial appointment, may terminate their employment on seven (7)	days' written notice to
the Company.
ii) Regular employees may terminate their employment on fourteen (14) calendar days’ written notice to the Company.
2.	Plant - Hourly Employees
a.	Termination of employment by the Company of hourly employees with si:: (6) weeks' or more continuous service, for reasons other than just cause, the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days' written notice, or salary in lieu thereof, and termination for just cause may be without notice.
b.	Regular hourly employees may terminate, their employment with the Company upon seven (7) calendar days' written notice to the Company.
c.	Hourly employees, who have not completed si:: (6) weeks' or more continuous service with the Company, may be terminated by the Company at any time without notice.
ARTICLE XV - SEVERANCE AITOWANCF.
1.	When a classification covered by this Agreement 'is permanently discontinued due to automation or reorganization then the displaced
14
thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week. Laboratory/ technicians will be rotated to provide seven (7) day coverage. The normal hours of work shall be between 0700 hours and 1700 hours as determined by the workload. Days of work and hours of work shall be arranged and scheduled by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company to meet the needs of the plant operation.
3.	Plant Employees
Forty (40) hours shall constitute a basic work week.
a.	Shift Workers - When the Plant is in production on a twenty-four
(24)hours-per-day, seven (7) days-per-week basis, employees shall be assigned to rotating shifts according to an agreed shift schedule consisting of eight (8) hour shifts. The ^hrauh.\i.ng time of shifts shall be 8:00 a.m.,, 4:00 p.m., and 12:00 midnight. Shifts will rotate in a clockwise manner. Changes in the shift schedule shall be negotiated and agreed to by the Company and the Union.
Employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours of notice when shifts within the established schedule a*re changed. In the advent
of failure to provide notice of change in shift the employee will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for the first shift following the change, except where the change is due to failure -of another employee to report for duty as scheduled and with less than twenty-four (24) hours of notice. Premium time paid under this clause shall not duplicate daily or weekly overtime paid for the same hours worked.
b.	Shift Millers - Shall work eight (8) consecutive hours on their respective shift. The normal work week for this class shall not exceed forty (40) hours.
c.	Other Workers - The work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. The hours of work each day shall be 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with one-half (1/2) hour during this period for lunch.
These work schedules may be changed when necessary due to staff changes, sickness or accident or when necessary to arrange vacations. Changes in the work schedule may be arranged by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. When a shift workman wishes to change his/her shift for personal reasons, he/she may do so only with the approval of the Department Manager or Production Manager, Flour & Food Service Division.
4.	Elevator Assistants and Helpers
The normal hours of work for Elevator Assistants and helpers will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week averaged over a thirteen (13) week period in accordance with provisions of. the Canada Labor Code Regulations.
5.	Actual daily hours of work and time off for meals shall be arranged by the Production Manager and the Executive of the Union and the actual
15
daily hours may be re-arranged by mutual agreement to meet their mutual Convenience, provided that for all employees except those listed in 4. above where-averaging provisions under the Canada Labor Code Regulations apply, the normal work day shall not exceed eight (8) hours.
ARTICLE XVIII - OVERTIME
Overtime shall be worked when authorized by the Company. Employees shall co-operate with the Company in performing overtime. However, when the Company determines that it is necessary to work overtime and there are no or insufficient volunteers, the Company has the right to assign employees to work overtime.
1.	Office Employees
a.	Authorized overtime for hours worked in excess of thirty-five (35) hours per week shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the normal rate of pay.
b.	All time worked on Saturday will be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the normal rate of pay.
c.	A minimum of three (3) hours pay at overtime rate will be paid to an employee who is called out for duty by management after the employee has left the Company premises.
2.	Laboratory Employees
Authorized overtime for hours in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) 'hours per week shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the normal rate of pay.
3.	A minimum of three (3) hours' pay at regular overtime rates shall be paid for "call-outs".
Plant
a.	Authorized overtime on all time worked in excess of regular hours will be paid as follows:
i)	One and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day;
ii)	One and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any calendar week, except where such hours in excess of forty (40) are part of an agreed rotating shift;
iii)	Two (2) times the regular^ate for all hours worked in,-,, excess of twelve (12) hours in any one day.
b.	Authorized hours of work in excess of the forty (40) hours per week average identified in Article XVII 4., shall be paid for at the rate
16
of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's regular rate of
pay.
c.	A minimum of four (4) hours at regular overtime rates shall be paid for "call-out."
d.	Overtime on an employee's scheduled day of rest shall be at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her regular rate of pay for the first eight (8) hours and double time for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours for the first day of overtime and any hours worked on subsequent days of overtime during the rest period.
ARTICLE XIX - SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL - Office
Employees in all classifications, except Caretakers and those working rotating shifts, shall be paid a shift differential of twenty cents (200) per hour for hours worked outside regular normal workinq hours as established in Article XVII. The differential shall not apply when overtime rates are being paid.
ARTICLE XX - ABSENCE FROM DUTY
No employee shall absent himself from the Employer's premises during the hours of work except with the consent of supervisory personnel.
ARTICLE XXI - VACATIONS
1.	Employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks annual vacation on completion of each full year of service.
2.	Effective February 1, 1982, employees who have completed nine (9) years of service will be entitled to earn vacation at the rate of four (4) weeks during the tenth (10th)and subsequent years of employment. The fourth (4th) week of vacation shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company, but the Company shall give consideration to all reasonable requests for vacation to be taken at one time.
3.	Effective February 1, 1989, employees who have completed seventeen (17) years of service will be entitled to earn vacation at the rate of five (5) weeks during the eighteenth (18th) and subsequent years of service. The fifth (5th) week of vacation under this section shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company, but the Company shall give consideration to all reasonable requests for vacations to be taken at one time.
4.	Effective February 1, 1989, employees who have completed twenty-five (25) years of service will be entitled to earn vacation at the rate of six (6) weeks during the twenty-sixth (26th) and subsequent years of service. The sixth (6th) week of vacation under this section shall be taken at -a time convenient• fco^the ©ompany, but the Company shall give consideration to all reasonable requests for vacations to be taken at one time.
5.	Vacation pay shall be the greater of:
17
a.	The employee's current rate of pay,
OR
b.	The percentage of the employees total earnings during the period in which the vacation time was earned, basis eligibility as follows:
3 weeks vacation - 6%; 4 weeks vacation - 8%; 5 weeks vacation -10%; 6 weeks vacation - 12%.
6.	In the case of termination of employment, the Company shall pay to the employee any vacation pay owing to him/her in respect of any prior completed year "I employment pVair \Jihr vacation pctyo-wing to him/her for
the current year.
7.	If in the opinion of the Supervisor the workload permits, extended vacation leave without pay may be given.
ARTICLE XXn - GENERAL HOT .ID AYS
1.	New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Saskatchewan Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boning Day shall be recognized as general holiday's with f.ii r,y.
Three additional days,	shall be recognized as general holidays
(floaters) with full pay. Employees will be entitled to one (l) floater for each four (4) accumulated calendar months of service. The three additional days shall be designated by the Company in consultation with the Union .
If an additional Statutory Holiday is declared one of the two additional days named above shall be used.
2.	In the event that an employee is required to work the whole or part of a general holiday, he/she shall be entitled to one and one-half (1-1/2) times his/her normal rate of pay for the period so worked in addition to the regular day's pay for the general holiday.
ARTICLE XXIII - SCALE OF WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Scale of Wages and Classifications shall be as set Joxth inj5chftdu3fiA attached hereto, and such schedule shall form part of this Agreement.
2.	The salaries for new positions or revised positions shall be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union. When a job description for a new position or a revised position has been submitted to the Union by the company, negotiations shall commence respecting the scope and salary for the position within fifteen (15) calendar days. Where agreement cannot be reached regarding the rate of pay within five (5) working days of commencement of negotiations, the position may be advertised at the lesser of the two rates proposed by the parties and may be filled on this basis. The advertisement of the position will note the fact that negotiations relative to the pay rate are continuing. The actual rate for the position remains the subject of continued
18
negotiations or may be referred to an appeals procedure (to ue uevised within the life of this contract). Exceptions to this procedure shall be subject to discussion between the Company and the Union.
3. Eligible employees shall be advised of new positions not listed in Schedule A, Salary Grades and Classifications, by posting.
ARTICLE XXIV - EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective from the first day of February. 1991 and shall be valid until the thirty-first day of January, 1993 and thereafter from year to yeair unless a written notice is given by either party not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to January 31st in any year, of their desire to terminate this Agreement or negotiate a revision thereof, in which case this Agreement shall remain in effect without prejudice to any retroactive clause of. a new Agreement until negotiations for revision or amendment hereto have been concluded and a new Agreement superseding this Agreement has been duly executed.
19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto subscribed their hands the day and year first above written.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED IN THE PRESENCE OF
THE GRAIN SERVICES UNION (C.L.C.)
______________
Senior Staff Representative
CSP FOODS LTD
20
SCIIITHIF'A
SCALE OF WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
1. Salary Schedule - Office and Lab - Effective February 1, 1991
GRADE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12 13
Caretaker
Lab Assistant
Lab Assistant Clerical
Lab Technician I
Lab Technician II
Chemist
1st STEP $1,501 1,575 1,619 1,701 1,794 1,894 2,001 2,122 2,246 2,383 2,532 2,689 2,863 1,866
1.625
1.625 1,944 2,284 2,540
Food Technologist	2,540
Commercial Services Tech	2,540
Bakery Services Tech	2,540
Bakery Technician	2,665
Quality Control Supervisor	2,665
2nd STEP 3rd STEP $1,552	$1,606
1,632	1,689
1,693	1,767
1,781	1,867
1,880	1,970
1,988
2,105
2,233
2,368
2,513
2,674
2,842
3,023
1,910
1.684
1.684
2,088 c
2,213 ^
2,345
2,487
2,645
2,815
2,993
3,190
1.745
1.745
2,024	2,109
2,384	2,484
2.665	2,786
2.665	2,786
2.665	2,786
2.665	2,786
2.786	3,045
2.786	3,045
4th. STEP $1,660 1,745 1,841 1,949 2,061 2,188 2,313 2,456 2,607 2,775 2,953 3,147 3,358
2,194
2,584
2.912
2.912
2.912
2.912
3.181
3.181
21
Salary Schedule - Plant - effective February 1, 1991
Operator Leadhand
Operator
Chief Engineer
Assistant Head Miller
Shift Miller
FM Elevator Agent
Assistant Elev, Agent FME
Special Crops Supervisor
Special Crops Elevator Operator
1st STEP $2,606 2,606 2,463 3,187 2,948 2,673
2.441 2,865
2.441
2nd STEP $2,692 2,692
2,560
3,315
3,066
2,775
2.532 3,090
2.532
3rd STEP $2,780 2,780
\ 'si
3,185
2,874
2.625 3,315
2.625
General Duties
START
9.15/hr.
1040 HRS 2080 HRS 9.35/hr.	9.60/hr.
A maximum of four (4) positions will be designated as core group positions and General Duties employees, who have worked a minimum of 1,040 hours, will be eligible to fill the appropriate core positions as the positions are needed. General Duties employees who are appointed to a core group position will qualify for the appropriate pay rate. Every effort will be made to make these appointments with regard to seniority. However, immediate qualifications (the ability to lead the job) are essential and this will be the final determining factor.
When the employee is no longer required for the core function(s), or the core position becomes redundant, that employee would revert to the core group base rate or to the appropriate General Duties step respectively. The rates are as follows:
CORE GROUP Leadhand - 4 Litre Leadhand • Bagging Wheat Germ Operator Shipper/Receiver 16L/4L
RATE
11.00/hr
10.80/hr
10.60/hr
10.60/hr
BASE RATE.
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
Present Core General Duties Leadhand positions will be filled on the current qualified personnel basis. Future vacancies for these positions wlII be posted.
Rates shown include shift differentials for all positions on rotating shifts.
A Shift Miller with an A.O.M. Diploma will receive (45<Vhr.) $78.00/month over their current classification rate effective date of ratification of this contract.
22
3. Salary Schedule - Officeand Lab - Effective February 1, 1992
GRADE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
Caretaker
Lab Assistant
Lab Assistant Clerical
Lab Technician I
Lab Technician ii
Chemist
Food Technologist Commercial Services Tech Bakery Services Tech Bakery Technician Quality Control Supervisor
1st STEP $1,598 1,672 1,716 1,798 1,891 1,991 2,098 2,219 2,343 2,480 2,629 2,786 2,960 1,963
1.722
1.722 2,041 2,381
2.637
2.637
2.637
2.637
2.762
2.762
2nd STEP 3rd STEP $1,649	$1,703
1,729	1,786
1,790	1,864
1,878	1,964
1,977	2,067
2,085	2,185
2,202	2,310
2,330	2,442
2,465	2.584
2,610	2,742
2,771	2,912
2,939	3,090
3.120	3,287 2,007
1.781	1,842
1.781	1,842
2.121	2,206
2,481	2,581
2.762	2,883
2.762	2,883
2.762	2,883
2.762	2,883
2.883	3,142
2.883	3,142
4th STEP $1,757 1,842 1,938 2,046 2,158 2,285 2,410 2,553 2,704 2,872 3,050 3,244 3,455
2,290
2,681
3.009
3.009
3.009
3.009
3.278
3.278
23
Salary Schedule - Plant - effective February 1, 1992
Operator Leadhand Operator Chief Engineer
Assistant Head Miller Shift Miller FM Elevator Agent Assistant Elev, Agent FME Special Crops Supervisor Special Crops Elevator Operator	2,538
START
General Duties	9.15/hr.
1st STEP $2,703 2,703 2,560
3,284
3,045
2,770
2,538
2,962
2nd STEP $2,789 2,789 2,657 3,412 3,163 2,872
2.629 3,187
2.629
1040 HRS 3.35/hr.
3rd STEP $2,877 2,877 2,756 3,542	^
3,282 2,971
2.722 3,412
2.722
2080 HRS 9.60/hr.
A maximum of four (4) positions will be designated as core group positions and General Duties employees, who have worked a minimum of 1,040 hours, will be cllgiuic tu mi luc appropriate Cure pusiuuus as luc puaiuuus are
needed. General Duties employees who are appointed to a core group position will qualify for the appropriate pay rate. Every effort will be made to make these appointments with regard to seniority. However, immediate qualifications (the ability to lead the job) are essential and this final determining factor.
is will be the
When the employee is no longer required for the core fun&ion(s), or the core
Sosition becomes redundant, that employee would revert to the core group ase rate or to the appropriate General Duties step respectively. The rates are as follows:
CORE GROUP
Leadhand - 4 Litre Leadhand - Bagging Wheat Germ Operator Shipper/Receiver 16L/4L
RATE
11,00/hr
10.80/hr
10,60/hr
10.60/hr
BASE RATE
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
10.25/hr
Present Core General Duties Leadhand positions will be filled on the current qualified personnel basis. Future vacancies for these positions will be posted.
Rates shown include shift differentials for all positions on rotating shifts.
A Shift Miller with an A.O.M. Diploma will receive (45$/hr.) $78,00/month over their current classification rate "efifective^date of ratification of* this contract.
24
5. Salary Grades and Classifications - Office
Salary
Grade	Position Title
11	Credit Supervisor
Operations Assistant
9	Distribution Co-ordinator
Transportation Co-ordinator Senior Accounting Clerk-Marketing Senior Accounting Clerk-Production
9	Grain Co-ordinator
7	Payroll Clerk
Traffic Clerk
Accounts Payable/Purchasing Clerk Shipping Clerk
6	Credit Clerk	II
5	Senior Clerk	Stenographer
Senior Clerk	Stenographer
Sales Administration Clerk Export Clerk Jr. Accounting Clerk Inventory Reconciliation Clerk Freight Payables Clerk
3	Receptionist
Department
Systems & Control Production
Marketing Marketing Systems & Control Systems & Control
Production
Systems & Control Marketing Systems & Control Production
Systems & Control
Systems & Control
Marketing Marketing Marketing Systems & Control Systems & Control Marketing
Systems & Control
25
6.	Job Evaluation
If the responsibilities and duties of a job change, the position shall be examined when so requested by the employee. The request by the employee can be made at any time, providing a request respecting the position to be examined has not been processed in the preceding six (6) months of the date of request. The request for examination by the employee shall be on the prescribed form in writing, and shall be submitted to the immediate supervisor of the work area. The supervisor shall add comment to the form respecting the request and shall within three (3) working days of the receipt of the request forward it to the Production Manager for examination. The Production Manager shall notify the employee and the signatory supervisor’ in writing of the result of that examination.
The employee may, if not satisfied, (i) request verbal elaboration from the Production Manager, and/or (ii) enter into the grievance process as outlined in Article VI.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to examine and re-evaluate positions-where in the view of the Company circumstances warrant it, even though no request to do so has been received.
7.	Administration of Pay Plan
a.	i) Increments - An employee shall receive a regular
increment within the. salary range established for the assigned position on his/her anniversary date. In cases where an employee has not performed satisfactorily, increments may be withheld. In such cases, the employee shall be told why his/her work is not satisfactory and every assistance will be given to help the employee improve his/her performance. Following normal practice, serious cases of unsatisfactory work may lead to dismissal.
ii) Method of Payment - Annual salary divided by 2 6 to equal bi-weekly rate of pay.
b.	Anniversary Date
i)	Effective date of ratification the anniversary date of payment of annual increments shall be the day coincident with completion of twelve (12) full months in the employment of the Company.
ii)	Effective date of ratification the anniversary date for the payment of annual increments shall be adjusted on promotion when the promotion provides a minimum increase of one increment to the day coincident with completion of twelve (12) full months in the employment of the Company.
26
iii)	An employee absent on lay-off or leave of absence without pay for three (3) months or more shall have his/her anniversary date advanced by the period of absence without pay.
Promotion
i)	An employee, on promotion, shall have his/her salary adjusted to the minimum of the salary range for the position or to a step in the salary range for the new position which shall provide a minimum increase of one (1) increment.
ii)	Whenever an employee's anniversary date occurs on the same date as a promotion, the employee shall receive his/her increment before the promotion formula is applied.
iii)	Increment shall mean upon promotion, an employee shall receive not less than the dollar increment utilized in the pay scale of the vacated position of which the employee was the incumbent.
d.	Demotion Formula - When due to staff reductions, an employee who has completed three (3) or more years' service, accepts a demotion to a lesser-paid position and his/her current salary is above the maximum for the newly assigned position, his/her salary shall be reduced to the maximum of his/her new range according to the following formula:
i)	one third (1/3) reduction on assignment to new position;
ii)	one third (1/3) reduction six (6) months after assignment to new position;
iii)	one third (1/3) reduction one (1) year after assignment to new position.
e.	Transfer Formula - Where a person is transferred from one class to another having the same maximum but having different steps in number and/or value, and where the rate of the transferee before transfer does not coincide.-with a step in the new range, the transferee shall be placed. at the step in the range next higher to the rate before transfer.
8.	Safety Boot Allowance - Plant - Effective date of ratification, a boot allowance of $75.00 will be paid annually.
To qualify for the allowance, plant employees will be required to wear safety boots.
New employees will qualify for the allowance after 30 days and will earn this allowance over a 6-month period. Should the employee
27
terminate before 6 months of service, the employee will reimburse the Company on the basis of $10.00 per month to the nearest full month of service.
9.	Uniform Allowance
a.	Uniforms will be provided on the following basis for the Operators, Special Crops Elevator Operator, Special Crops Supervisor, Product!JH Planner, Fltmr Mill ’Kxevator ’.agent, Assistant Elevator Agent, Shift Millers and General Duties with more 'than2,080 hours:
Three pairs of coveralls/week or
Three shirts and two pairs of pants/week or
One pair of coveralls and two shirts and two pairs of
pants/week
Winter apparel such as parkas are provided on a requirement basis.
The Shipping Clerk will be provided with smocks.
b.	Smocks will be provided and required wear for enployees operating the 4 Litre and the 16 Litre Oil lines.
28
SCHEDULE "B"
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PROGRAMS
The provisions of the benefit plans hereinafter described are contained in the master policies titled 'i.C.	433 and da.L. 433 ioVUfcV* * 3 by
Co-operative Insurance Services or in the text of the pension plan titled CSP Foods Ltd. Pension Plan 1977.
The final interpretation of the benefits available under these plans or the interpretation of any specific provisions is governed by the insurance policies or theramp^<iApip«l?n text.
The said benefit plans will be administered pursuant to the terms and conditions of an agreement between the parties hereto dated the 3rd day of February A.D., 1977.
1. GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Eligibility - Completion of Ninety (90) days’ continuous service.
Bene f i t Tw© (2) times the regular annual earnings to a maximum benefit to $50,000.
Accidental Death - The principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
Accidental Dismemberment - Depending on the type of dismemberment, an amount up to the principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
Premiums - Company Paid.
PAID-UP CERTIFICATE
The Company agrees to provide a $2,500 paid-up certificate upon the
employee's retirement or on his/her attaining age 65, whichever first occurs.
3.	DISABILITY INSURANCE
Eligibility - Completion of Ninety (90) days’ continuous service.
Benefit - 65% of regular monthly earnings to a maximum monthly benefit of $2,000.
Premiums - Employee paid.
PENSION PLAN
29
Eligibility- - Employees must join the pension plan upon completion of twelve (12) months continuous service. However, employees maY elect to join the pension plan upon completion of ninety (§0) days continuous service.
- General Duties employees are eligible to join the Plan upon completion of 540 cumulative hours worked.
Contribution - Employee - 5.5% of earnings.
Company - 6.5% of employee's earnings.
These contributions are integrated with Canada Pension Plan contribution rates.
DENTAL PLAN
Eligibility - Covers employees and eligible dependents.
Basic Coverage - 80%of current Dental Fee schedule
Restorative Coverase - 60% of current Dental Fee Schedule Orthodontic Coverase - 30% of current Dental Fee Schedule. Premiums - Company paid.
For further information check your dental plan booklet or consult your immediate supervisor.
6.	VTSTON CARE
Effective the bepAnairy? of June, 1990, the Com.pa.ay will provide a
vision care package subject to the following conditions:
Eligibility - Completion of Ninety (90)days of continuous service.
- Covers employees, spouses and eligible dependents.
Coverage
a.	The purchase of lenses, frames, and contact lenses if prescribedby an optometrist or opthamologist will be covered.
b.	Maximum of one hundred dollars ($100)per covered person in any two (2) consecutive years.
c.	Reimbursement will only be provided for the first-time purchase of corrective lenses, or when required due to a change in prescription.
d.	There will be no reimbursement if-items are lost, broken or damaged.
e.	There will be no reimbursement if the cost will be picked up by another source such as wcb.
30
f.	Reimbursement will not be made for sunglasses or other lenses not required for correction of vision.
Premiums - Company paid.
31
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Employment Equity
The Company and the Union agree that when certain provisions of the Collective Agreement are perceived to be barriers to the general mobility of members of the Target Groups within the work force, then such provisions may be suspended or amended subject to mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Labor Relations Committee
The Company and the Union agree to set up _a joint Labor Relations Committee to deal with, ■'irroiu time to time, matlers of “"eulpTUyee and
employer concerns related to working conditions, and to provide for a forum to identify and discuss training and retraining potential needs. This process should enhance communications and co-operation in the work place between the employer, employee, and the Union.
Meetings are to be held on a monthly basis, if needed, and an agenda of items to be discussed should be prepared prior to a meeting to facilitate useful discussion and roooUoh.ion of issues.
Terms of Reference for the Committee will be established by the Committee during the Committee’s initial meetings.
Pension
Agreement that employees with capped-off benefits under the SWP/GSU Pension Plan have all their credits transferred to the CSP Foods Pension Plan 1977.