Collective Agreement
Between
Maple Leaf Mills LTD
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 530P, 452P, 401
Begins:
12/01/1989
Terminates:
11/30/1991
00458 (03)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Page
1	Purpose................................. 1
II	Recognition............................ 1
III	Management............................. 3
IV	No Strikes or Lockouts................. 3
V	Union Security and Check-off........... 4
VI	Relationship........................... 5
VII	Negotiating and Labour
Relations Committees.................... 6
VIII	Grievance Procedure.................... 7
IX	Arbitration............................II
X	Seniority.............................12
XI	Lay-off and Recall.....................16
XII	Hours of Work, Overtime and
Shift Premium...........................17
XIII	Temporary Assignments..................20
XIV	Plant Holidays.........................21
XV	Vacations..............................22
XVI	Rest Periods and Meal Allowance........24
XVII	Leave of Absence.......................25
XVIII	Wages...................................27
XIX	Health and Welfare Insurance...........28
XX	General................................29
XXI	Weekly Guarantee.......................31
XXII	Technological Change and	Severance Pay.-22
XXIII	Duration of Agreement................G34\
Appendix “A”. Appendix “B” Appendix “C” Appenxid “D” Appendix “E” Appendix “F”
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
MAPLE LEAF MILLS LIMITED hereinafter called “the Company”
— and —
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION Locals 530P, 452P, 401 hereinafter called “the Union”
Article I PURPOSE
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain the harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunder, and to further provide means of operating the plant locations that are subject to this Agreement in a manner which will further in all possible ways, the welfare and safety of the employees, betterment of quality of product, economy of manufacture and quantity of output, all to the mutual interest and advantage of the employees and the Company.
Article II
RECOGNITION
2.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees at its plants listed hereunder, except: foremen and persons above the rank of foreman, salesmen, office and clerical staff (other than Port Colborne), laboratory staff at locations other than West Toronto, Port Colborne and Calgary Renown.
PLANT West Toronto Port Colborne Office Port Colborne Plant Calgary — Renown
LOCAL UNION NUMBER 530P 452P 452P 401
2.2	All conditions of employment for Boat Crew at the Port Colborne plant shall be in accordance with the special supplement attached hereto as Appendix "A".
— 1 —
2.3	The Company will not bargain collectively during the term cf this Agreement with any other labour ojgani-zation affecting these employees.
2.4	MANUAL WORK BY SUPERVISORS: Supervil
sorsand other salaried employees will not perform work' which is normally carried out by bargaining unit employees, except:
work that is normally performed by salaried employees;
the training of employees, testing of equipment, developing of methods or standards and emergencies.
The Company agrees to investigate and clarify with the Local Union any questionable aspects of work in this area that may occur. The Company will post a list of the names and job titles of production supervisors.
2.5 CONTRACTING OUT: It is the intention of the Company to utilize the skills and experience of its employees. The Company agrees to restrict the hiring of con' tractors to work where:
— the work cannot be performed by bargaining unit em- ~y ployees because cf skill requirements;	t/^
i
economic considerations which shall be explained to the Union warrant engaging outside services;
special equipment to perform the work is not available to the plant.
In such cases, the Company shall discuss the situation with the Union prior to proceeding. In an emergency where circumstances do not permit prior discussion, the Company shall notify the Union as soon as possible.
2
Article III MANAGEMENT "
3.1	The Union acknowledges that, subject to the express provisions of this Agreement, it is the exclusive right and function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	direct the working force, including the right to hire, retire pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plan, promote, demote, assign, transfer, suspend or otherwise discipline employees, including discharge forjust cause;
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to: determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured; schedule the production, methods, processes and the means of production or handling of its products; determine the allocation and number of employees required by the Company from time to time.
3.2	It is understood that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion, or transfer, or a claim by an employee that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause, may be the subject of a grievance under the procedure provided in this Agreement.
Article IV
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.1	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production during the term of this Agreement, and that, if such action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions
- 3 -
of this Agreement and return to work and perform their duties in the normal manner.
Article V
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
5.1	MEMBERSHIP It shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date cf signing of this Agreement is a member of the Union shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
An employee hired on or after the date of signing of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union on his first working day following his date of hire and maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
For purposes of this Agreement an employee will be deemed to maintain his membership in the Union in good standing, provided he authorizes and maintains the deduction of Union dues and pays the regularly prescribed union initiation fee and special assessments uniformly required of all members of the Local Union.
5.2	PAYMENT OF DUES: On receipt of written authorization signed by the employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the first payday of each calendar month, such initiation fee and Union dues as are uniformly
/ prescribed for all members of the Union. In the case of V a new employee the deduction of union dues will commence with the first regular deduction coincident with or following such employee’s first payday. The total sum deducted together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and the amounts thereof will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Local Union on or before the fifteenth day of that month. When no deduction is made, the Company will specify on the records forwarded to the Union the reason therefore.
4
5.3	Twice the regular monthly dues shall be deducted in any one check-off where the employee has insufficient pay to cover the preceding deduction of dues.
5.4	SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS: Upon receipt of proper notification from the Union, the Company will deduct from Union members such special assessments as are levied by the Union in accordance with its Constitution and By-Laws, and will forward such assessment, together with a record of those from whom deductions were made, to the financial secretary of the local Union.
5.5	The Company will provide a list of employees’ names, addresses and telephone numbers, together with the seniority list. Employees’ requests for privacy in this matter will be respected.
Article VI RELATIONSHIP
6.1	The Company agrees not to discriminate against any employee because of his membershipor prospective membership in the Union. The Union agrees there will be no union activities on the plant premises during working hours without the express permission of the Company, other than as provided by this Agreement.
6.2	It shall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against any employee because of race, colour, creed or nationality. The Union Upland the Company endorse the Canadian Human Rights^^ Act as proclaimed and will continue to observe all of the	(——
provisions of this legislation.
Except where stated to the contrary, or where the sense requires the contrary, the use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered to include the feminine.
5
6.3	A member of the Local Union Executive shall have the right to meet all new employees and be provided with up to fifteen minutes orientation time with each new employee.
Article VII NEGOTIATING
AND LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEES
7.1	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than three employees from each plant and the office unit to deal with the Company on matters concerning the renewal or modification of this Agreement. Members of the Committee shall be employees with seniority.
. 7.2 The Company will pay the regular lost time wages /y A f°r time spent in negotiations with the Company on the /A/]i6 of eight hours’ pay per day of meeting. One day’s additional pay will be paid for each series of meetings u-" 1 held outisde the home province. Meetings on Saturday I or Sunday will be by mutual agreement only if meetings are held on these days. Payment will be 8 hours at their regular straight time rate.
Negotiating Committee eligible for payment are:
2 from Toronto 2 from Calgary 2 from Port Colbome
7,3	During the term of this Agreement, meetings between the Labour Relations Committee and the management may be held at any reasonable time when either the Union or the Company submits an agenda of the business to be transacted.
6
Article VIII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.1	UNION STEWARDS: The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards to assist employees in arriving at j ust and equitable adjustment of matters pertaining to this Agreement. The number of Stewards and the areas of the plant each represents will be established by local agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.2	GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE The Company further acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee.or not more than three employees to meet with the Company and deal with matters which properly arise from time to time in connection with the administration of this Agreement. One such member shall be designated as chief spokesman for the Committee.
8.3	The Union will advise the Company in writing of the names of Stewards and Grievance Committee members designated to deal with the Company on matters pertaining to this Agreement. It is understood that such employees shall have seniority at the plant or office where appointed.
8.4	PERFORMANCEOF REGULAR DUTIES: The
Union acknowledges that Stewards and Grievance Committee. members have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their jobs to deal with grievances or other Union business without first obtaining the agreement of the foreman .The foreman will arrange for the relief of the Steward or Grievance Committee member as soon as reasonably possible, subject to operating requirements. It is understood that such employees will not absent themselves from their
duties unreasonably. On this express understanding, the Company agrees that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee will not lose pay for time spent servicing grievances during their regular working hours.
8.5	EMPLOYEE COMPLAINTS: It is the mutual desire of the Company and the Union that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee. has no grievance until he has first given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint and he may be accompanied by his Steward if he requests such assistance. Such complaint shall be registered within seven days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee.
8.6	The aggrieved employee may be present during any of the steps of the Grievance Procedure if he wishes, or at the request of either the Union or the Company. When an employee is to be formally interviewed on a matter which may lead to discipline and when an employee is to be disciplined a steward or other Union representative must be present.
8.7	GRIEVANCE STEPS: If any employee has an unsettled complaint, it may be taken up as a grievance within three, working days in the following manner and sequence: First Step — between the aggrieved employee, who may at his request be accompanied by the Steward, and the foreman, (when the aggrieved employee is a Steward he may at his request, be accompanied by another Steward) at which time a written record of the grievance shall be submitted. Failing a settlement within three working days, then;
Second Step — within three working days following the decision at the First Step the grievance may proceed: be- 8 -
tween the aggrieved employee, a member of the Grievance Committee, and Plant Management or other authorized representative of the Company. A representative of the Union will attend if requested by either the Company or the Union. Failing a settlement within three working days, then;
Third Step — within three working days following the decision at the Second Step the grievance may proceed: between the Grievance Committee and Plant Management and/or other authorized representative of the Company and the union at a meeting arranged for the purpose. A full-time representative of the Union will attend such meeting if requested by either the Company or the Union. Failing a settlement within five working days, then; Fourth Step — within five working days following the decision at the Third Step, the Grievance Committee and the Plant Management may, if mutually agreeable, refer the grievance to the National Officers of the Union and Head Office officials cf the Company who shall endeavour to find a solution. Failing a settlement within five working days following the decision at the Third Step, or the Fourth Step, if invoked, of any difference between the parties arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, such difference or question may be taken to arbitration as provided in Article IX, If no written request for arbitration is received within fourteen days after the decision at the Third Step is given, or the Fourth Step as the case may be, the grievance shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned. All grievance settlements shall be in writing.
8.8 TIME LIMITS: Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays and the aggrieved employees’ vacation time will not be counted in determining the time limit within which
- 9 -
any action is to be taken or completed in each of the steps of the Grievance Procedure or under Article IX. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article and Article IX may at any time be extended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
8.9	RATE OF PAY COMPLAINT OR GRIEVANCE.
When a complaint or grievance which affects the rate of pay of an employee is settled and as a result the employee receives an increase in his rate, such increase shall be paid retroactively to the date the error was made or such other date as may be agreed upon.
8.10	PROCEDURE TO GRIEVE SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL If an employee is dismissed or suspended for any reason and feels he has been unjustly dealt with, he may inform the Grievance Committee who shall, if a grievance is to be filed, file such written grievance with the Company within seven days of the suspension or dismissal. The dismissal or suspension shall then be dealt with under the grievanceprocedure herein, beginning with the Second Step. Notice of dismissal or suspension and the reason therefore shall be given in writing with a copy delivered at the plant to the responsible union officer or his designate. If subsequently it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed or suspended, he shall be reinstated in the former job with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and shall be compensated for all time lost at his regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation for lost wages as may be deemed fair in the circumstances.
, 8.11 DISCIPLINARY RECORD: If after eighteen / months from the date of a suspension or written warning * there has been no further written discipline for the same \ reason, the record of such suspension or written warn-^ ing will be removed from the employee’s file.
- 10 -
Upon request in writing, employees will be given the opportunity to review their personnel files at a mutually convenient time at a place on the premises of the Company’s choosing within five days of the date of receipt cf the request.
8.12 POLICY GRIEVANCE: Any difference between the Union and the Company arising out of the interpretation or the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement may be submitted in writing by one patty to the other at the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart from the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
Article IX
ARBITRATION
9.1	If settlement is not reached by the above procedure, the grievance may be referred by the Union or by the Company within fourteen days following the decision at the Ihird Step, or the Fourth Step if invoked, of the Grievance Procedureto an arbitration Board of three members, one to be appointed by the union, one by the Company and a third who shall act as Chairman, to be mutually agreed upon by the members representing the two patties. The parties may agree to appoint a Single Arbitrator rather than an Arbitration Board in which case all references
’ to “Arbitration Board” shall be read as “Single Arbitrator” throughout this article.
9.2	Upon receipt of the name of the member appointed by the party submitting the grievance to arbitration, the other party shall name its nominee; if it fails to do so within two weeks, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment. If agreement cannot be reached
- 11 -
within seven days as to the appointment of a third member, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration may request the Federal Minister of Labour to make the appointment.
9.3	The Arbitration Board shall meet promptly following its appointment for the purpose of hearing the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision at the earliest possible date.
9.4	No person shall be selected as a member of the Arbitration Board who has been directly involved in attempts to settle the grievance.
9.5	No grievance shall be considered by the Arbitration Board unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure except where otherwise noted in this Agreement.
9.6	The Arbitration Board shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to award a reduction of seniority as a penalty, or to deal with any matters not covered by this Agreement. The decision of the majority of the Board shall be the decision of the Board and it shall be final and binding on the Company, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
9.7	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board.
Article X SENIORITY
10.1	DEFINITION OF SENIORITY DATE An employee’s seniority date shall be his last date of employ- 12 -
ment with the Company within the bargaining unit since which there has been no quit or discharge to break his continuous service. Seniority shall not be interchangeable between plants, unless mutually agreed by the Union and the Company. When two or more employees are hired on the same date, their plant seniority shall be established by alphabetical order of the surname.
10.2 SENIORITY LIST A seniority list showing each employee's seniority date will be prepared by the Company and posted on the plant bulletin boards every January, April, July and October. Seniority list for both West Toronto and Maple Leaf Court will be posted simultaneously at both plants. An employee who believes his seniority is incorrectly shown may take the matter up as a grievance.
Note: (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 10.2, the seniority of PortColbome office staff will be considered separate from other employees covered by this Agreement for purposes of layoff, recall and the posting ofjob vacancies. When such natters arise in the office, employees of the office department only will be affected by or eligible for the personnel changes that may be involved.
Conversely, office staff will not be affected by or eligible for layoffs, recalls or the posting ofjob vacancies that may occur in other departments of the plant.
10.3 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE: The probation- 9c"
ary period for a new employee shall be forty-five days:— worked in a nine-month period. As a part ol the normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability, j ob performance and general work attitudes of the employee on probation and where such assessment does not meet acceptable standards, the termination of the proba-
13
tioner will not be subject of a grievance. Upon request by the Steward the Employer will provide written details regarding its assessment of probationary employees who have been terminated. On successful completion of these requirements, the probationary employee shall acquire seniority dating from his first day of work during the nine-month period.
10.4	VACATION REPLACEMENTS’, Students engaged as vacation replacements for one hundred working days or less during the calendar year shall not accumulate seniority. Should such vacation replacement be retained beyond one hundred days or be reclassified as a regular employee during the one hundred day period, his seniority shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Article X. The Company will keep the Union informed of the names of employees hired as vacation replacements.
10.5	RETURN TO BARGAIN IN GUNIT: Should a supervisor previously employed in the bargaining unit be reclassified to a job within the unit, his seniority shall be the sum of his service in both capacities to October 16th, 1978. The seniority of any member of the bargaining unit who is promoted to supervisor following that date and later reverts to the bargaining unit, shall be the seniority he held at the date of his promotion. Any bargaining unit employee transferred out of the unit after March 15, 1984 will, if he returns to the bargaining unit before one year has elapsed, be credited with his full accumulated seniority. If he returns to the bargaining unit after one year, his seniority at the date of his return will be one year.
10.6	PROMOTIONS: In cases of promotion, demotion or transfer of an employee resulting from ajob posting, the ability and ^gniarity of the employee shall be the” governing factors, and where ability is sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Experience gained by ajunior employee on
a temporary assignment will not preclude a more senior employee from being deemed to have sufficient ability. The successful applicant will be allowed an orientation period of up to thirty working days. This orientation period may be extended for valid reasons by written mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
10.7 JOB POSTING: Any permanent job within bargaining unit which becomes vacant shall be poster. v all designated bulletin boards for five working dayiTTKr local Union will be provided with a copy cf thej ob posting in advance of actual posting. Any amployee may bid for the job by adding his name to the job poster. A permanent job shall be one which the Company believes will continue or one which does continue for a period exceeding thirty calendar days but does not include temporary vacancies resulting from vacation, leave of absence, illness or injury. Employees on vacation, Workers' Compensation, sick leave, or leave of absence of one month or less, who may be eligible for the vacancy shall be notified of thej ob posting by mail. Such employees on Workers' Compensation, sick leave or leave of absence must apply within seven days from date of mailing of the notification. Employees on vacation must apply within three working days following the conclusion of their vacation period. A copy of licensing qualifications, if any, will be shown to the Union. The successful applicant for the posting may elect to return to his former job within thirty calendar days. Under these circumstances the remaining applicants for the original posting, if any, will be considered subject to the requirements of paragraph 10.6. The Company will advise the Union, in writing of the name of the successful applicant within 3 working days of the posting award. Vacancies resulting from retirement will be posted thirty days in advance of the retirement.
Article XI
LAYOFF AND RECALL
11.1	LAYOFF When it is necessary to reduce the working force of employees, seniority will be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are able and willing to do the work that is available or can quality for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. In cases where an employee accepts a lower rated job rather than be laid off, his regular rate will be protected for thirty working days.
The Union local will be advised of the names of employees to be laid off. The Company will provide notice of layoff not later than 3:00 P.M. on the Thursday preceding the week the lay-off is effective.
11.2	RETENTION OF SENIORITY ON LAYOFF:^!
An employee with seniority who is laid off will be retained on the seniority list for two years, but unless he '	'	" clax ...............
reports to work within five working days of recall, he will forfeit any claim to re-employment by the Company. The Local Union will be notified of layoffs. If the employee does not report within five days due to bona fide illness or other legitimate reason approved by the Company, this provision shall be waived. An employee may decline a recall from layoff without losing his seniority if work for ten or more consecutive working days cannot be guaranteed by the Company.	,
11.3 RECALL FROM LAYOFF. Employees will recalled from layoff on the basis-ef-senterity, provided those recalled can satisfactorily perform the work that is available, or can quality for such work within a reasonable period, consistent with the efficient operation of the plant. Recalls will be made by telephone and if this means is unsuccessful the employee will be contacted by telegram or registered letter at the last address he has made
- 16 -
known to the Company. A list of those employees recalled from layoff shall be provided to an In Plant Union Representative by not later than the conclusion of the second working day the employee performs work for the Company.
11.4	COMPANY TO BE KEPT INFORMED: It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the Company informed at all times of his current address and nearest telephone number.
11.5	LOSS OF SENIORITY: An employee shall lose all seniority and his name shall be removed from the employment records of the Company when:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is discharged for just cause;
(c)	he is laid off for a period exceeding two years or fails to return from layoff in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11.2;
(d)	he receives severance pay as provided under Article XXII.
l
1
Article XII HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND SHIFT PREMIUM
12.1 HOURSOF WORK AND OVERTIME: The
mal work week shall be forty hours and the normal work day shall be eight hours. Normal hours for the office shall be thirty-fiveper week and seven per day. Authorized work performed in excess of the normal work week or normal work day shall be termed as overtime and paid at the premium rate of time and one-half the employee's requ-lar straight time rate of pay exclusive of shift premium. Overtime regulations shall not be a limitation upon the number of hours per day, or days per week, that the Company may operate its plant or schedule its employees. The
17
Company will endeavour to distribute overtime work as evenly as possible amongst qualified employees within a department and the work will be offered to such employees on this basis. Should an insufficient number of employees volunteer to carry out the work, it will be assigned to the junior employees in the department who are tjualified.
12.2	SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS: Management at the plant shall provide the Local Union with a Schedule of Working Hours which shall be designated as Appendix “B”, Should the requirements of the business necessitate a change in such Schedule, the matter will be discussed with the Union. The Company agrees to give the Union ten days’ notice of change in the Schedule of Working Hours, except changes that may occur from time to time in the scheduling of trucks and related work. Because of the difficulties in scheduling trucks and related work, the Company agrees that when it is necessary to change starting times between mornings and afternoons during the week, the affected employees will be paid time and one-half the straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week.
The Company will provide notice of a change in shift hours by 3:00 p.m, on the Thursday preceding the week in which the employee’s shift hours will be changed, if such notice is not provided, the affected employee will be paid time and one-half straight time rate for those hours worked on the day of the first such change in that week.
12.3	SATURDAY, SUNDAY AND PLANT HOLIDAY WORK: Time and one-half the stright time rate shall be paid for work performed on Saturday and on a plant holiday. Work performed on Sunday and work beyond eight consecutive hours on a plant holiday .shall be paid for at double the straight time rate.
'5b iS-'
18 -
The Company will endeavour to provide notice of overtime for Saturday, Sunday and plant holidays falling on the weekend by 3;00 p.m, on the Thursday preceding.
Saturdays, Sundays and plant holidays are observed on a shift day basis rather than on a calendar day basis and premium pay for work performed shall be paid for those days the employee normally has off work.
12.4	OFFICE CALLS AT HOME: When an affine employee is required to take and/or place authorized telephone calls relating to the job, at his home outside of his normal working hours, he shall be paid for the time so spent at the rate of time and one-half his straight time hourly rate. The minimum pay for such work shall be one-half hour at his regular straight time hourly rate.
12,5	NO COMPOUNDING OF PREMIUM: No overtime premium payment will be computed twice on the same time, nor shall any employee be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours.
12.6	REPORTING ALLOWANCE: An employee
reporting for work at his normal starting time without previous notification not to do so shall be given a mini-	; r
mum of four hours’ work or four hours’ pay at the prevail-' ing hourly rate. In the event of a forced shutdown or in^j^i cases where an employee fails to notify his foreman of
his intention to return to work following a period of absence, this provision shall not apply.
12.7	EMERGENCY CALL-IN; An employee called in to perform emergency work not continuous with his regular work period shall be paid a minimum of four-hours pay at the prevailing overtime rate. The employee will be free to leave the Company premises when the supervisor deems an emergency no longer exists.
Employees called back for an emergency during the third shift shall be allowed a reasonable period for rest
19
before returning to work on their regular shift. They shall not be required to work beyond their normal quitting time, but shall be paid as if they had worked their full shift.
12.8 SHIFT PREMIUM: Effective January 28, 1990 i<5Cr® mployees working on the second shift shall receive a premium ofjjixty cents
(J>f
per hour, and employees working on the third shift shall receive a premium of jninet;
cents per hour. An employee working overtime
t ninety info the
''next shift shall receive the shift premium, if any, applicable QJ to that shift. For purposes of this provision, shifts which k ifAy'start at or after 12:00 noon but before 8:00 p.m. shall “yv^carry the second shift premium and shifts which start at or after 8:00 p.m. but before 4:00 a.m. shall carry the third shift premium.
Effective December 1, 1990 the second shift premium nb\u will be increased to sixty-five cents per hour and the third <shift premium will be increased to ninety-five cents per
^	.9 JOURNEYMAN PREMIUM: Effective January
'aQfi, 1990 maintenance employees who have or who later fftiU obtain journeyman’s papers will be paid a premium of w!/ forty-five cents per hour. The Company and Union agree
that this premium will also be extended to the Utility Lead-man Fumigator classification(s) effective January 28, 1990 so long as this classification is required to be licenced and the incumbent employee in this classification maintains such licence.
Effective December 1, 1990 the journeyman premium will be increased to fifty-five cents per hour.
Article XIII
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
13.1 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT An employee transferred temporarily to a job paying a higher rate of
- 20 -
pay will receive such higher rate, but an employee transferred temporarily to ajob paying a lower rate will continue to receive his regular rate of pay, except in cases where the employee requests a lower rated job due to health or other reason, in which case the lower rate shall apply from the date of transfer. If a temporary transfer becomes permanent, the employee will be paid the scheduled rate for the job.
13.2	SUPERVISOR RELIEF PREMIUM: An employee charged temporarily with foreman responsibility shall be paid a premium of seventy-five cents per hour for time worked in this capacity. This premium will not be paid if the Company assigns the responsibility to a member of its staff.
Article XIV PLANT HOLIDAYS
14.1	PLANT HOLIDAYS: The Company agrees to recognize the Plant Holidays set forth in Appendix
An employee (at the date of the holiday) shall be paid for each such holiday at the equivalent of his straight time /K / basic rate for eight hours (seven hours in the office), ex-3? y/' elusive of shift premium, provided he works during theyyjp week preceding, the week following, or the week of the Ly holiday. Employees with seniority who are receiving ' weekly sick benefits, UIC sick benefits, long term disability benefits or Workers’ Compensation will continue to receive plant holiday pay for up to one hundred and four weeks of absence.
14.2	PLANT HOLIDAY ON WEEKEND: When a Plant Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, such holiday will be observed on the Monday following. In the event two Plant Holidays fail on the same weekend (Saturday and Sunday) such holidays will be observed on the
21
Monday and Tuesday following the weekend. This arrangement, as it applies to any particular Plant Holiday may be modified on a local basis by agreement between the Company and the Union.
14.3	PLANT HOLIDAY DURING VACATION When a Plant Holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, he may elect to receive holiday pay as provided in this Article XIV or to receive an alternate day with pay as the Plant Holiday. If the employee elects to receive an alternate day with pay as the holiday, it shall be taken at a time to be agreed upon between the Company and the employee. If subsequently the employee does work on the day agreed upon as the alternate day, it shall be considered as work performed on a Plant Holiday and the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provision of paragraph 14,4.
14.4	WORK ON PLANT HOLIDAYS: An employee required to work on a Plant Holiday will be paid for such work at the rate of time and one-half the straight time rate exclusive of shift premium, for the first eight hours and double the straight time rate for work beyond eight hours.
Article XV VACATIONS
15.1 VACATION SCHEDULING: The Company will schedule vacations at the time or times wanted by each employee giving longer service employees preference, subject to maintaining the efficient operation of the plant. Vacations of more than three weeks duration will not normally be scheduled consecutively. Vacations shall be taken in the year in which they fall due and shall not be accumulated. Should it be advantageous to close the piant(s) for a vacation period, eligible employees will take vaca-
- 22 -
tion at that time, other than those whose services are required for particular work. In the event of a close-down for vacation, such period will be scheduled during June, July or August.
15.2	POSTING VACATION SCHEDULE Notice will be posted February 1st of the current year requesting employees to state their choice of vacation dates. Such notice will be removed by the Company on February 28th and the vacation schedule prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 15.1 and posted within seven days. Requests to re-schedule vacations after that date will be considered provided the re-scheduling does not interfere with the vacations of other employees or with the efficient operation of the plant.
15.3 LENGTH OF VACATION: Effective in 1982, employees will receive vacations in accordance with the following schedule, based on years of seryice attained during the current calendar year:	___
—	after one year of service —"■/’PTTTo	two	weeks
—	after five years of service 1-0 ~^llree	weeks
—	after ten years of service	four	weeks
—	after eighteen years of service] Jg-	five	weeks
—	after twenty-six years of service,.-,	six	weeks
2&-oe>
15.4 VACATION PAY: Vacation pay will be 2% of the
employee’s wages for the preceding calendar year or forty hours’ pay at his basic straight time rate (provided the employee works not less than sixteen hundred hours during the preceding calendar year) for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to the employee’s advantage. Vacation pay for an employee who works less than sixteen hundred hours during the preceding calendar year shall be calculated at the ratio that his hours worked bear to sixteen hundred. Vacation pay shall not be reduced due to time lost from work, to a maximum of one hundred
23
and four weeks, when the employee is receiving weekly sick benefits, U.I.C. sick benefit, long term disability benefit or Workers’ Compensation. Application of this paragraph as it applies to the Port Colborne Office will reflect the thirty-five hour work week and a minimum of fourteen hundred hours of work during the preceding calendar year.
15.5	FIRST VACATION: An employee with less than twelve months’ service during the preceding calendar year shall be entitled to a vacation of one day per month of service to a maximum often days. Notwithstanding paragraph 15.4, pay for such vacation shall be 4% of the employee’s wages for the preceding calendar year.
15.6	VACATIONS ON TERMINATION: An employee quitting or leaving his employment for other reasons will receive accumulated vacation pay.
Article XVI
REST PERIODS AND MEAL ALLOWANCE
16.1 REST PERIODS: There shall be a rest period of ten minutes during the first half of the normal shift and ten minutes in the second half of a normal shift. Rest periods will be scheduled by the Company as close to the mid-point of the half shift as can be arranged, subject to production requirements.
16.2 MEAL ALLOWANCE An employee working three hours or more overtime continuous with his regular shift will be paid a meal allowance of one hour’s pay at his regular straight time hourly rate. Except in tfiecase of an emergency, a meal break shall be arranged by mutual agreement between the employee and the foreman.

Article XVII	/ ,''£}CX^
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.1	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: In the event of death
of an immediate relative, leave of absence of three consecutive days, exclusive of assigned days of rest, will be granted the bereaved employee. Such employee will be paid his straight time rate, excluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked during such leave. Immediate relative shall mean the employee’s sister, brother, mother, father, spouse, son daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren. “Employee” shall mean a regular full-time employee of the Company. Bereaved employees who return from vacation to attend the funeral will qualify for bereavement pay.
17.2	JURY DUTY: When an employee is called by the Crown forjury duty or subpoenaed as a witness and must/' as a result, lose time fromwork, the Company agree^Q. to pay such employee the difference between the fee 1 received and the employee’s straight time basic rate, ex- ( cluding shift or other premium, for the scheduled hours he otherwise would have worked.
17.3	INJURY ON THE JOB: When an employee, while carrying out his assigned duties, is disabled as a result of an industrial accident, he shall be paid for the remainder of his scheduled shift (less any amount that the employee may receive from Workers’ Compensation), provided that the accident is classified as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
17.4	PREGNANCY LEAVE An employee will be granted pregnancy leave of absence without pay and without lossof.seniority provided written application is
% made"to the Company at least thirty days before the leave [ is to commence. Such application will be accompanied
25

by a written note from the attending physician confirming the expected date of birth and his recommendation as to the date from which the employee is unable to continue working. The employee may be required to submit medical certificates attesting to her continuing ability to .remain at work prior to the date of leave of absence, y- The employee will return to work within three months \ following the date of birth and will give the Company Xypjtwo weeks’ notice of her planned date of return. She will Of l be required to present a medical certificate confirming ' her fitness before resuming work. Upon receiving such notification, the Company will arrange for reinstatement, subject to the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement.
17.5 LEAVE FOR PERSONAL REASONS: Leave of
1
absence without _pay may be granted to an employee by the Company^ for good and sufficient reason upon written application by the employee. Leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, to try out new work or to venture into business for himself.
Leave of absence without pay for employees in Her Majesty's Forces shall be respected, in accordance with Government regulations.
The Company will respond in writing within one week of written application for leave of absence.
17.6	LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS: Employees chosen to attend to union business outside the plant which would involve an absence of not more than two weeks shall upon reasonable notice to the Company be granted leave of absence withouLpay. Such leave shall be limited up to five employees at any one time.
The Company agrees to provide payroll service for employees who are absent on Union business for a period
26
of one day or more but not on a full time basis. The Uni ion will advise the Company in writing, of the hours to be paid such members and on receipt of an account agrees to reimburse the Company promptly for this cost.
An employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union (Business Representatives, In-A ternational Representative or like position) shall, upon fo\potice, be granted extended leave of absence withoutgay 'V-'y during the term of this Agreement. Seniority shallacU ^2y cumulate during such leave. There shall be no more than . ->^ two extended leaves at any one time within the Union Lo- ’ oZprcrvided the employes affected are employed in different departments, unless otherwisemutually agreed by the parties.
Upon notice to the Company to return to work, he shall be placed on thejob previously held, if the position still
exists.	___________________________
17.7	LEAVE FOR PUBLIC OFFICE: Special leaveTT absence without pay up to four weeks duration will be granted to an employee who is a bona fide candidate for Federal, Provincial or Municipal election. Request for such leave will be made to the Company at least twenty-one days before the effective date. Special leave will not be granted to more than one employee from the same department at any one time.
In the event the employee is elected to the House of Commons, Provincial Legislature, or an elected full-time job at the Municipal level, he shall, upon notice, be granted leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority during the period he holds office,
Article XVIII WAGES.
18.1	Wage rates shall be in accordance with the Schedule cf Wage Rates attached hereto as Appendix “E.
18.2	RATE OF NEW OR CHANGED JOBS: If during the life of this Agreement, the Company substantially changes the nature of any job or institutes an entirely new job so that the existing job classification or the rate under the job classification is no longer appropriate, the Company will name a new classification and/or set a new rate, higher or lower, or maintain the existing rate for the new or changed job. The Company agrees to notify the Union in writing of any new classification or rate established and agrees to establish such a new rate in line with the rates prevailing for the same or substantially similar jobs in this Agreement. If a new rate is so set, or the rate is continued as before, the Company agrees to discuss with the Union, if so requested, provided such a request is received within thirty calendar days of the date when the Union is informed of the rate, the question of whether the rate is appropriate.
.	18.3 ARBITRATION OF BATE: I f, as a result of such
\ by’ a discussion, the parties disagree that the rate is a proper [/. one, the question may be referred to an Arbitration Board S/ 1 pursuant to Article IX. The Arbitration Board will be / authorized to establish what it deems to be the proper rate, it being understood that such rate will be established in conformity with the existing rate structure of the plant, and may also fix the date from which the new rate, whether it be greater or less than the rate set by the Company, shall apply. Such new rate shall continue in force during the life of this Agreement.
Article XIX
HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
19.1	The Company agrees to pay the premium cost of the following insurance plans, subject to the conditions set forth in Appendix “D”.
- 28 -
Group Life Insurance Plan
Provincial Medicare Major Medical Insurance Plan Prescription Drug Insurance Plan Lone Term Disability Insurance Plan Accident and Sickness Benefits Insurance Plan Dental Insurance Plan
19.2 PENSION PLAN: The Company agrees to con-'b^p' tinue the existing Retirement Annuity Plan (with arori-t- " ments) during the term of this Agreement. Copy of the / official plan document shall be provided to the Local Chair Person of the Union. An updated employees’ pension booklet will be printed.
Effective December 31, 1989 the Pension Plan includes a past service supplement of fourteen dollars ($14.00) per month for each complete year of service to December 31,
1989, less one year and effective December 31, 1990 increased to fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month, for each complete year of service to December 31, 1990 less one year.
The supplement is subject to all the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan.
Article XX GENERAL
20.1	BULLETIN BOARDS: The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations in the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. Ali such notices will be signed by an officer of the Union Local and submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
20.2	SAFETY AND HEALTH: The Company shall make reasonable provision for safety and health of em- 29 -
ployees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices on machinery and other equipment deemed necessary properly to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. First Aid facilities shall be available for employees at all times during working hours.
The Company and the Union endorse and agree to observe the provisions of the Canada Labour Code including legislated matters dealing with safety and the appointment and function of safety committees.
The Company will provide copies of W.C.B. Form 7 (or equivalent) to the Union.
20.3 SAFETY SHOES: Effective January 28, 1990 upon proof of purchase the Company will reimburse employees with seniority a maximumof one hundred and twenty dollars in the two year period commencing December 1, 1989 towards the cost of safety shoes. ^ S
20.4	TRAINING: The Union a0___ r the pur-
pose of providing experience and training a limited number of employees of Maple Leaf Mills Limited may be moved from department to department within a plant from time to time. The Company agrees that such training will not entail layoff or loss of earnings for regular employees. The Union will be informed cf the names of such individuals and the expected duration of their training in the Plant.
20.5	TOOLS - REPLACEMENT Where an employee in maintenance or other work is required to provide his own manual tools, the Company agreesto replace any such tool that is broken or worn out on the job. It is understood that the Company is not responsible for replacement of the tool if the breakage is due to misuse or negligence or if it is not a basic tool of the trade. The Company will maintain insurance in case of loss (of tools) due to file or theft while on Company property.
30
20.6	WORK CLOTHING: Employees other then office employees will be provided with two pairs of work pants and two work shirts on completion of their probationary period, and yearly thereafter by April 1st of each year. This arrangement may be modified by local agreement to provide other suitable clothing provided the cost of such is approximately equal. Effective January 28, 1990 Port Colbome office employees will be paid an annual clothing allowance of seventy-five dollars.
20.7	LICENSE RENEWAL: Employees will be reimbursed for the renewal of their Journeyman’s Licenses, effective from March 3, 1982,
20.8	Union dues deduction will be included on employee T4 slips.
Article XXI
WEEKLY GUARANTEE
21.1	The Company will guarantee every employee with seniority forty hours’ pay at his regular straight time rate for Sach week thlHhe employee performs work for the Company, subject to the following provisions:
— notwithstanding the foregoing, when an employee with seniority is called in to replace an employee who has failed to report for work, the replacement employee’s guarantee shall be limited to the remainder of the scheduled work week.
Shift premium, weekend and Plant Holiday premiums and overtime shall not be considered when calculating what the guarantee, if any, is to be paid. In the office unit, the guarantee shall be thirty-five hours.
The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will perform conscientiously whatever tasks
31
may be assigned to them. If an employee declines to perform the task assigned, the Company shall be absolved from the guarantee in respect to the hours so lost by that employee.
An employee who is late or absent from work, including time lost due to justified disciplinary action, on any day or part of a day that he is normally scheduled or called to work, shall have his guarantee reduced by the time so lost. The weekly guarantee shall not apply when an employee is on vacation or leave of absence.
Pay received for a Plant Holiday shall be regarded as part of the guarantee, provided such holiday is observed on the employee’s normal work day.
Article XXII
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
22.1 SEVERANCE PAY: In the event of a substantial reductionJn the work force including the elimination of a department as a direct result of technological or economic change and where the CompanyTsunable to offer o’ffieF’employment to the employees with seniority who are permanently displaced, severance pay will be paid to each employee on the following basis:
— an employee with one or more years of continuous /? I service shall be paid the equivalent of one week’s pay y/p	at his regular straight time for each completed year
-4 O' of service.
!
I' y 22.2 CONDITIONS OF PAYMENT: Severance pay as , r-' described in paragraph 22.1 will not be paid when:
(\o
- 32 -
an employee is discharged for just cause, an employee has been on layoff for more than one year at the time notice of the substantial reduction is given, an employee is offered and accepts employment at another location of Maple Leaf Mills Limited or at an affiliated company,
an employee resigns without Company approval prior to the date the substantial reduction is to occur,
— an employee retires or dies prior to the date the substantial reduction is to occur.
22.3 NOTICE OF REDUCTION: The Company will
give the Union three months’ notice of such substantial reduction in the work force and will, in cooperation with the union, advise employees whose employment is to be-terminated ofUovernment services that are available to them for re-training and location of other employment.
22.4 MANNER OF PAYMENT: Severance pay shall be paid in one sum or as requested by the employee, provided that the full amount is paid within a twelvemonth period.
To allow employees the necessary time to convert company-paid life and medical insurance plans to a private basis, the Company will continue to pay the premiums for three months beyond the date of termination.
22.5	In the event the plant is closed and relocated elsewhere in the province, laid-off employees will be given first consideration for employment at the new location, based on their suitability for the work available and their seniority. It is understood that employees who move to the new company location will be given credit for their company service for vacation eligibility, benefit plan entitlement, etc.
- 33
w
Article XXIII
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
23.1	This Agreement shall be effective from December 1. 1989 to November 30, 1991 and thereafter from year to year unless either party notifies the other party in writing within not more than sixty days and not less than thirty days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate this Agreement.
23.2	If, pursuant to such negotiations, agreement on terms of renewal or amendment of this Agreement is not reached prior to the expiration date, this Agreement shall be automatically extended until consummation of a new Agreement or completion cfthe conciliation proceedings prescribed under the Canada Labour Code and subsequent mediation proceedings agreed to by the parties, whichever should first occur.
Signed at Toronto, this 27th day of February, 1991.
34
UNITED FOOD AND	MAPLE LEAF MILLS
COMMERCIAL	LIMITED
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
G. CONNOLLY	P.J. AIZLEWOOD
C.W. GIBSON	LB. ROHER
FOR:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
Region 18, Canada
L.	FISHER D, TONELLI
L.	NIECE
H. DOWNTON G. GALLAGHER
M.	URE
T. VALAROSA
N.	KINNEY
FOR LOCAL NO.
452P
452P
452P
530P
530P
401
401
401
FOR:
MAPLE LEAF MILLS R. GLADMAN G.C, DAVID
O.	WRIGHT
LIMITED
Port Colborne Plant West Toronto Plant Calgary Renown Plant
35
APPENDIX “A”
BOAT CREW SUPPLEMENT PORT COLBORNE PLANT
NOTE: (Does not include regular elevator staff who assist in boat unloading)
The Boat Crew shall be broken down into two categories of employees:
Unloaders:	these men work on or in
the vessel.
Spare House Gang: these employees work in the grain receiving building.
The Company and the Union agree that the casual nature of grain unloading operations make it both necessary and desirable that the Boat Crew be specifically exempted from certain of the Agreement provisions as set out below;
ARTICLE V ARTICLE X ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIV ARTICLE XV ARTICLE XVI ARTICLE XVII
ARTICLE XIX ARTICLE XXI
Union Security Seniority Shift Bonus Plant Holidays Vacations
Rest Periods and Meal Allowance Leave of Absence (except as stipulated below)
Health and Welfare Insurance Weekly Guarantee
In lieu of Article V — Union Security. The Company will deduct union dues in amount fixed by the Union from time to time in accordance with its Constitution and ByLaws and certified in writing to the Company by an authorized officer of the Union. All such sums deducted
- 36
together with a record of those from whom deductions were made will be forwarded to the financial secretary of the Union.
In lieu of Article X — Seniority. It is agreed that seniority shall be granted to an employee in the Boat Crew if he works on 75 percent of the total number of grain boats unloaded in any one calendar year. Such seniority shall not be plant seniority.
In lieu of Article XIX — Health and Welfare Insurance. The Company agrees to pay the monthly premium for OHIP, Prescription Drug Insurance Plan and Major Medical Insurance Plan for an employeewho has attained Boat Crew seniority, in any month that such employee works as a member of the Boat Crew.
It is agreed that the following provisions shall specifically apply to grain unloading operations and the Boat Crew:
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 4
No. 5
37
Unloaders shall be paid for the dipping of all boats which they unload.
Boats shall be started on arrival between 8:00 a.m. and midnight. No boats shall be started after midnight except in emergencies or by mutual agreement. On boats arriving after midnight, normal starting time shall be 8:00 a.m. Unloaders shall be paid time and one-half the straight time rate for work performed beyond eight hours after the call.
Time and one-half the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Saturday and plant holidays, and double the straight time rate shall be paid for work performed on Sunday. The Boat Crew shall receive 4 percent of their yearly earnings as vacation pay.
No. 6
No. 7
No. 8
The Boat Crew shall be entitled to be represented by one steward.
Members of the Boat Crew shall be eligible to receive Bereavement Leave pursuant to Article 17,1 of the Collective Agreement for the death of an immediate relative as defined in Article 17.1 which occurs while the employee is performing Boat Crew duties. It is agreed that such payment and leave shall not exceed 24 scheduled hours and will be paid at the straight time rate for the hours the employee would otherwise work during such leave.
Members of the Boat Crew shall be eligible for reimbursement for the purchase of safety shoes as specificied in Article 20.3, This reimbursement is not additional to the maximum reimbursement an individual employee is eligible to receive in a two year period as specified in Article 20,3.
38
APPENDIX “B”
SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS WEST TORONTO PLANT
Elevator:
Day Shift	8:00	a,m.
Afternoon
Shift	4:00	p.m.
Night Shift	12:00	m.n
—	4:30 p.m. 'Ahr. lunch
—	12:00 m.n.
—	8:00 a.m.
Flour Mill:
Three Shift
operation	8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n.
Two Shift
Operation	8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m,
—	4:00 p.m.
—	12:00 m.n.
—	8:00 a.m.
—	4:00 p.m,
—	12:00 m.n.
Day Shift 4:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m.
2:30 p.m. 'Ahr. lunch 3:30 p.m. 'Ahr. lunch 4:30 p.m. V2hr. lunch
Packing Department:
Leadman	5:30	a.m.
6:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m. 12:30 p.m.
Two Shift
Operation	7:00	a.m.
3:30 p.m.
Day Shift	8:00	a.m.
—	2:00	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	2:30	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	6:30	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	9:00	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	3:30	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	12:00	m.n.	'Ahr.	lunch
—	4:30	p.m.	'Ahr.	lunch
Warehouse Department
Three Shift
Operation 8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n.
4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n, 8:00 a.m.
39
Three Shift Operation
Two Shift Operation
Day Shift
Trucks:
Truck
Drivers
(Bakery Production only)
7:00 a.m.
3:00 p.m,
11:00 p.m.
6:30 a.m. -7:00 a.m, -2:15 p.m. -3:30 p.m. -
6:00 a.m. -7:00 a.m. -8:00 a.m. -
(Load & City 6:00 a.m. -6:45 a.m. -
-	3
-	11 - 7
00 p.m. 00 p.m. 00 a.m.
2:30 p.m. !6hr. 3:30 p.m. !6hr. 10:45 p.m. 16hr. 12:00 m.n. Vihr.
2:30 p.m. 16hr. 3:30 p.m. 16hr. 4:30 p.m. 16hr.
Delivery)
-	2:30 p.m.
-	3:15 p.m.
Truck
Drivers (Bulk) Per Weekly Schedule
Cereal & Smalls:
Two Shift
Operation	7:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m.
3:00 p.m. — 12:00 m.n.
Day Shift	7:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m.
8:00 a.m. — 4:30 p.m.
Bakery Mix:
Three Shift Operation
Two Shift Operation
Day Shift
'/2 hr. 16 hr.
!6hr.
!6hr,
!6hr.
'/2hr.
7:00 a.m.
3:00 p.m. 11:00 D.m.
7:00 a.m. 3:30 p.m.
7:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m.
—	3:00 p.m.
—	11:00 p.m.
—	7:00 a.m.
—	3:30 p.m.
—	12:00 m.n.
—	3:30 p.m.
—	4:30 p.m.
!6hr.
!6hr.
Vihr.
>/2hr.
40 -
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
Control Laboratory
Three Shift
Operation
Two Shift Operation
Day Shift
8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m. 12:00 m.n.
7:00 a.m. 3:30 p.m.
7:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m.
3:
12;
3;
4:
6
Maintenance & Utility Crew:
Two Shift (Boiler Room)
Operation Day Shift
7:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m.
6:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m.
-	3:
-	11:
- 2:
-	3:
—	4:
p.m.
m.n.
a.m.
p.m
m.n
p.m
p.m
p.m
Vihr. lunch Vihr. lunch
Vihr. lunch Vihr, lunch Vihr. lunch
p.m.
p.m.
p.m
p.m
p.m
Vihr. lunch Vihr. lunch
41 -
APPENDIX “B”
SCHEDULE OF WORKING HOURS PORT COLBORNE PLANT
Maintenance, Power, Elevator Departments:
Day Shift 8:00 a.m. — 4:30 p.m. 'Ahr. lunch
Milling Department:
Three Shift
Operation	8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m, 12:00 m.n, Day Shift	8:00 a.m.
4:00 p.m.
12:00 m.n,
8:00 a.m.
4:30 p.m. V4hr. lunch
Packing Department:
Day Shift 8:00 a.m. — 4:30 p.m. 'Ahr. lunch Afternoon
Shift	4:30 p.m. — 12:30 a.m.
Start-up Subject to Packing Schedule & Bulk Requirements
Warehouse
Day Shift Afternoon Shift
Car Conditioning Truck Drivers Truck Drivers Truck Drivers Truck Drivers Utility Shift
Department:
8:00 a.m. — 4:30 p.m. 'Ahr.
4:30 p.m. — 12:30 a.m.
7:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m. 'Ahr. (Loading & Delivery)
7:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m, 'Ahr.
8:00 a.m. — 4:30 p.m, 'Ahr. (Tractor Trailer)
Per Weekly Schedule (Inter-Plant)
Per Weekly Schedule 12:30 p.m. — 8:30 p.m.
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
42
Laboratory Department
Two Shift
Operation	$:00	a.m.	—	4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. — 12:00 m.n.
Day Shift	&00	a.m.	-	5:00 p.m.	1	hr,	lunch
Utility	(following fumigation)
Leadman	7:00	a.m.	—	3:30 p.m,	fihr.	lunch
PORT COLBORNE OFFICE
Day Shift 8:00 a.m. — 4:00 p.m. 1 hr. lunch
CALGARY - RENOWN PLANT
Mill:
Three Shift Operation
(1)	7:45	a.m.	—	3:45 p.m,
(2)	3:45	p.m.	-	11:45 p.m.
(3)	11:45	p.m.	—	'7:45 a.m,
Packing
Three Shift Operation
(1)	7:30	a.m.
(2)	3:45	p.m.
(3)	11:45	p.m.
2nd Man	7:00	a.m.
—	4:00 p.m, Uhr. lunch
—	11:45 p.m.
—	7:45 a.m.
—	3:30 p.m. Vihr. lunch
Warehouse Three Shift Operation
(1)
(2)
(3)
Shipper/ Receivable 2nd Man Janitor
7:30 a.m. 3:45 p.m. 11:45 p.m,
7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m.
00 p.m. Vihr. lunch 45 p.m.
45 a.m.
3:30 p.m, 3:30 p.m, 3:30 p.m,
Elevator:	7:30 a.m. — 4:00 p.m. Vi^r. lunch
-43-
Mix Plant:
Three Shift Operation
(1)	7:30	a.m.
(2)	3:45	p.m.
(3)	11:45	p.m.
Operator	7:15	a.m.
Electrical:	7:30	a.m
Maintenance: 7:30	a.m.
Laboratory:
Two Shift Operation
(1)	7:30	a.m.
(2)	10:00	a.m.
4:00 p.m. '/2hr. 11:45 p.m.
7:45 a.m.
3:15 p.m.
4:00 p.m. '/2hr.
4:00 p.m. '/ihr.
4:00 p.m. 'Ahr. 6:30 p.m. Vihr.
Cartage:
7:00 a.m
3:00 p.m.
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
lunch
44
APPENDIX “C”
Plant Holidays to be observed and paid by the Company at the plant locations as listed, in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV - PLANT HOLIDAYS. PORT COLBORNE:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic 'Holiday, LabotfF"Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Day be-1 ''Z fore Christmas Day, Christmas Day, Boxin|fDay, Day before,New Year’s Day.
WEST TORONTO:	^
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, DominiorflDay, Civic Holiday, Labour^ Day, Thanksgiving Day, November 1 lth.Day'Before Christmas Day, Christmas"Day, Boxing Day, Day before New Year's Day.
CALGARY - Renown Mill:
*New Year’s Day, January 2nd, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day.
^7
z
-9
PERSONAL FLOATER HOLIDAY
An employee who has completed the probationary period will be entitled to a personal floater holiday to be observed on a date that is mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company, not concurrent with the employee’s vacation. Generally, not more than one employee from the same department will observe the same day as the holiday.
*EIigible employees at Calgary — Renown Mill and will be entitled to an additional floater in lieu of a 12th named holiday.	I
45
APPENDIX “D”
HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
The following summarizes health and welfare insurance benefits as listed in paragraph 19.1 of the Collective Agreement. A copy of the plan documents will be provided to Local Chair Person of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
— The Company will pay the premium cost of the Group Life Insurance Plan underwritten by the National Life '.sq Assurance Company. Effective February 1, 1990, the H yr-Iife insurance benefit shall be *$23,000 for an eligible employee and provide double indemnity for the accidental death of such employee. The Company will pay the premium cost of $3,000 life insurance at the time of normal or early retirement (55 years or more, with a minimum of twenty years’ service). *$24,000 effective December 1, 1990 The Company will pay the premium cost of $1,000 life insurance for the spouse of an eligible employee and his eligible dependents over six months of age. In the case of eligible dependents of less than six months of age but more than fifteen days and not confined to a hospital, the life insurance benefit will be $500.
PROVINCIAL MEDICARE
The Company will pay the premium cost (where applicable) of Provincial Medicare insurance (standard ward coverage) for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents.
MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE
— The Company will pay the premium cost of the Major Medical Plans (excludingdrug) for eligible employees
- 46 -
\
and for their eligible dependents. Deductibles will be $25 for the employees and a maximum of $50 for the family, with no coinsurance.
Effective March 3, 1982, employees who retire with 20 years or more service at age 55 or older will be covered by a Major Medical and Drug Plan with a $25 deductible for the retired employee and a maximum of $50 deductible for the family. Effective December 1, 1987, such retiring employees will be given the option of joining a retirement group dental plan at their cost.
Effective December 1, 1987, employees who retire at age 61* or older with 85 points or more will have O.H.I.P, or Alberta Medical Premiums continued until their age 65,
*60 Effective December 1, 1988 *Effective December 1, 1987.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
h- The Company will pay the premium cost of the [ Prescription Drug Plan (35 cents per prescription) for s' eligible employees and for their eligible dependents.
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
— The Company will pay the premium cost of the Long Term Disability Insurance Plan for eligible employees. The disability benefit under the Plan shall be 60% ofbasic earnings, excluding overtime or other premium, to a maximum of $2,000.00 per month. No benefits are payable for the first twenty-six weeks of disability and the period of time during which disability benefits are payable under the Unemployment Insurance Act. Canada Pension Plan and other legislated benefits shall be integrated with the long term disability benefit. .
47 -
A subsidy of *$1,300 per month, less the gross monthly benefit currently being received, inclusive of government benefits, will be paid to employees on disability benefits for the term of the Agreement.
* Effective February 1, 1990 Employees on L.T.D, benefits on April 18, 1984 and those who subsequently qualify for L.T.D. benefits, will have their coverage continued until age 65 or prior recovery for the following benefits:
Medical and Hospital, Basic Group Life Insurance, Dental, Major Medical (including prescription drugs), It is understood the Major Medical Pian is the one currently in effect for retired employees.
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS BENEFITS INSURANCE PLANS
— The Company will pay the premium cost of the Acci-i Li' ■ an^ Sickness Insurance Plans for eligible ern-
ployees. The weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66%%) of the employee's earnings to a maximum of $425.00 per week*, for a maxi-^ ^(jhum of twenty-six weeks. Benefits will be payable QtP	from the first day of absence due to accident and from
1 ^	the fourth day where absence is due to bona fide sick-
A
ness. Benefits will be payable from the first day of absence due to sickness if the employee is confined to hospital on that date. Effective April 1, 1986, benefits will be payable from the first day of absence for surgery performed as an out patient at a hospital.
* Effective February I, 1990.
Effective December 1, 1990, increase to $450.00 per week.
DENTAL INSURANCE PLAN
— The Company will pay the premium cost of the Dental Insurance Plan for eligible employees and for their eligible dependents. Such Dental Plan provides benefits
48
equivalent to the basic Blue Cross Plan #7. Effective February 1, 1990, the 1989 Provincial Dental Tariff* will apply.
*Effective January 1, 1991, the 1990 Fee Schedule will apply.
The Plan will include the following services on the basis of 50/50 co-insurance with an annual $50.00 deductible for each employee and eligible dependent:
r Endodontics Periodontics ■'S-i Dentures Crowns Bridges
Effective April 1, 1986 the limit of the plan on major restorative services will changeto $2,000 per individual every two calendar years.
VISION CARE PLAN
— Effective February 1, 1990 the Company will implement and pay the premium cost of a Vision Care Plan ' for eligible employees and for their eligible depen-J^dents. Such Vision Care Pian will provide reimbursement for the purchase of eye glasses of up to a maximum of $100.00 every 24 months to employees and their eligible dependents.
GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Where applicable, the Company will pay the premium costs for an eligible employee and his eligible dependents commencing from the first of the month following completion of his probationary period.
For the purposes of this Appendix “D”, an eligible employee is one who has completed the probationary period, is actively at work on the date the insurance coverage, ora change in coverage, is to be effective, and performs work for the Company during the month in which premi-
49
urns fall due. The Company agrees, however, to continue the monthly payment of health and welfare insurance premiums for a period up to one year beyond the month in which an eligible employee, absent due to bona fide sickness or accident, last performed work for the Company.
The Company may elect at some future date to transfer the underwriting and administration of one or more of these insurance benefits to another insurance carrier with the understanding that in this event the coverage that will be provided by the new carrier will not be less favourable than the coverage provided at the date of the Collective Agreement.
it is understood and agreed that the cost of the benefit program paid by the Company as outlined herein is in lieu of any employee entitlement to rebate under the Unemployment insurance Act.
If the Federal or Provincial Government brings into operation any insurance plan which provides benefits that are similar or substantially similar to those described herein and such coverage is available to employees on a voluntary or compulsory basis, the Company reserves the right to discontinue or modify the affected insurance as outlined herein.
50 -
APPENDIX “E” SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES PORT COLBORNE PLANT
‘Effective Dec. 1/89
ELEVATOR DEPARTMENT
Operator-Weighman	17.46
Operator-Repairman	17.25
Operator	16.78
Effective Dec. 1/90
18.33
18.11
17.62
MILLING DEPARTMENT:
Mill Operator	17.70
(after 1 year on the job)	17.88
Mill Helper**	16.19
(Training for Mill Oper.)	16.45
General Help	16.01
**Recognizing that this job is in pari a training job for Mill Operator, the successful applicant under paragraphs
10.6	and 10.7 must be deemed to have the capacity to acquire the necessary skill, knowledge and ability as to qualify him for the job of Mill Operator.
18.58
18.77
17.00
17.27
16.81
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
Leadman	17.24	18.10
Packing Crew	16.45	17.27
WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Leadman Warehouse Crew Truck Driver: Tractor Trailer Other
Truck Helper
16.94	17.79
16.42	17.24
17.28	18.14
16.90	17.74
16.15	16.96
It is understood that the provisionsof paragraph 10.7 will not apply in cases where drivers are transferred from one type of truck to another.
51
A tractor trailer driver on returning from a round trip to Toronto or London that lasts between six and eight hours will be offered the opportunity to work out the remainder of the regular shift. In the event work is not available, such driver will be paid his regular hourly rate for the time between his actual hours of work and eight hours.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT:
Millwright, Machinist, Electrical, Heat and Fire Main-
tenance:
Leadmand
Class A Class B Class C Helper A Helper B
MISCELLANEOUS:
Utility Leadman — Fumigator Utility Crew and Gen. Help Watchman
BOAT CREW
Rigger and Rope Puller Scooper Towerman
Hold Leadman’s Premium
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
19.42	20.39
18.37	19.29
18.08	18.98
17.77	18.66
17.10	17.96
16.80	17.64
16.94	17.79
16.03	16.83
16.03	16.83
16.45	17.27
16.20	17.01
16.45	17.27
Six cents per hour while actually employed in this capacity.
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN:
Senior Lab. Tech.	17.48	18.35
Lab. Tech.	16.94	17.79
For employees on the payroll at January 28, 1990.
52
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary periodpay a training rate up to fifteen cents below the regular rate fbFthe job.
PORT COLBORNE OFFICE
GRADE 1
Payroll Clerk Accounting Clerk I Traffic Assistant GRADE 2: Accounting Clerk II Production Clerk Local Sales Clerk GRADE 3: Accounting Clerk III Traffic Clerk/Typist GRADE 4;
Inventory Clerk Inventory/
Local Sales Asst.
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
16.96	17.81
16.96	17.81
16.96	17.81
16.45	17.27
16.45	17.27
16.45	17.27
15.41	16.18
15.41	16.18
14.74	15.48
14.74	15.48
GRADE 6:
Switchboard/Telex Oper, 14.33	15.05
For employees on the payroll at January 28, 1990.
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary period pay a training rate up to five percent below the regular rate for the job.
WEST TORONTO PLANT
Effective Effective ELEVATOR:	CLASS Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
Weighman	A-5	16.67	17.50
Elevator Operator A-4 Car Unloading Leadman	A-3
Car Unloader	A-2	16.20	17,
- 53 -
16.46	17.28
FLOUR MILL
Grinder Man Oiler
Wheat Cleaning Leadman Bolter Man Purifier Man Wheat Cleaning Operator Roll Tender
A-7
C-3
A-6
A-5
A-4
A-4
A-2
Effective Dec. 1/89 17.00 17.05
16.84
16.67
16.46
16.46 16.20
Effective Dec. 1/90 17.85 17.90
17.68
17.50
17.28
17.28 17.01 16.83
Utility Man (Mill) A-1	16.03
PACKING AND SHIPPING DEPARTMENT:
Bran Packer Packing Leadman Truck Driver Truck Driver (Tractor Trailer) Warehouse Leadman Packer
Warehouse Man Truck Helper
A-4
A-6
A-6
A-5
A-4
A-4
A-2
16.46
16.84
16.84
17.08
16.67
16.46
16.46 16.20
17.28
17.68
17.68
17.93
17.50
17.28
17.28 17.01
CEREALS AND SMALLS DEPARTMENT:
Smalls Packer Machine Operator ‘A' Machine Operator ‘B’
Smalls Leadman Machine Operator ‘C’ Receiver Printweigh Man Utility Man (Smalls) Packer (Ingredients) Utility Leadman
A-2	16.20
A-7
A-6
A-6
A-5
A-4
A-4
A-1
A-2
A-5
17.00
16.84
16.84
16.67
16.46
16.46 16.03 16.20
16.67
17.
17.
17.
17.
17.
17.
17.
16.
17.
17.
.01
85
68
68
50
28
28
83
01
50
54
Effective Dec. 1/90
19.29
19.29
19.29
18.90 18.61
17.90 17.68
16.83
Effective Dec 1/89
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Electrician ‘A’	C-6	18.37
Millwright ‘A’	C-6	18.37
Pipefitter	C-6	18.37
Millwright ‘B’	C-5	18.00
Engineer 4th Class	C-4	17.72
Utility Maintenance Man	C-3	17.05
Sanitation Leadman	A-6	16.84
Utility Man
(Utility Crew)	A-I	16.03
CONTROL LABORATORY:
Technician
(Class Rate)	D-l	16.77	17.61
Technician
(First tear)	D-2	15.96	16.76
For employees on the payroll as of January 28,	1990.
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary period pay a training rate up to fifteen cents below the regular rate for the job.
CALGARY - RENOWN PLANT
Effective Effective FLOUR MILL:	Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
Spare Shift Miller	17.51	18.39
Roll Tender	16.88	17.72
Screen Room	16.74	17.58
Utility	16.03	16.83
PACKING DEPARTMENT:
Second Man	16.84	17.68
Bulk Man	16.20	17.01
Flour and Feed Packer	16.20	17.01
Bag and Sample Man	16.20	17.01
Utility	16.03	16.83
- 55
ELEVATOR
Second Man Weighman Elevator Man
WAREHOUSE
Second Man
Lead Hand
Wrapper
Car Loader
Warehouseman
Lift Truck Operator
Janitor
Piller/Stacker
Feedman
Shiper/Receiver
Cartage:
Truck Driver Drivers’ Helper
ELECTRICAL
(STEAM,
WATER AND AIR):
Second Man (1st Class Elect.)
Lead Hand Elec. (Licensed)
Electrician (Licensed) Pipe Fitter (Unlicensed) Electrical Apprentice (1st yr.)
Electrical Apprentice -- (2nd yr.)	-\
Electrical Apprentice (3rd yr.)
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
16.64	17.47
16.37	17.19
16.22	17.03
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
16.64	17.47
16.23	17.04
16.03	16.83
16.13	16.94
16.03	16.83
16.30	17.11
16.03	16.83
16.08	\eM .
16.30	17. Ill/
16.64	^	17.47
16.96	17.81
16.20	17.01
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
18.94	19/
18.66	19.59
18.37	'-"19.29
18.12	19.03
17.10	17.96
17.29	18.15
17.46	18.33
56
Electrical Apprentice (4th yr.)
Helper
Effective	Effective
Dec. 1/89 Dec. 1/90
17.60	18.48
16.53	17.36
Effective
MILLWRIGHT	Dec. 1/89
DEPARTMENT:
Second Man
(#1 Millwright)	18.90
Lead Hand Millwright (Licensed)
Millwright (Licensed)
Mill. Asst./Apprentice (1st yr.)
Mill. Asst./Apprentice ^
(2nd yr.) -	'.2i>^7.28
Mill. Asst./Apprentice^Xlj (3rd yr.)	])
Mill. Asst./Apprentice	y
/(4th yr.)	/
' Helper	____
Oiler- -Boiler/Mtce.
18.66
18.37
17.10
17.46
17.60
16.53
16.51
18.94
Effective Dec. 1/90
19.85
19.59
19.29
17.96
18.14
18.33
18.48
17.36
17.34 19.89
MIX PLANT:
Operator
Printweighman
Packer
Piler/Stacker
Utility
17.51 18.39
16.64	17.47 16.22 17.03
16.08	16.88
16.03	16.83
LABORATORY*
Technician (Class Rate) 16.77	17.61
Sanitation	16.61	17.44
Lor employees on the payroll at January 28, 1990.
In the case of a new employee, the Company may during the probationary periodpay a training rate up to fifteen cents below the regular rate for the job.
57
APPENDIX F
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
The following Schedule lists those Letters of Agreement in effect at the respective Company location as at January 28, 1990 by subject matter.
PORT COLBORNE
Letter regarding Employment of Students CALGARY
Letters regarding the following subjects:
—	Cartage
—	Office (Area)
—	Posting — Layoff Notice
—	Employees’ Personnel File
—	Union Representation at Interview Stage
—	Laboratory Second Shift Premium
—	Supervisory Relief Responsibilities
—	Norm Carpenter
—	Work Clothes
—	Laundry Service
—	Emergency Call In
—	Shift Trading
—	Overtime Distribution
58
DATE 30 MAY 91	09: 22;; 48
REPORT GENERATION
FEDERAL
jueisd:
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0045903
ICTION
!	i	SETTLEMENT DATE:	900128
FED	i	AGREEM.	EFFEC.	DATE:	B91201	i	WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE:	891201
PROV	1	AGREEM.	EXP.,	DATE:	9:1.1130	S	WAGE REOPENER DATE:
F'SBRA	! MO. OF EMPLOYEES:	375	!	................—..—........-
I........................        -!	STAGE OF SETTLEMENT:	CO
I	DUROF NEGOTIATION:	04
SIC:	105	!........................-.....-
COMPANY:	Maple Leaf Mills Ltd. <3 locations)
UNION:	United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
LOCATION: Toronto, 0 n t..
OCCUR.:	CAR UNLOADING LEADMAN -
HOURS WORKED:	40.00
PREV. MEG. BASE RATE:	15.450 + COLA FOLD-IN AMT:( 0.000 )
DATE	RATE
891201	16.300
X S DATE

RATE
901201	17X/O
Jb
V.
4 „ 91
DATE
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION •***
CARRY-OVER FLOAT --=	0.000	FOLD-INS OF CARRY..OVER FLOAT:
DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT
CRT TYPE: COLA TYPE:
*** CURRENT COLA INFORMATION
< # OF CALC.s
(Y or N>
DATE AMOUNT
COMP„ FQ.s
TRIGGER:
CAP:
COMP. PER.:
FOLD-IN DTBs OTHER:

IrM.

.DATE 14 MAR 90	15:15:16 REPORT GENERATION FEDERAL
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0045803
JURISDICTION
FED x PROV
SIC: 105 COMPANY: UNION:
Maple Leaf Mills Ltd.
United Food arid Commercial Workers International Union
LOCATION: Toronto, Ont.
COLA:	NONE X DELETED
COMMENTS:
>
>
>
OCCUP. :	RgCEiVER/SUPFLY MAN
HOURS WORKED:	40.00
PREV. NEG. BASE RATE:
! DATE RATE
—>! 891201
WAGE INCREASES:
> 891201 - 5.5%
LUMP SUM PAMNTS: CHNGS. IN INCR.: SPEC. ADJ.: OTHER:
**y PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION *** CARRY-OVER FLOAT =	C/000	FOLD-INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:
DATE AMOUNT [ DATE/ AMOUNT J DATE AMOUNT S DATE AMOUNT [
'	CURRENT COLA INFORMATION
(Y o r PATE
N)
AMOUNT
CPI TYPE: COLA TYPE: >
TRIGGER:
CAP:
COMP. FER.
>
11L
l # OF CALC.
COMP. FQ. :
FOLD-IN DTS: > OTHER:
END REPORT
<
i. i 3 Vj j ; yfc,	REPG'R ! tsfc.Nh.KA ) I (JM r i;..i.,,..;, U :L,
vvMGb CARL FUR AG{;:;E.IJ;:tv;E.R.:T Nli., 0O4GU04
jui-iL ;U;noN i.........................................................................-........................i
:	■ SETTLEMENT DATE; '	920420 i
i	AtiRLB'L EFPEC. DAT'Es	911201	!	WAGE	EFFECTIVE DA IE !	911201	i
i	AGRLEM. EXP. DATES	931130	!	Is)AGE	RBDMBib.K DATE;;	i
i	MU., DP EMPLOYEES!	200	I.......................................... :
i............................................i GT AGO Gi Ob. 22*9 riLN I :i 0	:
j	\	L'.'.'u:.1 ■ i !. 1 “I . .*...., |--R< VO	.
;;j 1 C S 1OS .	i ........................x.................. i
COMPANY! Maple Leaf Mills Ltd. <3 locations*	■	’	i
UNION; United Food and Commercial Workers international Union	;
LOCATIONS Toronto, Qnt.
,fK/
'■ ED PBBRA
QCCUP. s CAR UNLOADING L.EADMAN	' fiU 03 •'Uftjt
HOURS WORKEDs 40.00
PkLV,, Ml~B„ BASE rails 1/. 1 10 ■•! COL. A FOLD--IN AMTs < O. O00 * * x >.

DATE
RA1 fc
X ! DATE
..s; 911201	12. /‘-j	0.00 I
B:	a- :
RATE	X i DATE
0.000	0.00 i
0.OOO	0.Co
WAGE INCREASES!
> NO WAGE INCREASES..
"
i.UMF" SUM PAMMTG; . > 921201 •- PLANT - #7005 OFFICE ....... #600 (NUT FOLDED IN*.,
CHNOB. IN INCR.8	' > .
b,C.. AOJ « “	>./,	.
OTHER s	:>	■■
.	*** .PREOXUUS COLA 1 Ml-URN A I 1 DM	***
CARRY...OVER FLOAT 0 „ 000	FOLD--INS OP CARRY...OVER FLOAT::
vAT L	AMOUNT i DA TE AMOUN T i DATE AMOUNT i DA TE AMUDNI
(Y or IT'
i L'i-i I i;:. Ri' nJl.T i
1... i ■' 1 V i"'•!
,.,U;...A TYl-'Es
«■:<!<• CURRENT COLA INFORMATION *•*•»
# UP LAL. il.. ;
UU-'Jr » r