AGREEMENT
Between CSP FOODS
A DIVISION OF SASKATCHEWAN WHEAT POOL
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 342P-2
A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C.
EFFECTIVE
MARCH 1, 1994 TO FEBRUARY 28, 1996
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE #
ARTICLE 1-PURPOSE .	.	..I.................................. 1
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE.............................................. 1
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION ............................ .......... 2
ARTICLE 4 - RELATIONSHIPS ..................................... 3
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS................... 3
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SHOP......................................... 4
ARTICLE 7 - CHECKOFF .......................................... 4
ARTICLE 8 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS ........................... 4
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES ........................................ 4
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION ........................................ 7
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY .......................................... 8
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE.................................. 10
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME REGULATIONS, SHIFT BONUS, AND GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS...................................... 11
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS ................................. 17
ARTICLE 15 - OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS...................... 18
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS................................. 18
ARTICLE 17 - SEVERANCE ......................................... 19
ARTICLE 18 - SCHEDULES ATTACHED TO AGREEMENT .................. 19
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.......... 20
SCHEDULE “A” ................................................... 21
SCHEDULE "B"...................................................25
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
29
1
AGREEMENT
entered into the 1 st day of September, A.D. 1994
BETWEEN	CSP FOODS	•
A DIVISION OF SASKATCHEWAN WHEAT POOL
on behalf of its Flour Mill, situated in the City of Saskatoon, in the Province of Saskatchewan
Hereinafter called THE COMPANY
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
on behalf of its Local 342P-2, an unincorporated voluntary association of employees, affiliated with the American Federation of Labour, Congress of Industrial Organizations and the Canadian Labour Congress, representing the employees of the Company,
Hereinafter called THE UNION
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
1.	This agreement applies to all employees of the Company in its Saskatoon Flour Mill Plant except:
Office Staff, Laboratory Staff, Shift Millers, Grain Buyers and persons with authority to hire or discharge and persons the Union and the Company mutually agree are performing
2
confidential duties on behalf of Management.
2.	The Company will supply the Union for information purposes, names, job titles and principal responsibilities of supervisory and management personnel.
ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION
1.	The Company acknowledges that the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent, and recognizes the Union or its successor as such for all employees in the said Unit.
2.	Negotiating Committee
a.	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than Three (3) employees, plus President of the Local, and Chief Steward of the Local, and will recognize and deal with the said Committee with respect to any matter which properly arises from time to time during the term of this Agreement, and the said Committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of this Agreement. The Company shall be kept currently advised of the names of the Negotiating Committee members.
It is agreed that only one employee from each department may be absent at any one time on the activities of this committee, excluding the President of the Local and Chief Steward, unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
b.	It is clearly understood that the Negotiating Committee is a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal only with such matters as are properly the subject of negotiations, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
3.	a. The Union acknowledges that members of the Negotiating Committee and Union
officers have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining the permission of their Manager. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their duties, they will also notify their Manager. In the event the Manager is absent, notification shall be given to the Leadhand.
b. Members of the Negotiating Committee will not absent themselves from regular work unreasonably and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate such employees for time spent in negotiating with the Company at their regular rate of pay. As far as possible, meetings of the Committee will be held during regular work hours. It is understood that where such meetings are held outside regular work hours at the Company’s request, the Company will
3
compensate employees for time spent at such meetings at their regular rates of pay. Time paid for in this manner shall not apply to daily and weekly overtime. Where practical, shifts for night shift employees, who are members of the Committee, will be rearranged to permit their attendance at the meetings.
ARTICLE 4 - RELATIONSHIPS
1.	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or by any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of the employee’s membership in or connection with the Union, and that membership in the Union, by employees who are eligible to join, will not be discouraged.
2.	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives, and there shall be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activities on the premises of the Company during an employee’s working hours.
ARTICLE 5 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and that it is the exclusive right of the Company to:
a.	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
b.	Direct its working forces and assign duties, to hire, transfer, promote, demote and to suspend or discharge employees for just cause, to decrease or increase the working force of the Company subject to the right of the Union to invoke grievance procedure where an employee feels they have has been unjustly dealt with.
c.	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the number of location of plants, the products to be manufactured, method of manufacturing, schedules or production, kinds and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products to be produced.
2.	It is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employee’s bargaining agency, as evidence of good faith, the Union assumes responsibility for its members in their relations with the Company, and will use its best efforts to have the employees’ responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and
4
in spirit
3.	The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and in spirit.
ARTICLE 6 - UNION SHOP
1. All employees within the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union and maintain such membership in good standing. New employees shall sign the Union application for membership immediately upon being hired.
ARTICLE 7 - CHECK OFF
1.	Upon receipt of written authorization from any employee forwarded through the Financial Secretary, the Company agrees to deduct from the employee’s pay on each pay day of each calendar month, the Union dues and assessments for the current month. The Union initiation fee will also be deducted upon receipt of the written authorization referred to above. The Company agrees to remit the total sum of the amounts so deducted to the Financial Secretary of the Union within one week of issuance of cheques from which deductions are made.
2.	When, because no wages are due the employee on the date scheduled for deductions and deductions cannot be made, deductions will be made on the next pay where wages are due. The Company agrees to indicate, on the check-off list, the reasons why no deduction was made for such employee.
ARTICLE 8 - NO STRIKES OR LOCK-OUTS
1.	During the term of this Agreement the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock-outs of its employees, and the Union agrees there will be no strikes or other collective action that will stop or interfere with production, and any dispute or alleged grievance will be resolved through the grievance procedure contained in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCES
1.	The provisions of this article shall not prevent any employee from discussing with the immediate supervisor any grievance or misunderstanding in an effort to settle the same before invoking Step One of the Grievance Procedure. However, the Union shall not be bound by any decision made before the Grievance Procedure has been applied.
2.	Grievance Committee -The Union agrees to elect or appoint a Grievance Committee from among regular employees of the Company, to deal with questions which are referred for settlement through the steps of the Grievance Procedure. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied by the Union to the Company.
5
3.	Grievance Procedure - It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible. Any disputes, disagreement or complaint arising out of the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this agreement shall be dealt with in the following manner.
Step 1
The employee shall take the grievance up with the Department Shop Steward who, with or without the aggrieved employee, shall discuss the grievance with the Foreman concerned. The Chief Steward may accompany the Department Steward in this step. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within twenty-four (24) hours, the matter shall be progressed to Step 2.
Step
The Grievance Committee shall take the matter up, in writing, with the Production Manager, and if following this stage, the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee(s) concerned within twenty-four (24) hours, or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed to between the two parties, the grievance shall be progressed to Step 3.
Step
a.	The grievance shall then be taken up at a meeting of the Grievance Committee, the General Manager, or a designate, at which meeting a Representative or nominee of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union may be present if requested by either the Company or the Union.
b.	The General Manager, or a designate will submit a decision to the Union in writing within two (2) working days of the meeting held to discuss the matter or within such longer period as may be mutually agreed upon between the two parties.
c.	If, at Step 3, a settlement to the satisfaction of both parties is not achieved, then either party may, within a further twenty-five (25) working days, request that the grievance be referred to a Board of Arbitration referred to in Article 10.
4.	General
a.	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by or on behalf of an aggrieved employee in respect to a specific action of which there is a complaint within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of the action. A grievance submitted by the Grievance Committee shall be processed commencing at Step 2 of the procedure.
b.	The Company acknowledges the tight of the Union to appoint or otherwise select
6
from among its regular staff, a reasonable number of stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representative of the Company. The Union will supply the Company with a list of Steward.
c.	Union Stewards and Grievance Committee members will not absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably in order to deal with disputes or grievances of employees, and in accordance with this understanding, the Company will compensate such employees for time spent in handling grievances of employees, at their regular rates of pay. Union Stewards will not leave their regular duties without permission of their Foreman, and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. When resuming their duties the employees will notify the Foreman.
d.	At any stage of the grievance procedure including arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
e.	In the event of an employee’s work not being satisfactory, both a verbal and a written warning will be given to the employee, with a copy to the Department Shop Steward and a copy to the Local Union President stating the specific reason or reasons why the work is not satisfactory. Should the employee continue to perform the duties in an unsatisfactory manner, which in the opinion of the Supervisor warrants dismissal, written notice of dismissal will be given to the employee with a copy to the Department Shop Steward and a copy to the Local Union President stating the specific reason or reasons for dismissal.
If, after having received a written notice of warning, an employee’s services prove to be satisfactory over a period of one year, the original notice of warning shall become void.
The Company reserves the right to dispense with the warning in cases where an employee is guilty of dishonesty, intoxication, willful destruction of company property or product, insubordination or breaking of safety regulations that might endanger the safety of the employee or other employees. Dismissal of an employee under these circumstances could be the subject of a grievance under the procedure as outlined in Clause 3 above.
f.	A claim by an employee that they have been unjustly discharged from their employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company office within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 2 will be omitted in such cases. Such special grievance
7
may be settled by confirming the Management’s action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties.
g.	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, they shall have the right to interview a Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
h.	During the term of this agreement, meetings of the Grievance Committee with Management shall be held whenever requested by eitherthe Grievance Committee or Management. The terms of Article 3, Section 3.b., outlining compensation to employees attending meetings of the Negotiating Committee shall similarly apply to employees attending meetings of the Grievance Committee.
ARTICLE 10 - ARBITRATION
1.	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party of this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within five (5) working days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so nominated shall meet immediately and if, within two (2) working days, they fail to settle the grievance, they shall attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of an Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such Chairman within a further period of five (5) working days, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for Canada to assist them in selecting an impartial Chairman.
2.	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in any attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance that is referred to arbitration or who has any direct affiliation with either the CSP Foods A Division of Saskatchewan Wheat Pool, or the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
3.	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties, will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board, if any.
4.	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all the previous steps of the Grievance procedure, unless the parties hereto have mutually agreed to forego any or all of the preceding steps.
5.	The Arbitration Board established under this article shall not have authority to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or insert new provisions.
6.	The proceedings of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the patties thereto, and the decision of the Board or a majority of the Arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
8
7.	Where time limits appearing in this article have been violated by either party to the agreement such violations may be referred to the Arbitration Board and the Board shall be authorized to rule on questions arising out of such violations.
8.	The Arbitration Board appointed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall have the power to confirm a discharge penalty referred to it or substitute for discharge such other penalty as it deems just and reasonable under the circumstances.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
1.	a. Until an employee has completed sixty (60) days of actual work with the Company,
accumulated over a continuous period of six (6) months, they shall be considered a probationary employee. Commencing with the sixty-first (61) day or employment, (i.e. the day after they have completed 60 days of actual work in the Company’s employ) an employee shall be granted seniority retroactive to the initial date of hiring and their name shall be entered on the seniority list as a regular employee. If there is doubt about an employee being able to qualify during the probationary period, their probationary period may be extended by an additional twenty (20) days of actual work by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee. Any further extension of the Probation Period of up to a maximum of twenty (20) working days may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee.
b.	Plant seniority shall be defined as an employee’s accumulated over-all service in the Company’s employ. The Company and the Union agree that the principle of Plant Seniority shall apply in situations where seniority is a consideration.
2.	In the event of any reduction in the working force or lay off, probationary employees shall be laid off before any employees with seniority are laid off. No employees shall be on lay off status while a junior employee is employed, subject to the senior employee having the immediate qualifications and being capable of satisfactorily performing the work available. If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding an employee’s qualifications or capabilities, the matter shall be discussed and if there is still a reasonable doubt, a trial period of up to thirty (30) days of actual work shall then be permitted.
3.	Subject to all other conditions of this seniority article of the agreement, when reducing or increasing staff, the Company and the Union agree that the principle of plant seniority shall govern. In cases of recall from layoff, the Company shall have met its obligations under this article if it has attempted to reach the employee by phone as per the telephone numbers posted on the Seniority List, or given to the Company in confidence. It will be the employee’s responsibility to advise the Company if they are available at some different telephone numbers. The Company agrees that in the event of a temporary lay off, reasonable notice will be given to the employee whenever possible. The tentative
9
production schedule for the following week will be posted on Thursday, p.m. Employees for periods of less than forty-five (45) days temporarily laid off or transferred from their position shall retain their rate of pay and shall revert back to their former position once such position becomes available.
4.	The Company shall maintain and post every three (3) months, a Plant seniority list, and in addition, a seniority list for each of the following departments: Flour Mill, Bakery, Packing Room, Warehouse, Maintenance and Elevator.
5.	All vacancies shall be posted for a period of forty-eight (48) hours (exclusive of Saturdays Sundays, and Statutory Holidays, so that employees desiring the vacant job may apply. The Union shall be informed within ten (IO) working days, after close of applications, who the successful applicant is.
Filling of vacancies shall be based on qualifications, ability and seniority. Vacancies will be filled in the following manner:
a.	The employees with Plant Seniority in the department in which the vacancies occur, and who apply on the posting, will be awarded the job.
b.	Should there be no applicants from within the department in which a vacancy occurs then the job will be awarded to the senior applicant applying on the posting.
If there is any disagreement between the Company and the Union regarding a senior applicant’s qualifications or ability the same trial procedure shall be followed as is outlined in Clause 2, above.
If after up to thirty (30) actual working days, an employee is not satisfied with the new job, they shall be returned to their former position, or if after up to thirty (30) actual working days the employee doesn’t prove satisfactory they will be returned to their former position, after discussion with the Union.
6.	When it is necessary to move employees from one classification to another for a period of one week [five (5) working days] or less, the Supervisor in charge may make appointments in a manner most convenient to Plant efficiency and minimum disruption to the work schedules in effect at that time. Every consideration will be given to Plant seniority, but it will not necessarily be the governing factor.
7.	The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken and all seniority rights forfeited (including the Company’s obligation to rehire) for any of the following reasons:
a.	If the employee voluntarily quits.
b.	If the employee is discharged and is not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of
10
the grievance procedure.
c.	If the employee is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) working days of being requested to do so without furnishing a reasonable excuse for such failure to report or without securing leave-of-absence.
Leave of absence for reasonable cause, granted by the Company, 3hall not break the continuity of an employee’s seniority rights and an employee granted leave of absence shall return to the position held prior to the absence or to one of equal rating providing the employee is capable after a fair trial of handling the job.
Employees absent from work because of sickness or accident shall be obliged whenever it is reasonably possible to notify the Company their approximate length of absence.
8.	The Company will not be obliged to retain seniority records for employees who have been laid off for periods exceeding those listed below:
a.	Employees with two years or more service - two (2) years.
b.	Employees with less than two (2) years service - length of seniority, with a minimum of six (6) months.
Recognizing that the Company has no obligation to call in employees whose seniority records have been discontinued by reason of their lay off exceeding the above limits, it is nevertheless mutually agreed that, when hiring, consideration will be given to those employees who have previous experience and who make application for work; always provided that all employees with seniority are first rehired.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1. The Company may grant leave-of-absence, without pay, to any employee for legitimate personal reasons and any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered to be laid off, and seniority shall continue to accumulate during the absence.
Union business will be considered a good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company, and seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence. It is agreed that not more than one employee from any one department or a maximum of three employees from the Plant will be granted such leave of absence at any one time.
The Company agrees to notify the Secretary of the Union when extended leave of absence is granted to an employee. This does not apply when leave of absence is granted for anything up to a forty-eight (48) hour period.
2.	The maximum period for which leave of absence without pay may be granted shall be three (3) months except when the leave of absence is for the purpose of handling the affairs of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
3.	It is the employee’s responsibility to make contact with the Company to confirm their date of return. Should an employee fail to return to work at the expiry of the-leave of absence or alternately fail to seek renewal of the leave of absence, they shall be considered to have terminated their employment with the Company.
ARTICLE 13 ■ HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME REGULATIONS. SHIFT BONUS. AND
GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
tarting	Quitting
Time	Time
1.	NORMAL DAY SHIFT HOURS
Day Shift - Work	8:00 a.m. 4:30 p.m.
2.	ROTATING SHIFT WORK
The Company agrees to rotate shift work.
First Shift '	8:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m.
Second Shift	4:00 p.m. 12:00 p.m.
Third Shift	12:00 p.m. 8:00 a.m.
In cases where management wishes to change working hours on other than an individual temporary basis, such change may be affected by agreement between the Company and the Union.
3.	NORMAL LUNCH PERIODS
Employees on the day shift will be allowed one-half hour for lunch between 12:00 o’clock noon and 12:30 p.m. without pay. Employees on all shifts, when on a twenty-four (24) hour basis, will be allowed time for lunch with pay.
On shift work it is understood lunch periods must be staggered in order that the mills be manned at all times and production continued. Lunching and smoking will be confined to time and areas designated by the Department Supervisors.
4.	REST PERIOD
The Company will grant a rest period of ten (10) minutes in the first half and Ten (10) minutes in the second half of each shift, the periods to be assigned at the discretion of
12
the Department Supervisors. Rest periods will be considered as ten (10) minutes in the rest area.
Employees working on the day shift from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 noon and 12:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. will be granted seven (7) minutes to wash and change prior to quitting time at 4:30 p.m. Employees working on a straight shift must remain on duty until their relief takes over.
5.	NO REDUCTION IN REGULAR SHIFT HOURS
An employee who is notified that they will be required to work the shift immediately following a regular shift shall not have the hours of work of the regular shift reduced.
6.	REPORTING ALLOWANCE
An employee who reports for work at their normal time and who is sent home because no work is available, shall be paid for one-half the number of hours normally assigned on that shift or day.
7.	OVERTIME REGULATIONS
a.	Overtime at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate shall be paid for all times worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one day, and in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week, and on an employee’s assigned days off.
b.	In addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to straight time, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday. Sunday is considered 8:00 a.m. Sunday to 8:00 a.m. Monday.
Similarly, in addition to straight time rate, a premium equal to one-half (1/2) the regular rate, exclusive of shift premium, shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday. Saturday is considered 8:00 a.m. Saturday to 8:00 a.m. Sunday.
c.	No employee shall be paid both daily and weekly overtime for the same hours, and when Saturday, Sunday or General Holiday time is payable, no overtime premium payments will be computed twice on the same time.
d.	Daily and weekly overtime, to the maximum permitted under the Federal Labour Code, shall be assigned to the employee with Plant Seniority in the Department with the exception of the Maintenance Department where daily overtime shall be assigned to the senior employee on the job provided, however, that in all cases the person assigned overtime is capable of performing the work required, and is readily available in the case of short periods of overtime.
13
In each instance, the Company will make a reasonable effort to excuse an employee from working overtime where such employee so requests.
e.	An employee shall be entitled to weekend overtime or overtime scheduled for any general holiday, if that employee worked the weekday such overtime was issued or if that employee worked the weekday prior to such overtime .being worked.
An employee who is not at work the weekday prior to such overtime work will be obligated to confirm overtime work by 3:00 p.m. the previous work day. Employees off sick do not qualify under this clause.
An employee who books one or more weeks of vacation commencing on Monday shall not be eligible for weekend overtime or any overtime falling on any general ■	holiday until that employee returns to work from vacation.
f.	An employee required to work prior to or after their regular shift shall receive the applicable overtime rate for all such hours of work.
8.	OVERTIME LUNCH PERIOD
If an employee is scheduled to work overtime for more than two (2) hours after completing a regular shift such employee will be allowed to eat lunch on Company time and the Company will pay the cost of a meal purchased at a reasonable price.
9.	GENERAL HOLIDAYS
a.	The following General Holidays shall be observed:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Saskatchewan Day (first Monday in August), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and three additional holidays to be mutually agreed upon by the parties to the Agreement.
The three above unnamed General Holidays to be observed as mutually agreed to between the Supervisor and the Employee, may be taken on an individual employee basis.
Should an additional Statutory Holiday be declared, one of these general holiday days would apply.
The senior employee will be given preference if a date requested conflicts with other requests.
b.	Employees who qualify for each of the above thirteen (13) General Holidays shall
14
be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay.
c.	If an employee is required to work on any of the thirteen (13) designated General Holidays, they shall be compensated for such work at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times their regular rate of pay in addition to the holiday pay referred to in item b. above. If an employee is required to work more than their normal eight (8) hours on the above General Holidays, they will be reimbursed at a rate of two (2) times the normal rate of pay for those hours in excess of eight (8) hours.
d.	An employee is entitled to general holiday pay if they have worked during the work week immediately proceeding that in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week in which the General Holiday occurs, or during the work week immediately following that in which the General Holiday occurs.
Where a General Holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, such employee will be entitled to one (1) additional days vacation, with pay, for each such General Holiday.
e.	All of the holidays named in a. above shall be observed on the day proclaimed in any Saskatoon Civic Proclamations. Failing such Civic Proclamation, the holiday shall be observed on the day mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company.
f.	New employees, in the calendar year they are hired, will be entitled to one (1) unnamed General Holiday for each accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days worked.
10.	SHIFT BONUS
Employees working on the second shift shall receive a bonus of seventy (70) cents per hour effective December 22,1992 over and above the rate of the job.
Employees working on the third shift shall receive a bonus of one hundred (100) cents effective December 22,1992 per hour over and above the rate of the job.
Employees working weekends on the second and third shift shall receive the shift bonus in addition to all other entitlements.
11.	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
An employee required temporarily to perform a higher rated job shall be paid at the rate of the job while so doing, but if required to temporarily work at a lower rated job, shall keep their regular rate. A temporary assignment shall be considered any period under thirty (30) actual working days. The employee shall be told whether it is a temporary or
15
permanent assignment whenever possible.
12.	EMERGENCY CALLS OR CALL BACK
An employee called out to do a special job shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at the applicable overtime rate. Overtime rates shall be at one and-one-half (1.5) the regular rate, except for Sunday, which is paid at double (2) the regufar rate.
13.	PAYMENT OF WAGES
Payment of wages will be made by cheque at points convenient to the employee’s place of work by noon of every second Thursday for day shift employees and during the shift thereafter for employees of other shifts.
The normal payroll week shall be from 8:00 a.m. Monday to 8:00 a.m. the following Monday. Sunday shall be considered the last day of the week.
14.	NOON HOUR - WEEKEND WORK
When a complete eight (8) hour day shift is scheduled on Saturday or Sunday in the Maintenance Department, Packing Room and Warehouse, lunch hour shall be limited to one-half (1/2) hour without pay and the shift shall end at 4:30 p.m.
Alternately, basis mutual agreement of Management and Union, the following shifts may be worked in the Maintenance, Warehouse and Packing Departments:
Dav Shift
Starting Time	8:00 a.m.
Quitting Time	4:00 p.m.
15 minutes lunch period (with pay)
10 minutes rest period in the first and second half of "8-hour" shift.
NO "seven minutes” wash and change period will be allowed on these shifts.
15.	EMPLOYMENT HOURS GUARANTEE
Afternoon Shift
4:00 p.m. 12:00 midnight
The Company agrees to provide a guaranteed number of hours of work on a calendar year basis to employees as follows:
a. 520 hours to employees with five (5) years seniority as at January 1 of each calendar year.
16
b. 1,400 hours to employees with twelve (12) years seniority as at January 1 of each calendar year.
The above guaranteed hours of work shall be reduced an equivalent to the number of
hours an employee is absent or paid for due to:
a.	Illness as provided by the Short and Long Term Disability Plans;
b.	Accident covered by Workers’ compensation;
c.	Personal leaves of absence;
d.	Time lost due to a strike or lockout:
e.	Vacation and Statutory Holidays;
f.	Leave to attend Union Business.
Application:
1.	An employee must have had accrued five (5) or twelve (12) years seniority as at December 31 of the calendar year in which the guarantee is to apply.
2.	The Guarantee shall not apply on a pro rata basis in case of termination.
3.	The determination of hours worked will be derived by dividing the gross earnings as indicated on the employees’ T4 by the employee’s weighted average wage rate.
4.	For the purposes of the Guarantee, employees will be deemed to have worked for all hours which they could have worked had they elected to use their seniority rights.
16.	NOTICE OF LAYOFF AND SHIFT CHANGES
The Company will provide twenty-four (24) hour notice of layoffs or shift changes excluding those that result from unplanned absences, i.e. sickness, compensation, compassionate leave.
Notice will be given to the employee such that one complete work day (8:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.) separates the notification from the beginning of the day that the shift change/layoff takes effect.
If notice is not given, the employee will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for the first shift worked on the new schedule or paid eight (8)
17
hours pay in lieu of notice of layoff.
Employees requesting time off will be required to do so far enough in advance that the Company can fulfill its obligation to give notice to affected co-workers.
ARTICLE 14 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
All employees covered by the Agreement shall be granted annual vacations at their regular rate
of pay in accordance with the following provisions:
1.	Three (3) weeks vacation to employees in the year in which they accumulate One (1) or more years of service. Four (4) weeks vacation to employees in the year in which they accumulate ten (10) or more years of service, five (5) weeks vacation to employees in the year in which they accumulate eighteen (18) or more years of service, Six (6) weeks vacation to employees in the year in which they accumulate twenty-six (26) or more years of service.
a. Employees shall be entitled to one (1) additional week of vacation to be taken in the year in which they accumulate their 35th and 40th year of service.
2.	Vacation pay will be made on the following basis:
a.	For each week of vacation entitlement two (2) percent of the employee’s gross earnings for the previous calendar year or forty (40) hours at the employee’s current classification rate, whichever is greater.
b.	Employees who were away from work due to illness or accident shall have their vacation pay calculated and paid on the following basis only when they return to work:
Accrual of vacation pay for LTD and WCB is capped at 52 weeks and
earned at the employee’s vacation entitlement rate.
LTD vacation pay is paid from the LTD funds (which is employee funded).
WCB vacation pay is paid by the Company.
c.	Gross annual earnings shall include any income the employee may have received from the Workers’ Compensation Board or from the Group Casualty Policy #G746 held with the Co-operative Insurance Services.
3.	Vacations shall, whenever possible, be granted during the period preferred by each employee, considering the requirements of the plant operation. Completed vacation schedules will be posted by May 1st each year.
18
4.	Plant seniority shall govern the selection of vacation period. Senior employees in each department shall be given preference.
5.	Should an emergency arise, either personal or in the Plant operation, whereby an employee is required to forego or curtail their vacation temporarily, every effort will be made to rearrange the vacation for a mutually satisfactory period. •
ARTICLE 15 - OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
1.	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
Compassionate Leave of up to three (3) consecutive days will be granted to any regular employee in the event of a death in the employee’s immediate family. . Such regular employee will be paid their basic straight time rate for the scheduled hours they normally would have worked during such leave. Immediate family shall be defined to include the employee’s mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, and grandchildren.
2.	JURY DUTY
When an employee is on jury duty or appears as a subpoenaed witness, the Company will pay the difference between jury duty pay or pay as subpoenaed witness and the employee’s regular pay for the time lost. If an employee is summoned for jury duty or as a subpoenaed witness but does not actually serve on a jury or does not serve as a subpoenaed witness, they will be paid for time lost upon the presentation of a voucher from the Sheriff or other Court Officer confirming attendance in Court. It is clearly understood this compensation by the Company will only apply when an employee is serving on a jury or as a subpoenaed witness on days when they normally would be drawing the regular rate of pay at the Plant. It does not, however, cover periods during which an employee would be laid off due to short-time operations.
3.	INJURY COMPENSATION
In case of an occupational injury to an employee while on the job, which necessitates the employee leaving the plant for medical treatment, hospitalization, or convalescent at home after treatment, the Company agrees to pay a full days’ wages at the employee’s regular rate for the day on which the injury occurred regardless of the time the employee left the plant.
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the Plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activities. All such
19
notices must be signed by the proper officers of the Local Union.
2.	The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during their hours of employment and will also provide first aid kits, adequate lockers, and locker rooms. Time will be allowed for changing clothes and equipment necessitated by a change from one job to another and extreme changes in working conditions will be discouraged, providing it does not interfere with the normal efficient operation of the Plant.
The Company, in its discretion, will provide leather work gloves, and back supports, in addition to other safety equipment as required under the Canada Labour (Safety) Code, at no cost to the employee.
Millwrights, Millwright Trainees, and other employees whose duties are connected with Plant machinery operation and maintenance will provide adequate tools for the performance of their duties.
3.	All rights and privileges enjoyed by the employees which are presently in effect shall remain in effect, even though they are not specifically stated in this Agreement, for the life of this Agreement, unless changed by agreement with Local 342P-2.
ARTICLE 17 - SEVERANCE
1.	In the event of termination of employment on account of the permanent closure of the Flour Mill or a major portion, or a Department of it, and the Company has not offered alternative employment for which the employee is capable and qualified within the Flour Mill, then provided the terminated employee has one (1) year or more of continuous service with the Company, the Company will pay to the terminated employee a severance allowance equivalent to two weeks pay for each year of service at the employee’s current regular rate of pay.
If a displaced employee is offered alternative employment in a lesser paid position than the one held at the time of displacement, their wages shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years.
ARTICLE 18 - SCHEDULES ATTACHED TO AGREEMENT
The following Schedules attached hereto shall form part of this Agreement: SCHEDULE A - Job Classifications and Wage Rates. SCHEDULE B - Pension and Benefit Plan
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
20
ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective the-arch, 1994 and remain in effect until the 28th day of February, 1996 and thereafter from year to year unless either Party gives notice in writing to the other Party that amendments are required, or that the Party intends to terminate the Agreement.	,
Notice that amendments are required or that either Party intends to terminate the Agreement must be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement or of any annual period, thereafter. During the period of negotiations this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
SIGNED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan this	_day of	8	, 1994.
CSP FOODS - A DIVISION	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
OF SASKATCHEWAN WHEAT POOL	INTERNATIONAL UNION,LOCAL 342P-2
21
SCHEDULE “A”
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
It is agreed that the Company will submit to the Union a copy of all job classifications and Wage Rates for the purpose of negotiations.
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	MAR. 1/92	MAR. 1/95
Flour Mill
Roll Tender General Duties Assistant Miller
16.79	17.01
16.49	16.70
17.78	18.01
Bakery
Lead Hand Bakery Mixer Bakery Helper
17.83	18.06
17.52	17.75
16.79	17.01
Packing Room Lead Hand
Small Package Line Operator Packer Class I
(Bemis, Clear View, Std Air, Bag Person Packer Class II Packager
17.83 17.12 16.92
Bakery Packers)
16.84 16.75 16.54
18.06
17.34
17.14
17.06
16.97
16.76
Ware house
Lead Hand Checker
Power Curve Operator Forklift Operator Warehouser (Utility) Warehouser (Customer Ser) Warehouser Caretaker
17.83
17.29
17.07
16.97
16.79
16.80 16.56 16.52
18.06
17.51
17.29
17.19
17.01
17.02 16.78 16.73
CLASSIFICATION
EFFECTIVE MAR. 1/92
EFFECTIVE MAR. 1/95
22
Maintenance
Millwright Lead Hand Millwright Sheet Metal Millwright - After 1 year - First Year
Millwright Trainee - 4th Year
-	3rd Year
-	2nd Year
-	1st Year Maintenance Helper
19.46
19.23
19.23 18.82 18.60 18.19 17.78 17.29 16.52
19.71
19.48
19.48 19.06 18.84 18.43 18.01 17.51 16.73
This paragraph has been moved to NOTES RE: SCHEDULE A Elevator
Lead Hand Binner
Grain Cleaner
Relief Elevator Person
Shoveller
17.83
16.99
17.01
17.16
16.64
18.06
17.21
17.23
17.38
16.86
NOTES RE: SCHEDULE A
23
1.	New employees will be hired at four (4.00) dollars per hour under the regular rate for the classification. On each anniversary date, their rate shall increase by one (1 .00) dollar/hour relative to the classification rate, until it reaches the regular rate.
2.	When an employee in a department is required to fill the temporary position of Relief Foreman, they shall receive for time worked in such position a rate of sixty (60) cents an hour over the highest rate in that department.
A temporary Relief Trick Miller shall receive forty (40) cents an hour over the highest rate in the department for time worked in such position.
3.	Effective January 1, 1991, the Company will supply uniforms to employees. The Company will pay the cost of the uniforms, including laundry and repair.
Effective January 1, 1995, each employee who has attained seniority will receive an annual boot allowance of eighty-five (85) dollars.
Parkas will be supplied by the Company on an "as needed” basis.
4.	Wages for new positions and/or revised positions shall be the subject of negotiations between the Company and the Union.
5.	The classification of Warehouse will be paid a heavy duty loading premium of five (5) cents per hour over the basic rates for all time worked while manually handling 140-pound bags, or 50-kilo bags.
6.	Persons hired for vacation relief purposes after the date of May 24th for a period of seventy-five (75) days, shall be paid at a rate of four (4.00) dollars under the classified rate and accrue no benefits under this work requirement.
7.	Effective May 24,1990, employees who obtain Journeyman papers in trades, an AOM Diploma, or other diplomas that apply to CSP Foods’ operations and are approved by management, will receive forty (40) cents per hour over their normal classification rate. Effective March 1,1991, this premium shall increase to forty-five (45) cents per hour.
8.	Effective September 6, 1994, an additional ten (10) cents per hour will be paid to employees who have completed a second approved trade or other diploma approved by management and applicable to their position with CSP Foods.
9.	Effective September 6,1994, all permanent employees will receive a lump sum payment of six hundred (600) dollars.
24
10.	Effective March 1,1995, all permanent employees will receive a lump sum of two hundred and fifty (250) dollars.
25
SCHEDULE "B"
PENSION AND BENEFIT PLANS
The Company agrees to provide a Pension Plan and a Benefit Plan. The-provisions of the Pension Plan are contained in the most current edition of the master policy’ title, CSP Foods, Pension Plan 1977. The provisions of the Benefit Plan are contained in the most current edition of the master policy titled G746 and issued by the Co-operators.
A summary of the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan and Benefit Plan are listed below. If there is any conflict between this summary and the respective master policies, the master policies shall govern.
PENSION PLAN
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Eligible employees may elect to join the Pension Plan upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous service. However, employees must join the Pension Plan upon completion of twelve (12) months of continuous service as a condition of employment.
2.	CONTRIBUTION - Employee 4.2% of pensionable earnings. Company 5.2% of the employee’s pensionable earnings.
BENEFIT PLAN
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	BENEFIT
a.	Employee - two (2) times regular annual earnings to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
b.	Spouse - $2,000.
c.	Dependent Child - $1,000
3.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH - The Principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DISMEMBERMENT - Depending on the type of dismemberment, an amount up to the principle sum to a maximum benefit of $50,000.
26
5.	PREMIUMS - Company	paid.
6.	$3.000 PAID-UP CERTIFICATE - The Company agrees to provide a $3,000 paid-up certificate upon the employee’s retirement or on the employee attaining age 65, whichever first occurs.
DENTAL PLAN
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company	paid.
Covers employees and eligible dependents.
3.	BASIC COVERAGE - 80% of current Dental Fee Schedule.
4.	RESTORATIVE COVERAGE - 60% of current Denial Fee Schedule.
5.	ORTHODONTIC - 30%	of current Dental Fee Schedule.
For further information check your Dental Plan booklet or consult your immediate supervisor.
VISION PLAN
Effective the beginning of June, 1990, the Company will provide a vision care package subject to the following conditions:
1.	ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	PREMIUMS - Company	paid.
Covers employees, spouses and eligible dependents.
3.	COVERAGE
a.	The purchase of lenses, frames, and contact lenses if prescribed by an optometrist or opthamologist will be covered.
b.	Maximum of one hundred (100) dollars per covered person in any two (2) consecutive years.
c.	Reimbursement will only be provided for the first-time purchase of corrective lenses, or when required due to a change in prescription.
27
d.	There will be no reimbursement if items are lost, broken, or damaged.
e.	There will be no reimbursement if the cost will be picked up by another source such as WCB.
f.	Reimbursement will not be made for sunglasses or other lenses not required for correction of vision.
SHORT TERM DISABILITY PROGRAM
1.	Company paid.
2.	Employees entitled to payment of wages during sick leave shall be paid at the regular rate of pay that would apply if the employee had not been absent on sick leave during the period of time covered by the employee’s accumulated sick leave credits.
3.	Benefits commence the first day of disability and expire on the thirtieth (30) day of disability.
4.	Extended sick leave benefits will be provided in the amount of 66 and 2/3rds percent of regular earnings to a maximum earnings ceiling of the Unemployment Insurance Commission program at the time of disability for:
a.	The period of absence due to sickness in excess of a two-week waiting period in any one illness.
- or -
b.	Where sick leave credits exceed two weeks, extended sick leave benefits shall commence at the expiration of the employee’s sick leave credits.
Extended sick leave benefits payable in any one illness shall cease on the thirtieth (30) day of disability.
Benefits under this provision are reinstated immediately on return of an employee to work following an illness.
5.	Employees eligible for Worker’s Compensation benefits are not eligible for benefits under this plan.
6.	SICK LEAVE CREDITS
a.
Sick leave credits are earned at the rate of 1 1/4 working days per month of continuous full-time employment to a maximum of twenty-two working days.
28
Sick leave credit accumulation during the probationary period will be recognized upon successful completion of the probationary period for sick leave from that time on.
b.	Once an employee has earned twenty-two working days of sick leave credit, no further credits are required for full coverage under the Short Term Disability Plan.
c.	Sick leave usage is not deducted from accumulated sick leave credits.
d.	Present permanent employees will receive sick leave credits on the basis of time served with the Company.
7.	a. Any employee suspected of abusing the Sick Leave Plan, after a review of their
record, such employees shall be requested in the presence of the President or Chief Shop Steward of the Local Union, that a Doctor’s Certificate will be required, if possible to acquire, in order to qualify for sick pay.
b. Unless notified as per above an employee will be required to produce a Doctor’s Certificate after two (2) days of absence due to illness or accident.
8.	Absenteeism will be assessed by each Department Manager, President of the Union, Chief Steward, and/or others on a monthly basis. Incidents of absenteeism considered excessive will be followed up to determine whether progressive discipline is warranted.
LONG-TERM DISABILITY PROGRAM
1.	' ELIGIBILITY - Completion of ninety (90) days of service within a six (6) month period.
2.	BENEFIT - 65% of regular monthly earnings to a maximum monthly benefit of $2,000. Benefits commence on the 31st day of disability.
3.	PREMIUMS - Employee paid.
All employees are required to join the Group Life Insurance and Disability Insurance Plans as a condition of employment upon completion of ninety (90) days of continuous service.
29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company will continue to apply the Short Term Disability Program in a manner that is consistent with its past practice during the term of this Agreement.
The Union and the Company agree that as an alternative to hours of work described in Article 13, that an additional arrangement for work rotation may be implemented should it arise out of business/economic necessity. This arrangement will be developed by a Union/Management Committee and will be patterned after the "Swing Shift” arrangement that has been worked out by other milling companies, i.e.	nonetheless, reflecting those provisions in our agreement
and/or otherwise agreed upon.
The Company will implement the shift arrangement upon discussion with the Union outlining the expected duration of this work schedule.
30
INDEX
Annual Vacations
Vacationpay......................
Arbitration.............................
Benefits
Dental Plan......................
Group Life Insurance.............
Long Term Disability Insurance . . . Short Term Disability Program . . . .
Vision Care......................
Checkoff................................
Exclusive Right of the Company .........
General Holidays .......................
General Provisions .....................
General Working Conditions .............
Grievances
General .........................
Step 1 ..........................
Step 2 ..........................
Step 3 ..........................
Hours of Work
Employment Hours Guarantee . . . . No Reduction in Regular Shift Hours
Noon Hour- Weekend Work .........
Normal Day Shift Hours...........
Normal Lunch Periods.............
Overtime Regulations ............
Reporting Allowance .............
Rest Periods.....................
Rotating Shift Work..............
Swing Shift......................
Leave-of-Absence........................
Letter of Understanding.................
Management Rights ......................
Negotiating Committee ..................
No Strikes or Lock-outs.................
Normal Lunch Periods
Hours of Work ...................
Other Employee Benefit Plans
Compassionate Leave..............
Injury Compensation .............
Jury Duty .......................
17
5-8
... .23, 27, 28
____ 23, 27, 28
____ 23, 27, 28
____ 23, 27, 28
____ 23, 27, 28
.............. 4
............. 3
13, 14 18
.......... 11
.......	1,4,6
.......	1,4,6
.......	1,4,6
.......	1,4,6
11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29 11-13, 15, 16, 29
.......... 10
.......	19, 29
.............. 3
.......	2, 7, 8
.............. 4
11-13, 15, 16, 29
.......... 18
18
18
31
Overtime ................................
Lunch Period .....................
Overtime Regulations .............
Payment of Wages ........................
Pension .................................
Probationary.............................
Purpose..................................
Recognition .............................
Relationships ...........................
Schedules ...............................
Scope ...................................
Seniority
Departmental .....................
Filling...........................
Forfeit ..........................
Plant ............................
Posting ..........................
Probationary......................
Seniority.........................
Seniority List....................
Severance ...............................
Shift Bonus..............................
Temporary Assignment ....................
Termination or Modification of Agreement
Union Shop ..............................
Vision Care .............................
3, 11-13, 15 3, 11-13, 15
........... 3,11-13,15
................ 15,27
................ 19,25
8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23
. . . ..... 1, 11, 21
.................. 2
.................... 3
......... 3, 9, 17, 19
.................. 1
8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23 8-10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 23
.................. 19
............... 11,14
.................. 14
................ 20
................... 4
................ 26