AGREEMENT
between
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY and
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL P 401
LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA 2003 - 2005
064SI* <
1
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
25
17
18
1
2
2
4
4
4
11
13
15
17
18
19
22
24
26
27
INDEX
ARTICLE
TERM OF AGREEMENT PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
RECOGNITION
RELATIONSHIP
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
HOURS OF WORK & CONDITIONS OF OVERTIME
WAGE RATE & PAYMENT
PAID HOLIDAYS
ANNUAL VACATION
SENIORITY
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRIEVANCE
SAFETY & HEALTH
UNION SECURITY
WEEKLY GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT
GENERAL PLANT CLOSURE WAGE SCHEDULE
CONTINENTAL WORK SCHEDULE
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This agreement made this 1st day of May, 2003, and ratified by the Union on the 7th day of May, 2003.
BETWEEN:
ELLISON MILLING COMPANY LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA hereinafter called "The Company"
of the first part and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL P 401
affiliated with the
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOUR CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS and THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS, LETHBRIDGE, ALBERTA hereinafter called "The Union"
of the second part.
The parties hereto mentioned agree to changes to the collective Agreement dated July4th’ 2000 as follows:
CLAUSE 1:	TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties hereto from the 1st day of January, 2003 and terminating the 31st day of December, 2005.
CLAUSE 2:
CLAUSE 3:
CLAUSE 4:
-2-
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this Agreement is to define and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of employment and wage rates for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement. it also sets out the responsibilities of each of the contracting parties along with the rights and privileges of an employer - employee relationship. It is intended by both parties that the relationship be harmonious during the term of the Agreement but that if any problems should arise pertaining to the employer - employee relationship, said problems will be settled amicably by reference to the provisions of the Agreement.
RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent for all employees, as set out in the certification certificate issued by the Department of Labour of the Federal Government of Canada.
RELATIONSHIP
(a)	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by the Company or any of its agents against any employee because of membership in the Union, and the Union will not coerce employees into membership or distribute propaganda or transact any other business of the Union on the Company's time other than that provided in this Agreement. The Company will supply a bulletin board for the convenience of the Union in posting Union activities. However, all such postings will be submitted to Management for approval before being posted.
-3-
(b)	The Company and the Union agree to co-operate in the operation of a joint Labour-Management Production Committee composed of an equal number of representatives of the Company and its employees. This Committee will be governed by rules as outlined and mutually agreed upon. The purpose of this Committee shall be to provide ways and means of improving production and efficiency and promoting fuller understanding and confidence between Management and employees.
This Committee will consist of the following Union employees appointed by the Union:
FEED MILL FLOUR MILL FLOUR WAREHOUSE MAINTENANCE
1 EMPLOYEE 1 EMPLOYEE 1 EMPLOYEE 1 EMPLOYEE
These employees will meet with an equal number of Company Management employees at least twice yearly to serve the purpose of this Committee.
(c)	Both parties recognize that most work, under normal circumstances, shall be performed by the Union members; however, at times, due to heavier than normal workloads, training, emergency situations, and/or unexpected customer orders, it may be necessary, in order to maintain efficiency and/or customer service, to have supervisory personnel performing work which may not be part of their normal duties.
CLAUSE 5:
CLAUSE 6:
CLAUSE 7:
-4-
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union acknowledges that, subject to express provisions in this Agreement, it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to manage its plants; to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to direct the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for cause; to assign and reassign employees to jobs; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine the product to be handled, produced, and processed or manufactured; to schedule production and processing and production methods or handling of its product. The company agrees that no special privileges nor treatment will be allowed to relatives of other employees of the Company.
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production or services, and that if such collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions of the Agreement and return to work and perform the duties in the usual manner. The Union further agrees that, should a strike be called because of failure to negotiate a new agreement, the licensed elevator employees, the Watchers, and the Engineer and/or employee responsible for boiler and sprinkler maintenance will not be called out.
HOURS OF WORK & CONDITIONS OF OVERTIME
(a)	This paragraph is intended to define the normal hours of work and is not to be construed as a guarantee or limitation of the number of hours to be worked per day, or for any other period of time, except as specifically provided in this Agreement.
-5-
The normal work week will consist of forty (40) hours, Monday to Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. daily except for employees on continuous shifts who will commence at 7:00 a.m. Monday; each shift will work at least five (5) shifts with the regular week ending at 7:00 a.m. the following Monday. Warehouse operators and Lead Packers shifts will commence at 10:30 p.m. Sunday.
The regular work week day will consist of eight (8) hours. All hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at one and one half (1%)times the regular rates up to and including seventy-two (72) hours per week, and additional hours shall be paid for at two (2) times the regular rate. All hours worked on Saturday will be paid at one and one half(l 14) times the regular rates as long as forty (40) regular time hours have been reached. In the case that the employee working Saturday has not reached forty (40) hours, he will be paid at the straight time rate until forty (40) hours has been attained for that week. All hours worked on Sunday will be paid at two(2) times the regular rates. All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day shall be paid at one and one half (1% ) times the regular rate. Daily and weekly overtime shall not be compounded.
. The normal shift rotation will be on a weekly basis from days to nights to afternoons for lead operators and millers, and the normal shift rotation for second millers and others on continuous shifts will be on a bi-weekly basis.
The above does not apply to the Feed Plant which normally operates two (2) eight (8) hour shifts per day starting at 12:00 p.m. Sunday each week. The normal shift rotation for the lead operator is weekly and for the second operator is bi-weekly. Should the Feed Plant operate on a continuous weekly basis the shifts would commence at 11:00 p.m. Sunday and would be 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
-6-
Other work schedules may be established by the Company from time to time to meet the needs of the business. The employees will be advised of changes in these work schedules as much in advance as possible and usually prior to 3:00 p.m. Thursday for the following week. It is agreed that changes to the work schedule will be necessary from time to time to permit crew to be shifted to periods of peak work demand and for other reasons. This is especially true in the Feed Mill but, in any event, shift schedules will be set by 3:00 p.m. Friday for the following week and will usually be fixed subject to usual layoff notices and weekly guaranteed employment provisions as indicated elsewhere in the Agreement.
The Union agrees that, due to needs of the business, it may be necessary to introduce rotational extended work schedules with longer work days and longer periods of time off and non-concurrent work days and varying starting days. In the event that this type of schedule is introduced it is agreed that Saturday (1-1/2 X normal rate) and Sunday (2 X normal rate) premiums will no longer be applicable to those employees working these schedules. Additionally, these new schedules will be worked for at least one complete shift rotation schedule or the premiums and rules covering the existing conditions and hours of work will apply.
-7-
(b)	Choice of employees to work overtime during the regular work week shall be decided by seniority and ability in the department for which the overtime is required. The extension of a shift shall not exceed four (4) hours or a total of twelve- (12) consecutive hours work. Choice of employees to work overtime on the 6th and 7th days of work will be on the basis of seniority and ability in that department. If all personnel in the department are called in for the overtime, each employee will work the overtime shift that corresponds to the regular shift worked all week in the department. All overtime shall be voluntary subject to going down the seniority list of the department in which the overtime is to be worked, but in the event nobody volunteers, the least senior employee or employees in the plant will be required to work providing they have the ability to perform the work required. Departments for the purpose of this clause shall be Feed Mill, Flour Mill, Flour Warehouse and Packing, Terminal Elevator, Maintenance, Bakery Mix and Miscellaneous.
(c)	Employees required to lay off part of any shift in order to report for duty on another shift shall not be penalized by losing pay for hours not worked on the regularly scheduled shift. This does not apply where employees are required to report back within the same twenty-four (24) hour period. Employees required to work a split shift will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate for the second part of the split shift.
-8-
(d)	Extra or casual employees shall not be assigned to work to the exclusion of regular employees who have been laid off, provided such employees can perform the required work. Extra or casual employees will be defined as someone performing work that is temporary in nature and not regularly required or is of an unexpected or temporary nature. If the work being performed by an extra or casual employee lasts beyond forty-five (45) consecutive workdays the employee performing that work will be considered to be an employee on probation.
Regular employees who are being laid off are to be given twenty-four (24) hours notice before being laid off (whether for a short term layoff or longer term layoff) and twenty-four (24) hours notice as to when they are expected to return to work. In the case of a long term layoff (more than one (I) week) regular employees with one (1) or more years of service will be given one (1) day layoff notice for each completed year of service with the Company, up to fifteen (1 5) days. The Company shall be exempt from giving such notice i) due to the inability to operate the plant because of floods, power failures, storms, fire, freeze-out, or ii) due to disciplinary action.
(e)	All full-time vacancies that the Company plans to fill for at least two (2) consecutive weeks, or vacancies involving training for two (2) weeks or more, will be posted for seven (7) calendar days.
(9 An employee instructed and assigned to relieve a foreman temporarily will be paid ten (10%) per cent increase in his own rate for the number of hours worked up to eight (8) hours per day provided the said employee relieves for at least one least one (1) day.
-9-
(g)	Employees assigned temporarily to lower rated positions shall not have their current rates reduced. Employees assigned temporarily to higher ratedjobs will be paid the higher rate. Temporary assignees (Millers and Oilers) will earn temporary rates for shutdowns; and earn temporary rates for holidays provided the temporary assignee works both sides of the holiday.
(h)	Should an employee be requested to return to work after completion of a regular shift with notice given prior to leaving the plant, the employee shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at time and one-half (1 -1 /2) rate. This does not apply to an extension of a regular shift.
Should an employee be requested to return to work after completion of a regular shift without notice, or should an employee be requested to work on an unscheduled day without notice, the employee shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours work at time and one-half (1-1/2) rate, except for Sunday which will be paid at the double time rate for the actual hours worked, but in any event will not receive less than six (6) hours pay. The employee shall be through when the supervisor decides the work is completed. This paragraph does not apply to an extension of a regular shift.
In the case of a call-in before or after a regularly scheduled shift, the employee will be given the option of leaving the plant after working eight (8) hours or working the balance of the shift at the straight time rate.
- 10-
(i)	Employees shall be granted a ten (10) minute rest period during each four (4) hour half-shift worked. The time for each rest period will be designated by the supervisor in charge of each department. Employees shall not leave the work premises during these rest periods or during paid lunch periods. Employees violating this provision shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Company
(j)	For the purpose of this Agreement, all days are defined as twenty-four (24) hour periods commencing at 7:00 a.m, except if otherwise agreed upon.
(k)	An employee reporting for work for a regular shift, or on an unscheduled day at the request of a supervisor, shall be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or in lieu thereof four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate.
(l)	If an employee is unable to report for work for any reason, the employee or someone from home will phone his or her supervisor before the shift commences or immediately thereafter advising the reason, so the supervisor can arrange or plan accordingly.
CLAUSE 8:
11
(m)	Overtime hours actually worked under paragraph (b) may be accumulated at the option of the employee on the same basis as overtime pay, but in lieu of overtime pay may be taken as accumulated time off at a time suitable to the employer. However, such accumulated time must not exceed ten (10) working days and must be taken by December 31 each year or the employer must pay the employee by the end of January the following year for the number of hours accumulated. Unless advised otherwise overtime worked will be paid. Advice to accumulate vacation in lieu of overtime will be submitted to the Payroll Supervisor in writing in advance of the time cards being picked up for the pay period involved.
WAGE RATE AND PAYMENT
(a)	Wages are to be paid in accordance with the rates as set forth in the Wage Schedule attached to this Agreement. However, when an employee is transferred to a higher rated classification, the rate for said employee may be continued for a period of thirty (30) working days or such longer period as the Company may deem necessary for the said employee to learn the work before raising the rate, but said period shall not exceed a total of ninety (90) working days. This paragraph will not apply to Millers whose work requires skill and responsibility. A Second Miller fully responsible for a shift will receive twenty-five (25) cents per hour over the Second Miller rate for the first sixty (60) working days in relief. After the Second Miller has worked sixty (60) working days in relief, the Second Miller in relief will receive the Miller rate while relieving the Miller. However, when the Second Miller goes back to the Second Miller responsibilities, the rate of pay will revert back to the Second Miller rate.
- 12-
The starting rate for new employees will be four ($4.00) dollars per hour below the rate listed for the appropriate classification in the Wage Schedule attached. Such new employees will receive a minimum of one ($1.00) dollar per hour increase for each nine (9) months of service until the full rate listed in the Wage Schedule is attained. Journeymen or Journeywomen will be exempt from this clause.
Any grievance under this paragraph will be dealt with under Clause 13.
(b)	Wages are to be paid every second Friday and pay cheques are to be distributed to the employees at noon every second Friday for the period ending the previous Friday. However, if a Friday pay-day falls on a Holiday as defined by this Agreement, cheques are to be distributed by 4:00 p.m. on the Bank day preceding, providing this allows three (3) full days for the Company to prepare the payroll. Where there are fewer than three (3) full days for preparation, pay cheques are to be distributed at noon the first Bank day after the Holiday, and notice of such payment will be posted on the bulletin board.
(c) As of the date of ratification, a premium of eighty-five (85) cents per hour will be paid to employees working the afternoon shift or night shift. Watcher and relief watchers will not be paid any shift premiums.
Shift premiums are to be excluded in the calculation of daily and weekly overtime.
CLAUSE 9:
- 13-
(d)	The Management of the Company and three (3) or more members of the Union Executive or their duty appointed representatives shall constitute a committee to hear written applications for changes in classifications and/or wage rate submitted by an employee or by the Management. The Committee shall meet four (4) times during the year, namely the end of each quarter, if any applications are made at least three (3) days prior to the last day of March, June, September and December. Any changes in classification and/or wage rate shall be by agreement between the Committee and the employee.
(e)	Any employee who, due to physical or mental condition, becomes unable to perform normal work duties may be classified as a handicapped worker and as such may be given special work duties and a special wage rate corresponding to the limitations of the handicap. Such wage rate shall be decided upon by mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
PAID HOLIDAYS
(a)	The Union and the Company recognizes the following eleven (11) paid holidays:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day,-2nd Monday in June, Canada Day, Civic (August) Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
The Company will provide an additional paid holiday if and when such a holiday is declared by the Federal Government.
- 14-
(b)	Subject to the exception hereafter set forth, employees shall be paid for the above named holidays on the basis of eight (8) hours at their regular rates. A day in lieu of the actual paid holiday may be substituted by mutual consent between the Company and the Union.
(c)	In order to be eligible for paid holiday payment, an employee must meet the following conditions:
i)	must have been employed for thirty (30) working days and must have Company earnings the scheduled work day preceding and following the paid holiday, and
ii)	must have Company earnings for at least fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the paid holiday. Company earnings are defined as regular wages, vacation pay, Company sick leave (if any), wage indemnity or Workers' Compensation. An employee absent from work and receiving weekly indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits for the day of paid holiday will receive the difference between eight (8) hours at the employee's usual rate of pay while at work and the amount received for wage indemnity or Workers' Compensation for the holiday involved.
(d)	Any employee not qualified for paid holiday pay shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for work performed on such holiday. Any employee qualified for a paid holiday and required to work on such a day will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for hours worked plus eight (8) hours straight time for the paid holiday.
CLAUSE 10:
ANNUAL VACATION
15
(a)	Vacation entitlement will be determined by the employee's service anniversary date. Employees who. on that date, have accumulated unbroken service on the payroll, shall receive a vacation with pay as follows:
After one year service................2 weeks
After five years service..............3 weeks
After twelve years service............4 weeks
After twenty years service..............5 weeks
Upon completion of twenty-five (25) years of service, employees shall be allowed one (1) extra week’s vacation to be taken for that year only. This vacation week will be taken in the year starting on their anniversary date.
The vacation year will start on January 1st each year. If an employee's vacation entitlement changes as a result of a service anniversary during the current vacation year, the vacation entitlement will be adjusted proportionate to the days of service in the current vacation year over three hundred and sixty-five (365) multiplied by the increased number of working days entitlement in the above schedule rounded to the nearest full day more or less.
Vacation pay shall be two (2%) per cent of the employee's earnings for the vacation year or forty (40) hours pay at the basic straight time rate for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is to the advantage of the employee.
(b)	In cases where an employee is absent for more than sixty (60) days during the twelve (12) month period ending December 31st, vacation pay for such employee will be reduced by one-twelfth (1/12th) for each month of absence beyond the sixty (60) days.
- 16-
(c)	Employees who have not completed one (I) years service by December 31st, but have more than three (3) months continuous employment, shall receive an amount equal to four (4%) per cent of their earnings.
(d)	Employees who leave the service of the Company for any reason during the vacation year shall receive vacation pay based on the employee’s earnings since the preceding December 31st.
(e)	Vacation will be allocated on the basis of seniority within the department but on a two-tiered rotation each year with each employee taking their turn for preference on the basis of seniority. Each department will be divided into two (2) equal tiers of seniority. In the case of odd numbers the
. middle person will be allocated to the group of closest seniority. Each year the most senior employee of the previous year’s tier will drop to the bottom of the tier for the purpose of choosing vacation as provided in this paragraph. An employee would be limited to choosing up to three (3) consecutive weeks of vacation during prime vacation time, that is, that time when school is out including Christmas week, with their first pick. Each employee, in turn, would choose up to three (3) weeks of their preference for vacation time within the department. Fourth and subsequent weeks will be allocated in the reverse order from the bottom of the vacation tier to the top. Vacation time accumulated under paragraph 7(m) will not be scheduled using this process, The time for all vacations will be subject to Company approval consistent with the necessity of plant operations and other work.
- 17-
(9 Vacation entitlement will be established by years of employment as at December 31st each year. The vacation year will be from January 1st to December 31 st each year. Every employee will take their vacation entitlement in the calendar year following the date of entitlement. Vacation periods shall not be accumulated from year to year. Blank vacation schedules for each department will be issued no later than October 1st each year for orderly scheduling of vacations for the following calendar year. The deadline for selection of vacations in accordance with paragraph 10(e) will be November 15th, after which time the preference will be given based on seniority until November 30th. After this date, vacation will be scheduled on a first come first served basis until all vacation dates are established, but in any event, vacations must be scheduled by December 15 th at the latest.
Once selected, each employee will take their vacation on dates shown on the schedule except for unforeseen extenuating circumstances. In such cases, the rescheduled vacations must also be taken at a time approved by the Company.
CLAUSE 11:	SENIORITY
(a)	There will be no seniority acquired by employees during the first ninety (90) working days of employment, but after that number of days have been worked, seniority shall date back to the original date of employment. Employees without seniority are not obligated to recall by the Company, and may be dismissed without recourse. No seniority will be acquired by extra or casual employees who work less than ninety (90) days in a calendar year. Recall period will be equal to the length of service, but shall not exceed three hundred & sixty (360) days.
CLAUSE 12:
I
- 18-
(b)	In all cases of increase or decrease in staff, temporary lay-off or the calling back to work, promotion or demotion, the principal governing factor will be seniority, provided that the supervisor is satisfied the employee has the ability to perform the j ob satisfactorily within a reasonable period of time.
(c)	If any employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness, the employee shall not lose seniority rights, but if an employee is absent from work for any other reason, without the consent of the Company, the employee shall lose seniority and may be dismissed. However, in the event that the employee is not dismissed from the Company and returns to work, the employee will regain seniority after a probation of ninety (90) days.
(d)	Employees who are hired expressly to replace vacationing employees during the months of June, July, August and September will not acquire seniority and will be laid off at the end of the vacation relief period. If an employee is kept in employment after vacation relief, the time worked will count towards the ninety (90) working day probation period.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
(a)	The Company may grant leave of absence, with or without pay, to an employee for a legitimate personal reason. An employee who is absent with such permission shall not be considered to be laid off and the seniority of the employee shall continue to accumulate during the absence.
CLAUSE 13:
- 19-
(b)	Union business shall be considered as good cause for leave of absence and such leave of absence shall be granted by the Company as long as substitutions or adjustments can be made so as not to interfere with the normal operation of the plant.
(c)	By mutual agreement between the Company and the employees, compassionate leave with pay will be given for up to three (3) consecutive working days, including the date of the funeral, or memorial service, for a death in the immediate family. An employee may take an additional two (2) days leave of absence without pay to attend a funeral or memorial service in the immediate family if approved by the employee's supervisor. Immediate family means employee's spouse, children, brothers, sisters and the parents of either employee or employee's spouse, and providing the employee attends the funeral or memorial service. A leave of one (1) day with pay (day of the funeral or memorial service) and two (2) days without pay will be allowed in the event of the death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or grandparents, providing the employee attends the funeral or memorial service.
GRIEVANCE
(a)	A Grievance Committee, not to exceed three (3) in number, to be decided by the Union, who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the Committee.
(b)	Shop Stewards, consisting of one (1) member from each of the major departments in the plant, shall be elected by the Union in a manner determined by them, and the Company shall be kept informed of the personnel. Each Shop Steward shall have at least six months service with the Company.
-20-
(c)	Grievance work carried on during the regular working hours of the employee members involved shall be paid for so that they will not lose pay as a result of such activities. If the Management elects to meet with the Grievance Committee at a time other than regular hours, time spent by members of the Committee present at the meeting will not count towards overtime.
(d)	The Union acknowledges Union members have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without first obtaining permission from their immediate supervisor. It is understood by the Company that the supervisor will grant permission to a Union member to leave his or her regular duties as soon as possible after the application for such permission is received. It is clearly understood that Union members will not absent themselves from their duties unreasonably to deal with grievances of employees.
(e)	It is agreed that all grievances must be dealt with as soon as possible. To encourage this, any grievance must be filed by an employee within ten (10) calendar days of the alleged circumstances coming to the knowledge of the employee. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached within five (5) calendar days after the grievance is submitted it may be advanced to the next step of the grievance procedure. Replies to grievances will normally be given within the five (5) calendar days unless a longer time is mutually agreed to'. Replies at Step 3 and Step 4 will be given within ten (10) calendar days unless a longer time is requested by either party. The following procedure shall be applicable progressively to the adjustment of disputes or grievances:
Step I: between the grieved employee, the Shop Steward and the Department supervisor;
-21 -
Step 2: between the grieved employee, the Chief Steward and/or President and the Operations Manager;
Step 3:	(does not apply in the Flour Mill or Grain Terminal)
between	the grieved employee,	the	Union Grievance
Committee and the General Manager - Feed Division.
Step 4:	between the grieved employee, the Union Grievance
Committee and the	General Manager,	Ellison Milling
Company.
(9 Grievances must be presented in the first step in writing.
(g)	When a grievance which affects the rate of pay of any employee is not amicably disposed of within seventy-two (72) hours, but subsequently is settled satisfactorily, and as a result of such settlement the wages of the employee are increased or decreased, such increase or decrease shall be made retroactive to the date on which the grievance was first submitted in writing.
(h)	If an employee is dismissed and feels unjustly dealt with, they may within not more than seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of notice of dismissal, inform the Grievance Committee who shall, in turn, notify the Company within twenty-four (24) hours in writing. The dismissal shall then be termed as a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure herein, beginning with the second step. If, subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, the employee shall be reinstated in his or her former position and shall be compensated for the time lost at the regular rate of pay, or such lesser compensation as may be agreed upon.
-22-
(i)	Should there at any time arise a question or grievance involving interpretation of this Agreement, either on the part of the Union or Management, upon which no settlement can be reached, such a question shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration constituted as follows:
One representative named by the Union;
One representative named by the Company;
A third by mutual agreement of the two parties, who shall be Chairman. In the event of failure to agree upon the third party, he shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of Canada. The decision of the majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding on all parties involved for the life of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decisions inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(j)	The Union and the Company shall be each responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of the fees payable to the third arbitrator.
(k)	If either the Company or the Union alleges violation of the Agreement through the actions of officials of either, the complaint may be dealt with through Grievance Procedure.
CLAUSE 14:	SAFETY AND HEALTH
(a)	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the working hours and lunch breaks at the plant, including protective devices and first-aid supplies and equipment. The employees agree to observe the rules of safety and cleanliness on the Company's premises. Every effort possible will be exerted by both parties to eliminate accidents and sickness.
-23-
(b)	It is mandatory that all plant employees wear CSA approved footwear. The notated CSA approved purchase receipt. Company will pay up to $75.00 per year for work boots upon presentation of It is agreed that failure to wear CSA approved footwear will result in the following disciplinary action:
1 st Offence - A warning
2nd Offence - 1 day suspension without pay
3rd Offence - I week suspension without pay
4th Offence - 4 weeks suspension without pay
5th Offence - subject to dismissal at the discretion of the Union
and Management.
These regulations apply to all plant employees (excluding those who have appropriate doctor certificates).
(c)	Hard hats (feather or bump) supplied by the Company must be worn at all times in designated areas of the plant.
For those who do not conform with this clause:
1st Offence - A warning
2nd Offence - 1 day suspension without pay
3rd Offence - 1 week suspension without pay at discretion of the Safety Committee
4th Offence - Subject to dismissal at the discretion of Union and Management.
CLAUSE 15:
-24-
(d)	Clothing
The Company will provide pants/shirts or coveralls to employees. The company will provide either three (3) pairs of coveralls to those employees who prefer them, or two (2) sets of shirts/pants. The employee will be responsible for the laundering and the security of the clothing, which must be exchanged prior to getting new sets. Normally, two (2) sets of either will be supplied per year, if required. For all other or extra clothing, the cost will be split on a 50/50 basis, subject to prior approval by the company. Employees must comply with the Company policy regarding care and cleanliness of clothing.
The Company will make outer winter parkas available to employees who need them. Two (2) parkas will be available in the Feed Plant and two (2) will be available in the Warehouse.
UNION SECURITY
(a)	It shall be a condition of employment that any eligible employee who, at the date of this Agreement, was a member in good standing or becomes a member after this date, shall maintain such membership during the term of the Agreement.
(b)	It shall be a condition of employment that any eligible new employee at the conclusion of thirty (30) working days, either join the Union and maintain membership or pay the normal Union dues for the duration of this Agreement. Employees coming under this section who work less than ten (10) hours in any calendar week will not be subject to deduction of dues for that week.
(c)	Upon receipt of written authorization forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, and effective as long as such authorization has not been revoked by the employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the
-25-
bi-weekly pay of each employee, Union initiation fees and dues. All such sums deducted, together with a record of those from whom deductions were made and the amounts thereof and the weeks for which such deductions were made, shall be handed to the secretary of the Union not later than the last day of the calendar month in which such deductions were made.
(d)	Employees returning to work following layoffs, leave of absence, or who are being re-employed shall be required to pay the normal Union dues following completion of thirty (30) working days.
CLAUSE 16:	WEEKLY GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT
(a)	The Company agrees to guarantee weekly employment on the following basis:
Employees with three (3) years service - guarantee of forty (40) hours of work including the first (1st) day of the work week.
(b)	This guarantee is subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(1)	Shift premiums, overtime pay including week-ends, will not be considered in calculating the guarantee. In other words,-the guarantee will be calculated at straight time rates.
(2)	Paid holidays form part of the guarantee if observed in the employee's normal work week.
(3)	It is agreed that employees will perform whatever work is assigned to them. If the employee declines the work then the Company is relieved from its responsibility to that
CLAUSE 17:
-26-
employee for the week involved as a result of this guarantee.
(4)	If an employee is late or absent from work due to vacation. sickness or leave of absence on a scheduled day or on a called in day, the guarantee will be reduced by the hours lost because of such absence.
(5)	The Company will not be responsible for this guarantee in cases of plant breakdowns, acts of God or force majeure.
(c)	This guarantee only applies if an employee performs some work in a given work week.
GENERAL
(a)	The Company agrees to maintain a bulletin board in a conspicuous position where it can be seen by the employees, and agrees that all notifications pertaining to this Agreement and conditions hereof, may be posted on the bulletin board by the Company and by the officers of the Union as provided under Clause 4, paragraph (a) of this Agreement.
(b)	This agreement has been entered into in good faith by the contracting parties. Each party agrees that it will not make any unfair or false use of this Agreement, or make any false or untrue or misleading statements or representations regarding its contents, or any of its provisions.
(c)	The Company agrees to maintain a fringe benefit package as summarized in brief and attached. Some of the costs of these benefits are paid by the Company and some costs are shared by the employees. How
-27-
these costs are paid and shared is also shown. The Company agrees these benefits will be maintained through the duration of this Contract.
CLAUSE 18:	PLANT CLOSURE
In the event that an employee with more than one (1) full year of service loses his job due to the permanent closure of the plant, such employee shall receive severance pay of one (1) weeks pay at the employee's regular rate of pay for each full year of service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of severance pay entitlements.
PAYMENT WILL NOT BE MADE:
i)	To employees who are discharged foreust cause;
ii)	To employees who voluntarily resign;
iii)	To employees who retire;
iv)	To employees who accept an offer of employment by the Company in another unit of its business;
v)	When the plant is closed as a result of any strike, walkout, work slowdown or work cessation orjob action;
vi)	Where close down results from war, insurrection, government action, act of God or any such force majeure;
vii)	To employees who do not continue to work in a satisfactory and normal manner as long as required.
I
28
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunder caused their SEALS TO BE AFFIXED under the hand of their officers this	day of ——a2003.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART-ELLISON MILLING COMPANY
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART: UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
R. CURTIS
REPRESENTATIVE, U.F.C.W
OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS	JAN 1/03 2.5%	JAN 1/04 3.0%	JAN 1/05 3.0%
			
MILLER	$21.55	$22.20	$22.87
SECOND MILLER	$19.24	$19.82	$20.41
CLEANER-UTILITY / CLEANER-RELIEF 2nd MILLER	$17.16	$17.67	$18.20
			
JOURNEYMAN (ALBERTA TRADE CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATE)	$21.55	$22.20	$22.87
MILLWRIGHT (NON-JOURNEYMAN)	$20.52	$21.14	$21.77
MILLWRIGHT HELPERS	$18.92	$19.49	$20.07
			
LEAD PACKER & BAKERY MIX LEAD OPERATOR	$19.87	$20.47	$21.08
SHIPPERS	$19.27	$19.85	$20.45
WAREHOUSE OPERATORS	$19.05		m-
LEAD PACKER, SMALL SIZES	$18.15	SIMS	
PACKERS & BALERS, SMALL SIZES	$17.41		SIM?
			
LEAD OPERATOR	$19.87	$20.47	$21.08
SECOND OPERATOR	$19.05	$19.62	$20.21
WAREHOUSE WORKER & FEED MILL OPERATORS	$18.93	$19.50	$20.09
* ’ ’NEW” LEAD OPERATOR *(Hired after Jan. 1 st,2000)	$18.17	$18.72	$19.28
*"NEW" SECOND OPERATOR	$16.83	$17.33	$17.85
			
			
ASSISTANT	$19.87	$20.47	$21.08
ELEVATOR LABOURER	$18.22	$18.77	$19.33
			
TRUCK DRIVER	$19.31	$19.89	$20.49
WATCHERS	$18.32	$18.87	$19.44
RELIEF WATCHERS	$17.44	$17.96	$18.50
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN DURING 2000-2002 SHOWING BENEFITS AND COSTS
LIFE INSURANCE
This insurance is carried with Great West Assurance Company. The amount of each employee’s life insurance is $55,000. Full-time employees become eligible for insurance on the completion of six months of continuous active service. This insurance also includes a total and permanent disability benefit and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit. The Company provides each employee a group insurance booklet describing this plan in more detail.
EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
NIL	FULLY PAID BY COMPANY	
ALBERTA HEALTH PLAN
Coverage for employee and dependents. Coverage effective first of month following completion of 30 working days. Benefits from any licensed medical doctor for all office, home . and hospital calls. Covers sickness, health examination and non-occupational accidents, oral surgery, optometric services, pediatric and osteopathic services and chiropractic services.
April 01, 2002	EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
SINGLE	$15.40	$28.60	$44.00
FAMILY	$30.80	$57.20	$88.00
HOSPITALIZATION
Blue Cross with Supplementary Hospital and Other Services Group Contract. Coverage for employee, spouse and dependent children under 21 years of age. Also includes dependent unmarried children under 25 years of age that are in full-time attendance at a specialized school, college or university. Coverage first month of following completion of 30 working days. Benefits of private room if available, any Blue Cross hospital in Alberta or maximum $40 per day in co-operating hospital outside Province; ambulance service, naturopathic services, appliances, clinical psychologist service, dental repair to natural teeth damaged by accident, drugs and home nursing, all subject to individual services maximums. Supplementary Blue Cross coverage under “Group Outside Canada Emergency Health Plan” is covered for all employees as well.
(HOSPITALIZATION)
SEPT. 01,2002	EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
SINGLE	$9.78	$22.82	$32.60
FAMILY	$20.56	$47.99	$68.55
VISION CARE
Will provide $150 every two (2) years for the purchase of eye glasses for employees and immediate family.
WAGE INDEMNITY
You will receive a weekly income if you become totally disabled as a result of a nonoccupational accident or sickness not covered by Workers' Compensation, provided you are under the care of a licensed physician. Telephone contact with a doctor does not constitute treatment within the meaning of the Group Policy. The amount of the weekly indemnity premium is shown in the schedule of amounts below.
2003	EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
	$11.83	$11.83	$23.66
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
66.7% of the employee's regular weekly earnings, including basic earnings together with regular overtime and bonuses which form part of regular remuneration, with a maximum amount of benefit not to exceed 2/3rds of the maximum insurable earnings in effect under the Employment Insurance Regulations as at the commencement of disability. Amounts of weekly indemnity which are not integral multiples of $1.00 are rounded to the next higher dollar.
You become eligible for a different amount of weekly indemnity if your earnings class changes. Changes are made on the date notification is given to the Insurance Company, or, if you are not at work on that date, on the date you return to work.
The payment of a weekly income will commence on the first day of disability if you are disabled by an accident or on the fourth day if disabled because of illness. Payments continue as long as you are disabled, up to a maximum of 26 weeks for each period of disability. During this period of disablement the company shall reimburse the affected
employee for short-term wage indemnity premiums from the fourth (4th) to twenty-sixth (26th) week.
Benefits are not payable for pregnancy, childbirth, or resulting complications.
A disability resulting from the same cause as a previous disability will be treated as a continuation of that disability unless you have completely recovered and have been back at work for a continuous period of at least 30 days.
Wage indemnity to be paid where no sick leave available or after sick leave is completely used. No waiting period where paid following sick leave payment of 3 days. Wage indemnity payments will not overlap Employment Insurance benefits and/or sick leave payment or vice versa.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
Coverage of 50% of employee's regular earnings to maximum of $600 per week after weekly indemnity and E.I. benefits. Qualifications for coverage subject to policy wording. Premiums shared 50% Company and 50% Employee.
EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
$20.55	$20.55	$41.10
WORKERS' COMPENSATION
Required by Provincial Workers' Compensation Act. Administered by Workers' Compensation Board. Coverage for employee for injury or death sustained from. occupational accident.
Coverage automatic first day of employment, except for farm employees. Benefits - 90% of previous year's net income while away from work, plus all medical expenses, hospitalization, drugs, dental, glasses, clothing, etc. Pension for spouse and dependent children up to 18 years in event of death subject to applicable terms and conditions.
EMPLOYEE	COMPANY	TOTAL
NIL	$2.00	$2.00
		
SICK LEAVE
Effective the day of ratification (August 31, 1987) of a previous Agreement the old sick leave plan was terminated and no further benefits have accrued. Benefits earned and not used up to August 31, 1987 will be retained by each employee until used up in the manner provided in the Plan. The Plan then ends.
PENSION PLAN
For each year an employee participates in the Pension Plan the employee will be entitled to a pension of 2% of annual earnings. The final pension at retirement will be 2% times the number of years an employee is a member of the Plan times the average of the best five of the employee's final ten years earnings, subject to a maximum of 70%. Employees whose age plus service is equal or greater than eighty-five (85) shall be entitled to retire at sixty-two (62) with no penalty discount. Optional forms of pension and other details of the pension plan are fully described in a Pension Booklet provided by the Company.
YEARLY COST	
EMPLOYEE	COMPANY
1 5% OF GROSS EARNINGS	BALANCE OF THE COST 1
The Company Death Benefit, Total and Permanent Disability Benefit, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit and Pension Plan as negotiated between the Parties shall continue and remain in effect for the life of the Agreement or unless terminated by the mutual consent of both parties to this Agreement. It shall be a condition of employment, which all new fulltime employees participate in this Plan.
DENTAL PLAN
A basic dental plan will be provided. The plan will provide coverage of 100% basic dental, 50% dentistry and 50% orthodontics.
APPENDIX "A"
CONTINENTAL WORK SCHEDULE
HOURS OF WORK & CONDITIONS OF OVERTIME
-	The continental work day will consist of twelve (12) hours.
-	Each employee will work (14) shifts during the twenty-eight (28) day work cycle.
-	' All hours worked in excess of 12 hours per shift or eighty (80) hours per two weeks
within a cycle shall be paid at one and one-half (1 'A) times the regular rate.
-	When a fifth consecutive twelve (12) hour shift has been worked, the worker shall be entitled to an additional three (3) hours of straight time pay.
-	Saturday and Sunday premiums are not applicable.
-	This schedule will be worked for a complete twenty-eight (28) day cycle or the premiums and rules covering the regular conditions and hours of work will apply.
-	In the case of sickness, the employee with the most seniority and ability, who is not scheduled to work will be asked first. The overtime will be voluntary subject to going down the seniority list until the employee with the least seniority must work the missed shift. (assuming the employee has the required ability).
-	Overtime at a rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the normal rates will be paid for shifts worked that are not part of the employee's regular shift schedule. Except for Sunday which will be paid at double time.
-	When overtime hours are accumulated for time off, the accumulated time must not exceed eighty (80) working hours.
-	During the time of this Agreement only Millers, 2nd Millers and Cleaner-Relief 2nd Millers will work the continental shift schedule.
-	Cleaner-Relief 2nd Millers filling in for continental shift workers will work a fourteen (14) day, seven (7) shift cycle when required.
WAGE RATE AND PAYMENT
Each employee will receive a base pay of forty (40) regular hours at time & one-half (1 1/2) for each week in the pay period.
-	The application of shift premium will remain the same and will be hours worked during the pay period.
. Saturday premium: fifty (50) cents per hour, Sunday premium: cents per hour
PAID HOLIDAY
Hours worked on a statutory holiday will be paid at time & one half.
Each employee will be paid eight (8) hours straight time for each statutory holiday.
and two (2) hours paid on the actual seventy five (75)
ANNUAL VACATION
Vacation entitlement will be based on hours. One shift will be twelve (12) hours of vacation.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Compassionate Leave of one (1) day is equal to twelve (13) hours. In the event of a death in the immediate family the employee would receive up to thirty-six (36) hours with pay. In the event of the death of a sister/brother-in-law or grandparents, the employee would receive twelve (12) hours leave with pay.
GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT
Employees with three (3) years service - guarantee of one hundred sixty (160) hours of work during the 28 day cycle.