Labour Agreement
September 26,2001 to September 25,2005
ADM Milling Co. Montreal
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Montreal
Between
ADM MILLING CO Montreal, Quebec
(hereinafter called «the Employers)
And
LESYNDICAT NATIONALDESEMPLOYES DELES MINOTERIES OGILVIE LTI=E
(hereinafter called «the Union)
TERM: FROM September 26. 2001 TO September 25. 2005___________________
ARTICLE I ARTICLE II ARTICLE III ARTICLE IV ARTICLE V ARTICLE VI ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII ARTICLE IX ARTICLE X ARTICLE XI ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIII
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
GRIEVANCEAND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
JOB CLASSIFICATIONSAND RATES OF PAY
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
SENIORITY AND FILLING PERMANENT VACANCIES
HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
TIME OFF FROM WORK
HEALTH AND WELFARE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
SCOPE AND TERM OF THE AGREEMENT
2
3
4
5
9
12
17
19
21
23
24
26
26
TABLE OF CONTENTS
RECOGNITION MANAGEMENT RIGHTS GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME SENIORITY AND FILLING PERMANENTVACANCIES HOLI DAYS VACATIONS TIME OFF FROM WORK HEALTH AND WELFARE GENERAL PROVISIONS NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS SCOPE AND TERM OF THE AGREEMENT
J
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly labour relations between the Employer and those employees who are part of the bargaining unit as hereinafter set forth. In consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I	RECOGNITION
Section 1.01	Recognition
The Employer recognizes that the Union is the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent of the group of employees of the Employer at its flour plant located on Mill Street, Montreal, Quebec, for the group described in the union certification issued by the Canada Labour Relations Board.
Section 1.02	Union Membership and Dues
A - As a condition of employment, all employees who are members in good standing of the Union on the date of signing of the Agreement or who become members in good standing after that date, shall remain such for the entire term of the Agreement.
B - As a condition of employment, any new employee shall become a member of the Union in good standing and shall remain such for the entire term of the Agreement.
C - The Employer shall not be forced to terminate the service of an employee who has been expelled from or suspended by the Union for a reason other than the non-payment of Union dues.
D - As a condition of employment, any eligible employee on the date of signing of the Agreement, shall be required to pay the Union initiation fee and regular dues for the duration of the Collective Agreement. Also as a condition of employment, any new employee shall pay, from the time of his hiring and for the duration of the Collective Agreement, the Union initiation fee and regular dues.
E - The Employer shall deduct the Union membership dues and initiation fees (but may not apply any other deductions) from the employees' earnings on each pay. There shall be no accumulation of deductions from month to month and the said deductions shall not be applied retroactively for a past month. The Employer shall promptly remit the amounts thus deducted to the Treasurer of the Union on the second (2n°) week of each month. At the time of payment to the local Union, the Employer shall indicate the names of the employeesfor whom deductions were applied
-2-
at source, the amount remitted and the cumulative amount for each employee, the salary earned during the previous month and the number of dues-paying employees.
Section 1.03 Union President's Work Schedule
The Employer shall make every reasonable effort to schedule the local Union President on the day or evening shift provided that this assignment does not result in further assignment problems or cause additional training by the Employer. Subject to operational requirements, the local Union President may also exchange assignments with another employee in the same classification after having obtained authorization which may not be refused without a valid reason.
ARTICLE II	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 2.01	Management Rights
A - The Employer retains all rights not expressly limited by the specific terms of this Collective Agreement. These rights, in particular, shall include the right to manage the plant and direct the workforce; to maintain order; to plan, direct and control plant operations; to determine the means, methods, processes and schedules; to determine the products to be manufactured or processed; to determine the location of its plants; to determine the continuance of its operating departments; to transfer work temporarily or permanently between plants; to permanently close the plant or any portion thereof during the term of the Collective Agreement; to adopt "make" or "buy" decisions; to determine schedules and hours of work including overtime; to make and enforce reasonable safety rules and regulations; to hire or rehire employees; to assign employees to work and designate the duties of the employees; to change, modify, eliminate or reassign job duties, to contract out work, particularly including maintenance, construction and cleanup work, or to have such work performed by other personnel of the Employer; to determine the number cf shifts; to promote or transfer employees from one position to another; to demote, discipline, suspend or discharge employees for just cause; to lay off or recall employees; to relieve employees from duty because of lack cf work or any other legitimate reason; to set the wage rates for newly created jobs; and to make any decisions which, in the opinion of management, the efficient operation of the plant requires.
B - The Employer agrees that it shall not exercise its rights in a manner incompatible with the specific provisions of this Agreement, and any alleged violation thereof shall be subject to the grievance procedure. It is understood that the express provisions of this Agreement constitute the only limitations upon the Employer's rights.
Note 7: The provisions of this Article shall not be interpreted as restricting the meaning of the other Articles of this Agreement.
3-
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE Grievance Procedure
In the event of a grievance or a disagreement between the parties, the parties agree to follow the procedurespecified hereinafter.
Within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the fact that gave rise to it, the employee, accompanied by a member of the Union Executive, shall submit his written grievance, which he shall have signed, to his foreman. The foreman, within five (5) working days of the date when the grievance was filed, shall discuss the grievance with the employee and render his decision. The employee shall be accompanied by a member of the Union Executive. If the employee is not satisfied with the answer he has received, he may then submit his grievance to the Union. If the employee and the Union agree to go further, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Plant Manager or his representative, within five (5) working days of the date when the foreman rendered his decision.
The Plant Manager or his representative and a member of the Union Executive, accompanied by the grievor or a representative of the grievors in the event of a collective grievance, shall meet for the purposes of finding a solution to the grievance, within five (5) working days of the Union's request (a representative of the CSN may also participate). The Plant Manager or his representative shall give his written response within ten (10) working days of the adjournmentofthis meeting.
If the grievor and the Union wish to submit the grievance to arbitration, they shall notify the other party by registered letter or by fax within fifteen (15) working days of the decision by the Plant Manager or his representative.
It is understood that throughout the procedure described above, any member of the Union Executive may be mandated by the President to represent the employee in the steps of the grievance procedure.
Section 3.02	Collective Grievance
The Union Executive may file a collective grievance to deal with any complaint pertaining to the application of this Agreement and pertaining to the working conditions of the employees i n general or a majority of the employees of a department,
-4-
or to the rate or payment of wages of the employees in general or a majority of the employees of a department. A collective grievance, thus recognized by the parties to this Agreement, may be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, as the case may be.
Section 3.03	Arbitration Procedure
A - If the Employer and the Union do not arrive at a settlement formula within fifteen (15) working days of the meeting described in Step 2 of the grievance procedure, the case may be referred to the arbitrator, in accordance with the following procedure.
B - Before being submitted to arbitration, a grievance or a dispute shall have passed through all the steps of the grievance procedure, unless the parties agree to the contrary. The parties shall attempt to agree on the choice of an arbitrator and, if they cannot reach agreement on this, Labour Canada shall be required to appoint one.
C - The arbitratorshall render hisdecisionor decisionson the basis of the provisions of this Agreement, and he shall not be permitted to amend or modify the provisions of this contract in any way.
D - Each patty shall cover half of the arbitrator’s fees and expenses.
E - The employee who files the grievance and the Union representative may take time off work, without pay, to attend the arbitration hearing.
Section 3.04 Bulletin Board
The Employer agrees to make a bulletin board available to the Union for the purposes of posting notices of Union meetings, recreational or social activities, and Union election notices, nominations and election results. Any other notice, regardless of whether it pertains to union activities, shall be submitted to the Employer for approval before posting.
_____________ Expiration of Disciplinary Actions
Any disciplinary action shall be deleted from the employee's record after a period of eighteen (18) months after the disciplinary action, provided that the employee has not been the object of another disciplinary action of the same nature during this period of time.
ARTICLE IV JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
5-
Section 4.01 Job Classifications And Rates Of Pay
The following hourly rates shall apply during the term of this
Agreement:
Mechanic___________
Electrician________
Maintenance Wbrker
20.46
20.46 19.12
20.97
20.97 19.60
22.41
22.41 21.01
23.08
23.08 21.64
Technician
18.84
19.31
19.70
20.29
NOTES APPLICABLE TO JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Employees in any job classification shall perform any tasks or duties to which they may be assigned. Each "job classification" may include a wide variety of different positions, tasks and duties, some of which may cross job classification lines. Maintenance, housekeeping and lubrication duties may be required of any employee. Employees who either perform maintenance duties or assist in performing maintenance duties shall be paid at the rate of their own regularjob classification. The Employer shall have no obligation under this Collective Agreement to establish a light duty position or classification.
2.	There are no minimum shift or position manning requirements. The Employer shall have the exclusive right to determine the number of employees in any job classification as well as the right to determine shift size in the plant or any portion thereof, provided there is no violation of the Canada Labour Code. Specific job classifications may be filled, vacated or permanently discontinued at the Employer's discretion.
3.	If employees within the bargaining unit do not possess the necessary qualifications to fill a vacancy, the Employer may fill such vacancy by recruiting from outside.
4.	Temporary employees shall not be entitled to the Benefits, Seniority, Recall Rights, or any other provisions of this Agreement.
6-
Section-4.02	Shift Differentials
A - 2nd or 3 Shifts-A shift differential shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he is scheduled on the 2nd or 3 shift. The 2nd shift differential shall be $0.85 per hour. The 3 shift differential shall be $1.15 per hour.
Nnte 1:	A- If an employee is scheduled on a 2nd or 3 shift and is
involved in a continuous work period requiring him to work on more than one shift, he shall then be entitled to the premium of the shift to which he was initially assigned. An employee who is scheduled on the day or 1st shift shall not qualify for shift differential pay even if he works on the 2nd or 3rd shift. Shift differentials shall not apply to call-ins or call-backs unless such an assignment continues on into the employee's regularly scheduled 2"“ or 3 shift. If an employee is on a regularschedule which requireshim to overlap two shifts, then the shift on which he is scheduled for the greatest number of hours shall determine the shift differential, if any. Should he be scheduled for an equal number of hours on two shifts, then the higher shift differential shall apply.
B - 2 Rotating 12-Hour Shifts - A shift differential shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he must work on either of the two 12-hourshifts. The applicable shift differential shall be $1.05 per hour provided the employee does not rotate shifts. For those employees who do rotate, the shift differential shall be $1.40 per hour.
Note 2. Night shift differentials shall not be added to an employee's base rate for purposes of computing overtime, or for any unworked hours for which the employee is paid, such as holidays, jury duty, and bereavement leave.
Section 4.03 Rates Of Pay - Temporary Transfers
A - If an employee is temporarily transferred for the Employer's practical convenience to a lower-ratedjob classification, he shall continue to receive the rate of pay corresponding to his regularjob classification.
B - If an employee is temporarily transferred by the Employer to a higher-rated job classification, he shall receive the rate of pay corresponding to this higher position. This provision shall only apply when the employee is specifically assigned to fill a temporary vacancy created by an employee's absence from work. It shall not apply to employees who may relieve other employees on breaks or who may
7-
be supplementing the workforce by performing various tasks or duties of employees in other job classifications.
Section 4.04	Permanent Transfers
An employee who is permanently transferred to a lower-rated job classification shall receive the lower rate at the time he begins work in the lower-rated job. If he is permanently transferred to a higher-ratedjob classification, he will receive the rate of the higher-rated job classification.
Section 4.05	Temporary Employees
Temporary employees may be hired as determined by the Employer to supplement the workforce temporarily. Such employees shall not be entitled to benefits under this Collective Agreement nor shall the provisions of this Collective Agreement apply to them. Such temporary employees shall not accrue seniority as a result of such temporary employment. Temporary employees shall not be considered probationary employees even if the temporary assignment exceeds the probation period.
Note 1: Temporary employees shall be paid at the rate of the job they are performing if they are qualified and are replacing a regular employee. Other temporary employees shall be paid $4 per hour less than the applicable rate provided for in Section4.01.
Note 2: The Employer shall first offer any temporary assignment to its regular employees on layoff before offering it to temporary employees.
Note 3: Temporary employees may be assigned without time limit for vacation replacements and for illness or accident replacements. Temporary employees hired may work no more than 160 days Per calendar year, following which they shall obtain the status of regular employees and their seniority date shall correspond to their hiring date as temporary employees.
Section 4.06	Creation of a New Job Classification
A - If the Employer creates a new job classification, it shall post the job and determine a wage rate for the said classification; ifthe Union so requests, it shall, within 120 days of the creation of the classification, negotiate a permanent wage rate with the Union for the said classification.
B - The negotiated rate shall be retroactive to the date of creation of the position. If it is impossible to reach an agreement, there shall be no arbitration to determine the rate. In such an impasse, the negotiationof the rate shall be postponed
8-
to the renewal of the Collective Agreement and the provisions concerning retroactivity shall apply as defined in this Section.
Section 4.07 Technological Changes
A - Three (3) months in advance, or sooner if possible, the Employer shall provide complete information on any technical or technological improvements, or on any changes in the structure of its administrativesystem which are directly related to the bargaining unit and which will have the effect of laying off employees. The Union undertakes to cooperate fully with the Employer in its applications for assistance from the various government departments concerned.
B- The affected employeesshall receive the appropriate training in order to adapt to such changes. If the employee cannot meet the basic requirements of such training or if he fails such training, he may exercise his seniority rights providedfor in this CollectiveAgreement.
ARTICLE V	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.01 Intent And No Pyramiding
This Article is intended to determine the normal hours of work and to provide a basis for computing overtime and shift differentials, and shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on overtime hours or on hours of work per day or per week, nor shall anything in this Agreement be so construed as to permit the pyramiding or duplication of overtime or shift differential payments. Hours for which overtime or shift differentials are paid shall not be used to compute overtime or shift differentials for any other hours. Whenever more than one shift differential could be applied to the same hours, only the larger shift differential shall be paid.
Section 5.02 Work Day and Work Week
The work day shall be a 24-hour period runningfrom 7 AM one day to 7 AM the following day. The workweek shall begin at 7 AM Monday and end at 7 AM the following Monday. The work day and work week may vary for some individuals or shifts in the interest of efficient or less costly operations.
Section 5.03	__________________________________
A - The Employer may vary shift schedules, starting times and quitting times for different areas or operations of the mill or for individual employees. A prior notice of seven (7) calendar days shall be given when the hours of work of a complete department or shift are modified and such change of shift or department shall apply for at feast fourteen (14) calendar days.
9-
B- The normal work week shall consist offive (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours, scheduled Monday through Sunday. However, the Employer may vary or change the number of hours scheduled, the number of shifts scheduled, the manning requirements of the various shifts and the scheduling of work days and hours for business reasons or to ensure efficient operations. Employees may be required to eat on the job or take a thirty (30)minute unpaid lunch period. Any area of the plant or portion of the employees may be scheduled in more than one way. The lunch break shall be scheduled between the fourth and the sixth hour following the beginning of the shift.
C - Employees scheduled in operations with job classifications requiring two (2) or more shifts shall rotate shifts. The Employer may, at its discretion, either establish or discontinue fixed shifts for any employee.
Note: The rotating continuous 12-hour schedule is included in the Letter of Understanding to this effect.
Section 5.04 Daily And Weekly Overtime Pay
All hours worked in excess of forty (40) straight-time hours in any one workweek or eight (8) straight-time hours in any one work day shall be paid at 1 Yi times the employee's straight-time hourly rate.
Note 1: An employee who works continuously beyond his regularly scheduled shift and continues working into the next day, or his scheduled day off, or into a new work week shall receive 1 'A times his straight-time hourly rate (or double time if applicable) for such hours as he works beyond the start of a new day. Such hours shall not be used to create overtime or shift differential payments during the employee's regular scheduled shift.
Note 2: To satisfy the requirement of forty (40) straight-time hours, the following unworked hours shall count as straight-time hours of work up to eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week for days the employee was either scheduled to work or was laid off: (1) a worked or unworked holidayfor which the employee is paid, provided it falls on an employee's scheduled straight-time day of work, or (2) a paid absence resulting from either bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time, or (3)eight (8) hours per day for Union Executive members who miss work as a result of attending contract negotiation meetings with the Employer.
Section 5.Q5 7th Consecutive Day of Work Premium
During periods when the mill is scheduled on a 1-, 2- or 3-shift operation (or any combination thereof), an employee shall be paid two (2) times his regular rate of pay for work performed on his 7m consecutive day of work in the work week provided that he has worked forty (40) straight-time hours during the workweek
10-
Section 5.06	Call-In Indemnity
An employee, who is called in for emergency or overtime work on his scheduled day off or called back after he has finished his shift and left the plant and premises, will be paid at his applicable hourly rate for such unscheduled hours worked or four (4) hours' pay at his straight-time hourly rate, whichever is greater. An employee called back or called in to start in advance of his regular starting time and who continues to work on into his scheduled shift, shall not qualify for the four (4) hour guarantee provided for in this Section.
Section 5.07	Call-In Pay
An employee who comes to work as normally scheduled shall be entitled to at least four (4) hours of wages at his applicable hourly rate.
Section 5.08	Distribution Of Overtime
Employees shall perform necessary overtime assignments. Daily and weekly overtime will be covered by qualified employees at work, working in the appropriate classification. Such employees shall be assigned to daily and weekly overtime on the basis of the most senior man on the job , except for work where the continuity of the operation is essential, ff active employees in the job classification are not available, the Employer, subject to qualifications, may then offer the overtime to any qualified employee in order of seniority, starting with employees on the job. When necessary, the least senior employee who is available and qualified shall work overtime.
Note 1: The term “man on the job” means the employee who is actually performing a specific task or actually holds a specificjob. I[ more than one “man on the job" is involved, then the employee who is performing the specific task shall be offered the overtime. If the employee performing this task refuses the overtime. it shall be offered to employees in the same job classificationwho are qualified to perform the work.
Note 2: Employees whose positions are in operation may not refuse overtime in their own positions in order to work overtime in another position.
Note 3: If overtime (including call-ins) is misassigned, an employee so affected shall have the opportunity to make up such missed overtime as soon as possible within a period of thirty (30) calendar days at any time that will be mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee. This assignment cannot be made in violation of the rules prescribed in this Section. If no work that normally comes under the bargaining unit is available, the Employer, within the same time period, may offer other work that can reasonably be accomplished by the employee.
11
Note 4: If the overtime is less than a full shift, the overtime shall be offered to the employee occupying the position on the shift immediately preceding or following the overtime opportunity.
Note 5: Maintenance employees shall remain on the premises until otherwise informed by the Employer when they are assigned to jobs which must be completed due to a breakdown or for the purposes of production.
ARTICLE VI	SENIORITY AND FILLING PERMANENT VACANCIES
Section 6.01	Seniority
A - Seniority shall be considered as plant seniority and shall be defined as the duration of a regular employee's continuous service for the Employer within the bargaining unit as described in Section 1.01 - Recognition, from his last hiring date. The seniority date of the employee will be determined in accordance with Sections 4.05 and 6.03.
B - Seniority of employees hired at the same date shall be determined in alphabetical order of family name.
Note- An up-to-date seniority list shall be posted every 6 months and the Union shall receive a copy.
Section 6.02	Consideration of Qualifications
The application of the seniority provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to factors which make it possible to determine whether the employee is qualified to perform the work required. If the employee is not so qualified, the applicable seniority provisions shall not apply.
■Note.: It is recognized that an employee who applies for a permanent position or who is permanently transferred to a new or differentjob will have a fair probation or training period for the purposes of this new job.
Section 6.03	Probationary Employees
All new employees shall be hired as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) days of employment, after which the employee shall be placed on the seniority list dating back to his hiring date, A probationary employee shall not have seniority rights and the discharge of such employee will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
12-
Section 6.04	Filling PermanentVacancies
A - Permanentvacancies in classifications (except key positions) which the Employer determines are necessary to fill, shall be posted for 5 consecutive days. The position shall be awarded to the most senior qualified employee who applied during the posting period.
B - Permanent vacancies in key positions which the Employer determines are necessary to fill shall not be posted for applications. However, such vacancies shall be posted to determine who is interested in being assigned the position and who holds the required qualifications. Such positions will be filled by unilateral assignment by the Employer and may be filled by hiring from outside.
C - Qualifications - Operator 1 in the mill - The decision regarding an employee's selection, ability and qualifications to performthejob of Operator li n the mill shall be at the Employer's sole discretion.
D - Probation Period - An employee permanently assigned to a differentjob classification shall benefit from a fair probation and training period for the position. If after the probation period, the employee is qualified and capable of performing the work, he shall obtain the position. If however, the employee is unqualified and incapable of performing the work, he shall return to his previous position.
Note: Concerning Maintenance positions, see Section 6.05 - Filling Permanent
Vacancies (Maintenance).
Section 6.05	Filling Permanentvacancies (Maintenance!
A - Entry into the Maintenance job classification will be at the Employer's discretion, either by recruiting from outside or by assigning an employee of the Employer's choice to be trained in thejob. The following criteria, among others, may be used in the selection of an employee for these job classifications.
1.	Results from an Employer-designated battery of tests to measure aptitudes, interest and other qualifications and characteristics specific to maintenance.
2.	Physically ability to performall types of plant maintenancework.
3.	Willingness and ability to perform high work.
4.	Wllingness and ability to continually work overtime and comply with emergency call-backs subject to the applicable laws.
13-
5.	Willingness and ability to take formal trade school courses as selected by management and to take such courses on a continuing basis during the training period.
6.	Must have shown good job aptitudes, have a good attendance record and have beena productiveemployee in previousjobsperformed inthe plant.
B - An employee in training must advance through two (2) training grades and into the Maintenance classification or be demoted. Time spent in each training grade shall be determined as follows:
Training Grade 2 - 13 to 24 months
Training Grade 1-12 months
C - An employee with obvious aptitudes may advance at a faster rate. Advancement through the training grades shall be based on management's judgment of the employee's aptitudes and job performance. An employee who is not making satisfactory progress to the Maintenance classification may be kept in any grade for longer than the above-mentioned time, or may be demoted. An employee who is demoted shall return to his previously assigned job classification, if possible.
D - An employee in training shall be required to take formal trade school courses applicable to plant work. Such courses shall be approved by management prior to enrollment. The Employer shall pay for tuition, books and supplies, but not for time spent at these courses.
E - The training program shall not preventthe Employerfrom hiring qualified employees from outside.
Note: The Employer shall post a notice when a vacancy is to be filled through the probation program. An employee may indicate his interest by signing the notice. The Employer may test all or part of the knowledge of employees desiring to be tested.
Section6.06	Filling Temporary Vacancies
When filling temporary vacancies, the Employer shall normally fill the vacancy with the most senior qualified employee available in the next lower classification within the department.
Section 6.07	Layoffs
A- In case of layoff, the employee subjectto layoff may exercise his seniority rights throughout the plant, provided that in each case he bumps an employee with less seniority and can fulfil the normal requirements of the position.
14-
B - When an employee bumps an employee with less seniority in another department to avoid layoff, he shall return to his former department if, during the 12 following months, the position he occupied is reinstated.
C - To bump an employee with less seniority in a key position, an employee must be able to perform this position without additional training after a necessary period of refamiliarization depending on the circumstances, except for the laboratory technician, millwright and electrician positions.
Section 6.08	Recalls
A - In the case of recalls, seniority applies provided that the employee can meet the normal requirements of the vacant position.
B - To be recalled in a key job, an employee must meet the requirements of this position without additional training after a necessary period of refamiliarization depending on the circumstances.
Section6.09	Loss of Seniority
An employee will lose his seniority rights and employment, and his name shall be removed from the Employer’s seniority list for any of the following reasons. The employee:
1.	Voluntarily quits hisjob, submits his resignation or retires.
2.	Is absent from work for three (3) consecutive scheduled working days without valid cause or fails to inform the Employer of his absence.
3.	Fails to report to work at the expiration of an unpaid leave of absence without having obtained an extension of his leave of absence for a period defined by the Employer.
4.	Fails to report for work after a recall from layoff, does not inform the Employer within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of the registered letter or telegram that he intends to return to work, and does not return to work within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the registered letter or telegram to his last address known to the Employer.
5.	^discharged and such discharge is not reversed underthegrievanceand arbitration procedure.
6.	Except for those off work because of work accident / sickness, has been on layoff or off work for any other reason for a period of twenty-four (24)
15-
consecutive months for those employees hired before September 25, 1995 and eighteen (18) consecutive months for those employees hired after September 25, 1995.
Section 6.10 Demotions
If an employee, who has satisfactorily completed his trial period, is unable at a later date to perform the specific tasks of the job he holds, he will be transferred to the position in which he was classified at the time of his reclassification, provided he has sufficient plant seniority and is qualified to perform the work. In the case of a demotion from an entry level classification as a sweeper, this demotion shall result in termination.
Nate: An employee may not voluntarily give up his position or demote himself. Section 6.11	Retention of Seniority
An employee who is transferred outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority in the bargaining unit for a period of four (4) months from the date of his transfer. When, during this period, the employee wishes to return to the bargaining unit or when the Employer does not wish to keep the employee in his new duties, the employee may return to the bargaining unit and enjoy his full rights and benefits.
Section 6.12	Severance Pay
When it becomes necessary to close a department or a substantial part of a department and it is not anticipatedthat the affected employees will be rehired, severance pay shall will be paid to those employees subject to the following conditions:
1.	They have six (6)months or more of seniority.
2.	They are actively in the service of the Employer, or were laid off during the 30 days preceding the notice of closure. Employees on sick leave or on workers' compensation are also eligible.
3.	They have not opted for a retirement pension, if eligible.
4.	They have not opted for the bumping provisions available in this Agreement.
5.	The closure is not caused by war, strike, slowdown or other work suspension, fire, government action or act of God (superior force).
6.	To qualify for severance pay, employees must continue to perform satisfactorily, as long as required.
16-
7.	An employee shall have the option, at the time of the layoff, to receive his severance pay immediately, on condition that his name is removed from the recall list.
8.	An employee who receives his severance pay six (6) months after his layoff, if he is recalled after having received his severance pay, shall return without seniority for the purposes of calculating subsequent severance pay.
9.	Severance pay shall be calculated as follows:
-	Employees who have between six (6) and twelve (12) months of service shall receive 1/12, per completed month of service, of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
-	Employees who have at least one (1) year but less than twenty (20) completed years of service shall be entitled to forty (40) hours of pay per completed year of service, at their regular base rate of pay.
-	Employees who have more than twenty (20) completed years of service will be entitled to eighty (80) hours of pay per completed year of service, for the years in excess of twenty (20) years.
10.	These provisions will remain in effect through the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII	HOLIDAYS
Section 7.01	Statutory Holidays
For purposes of the Agreement, the following 13 days will be recognized as statutory holidays during the calendar year:
New Year's Day	Thanksgiving Day
The Day after New Year's Day	Remembrance Day
Good Friday	December24
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
St. Jean Baptiste Day	Boxing Day
Canada Day	December31
Labour Day
These holidays will be observed on the days on which they fall, except as follows: A holiday falling on a Sunday will be observed on the following Monday. A holiday falling on a Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday.
17-
Should it be necessary to operate on a statutory holiday, the Employer agrees to schedule the minimum number of employees required for the operation of the plant.
Section 7.02 Pay for Statutory Holidays Worked
When an employee works on a holiday, he shall receive 1 Vi times his straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked plus eight (8) hours of holiday pay.
Section 7.03 Pay /o/'Statutorv Holidays Not Worked
A - An employee who is not required to work on a recognized statutory holiday will receive his holiday pay for that holiday equivalent to eight (8) hours at his regular straight-time hourly rate, provided that he meets all of the following requirements:
1.	He has earned wages for 120 worked hours during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the recognized holiday.
2.	Such employees who were unable to work 120 hours during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the holiday will receive 1/20 of the wages he has earned during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
Note 1A: Unworked holiday pay for which the employee is eligible will be offset by any other pay or other form of compensation from the Employer which the employee may receive for the same day.
B - If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to report for work as scheduled without a reason acceptable to the Employer, he will not qualify for holiday pay as provided in paragraph A of this Section.
C - To satisfy the requirement of 120 hours worked, the following unworked hours shall count as straight-time hours of work: (1) a paid absence attributable either to bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time, or (2) eight (8) hours per day for Union Executive members who miss work as a result of attending contract negotiating meetings with the Employer, or (3) eight (8) hours per day for employees on Workmen's compensation.
Section 7.04 Statutory Holidays Considered as Time Worked
Only statutory holidays for which the employee is eligible to receive holiday pay, and which fall on the employee's scheduled work day, whether worked or not worked, will be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
18-
Article 7.05	Replacement
In the event of a statutory holiday, an employee who is scheduled for work may, after agreement with the Employer, find a replacement who meets the normal requirementsof the job to work on this holiday.
ARTICLE VIII	VACATIONS
Section 8.01	Vacation Eligibility
A - Vacations earned on May 1 of each year shall betaken between May 1 and April 30 and shall be based on the completed years of continuous service by the employee as of May 1, according to the following schedule:
Years of
Continuous Service
Week of Vacation Time
Vacation Pay
Less than 1
1 through 4 5 through 9 10 through 17 18 through 25 26 or more
One day for each month of service up to a maximumof 10 days
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
6	weeks
4%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
B - The percentage is calculated on the basis of the reference year's earnings, subjectto the provisionsof the Canada Labour Code. The vacation pay shall be the greater of the following amounts: the above-mentioned percentage or 40 times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate per week of vacation.
C - An employee shall be eligible for the additional week of vacation or vacation pay after having completed his 5th, lO01, 18th and 26th year of continuous service.
D - The length of the vacation shall be reduced by 1/52 for each forty (40) straight-time hours of absence from work for any reason during the previous calendar year (except for 30 days of sick leave per year). In the application of this provision, an employee with one (1) through (4) years of continuous service shall not have his vacation time reduced to less than two (2) weeks; employees with five (5) through nine (9) years of continuous service shall not have their vacation time reduced to less than three (3) weeks; and so on.
-19-
E - The vacation pay shall be paid at the time the employee takes his vacation, on condition that the Employer has been informed seven (7) days in advance.
Section 8.02 Vacation Pay for Inactive Employees
On or after May 1, any employee who is on inactive status because of illness, injury, unpaid leave of absence, layoff, or any other reason and who has not taken his earned vacation (the vacation for which he became eligible on May 1) may request pay in lieu of such unused earned vacation. Such employee will not be considered to be on vacation as a result of receiving his vacation pay, nor will he be granted an unpaid vacation at a later date.
Section 8.03 Vacation Pay for Employees Who Leave Their Jobs
An employee who leaves his job with the Employer for any reason will receive vacation pay as follows:
1.	Earned Vacation - Earned vacation is defined as a vacation for which the employee became eligible on the May Ip rior to his termination and any unused portion of the earned vacation shall be paid to him upon termination of employment.
2.	Prorated Vacation - The prorated vacation for an employee whose employment terminates for any reason shall be calculated from May 1 to his last day of work within the one-year vacation period.
Section 8.04
A - The choice of vacation period shall be given to employees according to their seniority for those who sign the vacation schedule between January 1 and March 31, subject to the operational requirements of the business. After March 31, vacations shall be scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis, subject to the operational requirements of the business. A maximum of three (3) weeks of vacation may be granted during the summer period, from May 1 to September 30.
B - Vacations may be taken in weekly increments of one or more weeks at a time. Vacations cannot be postponed and allowed to accumulate from year to year but must be taken each year.
Section 8.05 Pay in Lieu of Vacation
Pay in lieu of vacation for earned vacations in excess of two (2) weeks per calendar year, or any portion thereof, may be granted to an individual
20-
employee at the employee's option. Vacation pay shall not be added to vacations paid under the terms of this Section.
Section 8.06	__________________________
A - When a statutory holiday specified in Section 7.01 of the Collective Agreement falls during the annual vacation period, employees may choose to be paid for this holiday or take one (1) additional day of vacation. In the latter case, the additional day or days shall be taken from the work days scheduled immediately before the start of the vacation period.
B - When overtime is scheduled for a weekend during which an employee would normally have benefited from a paid statutory holiday, the employee may postponethis holiday to the end of his vacation.
Section 8.07	__________________
Employees who have lost their seniority and who are later rehired shall be entitled to vacations on the basis of their most recent employmentdate.
ARTICLE IX TIME OFF FROM WORK Section 9.01	Jury Duty and Crown Witness
A - Employees who are summoned for jury duty shall receive the difference between their basic hourly pay rate for their regular hours of work and the amount paid by the Court. This provision shall also apply to employees who are subpoenaed by the Court as Crown witnesses
B - The employee shall furnish evidence to the Employer that he reported for or performed jury duty or appeared as a witness on the days for which he claims payment.
C - The employee shall report for work on days or part days when he is not required for jury duty or as a witness in a court of law.
Section 9.02	Bereavement Pay
A - Should a death occur in the immediate family of an employee, he may request bereavement leave. "Immediate family" shall mean spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchildren, grandparents, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, stepmother and stepfather.
21
B - The employee shall be granted time off with pay up to a maximum of three (3) days to attend the funeral. In the event of the death of the spouse or child of the employee, the employee shall be granted a maximum of five (5) days. This shall not include pay for days on which the employee is not scheduled to work. Bereavement pay shall not exceed a maximum of eight (8) straight-time hours per day.
Section 9.03	Leaves of Absence
Leaves of absence up to thirty (30) calendar days, without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted (except for gainful employment elsewhere) may be granted by the Plant Manager.
Note- The conditions of all leaves of absence shall be in writing with copies provided to the Employer and the Union. Any employee who violates the conditions of his leave of absence may be discharged.
Section 9.04	Leave of Absence - Full Time Union Position
A - On request, the Employer shall grant an unpaid leave of absence to no more than two (2) employees at any one time to serve in a full-time position with the National or Local Union. Such leave of absence shall be requested by the Union to the Employer, in writing, and shall be for the duration of the Collective Agreement. The Employer may also agree to the extension of such leave. In the event of a return to work after such unpaid leave, the employee shall return to the position he occupied at the time of his departure, if this position is still available. The Employer shall not be required to maintain the fringe benefits of any employee during any such leave of absence, nor make any other payments that might be required by some provision of this Collective Agreement.
B - A member of the Committee or his authorized representative chosen by the Union to take part as a delegate in a CSN meeting may benefit from an unpaid leave of absence on condition that a written request to this effect is made to the Employer and granted by the Employer. The maximum number of employees eligible for this authorized leave shall be one (1) per one hundred (100) members and one (1) per the majority of one hundred (100) members. The maximum period of leave per calendar year per employee delegated shall be two (2) weeks. Every effort shall be made to ensure that these requests are received by the Employer at least one. (1) week in advance so as to enable the Employer to make all workforce adjustments it deems necessaryto meetthe requirements of normal plant operations.
22-
Section9,05	Leaveof Absence - Electionto PublicOffice
A - An employee who is elected to a municipal, provincial or federal office shall be entitled to a leave of absence without pay for a period equivalent to the duration of his first term of office. The Employer shall not be required to maintain any fringe benefits for any employee in such a situation, nor to make any other payments required by the CollectiveAgreement.
B - The employee shall give the Employer at least one month's notice of his desire to return to work at the completion of said unpaid leave of absence. Subject to the employee's length of service and his ability to perform the required work satisfactorily, the Employer shall reinstate the employee in the job he held immediately prior to said unpaid leave of absence or place the employee in a job at an equal rate of pay, provided such work is available.
C - An employee reinstated subsequent to such unpaid leave of absence shall retain the seniority he held prior to the granting of the said leave of absence.
ARTICLE X	HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 10.01	Group Insurance
The group insurance program in effect on the effective date of this Agreement is a separate document and shall remain in force during the term of this Collective Agreement.
Section 10.02	Pension
The pension plan for employees who are part of the bargaining unit at the Montreal plant is a separate document, the term of which shall run concurrently with the term of this Agreement.
Section 10.03	Maternity Leave
A - Maternity leave without pay and without loss of seniority shall be granted and administered in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code.
B -An employee returning to work after a maternity leave shall provide the Employer with at least two (2) weeks' notice.
23-
___________	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 11.01	Non-Discrimination
The Employer agrees that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the Employer or by any of its representatives, with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union. Knowledge of the English language is not a prerequisitefor employment.
Section 11.02	Supervisors Working
There shall be no restriction on supervisors or other Employer personnel performing any type or amount of work at any time, provided that this does not cause a layoff or delay a recall to work.
Section 11.03	Rest Breaks
The Employer shall grant employees two (2) rest breaks of fifteen (15) minutes each per shift, The rest breaks shall be taken at a time determined by the foreman responsible for the shift.
Section 11.04	Subcontracting
The Employer prefers to use its own employees to perform work within the plant. However, it retains the right to subcontract work when necessary to meet its business requirements. Wherever possible, the Employer shall notify the Union of its subcontracting plans. Without restricting its right to subcontract, the Employer shall make every reasonable effort to avoid subcontracting work that is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit which would result in a layoff or prevent the recall of laid-off employees.
Section 11.05	Union Representation
A-The Union shall form an Executive Committee comprised of three (3) members who are working at the plant. This Executive shall see to the application of the grievance procedure as specified in the Agreement, without loss of pay, and shall participate in the negotiations for renewal of the Agreement. The regular hours spent on the negotiationsshall be paid up to the filing of the conciliation report.
B-A representative of the Executive shall not leave his job to conduct Union businesswithout the permission of his supervisor. Before contacting any other employee to discuss Union business, he shall first obtain permission from that employee's supervisor.
C -The National Representative may be present and may participate in any meetings between the Union Executive and the Employer. The time
-24-
spent on meetings with the Employer during regular working hours shall be paid at straight time.
Section 11.06 Reporting Requirements - AbsencesAnd/Or Lateness
In the event an employee is unable to report for work as scheduled, he shall be required to notify the Employer of this fact by phone or some other reasonable method priorto the start of his shift. This notification shall also include the employee's reason(s) for his failure to report as well as stating the time of his anticipated return. Continued failure on the part of the employee to comply with this requirementshall render this employee subject to disciplinary action.
Section 11.07 Reinstatement Requirements Following Sickness or Injury
An employee's reinstatement following sickness or injury shall be conditional on his supplying, on request, a certificate from the Employer's physician that he is fully recovered. Where there is a disagreement between the medical diagnosis of the Employer's physician and the employee's physician, the employee and the Employer shall be bound by the certificate obtained from a third physician to be chosen by mutual agreement between the employee's physician and the Employer's physician. The cost of the certificate obtained from the Employer's physician and the third physician shall be paid by the Employer. In the eventthat it is impossibleto agree on a third physician, the matter may be submitted to the grievance/arbitration procedure.
Section 11.08 Guaranteed Week
A-Any employee who begins the normal work week shall complete it, except if the Employer cannot supply work for the following reasons:
-	superior force (act of God);
-	fire, power failure;
-	Union activities preventing the Employer from producing or delivering its products, or other collective acts over which the Employer has no control.
B - The employee concerned shall be available to work on request and shall accept the work offered, subject to the seniority clauses, failing which the period of absence shall be deducted from the guaranteed week.
C -When an employee is suspended for just cause, the guaranteed work week described above shall be reduced by the number of hours the employee should have worked otherwise. When an employee is terminated for just cause or when he retires, the guarantee shall cease on the date of termination or retirement.
25-
D- Vacations, paid holidays and other leaves of absence shall be considered as hours worked for the purposes of the guaranteedwork week.
Section 11.09 Uniforms
The Employer shall ensure that all the employees have at their disposal one (1) clean shirt and one (1) pair of clean pants, for each regular working day.
Section 11.10	Safety Shoes
The Employer shall pay the purchase price of safety shoes up to a maximum of $130.00 for the term of this Agreement, upon presentation of a proof of purchase.
Section 11.11	Winter Outfits
The Employer shall provide two-piece winter outfits to the employees who work permanently in the warehouse. Winter outfits shall be available to employees assigned temporarily to the warehouse, and they shall have to return them to the store at the end of their temporary assignment.
ARTICLE XII	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
Section 12.01	No Strikes or Lockouts
Under the terms of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, curtailment of work, interference with the Employer's operations or interference with production caused by or engaged in by the Union or any members thereof. Employees may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge for engaging or participating in any of the foregoing activities in violation of this Section 12.01. The Employer shall not lock out its employees during the term cf this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII SCOPE AND TERM CF THE AGREEMENT
Section 13.01 Term of the Agreement
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from September 26, 2001 to September 25, 2005. The termination of the existing agreement and the negotiationof the new contract will be in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
26-
Section 13.02	Separability
All provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the laws of Canada. Should any part hereof or any provision set forth herein be rendered or declared invalid by reason of existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and they shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 13.03	Entire Agreement
This Collective Agreement and a Letter of Agreement dated January 8, 2003 representthe entire agreement between the parties and shall supersede and replace all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied, between the parties hereto and shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties. Past practices, procedures and understandings may be changed or eliminated by management unless specifically prohibited by the provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended in any of its provisions by mutual agreement of both parties. If agreements are made after the effective date of this Agreement, they must be in writing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
LE SYNDICAT NATIONAL DES	ADM MILLING CO
EMPLOYES DE LES MINOTERIES OGILVIE LTEE
27-
Montreal Letter of Understanding Appendix 1
TWELVE-HOUR SCHEDULE
The parties have agreed to implement a 12-hour schedule and they agree that the following constitutesthe amendments to the Collective Agreement needed to adapt it so as to give effect to such 12-hour schedule when scheduled by the Company. The provisions of this Letter of Understanding therefore take precedence over any article of the Collective Agreement providing otherwise.
1.	Regular Work Hours
A.	Regularwork hours shall be from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM for the day shift, and from 7:00 PM to 7:00 AM for the night shift. The regular work week shall start on Monday at 7:00 AM and end on the following Monday at 7:00 AM.
B.	The regular rotating 12-hourschedule is as follows:
Day
Night
Rest Break Rest Break
Day
Night
Rest Break Rest Break
Day
Night
Rest Break Rest Break
M	T	W	1st Week T	F	S	S
B	C	C	B	B	C	C
A	D	D	A	A	D	D
D	B	B	D	D	B	B
C	A	A	C	C	A	A
M	T	W	2nd Week T	F	S	S
C	A	A	C	C	A	A
D	B	B	D	D	B	B
B	D	D	B	B	D	D
A	C	C	A	A	C	C
M	T	W	3rd Week T	F	S	S
A	D	D	A	A	D	D
B	C	C	B	B	C	C
D	B	B	D	D	B	B
C	A	A	C	C	A	A
1
	M	T	W	4th Week T	F	S	S
Day	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
Night	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
Rest Break	B	D	D	B	B	D	D
Rest Break	A	C	C	A	A	C	C
All employees under the 12-hour schedule shall be assigned to rotating shifts, in
accordance with the above schedule.
2.	Salary and Overtime
A.	Regular hours worked under this schedule shall be paid at straight time. All hours worked in excess of eighty (80) hours in a period of (2) consecutive weeks shall be paid at time and a half in accordance with the federal laws governing this practice.
B.	Hours worked outside of regularly scheduled hours shall be paid at time and a half.
3.	Meal and Rest Breaks. Beginning and End of Shift
A.	Employees who work twelve (12) hours per day shall be paid for the thirty (30) minute period allotted for their meals, provided they remain available to work, if necessary, during this period.
Meal breaks may be taken, without hindering the efficiency of operations.
When a complete meal break is not granted, the employee concerned shall be paid for the unallotted part of the breakatone and a halftimes the rate of the classification in which he is working at the time.
B.	Employees working twelve (12) hours a day shall be entitled to three (3) breaks of fifteen (15) minutes each. These rest breaks shall be taken at a time determined by the shift foreman.
C.	For employeesworking in rotation on 12-hourshifts, the shift change shall occur at 6:40 AM for the shift working from 6:40 AM to 6:40 PM and at 6:40 PM for the shift working from 6:40 PM to 6:40 am. At the end of the shift change, the employees concerned shall be entitled to ten (10) paid minutes of overtime to clean up, provided that their punch card shows at least 6:50 AM or 6:50 PM, as the case may be. The employees concerned shall be the mill operators, bagging blenders and laboratory technicians.
2-
Shift Premium
4,
A shift premium shall be paid in addition to an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate if he must work on either of the two 12-hour shifts. The applicable shift differential shall be $1.05 per hour provided the employee does not rotate shifts. Forthose employeeswho do rotate, the shift differential shall be$1.40 per hour.
These shift premiums shall not be included in the calculation of overtime.
5. Paid Holidays
A When a paid holiday occurs, employees on the 12-hour shifts who are scheduled to work shall receive twelve (12) hours pay at the straight-time rate for the holiday. Employees on the 12-hour shifts who are not scheduled shall receive the equivalent of twelve (12) hours pay at the straight-time rate for the holiday.
B.	An employee required to work on a paid holiday shall be paid at time-and-a-half for the hours worked in addition to the holiday pay specified in paragraph a), when so entitled. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours during such a holiday shall be paid at double time.
C.	The statutory holiday shall comprise the 24-hour period running from 7:00 AM on the day the holiday is observed to 7:00 AM the following morning.
D.	The rules of eligibility for payment of a paid holiday shall remain those specified in Article VII of the Collective Agreement.
E.	Any paid holiday that falls during the annual vacation period for an employee on the 12-hour schedule who is eligible for the paid holiday shall be repaid to the employee at the rate of twelve (12) hours at the straighttime rate. For any paid holiday specified in the Agreement that falls during the annual vacation period, one (1) additional day shall be added to the employee's vacation or paid, at the employee's option. Any additional day shall be taken immediately before the scheduled vacation period. In the latter case, the day or days shall be taken from those immediately prior to the start of the vacation period.
3-
Vacations
6,
A One week of vacation for employees on the 12-hour schedule shall constitute thirty-six (36) or forty-eight (48) regular hours of vacation, depending on the shift on which the employees would have been scheduled.
B.	Employees who, on April 30, were in the service of the Employerfor less than one (1)year, shall be entitled to a vacation credit of 1.25 calendar days per complete month ofwork, up to a limit of 14 calendar days.
C.	For each week of vacation to which he is entitled, an employee on the 12-hour shifts shall receive the higher of 2% of his gross salary earned in the preceding vacation year or an amount equal to forty-two (42) hours of pay at his straight-time base rate.
7.	Bereavement Leave and Jury Duty
Pay for employees scheduled on the 12-hour shifts who are entitled to such leave shall be calculated by multiplying their basic hourly rate by the number of hours that they would have worked had they not been on leave.
8.	Offer of Overtime
Overtime required to replace employees on the 12-hour shifts shall be offered to employees in the same classification who are on the 12-hour schedule, but not scheduled on the shift (day or night) in question.
9.	Time Changes
When time changes occur in April and October, the 7:00 PM to 7:00 AM shift shall benefit from the change.
10.	Prior notice of 12-hour schedule implementation
The prior notice indicated in Section 5.00 of the Collective Agreement also applies to the 12-hour schedule.
11.	Weekly Indemnity
The indemnity is established according to a week of seven (7) calendar days under the terms and conditions set forth in the group insurance plan for ADM hourly employees. For each day of absence entitling an employee to the guarantee, the employee shall receive 1/7 of the weekly indemnity.
4-
Prominent Points
COLLECTIVE PLAN OF BENEFITS
The parties agree to modify the collective plan of benefits as following:
1.	Weekly indemnity payable underthe short term invalidity insurance
Effective February 1st 2003, the payable weekly indemnity is $510.00. Effective September 26, 2003 it will be increasedto $520.00. And effective September 26, 2004, it will be increasedto $530.00.
2.	RRSP and Stock Purchase Plan
Effective April 18t, 2003, employees may contribute to their RRSP (before income tax) up to 10% of their salary. The Employer will match $0.50 for each $1.00 up to 4% of the salary of the employee (the total amount is invested in the ADM stocks). The Employer match will not exceed $1,750.00 per year (2% match).
3.	Pension
Effective April 1st, 2003, the pension multiplier will be increasedto $30.00 for each validated year of service. Effective October 1st, 2003 it will be increasedto $31.00 and effective October 1st, 2004, itwill be increasedto $32.00.
5-