ADM Milling Co. Midland Flour AFGM
00464 (05)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT	Midland AFGM
Between
ADM MILLING CO Midland, Ontario
And
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL(AFL-CIO-CLC),
Local Union210
TERM: December 19, 1994 to June 19, 1997
ARTICLE	I	RECOGNITION
ARTICLE	II	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE	III	GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
ARTICLE	IV	SENIORITY
ARTICLE	V	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
ARTICLE	VI	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
ARTICLE	VII	VACATIONS
ARTICLE	VIII	HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE	IX	TIME OFF FROM WORK
ARTICLE	X	HEALTH AND WELFARE
ARTICLE	XI	GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE	XII	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
ARTICLE	XIII	SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT
APPENDIX A		SENIORITY LIST
1
2
2
4
8
11
14
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
00464 (05)
INDEX
ARTICLE I
ARTICLE II ARTICLE III
ARTICLE IV
ARTICLE V
ARTICLE VI
RECOGNITION Recognition Union Membership Checkoff
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS Management Rights
GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE Grievance Procedure
Procedure For Discharges Or Suspensions Over 5 Days
Arbitration Procedure
Jurisdiction Of The Arbitrator
Expenses
Time Limits
SENIORITY
Definition Of Seniority
Seniority List
Probationary Period
Consideration Of Qualifications
Filling Permanent Vacancies (Except Maintenance)
Maintenance Classifications - Entry & Training
Filling Temporary Vacancies
Temporary Transfers
Layoffs And Recalls
Disqualifications
Loss Of Seniority
HOURS OF 'WORK AND OVERTIME Intent And No Pyramiding Workday And Workweek Starting Times, Shifts And Schedules Daily And Weekly Overtime Pay 7th Consecutive Day Of Work Premium Call-In Pay Overtime
Distribution Of Overtime
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY Job ClassificationAnd Rates Of Pay Leadman Rates Shift Differentials
Rates Of Pay - Temporary Transfers Permanent Transfers Temporary Employees
Page
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
3
3
4 4 4
4
4
4
5 5 5 5 7 7 7 7
7
8 8 8 9 9
10
10
10
10
11
11
12
12
13
13
13
Index-1
00464 (05)
14
14
14
15
15
15
15
15
16
16
16
16
17
17
17
17
18
18
18
18
18
18
19
19
19
19
19
20
20
20
20
20
20
21
21
21
21
22
VACATIONS Vacation Eligibility
Vacation Pay For Inactive Employees Vacation Pay For Terminated Employees Scheduling Of Vacation Period Pay Si Lieu Of Vacation Holiday Pay During Vacations Rehired Employees
HOLIDAYS
Recognized Holidays
Pay For Holidays Worked
Pay For Holidays Not Worked
Holidays Considered As Time Worked
TIME OFF FROM WORK Jury Duty And Crown Witness Bereavement Pay Leaves Of Absence
HEALTH AND WELFARE Group Insurance Pension
Injury On The Job Maternity Leave Safety
GENERAL PROVISIONS Non-Discrimination Supervisors Working Subcontracting - Contracting Out Union Stewards Substance Abuse Union Committee Bulletin Boards
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS No Strikes Or Lockouts
SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT Term Of Agreement Separability Complete Agreement
SENIORITY LIST
Index-2-
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 19th day of December, 1994, by and between ADM MILLING CO hereinafterreferredto asthe "Company" and the AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL(AFL-CIO-CLC), Local Union 210, affiliated with the Canadian Labour Congress, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, and the terms and conditions as hereinafter set out, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I	RECOGNITION
Section 1.01	Recoonition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for its production and maintenance employees employed at its Midland, Ontario, flour mill located at 202 King Street, save and except supervisors, technical employees, laboratory employees, administration, sales, guards, and all other employees.
Section 1.02	Union Membership
A • All present employees who are members of the Union at the date of execution of this Agreement shall remain members in good standing during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
B - All employees hired after the execution of this Agreement shall become members of the Union of/the 61st working day following the beginning of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing for the life hereof, as a condition of employment.
Section 1.03	Checkoff
A-The Company will deduct the monthly Union membershipdues from the employee's wages on the first full pay period of each month. Deductions will be made within the framework of the Company's dues deduction program. The monthly dues shall be a single, uniform fixed amount for all employees. Such deductions must be specified to the Company in writing by the Union. Such deductions will be promptly remitted to the Union.
Note 1A:	Temporary employees will be required to pay Union dues under this
Section of the labour Agreement.
B -The Union shall defend, indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with the checkoff provisions of this Agreement.
■1
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01	Management Rights
The Company retains any and all management rights not expressly limited by the specific terms of this collective Agreement. Among these tights, but not intended as a wholly inclusive list shall be the right to manage the plant and direct the workforce; to plan, direct and control plant operations; to determine the means, methods, processes and schedules of production; to determine the products to be manufactured or processed, and the plant or facility at which they are to be manufactured or processed; to determine the location of its plants and the continuance of its operating departments; to transfer work temporarily or permanently between plants; to temporarily or permanentlyclose the plant or any portion thereof during the term of the collective Agreement; to promote, demote or transfer employees from one job to another; to decide on "make" or "buy" decisions; to determine the number of personnel needed; to determine schedules, shift assignments, and hours of work including overtime; to determine the number of shifts; to demote, discipline, suspend or discharge employeesforjust cause; to maintainorder. to hire, rehire, or recall employees; to lay off or relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or any other legitimate reason; to make and enforce reasonable plant rules and regulations; to make and enforce safety rules; to control absenteeism; to assign employees to work and designate the duties of the employees; to change, modify, eliminate or reassign job duties; to set the wage rates for newly created jobs; to contract work out or in. including maintenance and construction work, or to have such work performed by other Company personnel; to use contract labourers; and to make any decisions or changes which in the opinion of management, the efficient operation of the plant requires.
ARTICLE III	GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 3.01	Grievance Procedure
A - If an employee has a grievance or dispute with the Company, the parties agree to the following procedure:
The aggrieved employee shall bring the matter in writing to his immediate supervisor within 5 working days of the occurrence of the grievance. A discussion must take place between the supervisor and the employee accompanied, if he so desires, with this Union Committee Member, within 2 working days.
The supervisor shall render his decision in writing within 2 working days following such discussion.
Step 2
Should the supervisor's response be unsatisfactory to the grievor, the mattershall be brought up in writing to the attention of the Plant Manager or his designate within 5 working days following Step 1.
■2
The Plant Manager or his designate shall then convene a meeting including the grievor and the Union grievance committee to discuss the matter. He should render his decision in writing within 5 working days after such meeting.
I n the event that the grievance is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the matter should be referred in writing within 5 working days to the Company's Labour Relations representative and the Union's business representative. The parties shall communicate within 30 calendar days to set a meeting. A representative of the Labour Relations Department, the Plant Manager and/or his representative, and a representative of the International Union shall meet with the Union Committee in an effort to resolve the dispute. Should there be no agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
B -Any difference betweenthe parties arising out of the interpretation and/or the application of this Agreement may be submitted by one party to the other, at the third step of the grievance procedure.
Section 3.02	Procedure For Discharges Or Suspensions Over 5 Days
An employee discharged or suspended over 5 days may present a grievance in writing through the Committee Chairman to management at Step 2 of the grievance procedure, provided suchgrievanceispresentedto management within 5 calendar days of the discharge or suspension.
Section 3.03	Arbitration Procedure
A - Inthe event arbitration isto be invoked, the request must be made in writing to the other party within 7 working days or such further period, as is mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. At this time, both parties will attempt to come to agreement of selecting a single arbitrator.
B- Inthe event the parties are unable to agree on a single arbitrator, the Minister of Labour of the Government of Canada shall be asked to appoint an arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall meet as soon as possiblewith both parties to hear evidence and receive representations.
C - The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give a decision inconsistentwith the terms or provisions of this Agreement. He shall however, have authority to alter or amend a disciplinary penalty.
D - No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance.
E ■ Each of the parties hereto shall equally bear the expense of the
Arbitrator.
•3-
Section 3.04	Jurisdiction Of The Arbitrator
The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substituteany new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision not consistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement or to deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employees.
Section 3.05	Expenses
Each party shall bear the expense of its own representatives at the arbitration hearing and the cost of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
Section 3.06	Time Limits
Time limits as set forth in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties. If any Company representatives fails to answer within the time limits, the grievance will be considered as being automatically progressed to the next step.
ARTICLE IV	SENIORITY
Section 4.01	Definition Of Seniority
A - Seniority shall be considered plant seniority, and shall be defined as the length of continuous service of a permanent employee employed by the Company withinthe bargaining unitdescribed in Section 101 - Recognition,dating from the employee's most recent date of hire. An employee's seniority date shall be determined in accordance with Section 4.03 - Probationary Period.
B - Employees'seniority as covered inthis Agreement shall apply only to employment at ADM/Ogilvie’s Midland, Ontario, flour mill and shall not apply elsewhere.
Section 4.02	Seniority List
The Company will maintain and post a seniority list which shall be updated every 6 months with 3 copies given to the Union.
Note: An initial seniority list is provided as an Appendix to this initial collective Agreement.
-4-
Section 4.03	Probationary Period
An employee shall be regarded as a probationary employee until he has completed 60 working days. He shall not have seniority standing until the completion of this period. The discharge of a probationary employee shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement. Upon completion of the probationary period, the employee's name shall appear on the Company's seniority list as of his latest date of hire with the Company.
Section 4.04	Consideration Of Qualifications
The application of the seniority provisions of this Agreement must be governed bywhetherthe employee is qualifiedto perform thejob required. Terms referring to "qualified or "qualifications"when used in this Agreement mean qualifiedto competently perform thejob, without further training, in a safe, efficient and productive manner. If the employee is not so qualified, the applicable seniority provisions shall not apply. The Company may employ testing procedures to determine potential qualificationsfor entry into the Maintenance Department.
Section 4.05	Filling Permanent Vacancies (Except Maintenance)
Permanent vacancies in existing or newly created job classifications which the Company determines are necessary to fill will be filled by posting for bid for 7 working days. The vacancy will be filled on the basis of seniority and the ability to qualify for the vacancy.
Note 1:	Permanent vacancies may also be filled by hiring employees from outside
the workforce.
Note 2:	An employee who returns from an absence of up to 30 days because of
vacation, leave of absence, funeral leave, jury duty, or occupational or non-occupational illness or injury may make application retroactively for permanent vacancies posted during his absence, provided that he does so within 2 working days following his return to work.
Note 3:	Forentry into Maintenance,seeSection 4.06 - MaintenanceClassifications
- Entry & Training.
Note 4:	Employees will be given a reasonable opportunity to qualify for the bid
position, with such opportunity to not exceed 60 working days. If the employee, in Management's opinion, cannot qualify for the positionwithin60 working days, he will be returned to his former classification if his seniority allows him.
Section4.06	MaintenanceClassifications- Entry & Training
A - Entry into the Maintenance job classifications will be either by assignment, provided the employee is agreeable to such assignment, or by hiring from
■5-
outside. The following criteria, among others, may be used in the selection of Maintenance personnel:
1- Results from a Company-designated test battery to measure maintenance aptitude, interest and other skills and characteristics.
2.	Physically able to perform all types of plant maintenance work.
CKt^oL
3.	Willing^able to perform high work.
4.	Willing and able to continually work overtime and emergency call-in or call-back work subject to applicable law.
5.	Willing and able to take formal trade school courses as selected by management and to take such courses on a continuing basis during the training period.
6.	Must have shown good job proficiency, had a good attendance record, and have been a productive employee in previous jobs performed in the plant.
B - Employees in Maintenance Training Grades 1 through 3 must advance through the 3 training grades into the Skilled Trade A classification or be disqualified. Time spent in each training grade will be approximately as follows:
Training Grade 3-24 Months
Training Grade 2 - 18 Months
Training Grade 1-6 Months
An employee with obvious maintenance skills may be advanced at a faster rate. Advancement through the training grades will be based on management's judgment of the employee's maintenance skills and job performance. An employee who is not progressing satisfactorily to the Skilled Trade A classification may be kept in any grade for longer than the above-listed time, or he may be disqualified. An employee who is disqualified within 12 months of entering his training will, if possible, return to his previousjob classification. An employee disqualified after 12 months in training will be transferred to the Utility job classification provided his plant seniority is sufficient.
C - An employee in training will be requiredto take formal trade school courses applicable to the plant maintenance work. Such courses must be approved by management prior to enrollment. The Company will pay for tuition, books and supplies, but not for time spent at such course.
D- The Maintenance Training Program shall not restrictthe Company from hiring qualified Maintenance employees from outside.
Note: The Company will post a notice when a maintenance vacancy is to be filled through the testing program. An employee interestedinenteringthe Maintenancejob classifications may indicate so by signing the notice. The Company may be selective in choosing the employees to be tested (such selectivity will be based on criteria listed in paragraph A of this Section.)
-6-
Section 4.07	Filling Temporary Vacancies
To provide for flexible and efficient operations, temporary vacancies which the Company determines are necessary to fill may be filled with any employee by temporary transfer or through the overtime provisions of this collective Agreement.
Section 4.08	Temporary Transfers
An employee may be temporarily transferred to any job in any area of
the plant.
Section 4.09	Layoffs And Recalls
A - Layoffs from the plantwill be made on the basis of plant seniority, provided the remaining employees have, in the Company's opinion, the qualifications and ability to perform the functions necessary to the efficient and safe operation of the plant without further training. The Company will notify employees on a layoff as far in advance as is practicable.
B- Laid off employees will be recalledto the plant in the order of their plant seniority, provided that those called back have the qualificationsand ability to perform the functions necessary to the efficientand safe operation of the plantwithout further training.
Section Note I :M aintenance employees may not be bumped and may be laid off or recalled out of seniority order.
Section Note 2: An employee who is laid off must keep the Company advised of his address and where he may be reached by telephone if he desires to be recalled.
Section 4.10	Disoualificafions
If an employee (who has completed his trial period in a job classification) is no longer able to perform the required duties of his classification, he may be transferred to the Utility job classification, provided his seniority is sufficient and he is qualified to perform the job in a safe and efficient manner. The provisions of this Section do not apply to an employee who is being discharged for cause because of hisjob performance.
Note: An employee may not voluntarily give up his job or disqualify himself.
Section 4.11	" Loss Of Seniority
An employee will lose his seniority rights and employment, and his name shall be removed from the Company seniority list for any of the following reasons:
1.	He voluntarily quits his employment or retires.
-7-
2.	He is discharged for just cause.
3.	He is laid off and fails to notify the Company within 48 hours after being notifiedto return to work by registered mail forwarded by the Company to his last listed address on the records of the Company that he will return within 7 calendardaysor, havinggiven notice, fails to report for work within 7 calendar days. It shall be the duty of the employees to notify the Company promptly in writing of any change in address or telephone number. If an employees fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employee and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the last address which appears on the Company's personnel records shall be deemed to have been received by the employee on the 2nd working day after the day itwas mailed. The Union Presidentwill be notified of all recalls made under this Section.
4.	He has been on layoff or off work for any other reason for a period of 24 consecutive months subject to the provisions of the applicable Federal Laws of Canada. This provision shall not apply to leaves of absence for full-time Union positions.
5.	He fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave of absence granted to him without furnishing a reasonable explanation.
6.	Eitherfalsifiesthe reasonfor a leave of absence, orfailsto abide bythe terms of the leave, or works at other employment during the leave.
7.	He is absent from work for 3 consecutive days without good cause or fails to notify the Company of his absence.
ARTICLE V	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.01	IntentAnd No Pyramiding
This Article is intended to set forth the normal hours of work and to provide a basis for computing overtime and premium pay, and shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on overtime hours or on hours of work per day or per week, nor shall anything in this Agreement be so construed as to permit the pyramiding or duplicating of overtime or premium payments. Hoursfor which overtime or premium payments are made shall not be used to compute overtime or premium pay for any other hours. Whenever more than one premium could be applied to the same hours, only the larger will be paid. For purposes of this Section, shift differentials are not considered as premium payments.
Section 5.02	Workday And Workweek
The workday is a 24-hour period running from 8 AM one day to 8 AM the following day. The workweek begins at 8 AM Monday and ends at 8 AM the following
■8-
Monday. The workday and workweek may be different for some individualsor shifts in the interest of efficient or less costly operations.
Section 5.03	Starting Times. Shifts And Schedules	■ ■
A - The Company may vary shift schedule's, starting times and quitting times for different areas or operations of the mill or for individual employees.
B - The normal workweek contains 5 workdays scheduled Monday through Sunday. However, the Company may vary or change the number of hours scheduled, the number of shifts scheduled, the manpower requirements of the various shifts and the scheduling of workdays and hours for business reasons or efficient operations. Employees may be scheduled to eaton-the-job or have a 30-minute unpaid lunch period. Any area of the mill or portion of the employees may be scheduled in more than one way.
C- Multiple shifts may be scheduled and may be rotated (for example: 8-4, 4-12 and 12-8 or two 12's).
D- Priorto implementinga newshift schedule, the Company will notify the Union of the change. The Union will be given an opportunity to review and discuss the changes with the Company. The Company retains the sole right to vary shift schedules, starting times and quitting times.
Section 5.04	Daily And Weekly Overtime Pay
All hours worked in excess of 40 straight time hours in any one workweek or 8 straight time hours in any one workday shall be compensated for at the rate of 1 1/2 times the employee's straight time hourly rate.
Note 1:	An employee who works continuously beyond his regularly scheduled shift
and continues working into the next day, or his scheduled day off, or into a' new workweek shall receive 1 1/2 times his straight time hourly rate (or double time if applicable) for such hours he works beyond the start of a new day. Such hours shall not be used to create overtime or premium payments during the employee's regular scheduled shift.
Note 2:	For purposes of satisfying the 40 straight time hour requirement, the
following unworked hoursshallcountas straighttime hours ofwork upto 8 hours per day or 40 hours per weekfor daysthe employee was either scheduled to work or was laid off: (1) a worked or unworked holiday for which the employee is paid, provided it falls on an employee's scheduled straight time day ofwork, or (2) a paid absence resulting from either bereavement leave,jury duty or vacation time off, or (3) 8 hours per day for Union Committee members who miss work as a result of attending contract negotiating meetings with the Company.
■9-
Section 5.05	7th Consecutive Day Of Work Premium
During periods when the mill is scheduled on a 1-, 2- or 3-shift operation (or any combination thereof), an employee will be paid 2 times his regular rate of pay for work performed on his 7th consecutive day of work in the workweek provided he has worked 40 straight time hours during the workweek.
Nate: For purposesof satisfying the 40 straight time hour requirement, the following unworked hours shall count as straight time hours of work up to 8 hours per day or 40 hours per week for days the employee was either scheduled to work or was laid off: (1) a worked or unworked holiday for which the employee is paid, provided itfalls on an employee's scheduled straighttime day ofwork, or (2) a paidabsence resulting from either bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time off, or (3) 8 hours per day for Union Committee members who miss work as a result of attending contract negotiating meetings with the Company.
Section 5.06	Call-In Pay
An employee, who is called in for emergency or overtime work on his scheduled day off or called back after he has finished his shift and left the plant and premises, will be paid at his applicable hourly rate for such unscheduled hours worked or 4 hours' pay at his straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater. An employee called back or called in to start in advance of his regular starting time and who continues to work on into his scheduled shift, shall not qualify for the 4-hour guarantee provided for in this Section.
Section 5.07	Overtime
A - The Company shall have the right to schedule overtime when it is required. Employees based on seniority, skill, ability and qualifications will perform the required work and will cooperate fully in working necessary overtime.
B - Maintenance employees must stay until released when assigned to jobs which are necessary to complete from a breakdown or production standpoint.
Section 5,08	Distribution Of Overtime
Employees will perform necessary overtime assignments. Daily and weekly overtime will be filled by active, qualified employees whose bid job classificationsare operating. Such employees will be assigned to daily and weekly overtime on the basis of the man-on-the-job concept. If active employees in the job classification are not available, the Company may, subjectto qualifications, nextofferthe overtime to any qualified employee on the shift. When necessary, the employee with the least seniority who is available on the shift and is qualified must work the overtime.
Note 1:	The term man-on-the-job means the employee who is actually performing
a specific task or job. If more than one manon-the-job is involved, then the employee who is performing the specific task will be offered the overtime. If the
-10-
employee performing the task declines the overtime, itwill be offered to employees on the same shift and in the same classification who are qualified and immediately available to perform the work.
Note 2:	Employees whose jobs are in operation may ribt turn down overtime in
their own jobs in order to work overtime in anotherjob.
Note 3:	If overtime (including call-ins) is misassigned, an employee so affected
shall have the opportunity to make up such missed overtime as soon as is practical within a 30 calendar day period at any time mutually agreeable between the Company and the employee.
Note 4:	Temporary employees may work overtime or holidays. Regular employees
shall have first preference for daily and weekend overtime and holidaywork, provided they are qualified. With respect to daily overtime. the regular employee must be immediately available and at work at the time the overtime commences.
ARTICLE VI	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section 6.01	Job Classifications And Rates Of Pay
The following hourly rates will apply during the term of this Agreement:
Job Classifications
Hourly Rates Effective 19-19-94
Operator I Operator 2 Electrotechnician Maintenance Training Grade 1 Training Grade 2 Training Grade 3 Utility
$16.40
15,83
19.00
16,76
16,39
16,03
15.67
15,31
$16.40
15.83
19.00
16.76
16.39
16.03
15.67
15.31
$16,40
15,83
19.00
16.76
16.39
16.03
15.67
15.31
NOTES APPLICABLE TO JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Employees in any job classification will perform any jobs or duties to which they may be assigned. Each "job classification" may include a wide variety of different jobs, tasks and duties, some of which may cross job classification lines. Maintenance, housekeeping and lubrication duties may be,required of any employee. Employees who either perform maintenance duties or assist in performing maintenance duties will be paid at the rate of their own regular job classification. The Company shall have no obligation under this collective Agreement to establish a light duty job or classification.
-11-
2.	There are no minimum crew orjob manning requirements. The Company has the sole tight to determine the number of employees in any job classification as well as the right to determine crew size in the plant or any portion thereof, provided there is no violation of the Canada Labour Code. Classified jobs may be filled, vacated or permanently discontinued at the Company's discretion.
3.	If employees within the bargaining unit do not possess the necessary skills to fill a vacancy, the Company may fill such vacancy by hiring from outside.
4.	Temporary Employees shall not be entitled to Company Benefit Plans, Seniority, Recall Rights, or any other provisions of this Agreement. Should a Temporary Employee join the permanentworkfbrce, consecutive periods of employment will betaken into accountand applied towards the completion of the probationary period.
Section 6.02	Leadman Rates
In the event the Company selects an hourly-paid employee to act as a working Leadman in addition to his regular duties, his hourly rate of pay shall be 50$! higher than his classified rate. The Leadman rate shall be paid only for those hours during which the employee performs the Leadman function. He may simultaneously perform both his regular duties and his Leadman duties.
Section 6.03	Shift Differentials
A * 2nd or 3rd Shifts - A shift differential is paid in addition to an employee's regular straight time hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on either the 2nd or 3rd shift. The 2nd shift differential is 50£ per hour. The 3rd shift differential is 60£ per hour.
Note 1A: If an employee is scheduled on a 2nd or 3rd shift and is involved in a continuous work period requiring him to work on more than one shift, then the shift on which he has been scheduled establishes the shift differential, if any, for all hours worked during the continuous work period. An employee who is scheduled on the day or 1st shift does not qualify for shift differential pay even though he works on the 2nd or 3rd shifts. Shift differentials are not applicable to call-ins or call-backs unless such an assignment continueson into the employee's regularly scheduled2nd or 3rd shift. If an employee is on a regularschedule which requireshimto overlap2 shifts, then the shift on which he is scheduled the greatest number of hours determines the shift differential, if any. Should he be scheduled an equal number of hours on 2 shifts, then the higher shift differential will apply,
B - 2 Rotating 12-Hour Shifts-A shift differential is paid in addition to an employee's regular straight time hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on either of 2 rotating 12-hour shifts. Such shift differential is 60£ per hour.
-12-
Section Note: Shift differentials are not added to an employee’s base rate for purposes of computing overtime, or for any unworked hours for which the employee is paid such as holidays, jury duty, and funeral leave.
Section 6.04	Rates Of Pay - Temporary Transfers
A - If an employee istemporarily transferred for Company convenience to a lower-ratedjob classification, he will continue to receive the rate of pay for his regular job classification.	"
B - If an employee is temporarily transferred by the Company to a higher-ratedjob classification, he will receive the higher rate of pay provided he works on the upgraded job for 4 hours or more. This provision applies only when the employee is specificallyassigned to fill a temporary vacancy created by the absence of an employee from work. It does not apply to employees who may relieve for breaks or who may be supplementing the workforce performing various tasks or jobs performed by employees in other job classifications.
Section 6.05	Permanent T ransfers
An employee who is permanently transferred to a lower-rated job classification will receive the lower rate at the time he begins work in the lower-rated job. If he is permanently transferred to a higher-rated job classification, he will receive the rate of the. higher-rated job after he has completed his training and trial period and can satisfactorily perform the duties of the job with no more supervision than is required by other employees on the same job.
Section 6.06	Temporary Employees
Temporary employees may be hired as determined by the Company to supplement the workforce. Such employees will not be entitledto benefits under this labor Agreement nor will the provisions of this labor Agreement apply to them. Such Temporary Employees will not accrue seniority as a result of such temporary employment. Temporary Employees are not considered probationary employees even if the temporary assignment exceeds the probationary period.
Note: Temporary employees will be paid the rate of the job they are performing if they are qualified and are replacinga regular employee. Othertemporary employees will be paid $10.77 per hour.
-13-
ARTICLE VII	VACATIONS
Section 7.01	Vacation Eligibility
A - Vacations will be earned on January 1 each year to be taken between January 1 and December 31 and will be based on the completed years of continuous service by the employee as of January 1, according to the following schedule:
Years of	Weeks of	
Continuous Service	Vacation Time	Vacation Pay
Less than 1	One day for each month ot service up to a maximum of 10 days	4%
1 thur 4	2 weeks	4%
5 thur 9	3 weeks	6%
10 thur 17	4 weeks	8%
18 thur 24	5 weeks	10%
25 or more	6 weeks	12%
Note 1A: Percentage is calculated on the basis of the previous calendar year's earnings subject to the provisions of the Federal Canada LabauT code.
B • An employee shall be eligible for the additional week of vacation or vacation pay, when ha has worked past his 5th, 10th, ;1 Sth* and 25th anniversary date of employment.
C - The amount of vacation time off will be reduced by lj/52 ifor each 40 straight time hours of absence for any reason (except personal illness or Company-approved leaves of absences up to 30 days annually) during the previous calendar year. In the application of this provision, an employee with 1 to 4 years of continuous serVjce will not have his vacation time reduced 'Yb less than 2 V\feeks. Employees with 5 or more years of fconfinuous service will not have his vacation time reduced to less than 3 weeks.
D - Vacation pay will be paid at the time the employee takes his vacation provided the Company has 7 days of advanced notice.
Section 7.02	Vacation Pay For Inactive Employees
On or after January 1, an employee who is in an inactive status because of illness, injury, approved leave of absence, layoff, orfor any other reason who has not taken hiseamed vacation (thatvacationto which he became eligibleon January 1) may request pay in lieu of such unused earned vacation. Such employee will not be considered to be in a vacation status as a result of receiving his vacation pay, nor will he be granted vacation time off without pay at a later date.
-14-
Section 7.03	Vacation Pay For Terminated Employees
An employee who leaves the employ of the Company for any reason will receive vacation pay as follows:
1.	Earned Vacation - Earned vacation is defined as a vacation for which the employee became eligible on the January 1 date prior to his termination and such unused earned vacation shall be paid to him upon his termination of employment.
2.	Prorated Vacation • Prorated vacation for an employee whose employment terminates for any reason will be calculated from January 1 to his last day of work in the calendar year.
Section 7.04	Scheduling Of Vacation Period
A - The choice of vacation time shall be given to an employee according to his seniority for employees who sign the vacation schedule between January 1 and March 31 subject to the operational requirements of the business. After March 31, vacations will be scheduled on a first-come, first-serve basis, subject to the operational requirements of the business.
B- Vacations may be taken i n weekly increments of one or more weeks at a time. Vacations cannot be postponed and allowedto accumulate from year to year but must be taken each calendar year.
C - An approved copy of the vacation schedule will be posted by management by April 15.
Section 7.05	Pay In Lieu Of Vacation
Pay in lieu of vacation for earned vacation in excess of 2 weeks per calendar year, or any portion thereof may be granted to an individual employee at the employee's option. Holiday pay is not added to vacations paid for under this Section.
Section 7.06	Holiday Pay Purina Vacations
If a holiday is observed during an active employee's vacation, he will be granted an additional day, with pay at a time mutually acceptable to the-Company and the employee.
Section 7.07	Rehired Employees
Employees who have lost their seniority and who are later rehired will be entitled to vacations on the basis of their latest employment date.
-15-
ARTICLE VIII	HOLIDAYS
Section 8.01	Recognized Holidays
For purposes of the Agreement, the following 13 days will be recognized as holidays during the calendar year:
New Year's Day - Jan. 1 Victoria Day
Civic Holiday - 1st Mon. in Aug. December 24 Christmas Day - Dec. 25 Thanksgiving Day - 2nd Mon. in Oct.
Boxing Day - Dec. 26 Good Friday Canada Day - July 1 Labour Day - 1st Mon. in Sept. Remembrance Day - Nov. 11 2 Personal Holidays
Holidays will be observed on the days on which they occur except as follows. A holiday occurring on Sunday will be observed on the following Monday. A holiday occurring on Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday. Personal days will be determined by mutual agreement of the employee and the supervisor.
Section 8.02	Pay For Holidays Worked
When an employee works on the holiday, he shall receive 11/2 times his straight time hourly rate for all hours worked plus 8 hours holiday pay.
Section 8.03	Pay For Holidays Not Worked
A - An employee who is not requiredto work on a recognized holiday will be paid holiday pay for that holiday equivalent to 8 hours at his regular straight time hourly rate provided he meets all of the following requirements:
1.	He has earned wages on at least 15 days during the 30 working days immediately preceding the recognized holiday.
2.	Such employees who were unable to work 15 of the 30 working days immediately preceding the holiday will receive 1120th of the wages he has earned during the 30 working days immediately preceding the holiday.
Note 1A: Unworked holiday pay for which the employee is eligible will be offset by any other pay or other form of Company compensation which the employee may receive for the same day.
B- If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to work as scheduled without a cause acceptable to the Company, he will not qualify for holiday pay as provided in paragraph A of this Section.
16-
Section 8.04	Holidays Considered As Time Worked
Only holidays for which the employee is eligible to receive holiday pay, and which fall on the employee's scheduled day of work, whether worked or not worked, will be considered as time worked for the purpose of meeting the 40-hour overtime requirement.
ARTICLE IX	TIME OFF FROM WORK	" " ~
Section 9.01	Jury Duty And Crown Witness
A - When an employee is summoned for jury duty or as a Crown witness in a court of law and must lose time from work as a result of such summons, the employee will pay to the Company any monies receivedfor suchjury or witnessee duty (not including expense monies) and the employee will receive the pay he would have received had he beenworking. Such pay shall not exceed 8 straighttime hours per day or 40 straight time hours per week.
B - The employee shall furnish evidence to the Company that he reported for or performed jury duty or appeared as a witness on the days for which he claims payment.
C - The employee is required to report for work on days or part days when he is not required on jury duty or as a witness in a court of law.
Section 9.02	Bereavement Pay
A - Should a death occur in the immediate family of an employee, the employee may request bereavement leave provided the employee attends the funeral. "Immediate family" shall mean spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchildren, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, stepmother, stepfather, and grandparents.
B - The employee shall be granted such time off with pay up to a maximum of 3 days to attend the funeral. This will not include pay for days on which the employee is not scheduled to work. Bereavement pay shall not exceed a maximum 8 straight time hours per day.
C - Should a death occur to a brother-in-law or a sister-in-law of an employee, the employee may request bereavementleave providedthe employee attendsthe funeral. The employee shall be granted such time off with pay up to a maximum of 1 day to attend the funeral. This will not include pay for a day on which the employee is not scheduledto work. Bereavement pay shall not exceed a maximum of 8 straight time hours.
Section 9.03	Leaves of Absence
A- Leavesof absence up to 30 calendardays, without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted (except for gainful employment elsewhere) by the Plant Manager.
B - Time off without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted to not more than 2 employees for the purpose of attending a Union Convention or similar Union meeting, provided it does not disrupt the Company's business because of lack of available qualified employees. Two weeks' advance written notice must be given for such leaves.
Section Note: The conditions of all leaves of absence shall be in writing with copies for the Company and the Union. If an employee violates the conditions of his leave of absence, it may be just cause for discharge.
ARTICLE X	HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 10.01	Group Insurance
The group insurance program in effect on the effective date of this Agreement is a separate document and will continue in effect during the term of this collective Agreement.
Section 10.02	Pension
The pensionplanfor bargainingunitemployeesatthe Midlandflourmill is a separate document whose term will run concurrently with the term of this Agreement.
Section 10.03	Injury On The Job
An employee injured on the job will be sent for first aid and treatment. If further treatment is required, the employee will go to a doctor or hospital of his choice. If the employee is sent home or to hospital by the doctor administering first aid, he will be paid for the balance of the shift on which the injury occurred. Transportation shall be provided by the Company to the hospital or to his home if required.
Section 10.04	Maternity Leave
A - Maternity leave of absence without pay and without lossof seniority shall be granted and administered in accordance with the provisions of the Canada Labour Code, as amended from time to time.
B - The employee returning to work after a maternity leave shall provide the Cornpany with at least 2 weeks' notice.
-18-
Section 10.05 Safety
A • The Company agrees to continue its policy of protecting by all reasonable means the safety and health of employees on the Company premises.
B - The Company will recognize a Safety Committee consisting of 2 Company officials and 3 representatives of the Union membership with one year of seniority or more for the purpose of investigating, discussing and making recommendations concerning plantsafety matters. The Union Safety Representativewillbepermittedto leave his regular duties, after receiving permission from his itn'mS8iate Management Representative,for a reasonable period of time to perform the duties outlined in this Section. He will be paid his regular rate of pay for all time spent on such duties during his regular scheduled shift hours of work.
C - Safety rulesand regulationsissued by the Company shall be strictly adhered to, including the wearing or use of protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipment required by the Company.
Section Note: The Company will recognize safety committee requirements established by the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
ARTICLE XI	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 11.01	Non-Discrimination
The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination,interference, restraint, or coercion by the Company or by any of its representatives, with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connection with the Union.
Section 11.02	Supervisors Working
There shall be no restriction on supervisors or other Company personnel performing any type or amount of work at any time.
Section 11.03	Subcontracting - Contracting Out
A-The Company retainsthe right to contract work out or in, including but not limited to maintenance and construction work, clean up and trucking operations. The Company also retainsthe right to use contract labourers or to have such work performed by other Company personnel.
B - There shall be no restriction on the use of outside commercial carriers up to and includingthe contracting out of the entire trucking operation. This includes contracting with owner-operators.
C -There shall be no restrictionon the use of outside companies in the repair and maintenance of all vehicles up to and includingthe entire maintenance operation.
-19-
Section 11.04	Union Stewards
A -The names of the Union Stewards shall be given to the Company in writing. A Union Steward shall be entitled to leave his work during working hours in order to carry out his functions under the Agreement for the investigations and processing of grievances. attendance at meetings with management, and participation in contract negotiations. Permission to leave work during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from the supervisor. All time spent in performing the above duties shall be considered to be time worked; providing payment shall only be made for time actually lost in the regular scheduled straight time hours of work for that day.
B - The President or his representative shall be present at meetings between the Company and the Union to discuss matters of common concern.
Section 1f.05	Substance Abuse
The parties desire to maintain a work environment free of illicit drugs and alcohol. The possession, use or sale of alcohol or illegal drugs in the workplace is unacceptable from the standpoint of safety, job performance and efficient operations.
Section 11.06	Union Committee
A - The Union will select a Union Committee comprised of 3 members who are working at the plant. The Union Committee will process grievances as specified in the grievance procedure and will participate in the negotiations of the collective Agreement.
B - A Union representative shall not leave his job to conduct Union business without the permission of his supervisor. Before contacting any other employee lo conduct Union business, he must first obtain permission from that employee's supervisor. Plant operations are not to be disrupted.
C - The National Representative and/or the Local President of the Union may be present and may participate in any meetings between the Union Committee and the Company.
Section 11.07	Bulletin Boards
The Union shall have the use of a bulletin board for the posting of notices relatingto the Union’s business. Such noticesmust be signed by a Union Officer and approved and signed by the Company prior to being posted.
ARTICLE XII
Section 12.01	No Strikes Or Lockouts
During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, curtailment of work, interference with the operations of the Company, or interference with production caused by or engaged in by the Union or any members thereof. Employees may be disciplined up to and including discharge for engaging or participating in any of the
-20-
foregoing activities in violation of this Section 12.01. The Company will not lockout any of its employees during the t e n of this Agreement
ARTICLE XIII SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 13.01	Term Of Agreement
This Agreement shall remain in full force-and effect from 8 AM fWamhcr-io 1004. to 8 AM. June 19,1997. The termination of the existingagreement and the negotiation of the new contract will be in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
Section 13.02	Separability
All provisions of this Agreement shall be subjectto the lawsof Canada. Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of existing or subsequently enacted legislationor by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidationof such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and they shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 13.03	Complete Agreement
This collectiveAgreement representsthe complete agreement between the parties and shall supersede and replace all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied, between the parties hereto and shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties. Past practices, procedures and understandings may be changed or eliminated by management unless specifically prohibited by the provisionsof this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended in any of its provisions by mutual agreement of both parties. If agreements are made after the effective date of this Agreement, they must be in writing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF	ADM MILLING CO
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL,
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local Union 210
1st Shawn J. Grimm__________________ Id David Taylor________________________
Vice President- AFGM	General Manager
1st PaulLarmand_____________________ Id W. F. Sprague_______________________
President, Local 210	Employee Relations Department
1st DouaMaughan_____________________ 1st Dale Benson________________________
Vice President, Local 210	ADM Corporate VP Employee Relations
■21
APPENDIX A
8SM10BITY LIST
EoiPlQMifi
7-10-92
Date Of
JM.
Empleyae
7-10-92
Date Of
-Mine.
Hounsome, E.' Brandon, J, Lesperance, G, Ladouceur, N, Kettle, V.
Guthrie, W, Stacey, W.
Henry, P, Charlebols, D, Cascagnette, L.4 Larmand P, Moreau, G.
Bergie, B. Chapman, Joseph Ladouceur, W, Ladouceur, L.R, Kelly, F.
Bisson, W. ‘f Teedon, R, Jackson, R, Brunkhardt, P, Thlffault, P.1 Bath, K,
Oawe, F.
Robitallle, R,' Beausolell, L.4 Schippel, H,1 Larmand, G, Stratheam, J. Ladouceur, W.R,8 Duquette, R, Sharp, N.
Devillers, M. Kenning, T, Calhoun, D,
Toole, J.
Duval, M, McConnell, S,
07-	24-69
09-	28-60
02-	12-64
04-	08-64
03-	1065 06-1566
10-	0267 10-0267
10-	3167 01-2268 02-2669 02-2669 06-1669
05-	2069
06-	1769
11-	0369 0167-70 0364-70 05-19-70 09-21-70 1162-70 01-26-71
08-	09-71
08-	19-74 0963-74
09-	30-74 1164-74 09-02-75 0963-75
09-	16-76
10-	27-76 01-21-78 01-26-76 09-16-76 09-16-76 09-16-76 09-17-76 09-29-76
Sagle, J. Hounsome, Maughan, D, Valtae, T. Duggan, J, Peabody, G, Henry, P,$. Gordon, E. Edgar, U.
Duval, P. Desrochers, P. Muller, H, Brandon. J. Bergie, B.W, Stewart, K, Sheehan, B, Cowle, J. Bottineau, D. Duval, R,	>
Asselin, S.	’
Chapman, Jody Chartebois, K. Zeitel, S,
Moors, R. Jessome, D,’ Betalr, F, Roach, M.4 Leclalr, A Medal re, R, Fullerton, K,4 Hutchinson, B, Chapman, R. Henry, W, Daoust, D. Weaver, H. David, J.
Bush, D, Adams, J.
1062-76
09-16-77
09-18-77
09-16-79
09-16-79
1165-79
09-1661
016662
09-1662
12-1963
116564
096167
096267
09-1467
09-1467
09-1467
09-1868
09-1868
09-1668
09-17-90
09-17-90
09-17-90
09-	17-90 1064-90
10-	16-90 10-29-90 06-10-91 09-16-91 09-16-91 09-30-91 1164-91 09-16-93 09-1663 0368-94 09-16-94 09-16-94 09-16-94 09-2664
1 Retired 1 L.T.D.
* W.C.B.
4 Resigned
-22-