COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
OGILVIE MILLS LTD., MIDLAND, ONTARIO
AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL,
(A . F.L.-C. I.O.-C.L.C. ), LOCAL UNION 210 MIDLAND, ONTARIO
TERM OF AGREEMENT:	JULY 1, 1991 TO JUNE 30, 1993
INDEX
ARTICLE NO.
ARBITRATION BEREAVEMENT LEAVE CALL BACK CERTIFICATION CONTINUOUS SERVICE CONTRACTING OUT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE GROUP HEALTH BENEFITS HEALTH & SAFETY HOLIDAYS HOURS OF WORK JOB POSTING JURY DUTY LAY-OFFS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LETTER OF INTENT
MANAGEMENT FUNCTION
MEAL ALLOWANCE
NOTICES/BU LLETIN S
OVERTIME PAY PROVISIONS
OVERTIME WORK
PERSONNEL
PLANT COMMITTEE
PREAMBLE
PROBATION
PROMOTIONS
PYRAMIDING
RECALL
RECOGNITION (UNION)
REPORTING PAY MINIMU M
REST PERIOD
SAFETY BOOTS
SCHEDULING
SENIORITY
SEVERANCE PAY
SHIFT CHANGE
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
STRIKES/LOCKOUTS
TEMPORARY VACANCIES
TERMS OF AGREEMENT
TERMINATIONS
TOOLS
TRANSFERS
UNION DUES AND MEMBERSHIP
VACATIONS
WAGES
WATCHMEN
WORK CLOTHING
13
5.16
5.14 1.01 6.01
15 12
16 20
5.10
5.01
6.11
5.15 6.06 6.12
Appendix "C"
3.02
5.02 4.05
5.03 5.02
14 11 0
6.04 6.10
5.05 6.08
3.01 5.13
9.01
17.01
5.06
6.02 8
5.06 5.04
18
5.07 19
14
17.03
6.09
4
7
APPENDIX B 6.11
17.02
PREAMBLE
STATEMENT OF TEAM PRINCIPLES AND
QUALITY OF WORK LIFE
Ogilvie Mills Ltd.	and the American Federation of Grain
Millers, Local 210, have examined and have jointly concluded that our commitment to working cooperatively through common team objectives will meet our customer expectations for quality and service while upholding the personal security and job satisfaction needs of employees.
Our principles of a commitment to greater freedom of decision making, increased responsibility, trust and respect, positive recognition, and open communication give us the opportunity to grow in an evolutionary way while generating the wisdom and knowledge needed to guide the collective action of a successful company into the future.
Participative management is the real power of people to assure th is success and will confirm the belief that what proves effective in human terms will prove to be effective in economic terms,
1.01
2.01
2.02
2.03
ARTICLE 1	- CERTIFICATION
The Parties to this Agreement are Ogilvie Mills Ltd,, Mid land, Ontario, a Canadian Company existing under the laws of Canada hereinafter called “the Company” and the American Federation of Grain Millers International (ftFL—CIO-CLC) of 603 Hugel Ave., Midland, Ontario L4R 1W5 a n d 35 Pawtucket R o w , Orchard Park, NY,, U . S . A. 14127 (for service), representing Ogilvie Mills Ltd, employees through Local Union No. 210, hereafter called “the Union”.
ARTICLE 2 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to ensure true collective bargaining on matters relating to rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions,
Parties to the contract have agreed the acceptance or rejection of any demand by the Union or by the company shall be determined by recognizing at all times the imperative need to protect at one and the same time, the continuing safety of the Company 1 s corporate structure, and the general welfare of all those dependent thereon. In so doing, the Company and the Union pledge themselves to respect their mutual interest by promoting loyalty, efficiency, and a true cooperative spirit at all times within the plant organization.
The parties hereto acknowledge their respective responsibility one to the other and to those for whom they act. Each pledges to refrain from any act, the effect of which may create a misleading or false impression of the other or which may be construed as discrimination, interference or coercion.
RECOGNITION
ARTICLE 3
3,01	The Company during the life of this Agreement recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees at the Mid land plant covered by the certification mentioned in Article 1 for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to wages, hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment, all of which in any matter of dispute will be handled in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in this agreement.
3,02	Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Union agrees it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to manage its plant, to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to direct the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, to assign and reassign employees to jobs, transfer employees from department to department, to increase or decrease the working force, to determine the products to be handled, produced, processed or manufactured: to determine the schedule of production and methods, processes and means of production for handling of its products.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION DUES AND MEMBERSHIP
4,01	All present employees who are members of the Union at the date of the execution of this Agreement remain members in good standing during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
All employees hired after the execution of this Agreement shall become members of the Union on the 61st working day following the beginning of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing for the life hereof, as a condition of employment.
4.02	The Company will deduct from the wages of each employee an amount of dues set by constitutional action by the Union and will remit the same to the Financial Secretary of the Union. Dues will be calculated from the first day of employment and deductions will be made in each pay period,
4.03
a:
b: c:
d:
4.04
4.05
4.06
During the period of summer vacations (May 1 to September 15), the Company shall have the right to hire temporary employees for the purpose of vacation replacements, provided that no temporary employee shall work during such time that any regular employee is on lay-off status. Such temporary vacation replacement employee shall be designated "temporary employee".
Such temporary employee shall not attain seniority but shall be subject to deduction of dues.
Temporary employees shall not normally or regularly be used to fill permanent job vacancies. When there is a permanent job vacancy and new employees are hired during the summer vacation period, they shall be hired as potential regular employees and be subject to the probationary period, as set out in the Agreement.
Temporary employees shall not be entitled to group health and welfare benefits.
All new employees will complete a letter of assignment and authorization as per Appendix A,01.
Notice of Union activities, regular meetings and special meetings may be posted on Company bulletin boards without prior approval. Other notices may be posted after approval by the Company.
It is the employee's responsibility to advise theCompany of changes of address and telephone number.
5,01
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS OF WORK HOLIDAY AND OVERTIME PAY PROVISIONS
Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work and forty (40) hours a week's work.
Schedule of normal work day: Day work:
Shift work:
0800 Hours to 1200 Hours 1230 Hours to 1630 Hours
1st shift	-	0800	Hours	to	1600	Hours
2nd shift	-	1600	Hours	to	2400	Hours
3rd shift	-	2400	Hours	to	0800	Hours
Day work may commence at 0700 Hours or 0730 Hours or 0800 Hours, to meet specific conditions.
NOTE:	Classified shift
employees	will
maintain	their
shift work hours for the first week only following the elimination of the afternoon	and
night shifts.
a:	The Company, based on its production requirements, will
schedule work within the following procedure:
1	The available work shall be divided into eight (8) hour
shifts commencing on the day shift (0800 Hours to 1630 Hours), Monday through Friday, and shall be distributed to the most senior qualified employees.
2,	Should there be additional production needs, an afternoon and/or night shift shall be scheduled if the Company can provide work for more than two (2) days, otherwise the work shall be performed on overtime by the day shift employees,
3,	Every permanent employee who commences work on the first day of their work week shall finish the work week.
4,	This shall not be considered as a limitation on the number of hours per day or per week that the Company may operate its plant or schedule its employees.
b)	The provisions described in Clause 5.01 a) will not apply' when the Company is unable to provide work for any of the following reasons:
Act of God;
Fire, power failure;
Labour activities preventing the Company from producing or delivering its products, or any other action over which the Company has no control;
Employees are recalled from lay-off to fill temporary assignments (less than a normal week's duration): Employees retire or are suspended or discharged for just cause.
c)	The employee must be available to work when required and must accept the work offered him, subject to seniority provisions, failing which the time not worked wi 11 be deducted,
5,02	Overtime Work
The Company will notify employees of daily overtime work requirements at least two (2) hours in advance of the end of their normal shift, otherwise such overtime work will be voluntary on the part of the employee. In instances where the Company cannot provide the two hours notice and should the number of volunteers be insufficient, the department's junior employees on the shift capable of fulfilling the operational needs will have to work overtime for a maximum of four (4) hours. This provision does not apply in the case of electrical or mechanical breakdown or circumstances beyond the Company ' s control.
When an employee is scheduled for overtime work and he notifies his supervisor immediately that he does not wish to work the overtime, he wi 11 be excused provided that the supervisor and the employee are able to secure a qualified replacement who will accept the rate of the job. A1 1 parties will co-operate in securing a qualif ied replacement,
In distributing overtime work, the following rules shal apply :
a)	Effective September 24, 1991, employees will be paid a ten dollar ($10.00) meal allowance for unscheduled overtime of two (2) hours or more. Unscheduled overtime is defined as less than six (6) hours notice prior to commencement of the employee's shift.
k) Daily overtime work over and above the schedule shall be distributed first to the senior employees on the job on that day relative to the shift where the overtime occurs ; secondly, to the most senior qualified employee in the department on the same shift:	thirdly, to the
most senior qualified employee in the plant on the same shift.
Weekend overtime shall be distributed on seniority basis, first to the employee scheduled on the job during the week regardless of shifts:	secondly to the most
senior qualified employee in the department, and thirdly to the most senior qualified employee in the plant.
Should an employee exercise his seniority privilege under the above weekend overtime clause resulting in sixteen (16) consecutive hours worked, he will be entitled only to regular overtime payment notwithstanding clause 5.03, second paragraph.
Temporary employees will not work daily or weekend overtime if there are regular employees available who desire such overtime work.
O Employees on temporary lay-off shall have the opportunity to fill vacancies, subject to qualifications, before overtime is distributed to other employees.
d)	Weekend general cleaning work for which the Company does not require qualifications in any specific classification will be offered to employees on a plant seniority basis.
5.03	All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours at straight time in one (l)day or forty (40) hours at straight time in one (1) week, or all work performed in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours shall constitute overtime and shall, be compensated for at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the straight time hourly rate.
The Company shall pay at the rate of double time (2) for all work performed in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours.
The provisions of this clause shall not apply in the case of employees exercising their seniority rights to maintain employment.
5.04	Shift Differential
Effective July 1,1991, a shift differential of fifty cents (50£) per hour will be applied to all wage rates, as outlined in Appendix1^", for all work performed between 1600 Hours and 2400 Hours, with the exception of those hours of work performed by employees on the day shift who must complete eight (8) hours of work before the application of the shift differential becomes effective .
A shift differential of sixty cents (60^5) per hour will be applied to all wages, as outlined in Appendix "B", for all work performed between 2400 Hours and 0800 Hours,
5.05	Pyramiding
In no event shall overtime or premium pay provided for in Article V be pyramided or duplicated. Thus, if two or more of the overtime and premium pay provisions are applicable to the same hours of work, only the applicable provision yielding the largest amount of pay shall be applied, and such payment shall satisfy the requirements of all other applicable pay provisions. However, overtime and premium rates for all hours worked shall be computed on the applicable straight time hourly classification rate.
Shift premium will not be added to straight time hourly rate when computing overtime, but will be paid over and above the overtime rate when applicable.
5.06	Scheduling
a)	Employees may not reject work in their regular classification and thereafter use their seniority to claim work in another classification.
b)	The Company shall not deliberately stagger the work week in such a manner as to deprive employees of overtime they would normally receive. Regularly scheduled swing shifts, when practical and desirable, shall be negotiated between the Company and the Union.
Deviations from established scheduling procedures for the purpose of meeting varying operational requirements may be instituted by agreement between the Union and the Company.
c)	Supervisors, foremen and other plant personnel excluded from the bargaining unit will not be permitted or assigned to do work covered by the bargaining unit, except as outlined below:
■instructing and/or training employees,
-Demonstrating the correct use of tools or equipment, -Acting to prevent an accident or injury to an employee, or to prevent product or equipment damage.
d)	Employees who are rescheduled from one shift to another during the normal work week, Monday through Friday, will be paid at time and one-half (11/2) their normal rate of pay for the first shift worked following the rescheduling.
Employees shall not receive a shift change premium when they return to their originally scheduled shift.
This provision will. not apply where the rescheduling was caused by an Act of Cod nor where the Company is applying the provisions of Clause 5.01 a) to provide work for an employee.
e)	Whenever a holiday weekend occurs, the Company will make every reasonable e f f o r t t o schedule any required overtime the previous weekend in order to give employees the benefit of the long weekend.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to post weekend overtime schedules 48 hours in advance.
5,07 Temporary Vacancies
Should the Company decide to fill temporary vacancies caused by unexpected employee absence, the following procedures will apply.
a)	Jobs operating on a 3-shift basis
1, Where the vacancy occurs on the 1st shift.
Qualified employees on the same shift will be advanced according to the progression chart to fill the vacancy.
2. Where the vacancy occurs on the 2nd and 3rd shift.
Employees working the same job classification on other shifts will fill the vacancy on a 12 hours/12 hours basis.
b)	Jobs operating on a 2-shift basis
1.	Where the vacancy occurs on the 1st shift
Qualified employees on the same shift will be advanced according to the progression chart to fill the vacancy.
2.	Where the vacancy occurs on the 2nd shift.
One employee working the same job classification on another shift will fill the vacancy (16 hours),
When circumstances dictate that the guidelines cannot be reasonably applied, the Company will fill the vacancy in a manner consistent with the principles of ability, seniority and advancement,
5.08 Saturday Pay
Hours worked by an employee on Saturday excluding watchmen shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate. This provision is subject to the limitations outlined below.
Employees on swing shifts which have been established under provisions of Article 5.06 hereof will not receive premium pay for work on Saturday as such, but will be paid time and one half (1 1/2) the straight time hourly rate for all hours worked on their first regularly scheduled day of rest, provided other qualifications herein specified are met. This is intended to recognize the first scheduled day of rest for such employees as the equivalent of Saturday.
5.09	Sunday Pay
All work performed by an employee on Sunday excluding watchmen shall be compensated for at two (2) times the straight time hourly rate.
5.10	Holidays
The following thirteen (13) holidays will be observed:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day December 2A Christmas Day Boxing Day December 3 1
Two (2) Personal Holidays
Personal holidays will be determined by mutual agreement of the employee and his supervisor.
Any holiday falling on a Saturday or Sunday will be scheduled on the Friday preceding the holiday or the Monday following the holiday, subject to the provision that the plant may not be scheduled down for more than four (4) consecutive days.
5.11	Holiday Work Pay
All work performed by an employee during the hours of his regular shift on the holidays listed in Clause 5.10 shall be paid for at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate, in addition to the holiday pay.
For work on such holiday commencing outside the hours of his regular shift, the employee shall be paid for a call-back as defined in Clause 5.14,at the rate of three (3) times the regular hourly rate, in addition to the holiday pay of eight (8)hours at straight time. Watchmen will be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for all hours worked on holidays, as listed in Clause 5,10,
5.12	Unworked Holiday Pay
Employees who have completed their probationary period will be paid eight (8) times their scheduled straight time hourly rate for the holidays listed in Clause 5.10 if no work is performed on these holidays provided the employee has not failed to work when scheduled on the holiday and the employee works sometime during the month in which the holiday occurs, except when he is on vacation. Vacation hours wi 11 be considered as hours worked in the application of this provision.
5,13	Reporting Pay Premium
Employees called to work shall be given sufficient work to enable them to earn not less than four (4) times the applicable hourly rate of pay, or not being given that much work, shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable hourly rate.
5,14	Call-Back Pay
An employee called back to work after completion of a regular day's work shall be paid not less than four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate. However, if the employee's regular shift starts two (2) hours or less from the time he started work on the call-back, he will receive the applicable overtime rate for only such time worked on the call-back, as occurs before his regular shift, An employee shall not be considered called-back if he is called to work sixteen (16) hours or more after the completion of his last regular day's work; nor shall an employee be considered called-back if his succeeding shift is changed, provided the employee is notified of such change at or before the end of his preceding shift and seven (7) hours or more have elapsed between the two shifts,
All call back work performed in excess of four (4) consecutive hours shall be compensated for at the rate of double time (2) the straight time hourly rate.
5.15	Jury Pay
An employee who is required to be absent from work for jury duty shall receive whatever straight time pay he would have otherwise received up to and including forty (40) hours in any one week, less the amount of jury pay which he received for the same period, When the above is applicable, each full day of jury duty shall be credited as one eight (8) hour day in computation of overtime and each partial day of jury duty shall be credited as a partial day toward overtime. To be eligible for above payment, the employee must notify his supervisor at the time of his call to jury duty and must furnish evidence of the amount of pay received for jury duty.
5.16	Bereavement Leave
Bereavement leave will be granted to employees as follows:
a)	Five (5) consecutive days leave in the event of the death of an employee's spouse, son, daughter, parents, brother, sister.
b)	Up to three (3)working days leave, the last day being
the day of the funeral, in the event of the death of an employee's grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law,	brother--in-law,	sister-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law.
c)	One (1) additional day's leave will be granted to attend the funerals outside a radius of four hundred kilometers (400 Km) from Midland:
d)	One (l)day's leave to one (1) member of the Union to act as pallbearer for a fellow Union member;
e)	Sufficient leave to one (1) Union official to attend a local funeral of a fellow Union member.
Employees wi 11 be compensated for eight (8) hours wages at straight time rates for each day on which they would otherwise have been scheduled to work.
Employees shall notify the Company promptly of absence for bereavement purposes.
ARTICLE 6
6.01 Continuous Service
The term “continuous service” wherever used in this Agreement is the period of time that begins with an employee’s date of hire with the Company, If such service is broken for any of the reasons listed below, continuous service shall commence with the employee's most recent hiring date by the Company. Continuous service shall not be broken due to lay-off or absence due to illness, injury, leave of absence or other legitimate reason approved by the Company. However, an employee’s continuous service shall be broken if he:
a)	quits, or
b)	is discharged for just cause, or
c)	has been laid off for a period exceeding twenty-four (24) consecutive months for an employee with five (5) years or more service and twelve (12) consecutive months for an employee with less than five (5) years service, o r
d)	fails to report for work within twenty-four (24) hours of being contacted by the Company or fails to report for work within forty-eight (48) hours of the Union being notified that the Company is unable to contact the
employee, or
e)	accepts a severance allowance payment.
6.02	Plant Seniority
a)	The term “plant seniority” or “seniority” as used herein shall mean a period reflected by the Company's employment records of an employee’s continuous service or by the records of its predecessor. Plant seniority shall accumulate for the purpose of determining all rights of employees.
b)	When two or more employees have equal seniority, the earliest shift or time worked on the first day shall govern and if both started work on the same day and shift, the alphabetical order of the employees last names shall govern, Where the seniority of employees presently on the payroll is equal, the order in which they appear on the current seniority list shall prevail.
6,03	Seniority List
Seniority lists will be revised every six (6) months and will be available for inspection at the Plant Manager's office or other suitable location.
6,04	Probation
Employees shall be on probation for the first sixty (60) working days of their employment within a twelve (12) month period from their date of hire. Upon completion of the probationary period, the employees seniority shall be retroactive a maximum of six (6) months from the completion of the sixtieth (60th) day worked. Employees who fail to attain sixty (60) working days within prescribed period shall be considered as having no working days to their employment credit.
The Company may, at its own discretion, discharge an employee at any time during the employee’s probationary period.
6.05 New Classification and Rates
Whenever the duties, responsibilities or other job content	of any classification	have changed
substantially, either party to this Agreement m a y request a meeting with the other for the purpose of negotiating a satisfactory adjustment in rate for the same.
Prior to the inauguration of a permanent new classification or job, the Union shall be advised of its intended	establishment. When the	permanent new
classification or job is created, the Company may, at its discretion, establish a temporary rate for such work, and after thirty (30) days operations, shall negotiate with the Union a permanent rate which shall be retro-active to the effective date of the new job or classification.
6.06 Lay-offs
When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force, plant seniority shall	apply with respect to	all
employees, qualifications being sufficient. In the consideration of plant	seniority, it will	be	the
practice to lay-off the employee having the shortest period of plant seniority. It is recognised that some leeway is necessary to the Company in the application of this rule in order to provide for instances where specialized skill, experience and/or abi 1 i ty necessitate that exceptions be made in order to ensure efficient and continuous plant operations,
6.07 Permanent Lay-Off
A permanent lay-off is a reduction in the work force resulting from any of the following:
technological improvements in facilities and/or equipment ,
changes in methods of production, processing, shipping, receiving, materials handling or distribution, etc., permanent closing of the plant, a department, part of a department or other permanent reductions in the total plant working force,
Prior to any substantial closing or curtailments as outlined above, the union wi 11 be given four (4) months notification or appropriate notification as required by law.
b)	Employees permanently laid-off shall have the option of accepting the lay-off or exercising their seniority privileges to claim a job in the next lower rated classification, within their own department, which is held by an employee having lesser seniority.
O Employees permanently laid-off who do not wish to claim a job within their own department may exercise their seniority privileges to claim a job, for which they have the required qualifications, in any other department which is held by an employee having lesser seniority.
d) Employees who exercise their seniority privilege under sub-sections b) or c) above, shall displace the employee having the least seniority in the classification.
e)	Employees who are displaced as a result of a claim under
sub-sections b) or c)	to be
permanently laid-off and shall be entitled to the appropriate options.
f)	An employee, after exhausting all of the above options and before being permanently laid-off, shall have the opportunity, for a reasonable period of time of up to thirty (30) working days, if he has less than fifteen (15) years seniority, and up to sixty (60) working days if he has more than fifteen (15) years seniority, to qualify for a job held by an employee with lesser seniority.
6.08	Temporary Lay-Off
a)	A temporary lay-off is a non-permanent reduction in the work force which results in an employee’s job not operating or employee’s incapacity to perform his regular job during the week days, Monday through Friday.
b)	Employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours advance notice of a temporary lay-off or eight (8) hours straight time wages in lieu thereof.
c)	Employees temporarily laid-off shall have the option of accepting the lay-off or exercising their seniority privileges to claim a job in the next lower rated classification in which they are qualified, within their own department, which is held by an employee having lesser seniority.
d)	Employees temporarily laid-off who are unable to claim a job within their own department may exercise their seniority privileges to claim the job of the employee having the least seniority in the plant for which they qualify,
e)	Employees who are displaced as a result of a claim under sub-section c) or d) above, shall be considered to be tomporari ly I a i d ■ o f f and shall be entitled to the appropriate options,
f)	Employees who claim a lower rated job under sub-section
c)	o r d) a b o v e , shall receive the wage rate of their regular classification for the balance of the current workweek and for an additional three (3) week period.
Employees who continue to work in a lower rated classification after the period of rate protection is no longer in effect, shall receive the rate of the job performed	until they	are	again	scheduled in their
regular classification.
g)	Employees exercising seniority rights under sub-sections
c)	or d)	shall	work	the	hours	and shift that the
displaced employee would otherwise have worked.
h)	An employee who has been on temporary lay-off for sixty (60) days or more shall be given the opportunity, for a reasonable period of time of up to fifteen (15) working days, if he has less than fifteen (15) years seniority, and up to thirty (30) working days if he has more than fifteen (15) years seniority, to qualify for a job held by an employee with lesser seniority.
i)	In recalling regular and probationary employees, seniority shall prevail and the practice at the plant will be that the employee with the longest plant seniority will first be recalled, but the same leeway shall be due the Company, as is provided for in the case of lay-offs under Clause 6.06,
j)	No new employees will be hired until all available, competent regular and probationary employees have been afforded an opportunity to return to work, except that should occasion require the services of someone especially qualified for a certain job or position which cannot be filled from the employees in the plant, this rule shall be modified to that extent.
k)	In applying this clause, the Company shall not be required to rearrange the job content or the work force to suit any individual situation.
6,09	Transfers
a)	Employees in all classifications are expected to perform any duties to which they may be reasonably assigned.
b)	Reassignments of one day or less within the department will be performed by the most junior employee working on the shift in the affected classification. Should the reassignment be outside the department, the above employees will perform the work duties of the most junior employees within the department causing these displaced employees t o transfer and perform the assignments in the other department.
c)	Employees accepting and/or transferring,	other than
temporarily , to a supervisory position for more than nine (9) months, shall not retain seniority rights in the bargaining unit,
d)	Employees working more than fifty percent (50%) of their time in a calendar year within a classification will be considered, for promotional purpose, to be included in the classification.
e)	Employees temporarily transferred to a lower	rated
classification shall receive the wage rate of their regular classification.	Employees temporarily
transferred to a higher rated classification shall receive the wage rate of the higher classification.
f)	Sub--section e) above shall not change plant practices now in effect regarding compensation for Watchman duties nor shall sub--section e) apply in cases of permanent transfers.
g)	Nothing in section 6,09 shall preclude employees from accepting a lower wage rate while serving as an apprentice or while in training for a higher rated classification.
6.10	Promotions
a)	Employees will, be promoted to the next higher rated classification within their department on the basis of seniority, providing ability and physical qualifications are sufficient to perform the duties involved,
b)	Promoted employees shall be given a fair trial in the new classification and shall be returned 'to their old classification with full seniority rights, if they are unable to perform the new assignment satisfactorily.
c)	Employees shall be deemed qualified for the rate of pay of the job involved when they satisfactorily perform the duties with no more supervision than is required by other qualified workers on the same job.
d)	In order to qualify for promotion, employees must accept temporary assignments/transfers to higher rated classifications,
6.11 Job Posting
a)	ever vacancies occur in posted classifications, the employees shall be given an opportunity of applying for such jobs, and whenever more than one application is acceptable, the employee with the greatest seniority shall fill the vacancy.
Vacant positions shall be posted within a reasonable time period, not more than thirty (30) working days, after the vacancy occurs.
A notice of the vacancy, requesting applications shall be posted on the plant bulletin board. The notice will be posted three (3) working days, then the Company shall have the right to fill the vacancy, provided that employees who are absent from work at the time of the original posting shall have the right to apply for such vacancy upon their return, and their applications shall be considered on an equal. basis with all other applications. Absent employees will be made aware of vacancies.
The Company will post the names of employees chosen for vacancies within seven (7) days from the end of the posting period.
b)	Fifteen (15) watchmen will be selected on basis of plant seniority . The watchmen will be scheduled in the following manner. The three (3) senior employees will be scheduled the first weekend, The next three (3) senior employees will be scheduled the next weekend and so on until all fifteen (15) employees have been assigned to watchmen duties. The same schedule will then be repeated again. The watchman assignment may be changed at times to assure that the normal job assignment does not alter.
The watchman classification will be posted on an annual basis.
6.1?. Leave of Absence
a)	The Company will grant, on written request from the Union, leave of absence to one (1) employee for the purpose of accepting a full-time position with the Union. Seniority shall accrue during such leave.
b)	Employees returning to work from leave of absence shall return to the classification they occupied at the time their leave became effective, provided they are qualified and have the necessary seniority. Employees returning from service in the Armed Forces must report for work within ninety (90) days of obtaining a certificate of honorable discharge.
c)	The Company shall notify the Union in writing of all leave of absence granted.
d)	Employees conscripted or volunteering for service in the Canadian Armed Forces may be granted leave of absence by agreement between the Company and the plant committee. Seniority shall accrue during such leave.
e)	Leave of absence will be granted retroactively when warranted for legitimate reasons including illness and accident. Seniority shall accrue during such leave.
f)	The Company wi 11 grant leave of absence for a reasonable period, once each year to not more than two (2) employees to serve as delegates for Local 210, for the transaction of Union business.
g)	The Company will grant leave of absence to the plant committee to attend the Union’s annual education seminar.
ARTICLE 7 - VACATIONS
7.01
a)	The scheduling of all vacations shall be decided by the Plant Manager having regard to the necessity of maintaining production and seniority. Whenever it is practical to arrange vacations to suit individual employees, an effort will be made to do so.
b)	T-he "vacation year" is January 1st to December 31st, Banking of vacations will be allowed as follows:
Subject to the provisions of the Canada Labour Code and by mutual agreement between management and the employee, on an individual basis, banking of vacations will be permissible.
Vacation pay banked in succeeding years shall be paid on the basis of the vacation year in which the vacation is earned.
All current year vacation entitlements must be taken prior to January 1st of the following year with the exception of authorized banking.
Payment in lieu of vacation is not normally permitted except in cases of separation.
7,02	The minimum vacation any employee will be entitled to receive will be the minimum provided in accordance with relevant legislation.
Employees will normally be entitled to basic vacation in relation to periods of service as follows:
a)	Employees w h o have completed less than twelve (12) months service by December 3lst will be entitled to one day for each complete month of service to a maximum of two (2) weeks vacation in the following calendar year. For initial vacation credit purposes, employment up to and including the 15th of any month constitutes a month.
b)	Employees who, by December 3lst have completed one (1) year but less than five (5) years of service will be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation in the following calendar year.
c)	Employees who, by December 3lst have completed five (5) years but less than ten (10) years of service will be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation in the following calendar year.
d)	Employees who, by December 3lst have completed ten (10) years but less than eighteen (18) years of service will be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation in the following calendar year.
e)	Employees who, by December 3lst have completed eighteen (18) years but less than twenty-five (25) years of service will be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation in the following calendar year.
f)	Employees who, by December 31st< have completed twenty--five (25) years or more of service will be entitled to six (6) weeks vacation in the following calendar year.
7.03	The time at which vacations will be taken will be arranged with the department foreman concerned, As a general rule, not more than two (2) employees from a department will be granted vacation at the same time.
Vacations may be split but split periods should normally not be in units of less than one week.
Should the Company close the plant or a department for a one or two week period during July or August, all employees affected who are eligible for vacation will take their vacation during the period of closing providing their services are not otherwise required.
Employees permanently transferred to another department may be required to change their vacation schedule to conform with the new department schedule.
A vacation application schedule will be posted in each department between April 1st and April 2lst. A list of planned vacation closures and approved vacations will be posted by May 1st;,
7.04	Where a statutory holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, the employee may add the holiday time to his vacation period or may take a day off at some time before the end of the vacation year, such day off to be arranged with the department foreman concerned.
7.05	On separation from the Company, for any reason, employees will receive payment for any vacation earned but not taken prior to separation.
In the event of the death of an employee, the full amount of vacation earned but not taken prior to death wi 11 be paid to the proper persons, in accordance with the existing and pertinent laws relevant to a deceased person.
7.06	Vacation pay will be computed on the basis of two per cent (2%) of the employee's gross earnings or forty (40) hours pay at his basic straight-time rate for each week of vacation entitlement, whichever is greatest. This calculation will be based on the T-4 slid issued the employee at the end of the past year.
Vacation pay will be made available to employees prior to commencement of their vacation period.
Vacation pay for employees who have worked less than eight hundred and forty (040) hours during the reference year shall. be calculated on the percentage of gross earnings during such period. For the purpose of this clause, workers' compensation shall be considered as time worked.
ARTICLE 8	- SEVERANCE PAY
8,01	Employees who have completed three (3) or more years of continuous service with the Company and who are thereafter permanently laid-off shall be eligible for severance pay.
8.02	Employees shall not be eligible for severance pay:
a)	In the event of discharge for just cause or resignation, o r
b)	In the event of death, or
c)	In the event of being offered and accepting employment elsewhere with Ogilvie Mills Ltd,
8,03	Severance pay for eligible employees shall be based upon length of continuous service with the Company.
Effective July 1, 1991
_	an eligible employee shall receive severance pay of
Forty (40) hours of his classified straight-time rate for each year of his first twenty (20) complete years of continuous service and then sixty (60)hours of his classified straight-time rate for each additional complete year of continuous service,
Effective July 1, 1992
an eligible employee shall receive severance pay of Forty (40) hours of his classified straight-time rate for each year of his first fifteen (15) complete years of continuous service and then sixty (60) hours of his classified straight-time rate for each additional complete year of continuous service.
8.04	Severance pay will be payable to employees in one lump sum. The amount of the severance pay will be based on the eligible employee's continuous service at the time he is laid-off from active work, provided he has been notified in writing by the Company that his permanent lay-off would become effective on that date.
8.05	An eligible employee who has been on temporary lay-off for a period of 180 or more consecutive calendar days may exercise the option of accepting severance pay or retaining his recall rights, as provided in Article VI of this Agreement.
When an employee exercises his option of accepting severance pay, his continuous service for the purpose of computing his severance pay shall include the first 180 consecutive days of lay-off.
8.06	Except in the case of a permanent closing of the plant, an eligible employer? may choose to defer receipt of the
severance pay unt i I. :
a)	The end of the employee’s allowable period of weekly unemployment compensation benefits under the laws of the Province of Ontario;
b)	The end of the employee’s recall. period, as provided in Article VI of this Agreement,
In the case of permanent closing of the plant, an eligible employee shall receive his severance pay not later than thirty--one (31) calendar days after the last day he is actively at work with the Company.
Severance pay for which an employee is eligible will be payable to an employee’s dependents or ostatein the event of his death.
8.07	It is understood that upon receipt of severance pay, an employee relinquishes all recall, seniority, and employment rights with the Company.
ARTICLE 9 - REGULATIONS
9.01
a)	Employees who are off sick must notify the Company they will not be coming in by 0800 hours if on day or 1st shift, by 1400 hours if on 2nd shift, and by 2200 hours if on 3rd shift.
b)	Employees will be provided with a rest period of ten (10) minutes at the following intervals:
-	each half shift, timing at discretion of department foreman;
-	between the end of a shift and commencement of overtime;
-	after two (2) hours overtime.
c)	Shift employees will be provided with a meal period of thirty (30) minutes during each shift, timing at the discretion of the department foreman according to production requirements,
ARTICLE 10 - WAGE SCHEDULE
10.01	Appendix "B" attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement is a schedule of wage rates, departmental progression and job classification chart.
ARTICLE 11 - PLANT COMMITTEE
11.01	A plant committee of five (5) employees plus a recording secretary wi 11 be appointed by the Union to meet and bargain with the Company on matters properly arising from time to time in administration of this Agreement.
11.02	Members of the committee shall be members of the Union
in good standing who. have been in continuous employment with the Company for a period of at least one (1) year.
11.03	Members of the committee shall be selected in accordance
with the Constitution of the Union.
11.04	The Union acknowledges the committee members have duties
to perform on behalf of the Company and will not leave regular duties without first notifying their supervisors. On their return to their department, they shall report to the supervisor on resuming their duties.
11.05	It is clearly understood the committee members will not
absent themselves from their regular duties unreasonably, in order to deal with the grievances of employees or with other Union business. In accordance with this understanding, the Company wi 11 compensate plant committee employees for the time spent in negotiating with the Company, hand 1 ing grievances of employees and attending the meetings of the plant committee at their regular rate of pay, premium rates will not apply. This does not apply on time spent on such matters outside of regular working hours unless the Company agrees to a meeting.
11.06	The local. union president (or his designee in the event
of his absence) finding himself without a position after completion of steps C and D of Article 6.08 may claim the job of the employee having the least seniority in the plant for which he qualifies.
11.07	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the
employees constituting the plant committee and shall keep such a list up-to-date at all times.
ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE 12,01 Grievance Procedure
If an employeehas a grievance or disputewith the Company, the parties agree to the following procedure:
STEP 1
The aggrieved employee shall bring the matter in writing to his immediate supervisor within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the grievance. A discussion must take place between the supervisor and the employee accompanied, if he so desires, with this Union Committee Member, within two (2) working days.
The supervisor shall render his decision in writing within two (2) working days following such discussion.
STEP 2
Should the supervisor's response be unsatisfactory to the grievor, the matter shall be brought up in writing to the attention of the Plant Manager or his designate within five (5) working days following STEP 1,
The Plant Manager or his designate shall then convene a meeting including the grievor and the Union grievance committee to discuss the matter. He should render his decision in writing within five (5) working days after such meeting.
STEP 3
In the event that the grievance is not settled to the employee's satisfaction, the matter should be referred in writing within five (5) working days, to the Company's Labour Relations representative and the Union's business representative to be discussed with the parties involved, The parties shall communicate within a reasonable period of time, which will not exceed thirty (30) calendar days, to resolve the grievance.
Should there be no agreement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
12,02Any difference between the parties arising out of the interpretation and/or the application of this Agreement may be submitted by one party to the other, at the third step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 13 - ARBITRATION
13.01
a)	STEP 1
In the event arbitration is to be invoked, the request must be made in writing to the other party within seven (7) working days or such further period, as is mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. At this time, both parties will attempt to come to agreement of selecting a single arbitrator.
STEP 2
In the event the parties are unable to agree on a single arbitrator, the Minister of Labour of the Government of Canada shall be asked to appoint an arbitrator,
STEP 3
The arbitrator shall meet as soon as possible with both parties to hear evidence and receive representations.
b)	The Arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to alter or change the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give a decision inconsistent with the terms or provisions of this Agreement. He shall however, have authority to alter or amend a disciplinary penalty.
c)	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle a grievance.
d)	Each of the parties hereto shall equally bear the expense of the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 14 - PERSONNEL
14.01	The Company will provide written confirmation to the
employee involved with a copy to the Union	of any
disciplinary actions including warnings, suspensions and terminations.
14.02	The Company will. provide written confirmation to the Union of all employee resignations.
14.03	Claims by employees of unjust discharge shall be treated
as a grievance. A written statement of the grievance must be lodged with the Plant Manager and the plant committee within three (3) working days from the last date on which the employee earned wages.
14.04	The Company will destroy disciplinary warning letters
after one year of improved conduct.
14.05	An employee may review his personal file upon the
Company receiving his written request.
ARTICLE 15- CONTRACTING OUT
15.01	The Company will not contract out work customarily performed by bargaining unit employees on the Company's premises unless:
a)	plant employees are not qualified by reason of lack of skill or experience to do the work required, or'
b)	the necessary tools or equipment are not available at t h e plant, or'
c)	such work cannot be completed by plant employees within required time limits.
Before contracting out such work, the Company will notify the Union President in writing of its intention before the work commences, and will explain the circumstances which make it necessary. It is agreed that no employee will be scheduled for less than a forty (40) hour week while outside contractors are engaged on the premises, subject to a), b) and c) above. The above will not be applicable in cases of breakdown or other exceptional situations requiring immediate attention.
ARTICLE 16 - GROUP HEALTH AND WELFARE
Permanent employees hired on or after July 1, 1991 shall not be eligible for Group Health and Welfare benefits when on temporary lay--off.
Permanent employees with less than five (5) years seniority shall not be eligible for Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability benefits when on temporary lay-off.
16.01	The Company will pay 100% of Ontario Health Insurance
Pian premiums for all participating employees.
16.02	The Company will maintain the "Group Insurance Plan for
wage employees” and will pay 100% of the premiums.
The weekly indemnity plan will be revised to conform with any future changes in government regulations for a continued “Qualified Plan” during the term of the Agreement. The additional cost to the Company for these improvements is in lieu of any employee entitlement to rebate under Section 64-4 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1971.
The schedule of benefits will include the following:
a)	Effective October 1, 1991 weekly indemnity will be a 66 2/3% of basic weekly (40 hours) earnings up to a maximum benefit of four hundred and fifty dollars ($450) per week for the first thirty-two (32) weeks of disability.
Benefits are payable from the first day of accidents or hospitalization and the fourth day of sickness without hospitalization.
b)	Insurance Active Employee
Effective October 1,1991-Twenty Four Thousand Dollars ($24,000)
Spouse
I	Effective October 1, 1991 -■ Two Thousand, Five Hundred
Dollars ($2,500)
Child-(over fourteen (14) days old)
Effective October 1, 1991 - One Thousand, Two Hundred and Fifty dollars ($1,250.) .
c)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance:
Active Employee
Effective October 1, 1991 - Twenty Four Thousand dollars ($24,000)
d)	Life Insurance, Retired -- Effective October 1, 1991
a paid up policy in the amount of Four Thousand Dollars ($4,000) for employees taking retirement at normal age and for employees taking retirement after the age of fifty-five (55),
e)
f)
g)
h)
1
2
i)
a)
b)
c)
Prescription Drugs - Subject to deductible thirty-five cents (350 per prescription.
Dental - Effective October 1, 1991 Preventative Service - No Co-Insurance Restorative Service - 50% Co ■ I n s u ra n c e Denture Service	- 80% C o■ I n s u ra n c e
The maximum payment level for the above dental benefits is two thousand dollars ($2,000).
Vision Care - Effective October 1, 1991 The Company agrees to establish a Vision Care Plan providing reimbursement up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.) every twenty-four (24) months to employees and their eligible dependants for the purchase of eye glasses.
Long Term Disability - Effective October 1, 1991 The company agrees to establish and pay the premium cost of long term disability benefits for employees with more than four (4) years seniority on the following basis:
Sixty percent (60%)of regular forty (40) hour rate with a maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per month payable after exhaustion of weekly indemnity and (J.I.C, sick benefits and integrated with Canada Pension Plan and Workers Compensation Board disability benefits.
Employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits shall receive a minimum of one thousand three hundred dollars ($1,300) per month effective October 1, 1991 inclusive of current government benefits for the term of this agreement.
EARLY RETIREMENT - Effective October 1, 1991
To be eligible for early retirement major medical benefits, the employee must be fifty-five (55) years of age or older and have twenty (20)years or more of credited service.
The plan will consist of:
80/20 co-insurance payment $25/$50 annual deductible
Drugs subject to a thirty-five cents	(35 i)	per
prescription deductible,
The early retirement major medical benefit plan will terminate when the employee attains age sixty-five (65).
ARTICLE 17 - WORKCLOTHING AND TOOLS
17.01	The Company will reimburse employees up to sixty-five
dollars ($65) per year, bankable for two (2) years, towards the purchase of not more than two (2) pairs of safety shoes during the term of this Agreement. Effective July 1, 1992 the above reimbursement will increase to seventy dollars ($70).
17.02	The Company will provide one (1) winter jacket to
identified employees only during the term of this agreement,
17.03	The Company agrees to replace for employees with
seniority, those tools which employees supply and use in their regular work that have become broken or worn out by regular in plant use. The above tool should be presented to the service supervisor as soon as possible after the defect is detected.
ARTICLE 18 - LIMITATIONS ON STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
18,01	During the life of	this Agreement,	no strike in
connection with disputes arising hereunder shall be caused or sanctioned in the plant	covered by	this
Agreement by the Union or by any member thereof, and no lock--outs shall be ordered by the Company in connection with such disputes,
18,02	Persons whose work is required for plant protection during any shutdown shall be permitted to perform faithfully such services without interference from the American Federation of Grain Millers (AFL-CIO-CLC) International or organization affiliated therewith, or members thereof .
ARTICLE 19 - TERMS OF AGREEMENT
19,01	This Agreement may be amended, altered, or varied at any time by mutual consent, and any such modification, alteration or variation, to be binding, shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto, otherwise the Agreement shall be in effect for tuio (2) years from tho date hereof and shall continue from year to year after that date, unless either party gives notice in writing of intention to terminate the Agreement or to enter into negotiations for the purpose of amending the Agreement within a period of not less than thirty (30) days, and not more than sixty (60) days prior to any such yearly date of termination.
19.02	If notice of intention to amend is given by either party
in writing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, such negotiations shall commence not later than twenty (20) days after the date of such written notice, and if such negotiations do not result in agreement prior to the yearly date of termination of this Agreement, then this Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement between the negotiating parties for such further time, as necessary, in order to complete the negotiations.
19.03	This Agreement and all terms and conditions thereof
shall be subject to any proper legislation in regard thereto, duly enacted by the statute or regulations by the Government of Canada and the Province of Ontario and this Agreement shall be from time to time modified, extended, restricted or amended to give effect thereto.
19.04	Any change in the schedule of classification and their
related rates will be a matter for negotiations between the Company and the plant committee.
ARTICLE 20
HEALTH £ SAFETY
20.01	The management and employees of Ogilvie Mills Ltd., Mid land, Ontario are committed to the prevention of occupational illness and injury through the maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment by recognizing and adhering to responsibilities as set forth and regulated by legislation under the Canada Labour Code. This legislation will, also be adhered to when dealing in the special areas of Refusal to Work, the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (W.H.M.I.S.) and the supply and use of personal protective equipment, devices and clothing.
20.02	A joint Health and Safety Committee will be recognized
and maintained and will consist of three (3) delegates from the bargaining unit appointed by the union president and up to three (3) delegates appointed by management , This committee shall hold meetings at least once per month and minutes shall be taken at all moetingswith copies provided to the employer and the union president. An inspection of the plant shall be done no less than once per month. For all in plant inspections there will be at least one (1) delegate from the above committee from the union and one (1) delegate from the above committee from the employer present,
20.03	The employer agrees to supply any information received
relating to health and safety to the Health and Safety Committee for their files, The employer shall also respond in writing within seven (7) working days to any formal recommendation of the joint Health and Safety Committee with a copy of the response going to the union president.
20.04	The employer agrees to examine for members of the above
committee any reasonable outside training courses or programs as may be recommended by the Health and Safety Committee or provide such training as is required by law.
20.05	Canada Labour Code legislation will. be used to determine
the appropriate actions involving penalization, discipline and payment of wages regarding all issues involving health and safety items and committees.
FOR THE COMPANY:
D. E . Taylor, Director, Manufacturing
G.H. Oliver, Plant Manager	M.R.Long, Operations Manager
FOR THE UNION:
International Vice-president
P. Larmand, President, Local 2.10
M. Duval, Vice-president. Local 210
Plant Committee
Plant Committee
Plant Committee
J. Sagle, Recording Secretary, Local 210
APPENDIX "A"
ASSIGNMENT AND AUTHORIZATION
A.01	TO:	OGILVIE MILLS LTD
MIDLAND, ONTARIO
I hereby assign to Local 21.0, American Federation of Grain Millers (AFL-CIO-CLC) International, sums equal to the amount of their assessment for dues and initiation fees, as established by the Union pursuant to its Constitution, Laws and Regulations.
Such dues shall be deducted from my first pay cheque following commencement of employment and thereafter shall be deducted every pay period. Initiation fees shall be deducted from my first pay cheque following sixty (60) days service.
You are directed to remit such deduction to the Treasurer of the Union pursuant to the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement,
I further agree that Ogilvie Mills Ltd. shall be saved harmless for all deductions by virtue of this authorization.
Signature
Date
APPENDIX "B"
WAGE RALES DEPARTMENTAL PROGRESSION. JOB CLASSIFICATION
SERVICEDEPARTMENT
01/07/91	01/07/92
ElectroTechnician
Electrician
Industrial Mi 1 lwright "A Maintenance "B" Maintenance "C"
P Maintenance "D"
19,00 19.00 16.78 16,78 16.76 16.76 15,88 15,88 15,52 15.52 15.39 15.39
MILLING DEPARTMENT
Operator FL1 P Operator FL2
16.40	16.40
15.21	15.21
PACKING DEPARTMENT
Lead hand
Utilityman Feed Loader Service Packer Packer P Sweeper
15,89	15.89
15.83	15.83
15.52	15.52
15.38	15.38
15.38	15,38
15.21	15.21
PACKAGING DEPARTMENT
Leadhand Operator P Sweeper
15.89	15,89 15.33 15,33
15.21	15.21
WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Shipper Lead Pi lor Piler
P Sweeper
MISCELLANEOUS
15,89	15.89 15,40 15,40 15,31 15,31 15121 15,21
P Janitor/Sweeper P Watchman
15.21	15,21
15.21	15.21
OAT MILL
Operator 0T1
16.40	16.40
	01/07/91	01/07/92
Temporary Supervisor Premium	0,50	0,50
Temporary employee (May 1st to September 15)	10.77	10.77
NOTE :		
Signing bonus to be paid to employees on seniority:
-	$650,00 each effective September 24, 1991
-	$650,00 each effective September 24, 1992
-A one half percent (0,5%) wage rate reduction scheduled for April 1, 1992 will be absorbed by the Company,
- P = Posted Classification
It is the intention of the parties to provide opportunities for employees, who by reason of infirmity are unable to continue on regular higher rated jobs, to continue working where possible in the job classifications Sweeper or Janitor. It is understood that the parties may fill these jobs by mutual agreement.
B.02 The probationary rate for employees shall be thirty cents (30£)per hour less than the classification rate until the employee attains seniority status.
APENDIX "C"
OF INTENT
1 . OAT MILL
Both parties agree to review Oat Milling classifications after such time that the operation is continually performing under normal. production conditions,