Memorandum of Agreement in respect to changes in the
Collective Agreement
between
PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc. and
The Canadian Auto Workers Local 1996
The following is a list of mutually agreed-upon changes to the Collective Agreement that terminates on June 30, 2002. These changes result from current negotiationsbetween the above-mentioned parties, and will be incorporated into a new collective agreement that tgomes into force July 1, 2002 and terminates on June 30, 2005,
The signatures to this agreement agree to unanimously recommend its contents to their respective principals for their ratification.
This agreement settles all matters in dispute between the parties and will constitute the complete terms of a new collective agreement upon ratification.
All of which is agreed this	day of July, 2002.
For the Union:
For the Company:
oo'4i£>ccfl)
2
Clause 8(b) - Union Accommodation
Delete the 1st sentence, which reads as follows:
The Company will make all reasonable effort to accommodate the Union President.
Clause 8(b) -Union Accommodation, page 8
Replace the first full paragraph with the following:
During the term of this agreement, the Union President, the Chief Steward, the Health and Safety Representative, the Financial Secretary, the Benefits Representative and Union Stewards will not be subject to layoff provided work is available which they are capable of performing.
Clause 8(b) -Union Accommodation, page 7
Replace the 2nd paragraph with the following paragraph
In recognizing the roles of the Union President and the Chief Steward, the Company agrees to provide each with forty (40) hours per week with pay in order that the President and the Chief Steward may attend to Union Business. If additional time is required, it will be provided. Time will not be abused.
Clause 30, page 15, Discipline and Discharge
Change wording in paragraph2 to read as follows:
Records of discipline shall be removed from the employee's file and shall not be used against the employee for any purpose, after 18 months have expired from the date the discipline was taken.
Clause 32 - Management
Change 2nd paragraph to read as follows:
In an effort to improve communications, find solutions to business conditions within the Peterborough Plant, build a long-term relationship with the Union, and deal with grievances, meetings will be scheduled on a timely basis with the Union President, Chief Steward, Plant Manager and designate.
3
Article 34 - Seniority Among New Probationary Employees
Add the following new provision:
New employees hired on the same day will be selected for seniority by lottery. Selection of the lottery will take place with both the Union and Company present.
Clause 36(b) -Temporary Transfer
Add anew paragraph at the end of Clause36(b), as follows:
In the event that line personnel with the necessary skills are needed at a line that is down, the Company intends to leave line personnel at the downed line, by seniority, provided that the skills of those line personnel are not needed elsewhere in the Plant. It is understood that the employees who are not kept on the line will not be used in place of labour pool employees. These employees can be placed in the labour pool after all labour pool employees have been utilized in Grade One jobs.
Clause 40(g) - Leave Of Absence (Sabbaticals)
Replace the phrase “No more than four approved leaves at one time”
with the following phrase: “No more than five (5) approved leaves at one time.”
Clause 41, page 25/26 - General Provisions - Co-ordinators
1.	Remove paragraph one.
2.	Change paragraph 2 to read as follows:
Non-bargaining unit employees of the Peterborough Plant will not transfer into the bargaining unit.
Clause 43 - Safety and Health
Agree to change the title of this provision to ‘Wealth and Safety”.
B7 - Shift Bonus - page 44
It is agreed that the shift premiums set out below will be paid in respect of hours worked during the first shift or third shift. However, for an employee to qualify for the premium in a shift other than the employee’s regularly scheduled shift, the employee must work at least one (1) hour in the other shift.
4
	1st Shift	3rd shift
		
1st Year	.85	.64
2nd Year	.88	.66
3rd Year	.90	.67
B9 Bereavement Pay, page 45
Amend the definition of “immediate relative” in the 3rd paragraph to add “step-parent” Add new paragraph that reads as follows:
In the case of a step-parent’s death, one three (3) day leave will be permitted for an employee’s stepmother, and another three (3) day leave will be permitted for an employee’s stepfather. In the event of the death of another step -parent, the bereavement leave reverts to the one-day leave of absence with pay.
BIO - Payment of Wages
Replace first paragraph with the following:
Effective the first full pay period in January 2003, wages shall be paid by direct deposit every Thursday at an employee’s designated banking institution or, failing designation by an employee on or before December 1, 2002, at a banking institution convenient to the employee’s place of work.
Second paragraph: Change “cheques” to “pay stubs”.
B13 - Protective Footwear, page 49
Replace the existing provision with the following:
The Company will provide a safety shoe subsidy of ninety dollars ($90.00) per calendar year to approved employees. For tax remittance purposes, the Company will also provide to those employees on an annual basis a copy of the Protective Footwear Policy and Canada Customs and Revenue Agency T2200I Till forms.
B14 - Tool Allowance, page 49
Replace the existing provision with the following:
Each approved Maintenance Tradesperson in or above Maintenance Grade Two will receive an allowance to spend on small tools for Plant maintenance. This
5
allowance will be in the amount of two hundred and twenty-five dollars ($225) per year during the term of this Collective Agreement to accumulate to a maximum total of $675.00 during over the 3-year term of the Collective Agreement. If this Collective Agreement terminates, or if the Tradesperson leaves the Company for any reason (including, without limitation, retirement, resignation, termination), the Tradesperson may purchase the tools in her or her possession from the Company for one dollar ($1).
Remove:
Letter of Intent, Re: Tool Allowance, page 91.
B15(l) - Job Opportunity
Replace the 2nd paragraph with the following:
Permanentjobs that need to be filled shall be posted in each Department of the Plant for a period of fourteen (14) days, and the decision by the applicant on whether to accept the position will be made at the interview.
Replace the 5th paragraph with the following:
An employee may be the successful applicant of ajob posting to a Grade 8 or higher grade job once in any one (1) year period, and once in a six (6) month period in respect of all other job postings. The applicable time period will commence on the date of acceptance of ajob posting.
Insert the followingnew paragraph immediately before final paragraph of B15( 1):
The successful bidder will be placed in the new posting no later than thirty (30) business days of acceptance. In the event that an employee cannot be placed in the job within thirty (30) business days because of extenuating circumstances, then beginning on day 31, the employee will be paid the new job rate if greater than the employee's prior job rate. If extenuating circumstances exist (for example, prolonged training requirements, major business growth, etc.), the Company will meet with the Union to establish a revised posting date.
Add the following paragraph to the end of B15( 1):
All permanentjobs that need to be posted will adhere to the provisions of B 15(1)
B15(l) Job Opportunity, page 50 - Labour Pool Language
Add the following words after the 3rd paragraph
6
For Weekly Scheduling, workers with no job ownership shall first fill all unskilled labour jobs (Grade One) before displaced workers withjob ownership. It is understood that displaced workers withjob ownership must have the necessary skills to perform the labour requirements injobs above Grade One to displace labour pool employees.
B15(2) Temporary Job Opportunity - page 51
Add after paragraph 4:
An employee may not post to a temporary posting until the employee has had a full-time posting for the minimum period required under the Collective Agreement.
If an employee is on a temporary posting, that employee may post to ajob posting at any time. If, while on a temporary posting, an employee takes ajob posting, the Company's intent is to place the employee in the new job as soon as possible, taking into consideration the Company's business needs and temporary posting situation. Once the employee has been placed in the new j ob, the Company will post that employee's vacant temporaryjob, if required.
If a 2nd or 3ra shift goes down to a one shift or two shift, the temporary posted employee returns to his or her old posting or, if.the temporary posted employee has no job ownership, that employee will return to the labour pool. The employee working on the temporary job becomes the incumbent for overtime purposes as per clause B5 of the Collective AgTeenient.tem#3eney4bti-aRy-ten;awary-pe8ting k-emly-n|^>licabk-#-w«king--on4he4.em|.»raryqel:>.-
*>rd
B17	Illness And Accident Plan
Company Loan Provision
Replace the 4th paragraph relating to Company loans with the followingparagraphs:
The Company will provide a loan of $400 per week, to a maximum of $4,000 in any 12-monthperiod, to any employee who:
a.	has qualified for the Company Illness and Accident Plan; AND
b.	has applied for El Sick Benefits; BUT
c.	has not yet received El Sick Benefits.
To obtain the loan, the employee must sign the Company's loan form acknowledging the employee's commitment to repay the loan by the earlier of receipt of El Sick Benefits or return to work. In addition, the employee must provide to the Plant nurse medical proof of disability, including copies of medical
7
reports submitted along with the El Sick Benefits application. If the loan application process has been completed, the loan can be available as early as the first day of the commencement of the El Sick Benefits.
If, for any reason, the employee is unable to repay the loan in full by the time the employee returns to work on a full-time basis, the Company shall have the right to deduct the amount due from wages payable to the employee, including vacation, termination or severance pay, until the loan is repaid. Repayment from wages shall be established at a rate of $ 100 per week.
B19 - Dental Plan - page 54
The existing provision is replaced by the following:
Effective November 1, 2002 dental plan coverage will be provided for all eligible approved regular employees and their dependants according to the 2002 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule.
Effective November 1, 2003 dental plan coverage vaH be provided for all eligible approved regular employees and their dependants according to the 2003 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule.
Effective November 1, 2004 dental plan coverage will be provided for all eligible approved regular employees and their dependants according to the 2004 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule.
The premium cost of the dental plan will be fully paid by the Company. Details of the plan are outlined in a booklet provided by the Company.
C4 - Wage Rates
July 1,2002:3.0% increase July 1,2003:2.5% increase July 1,2004:2.5% increase
C5 - Student and New Hire Rates
Delete “four (4)” and replace with “three and one half (3.5)”.
For clarification purposes, the final year of the new hire rate will be $ 1.25 lower thanjob rate for one-half a year.
8
Schedule C -Clause 6 - Job Classifications
The following job classifications are added to C6:
Premix Plant Relief	Grade 5
HPE Extruder Operator	Grade 9
HPE Syrup Tender	Grade 6
HPE Belt Inspector	Grade 3
L30 Operator	Grade 7
L30 1st Assistant	Grade 5
L30 2nd Assistant	Grade 4
LPE Extruder Operator	Grade 9
LPE Sheeting Table Operator Grade 8 LPE Belt Inspector	Grade 4
L31 Operator L31 1st Assistant L31 2nd Assistant RTE Utility RTE Cleaner Fork Truck Operator Boiler Employees Electrical Support Person
K?A Operator................Grade.5.
L24.-Reiief.Qi3e*ator.......Grade,..4
Grade 8 Grade 6 Grade 5 Grade 9 Grade 2 Grade 8 Maintenance 8
Maintenances (Exclusive Of Enhancement)
1,23 Relief Operator	Grade 6
L23 Premix Operator........Grade.5.
L23 Cartoner/Case Operator Grade 5 L22 Operator	Grade 7
L22 First Assistant	Grade 6
L22 Relief Operator	Grade 6
L22 Case Operator	Grade 5
L22 Blender	Grade 5
Schedule “E” - Emergency Declaration - page 67
Add the following sentence to the end of this provision:
“For the purposes of calculating Overtime Premium Pay (page 69), scheduled hours that are not worked solely due to the extenuating circumstances described above will be counted as regular “hours worked”.
9
Schedule “E” ■ In/Out Notification, page 67
Add a 3rd paragraph that reads as follows:
The Company shall give fifteen (15) days’ notice to any employee-labour pool employee who is to be moved into or out of the 7/24 continuous operations schedule.
Schedule “E” - Overtime Scheduling- page 69, 70
Amend the second paragraph ty adding a third bullet point that reads as follows:
•	In the case of a scheduled time of any length including day-at-a-time
vacation, if the Company, acting reasonably, determines that it is not necessary to fill the absence (i.e. because a line is not running, a line is on preventative maintenance, there is ongoing heat sterilization in the area), the Company will not be required to fill the scheduled absence.
Schedule “E” - Vacation, page 70
Add the following sentence:
For the purposes of calculating Overtime Premium Pay (page 69), hours spent on vacation will be counted as regular “hours worked.
Schedule “E” - Vacation - page 70
Amend the first sentence of the second paragraph to delete the words “who have accumulated 18 years of service and are eligible for 5 or more weeks of vacation”, so that the sentence reads as follows:
For the purposes of one-day-at-a-time vacation on the Continuous Operation schedule, employees may elect to take 40 hours as one-day-at-a-time vacation.
Schedule “E” - Continuous Operations Shift Bonus - page 70
Revise section to read:
10
	7am-7pm Shift	7pm - 7am Shift
		
1st Year	.93	.62
2nd Year	.95	.64
3rd Year	.97	.65
Schedule “E” - Recognized Plant Holidays, Page 71
Amend the second point, as follows:
Delete “the 8 hours Recognized Plant Holiday pay” and replace it with “twelve (12) hours Recognized Plant Holiday pay”.
Schedule “E” - Recognized Plant Holidays, Page 71, Re: Lieu Days
Add a new bullet point following the first bullet point, as follows:
•	If a recognized plant holiday, as per Clause B6, falls during an employee s
vacation, the employee shall be entitled to a day off in lieu of the recognized plant holiday. The Company and the employee will mutually agree to timing of the lieu day. However, the employee must give the Company at least two (2) weeks notice of the employee’s proposed lieu day. Coverage for personnel lieu days shifts will be scheduled at the Company’s discretion.
Schedule “E” - Bereavement, Page 71
Add the following sentence:
“For the purposes of calculating Overtime Premium Pay (page 69), scheduled hours spent on Bereavement Pay will be counted as regular “hours worked”.
Schedule “E” - Jury Duty, page 72
Add the following sentence:
“For the purposes of calculating Overtime Premium Pay (page 69), scheduled hours spent on Jury Duty will be counted as regular “hours worked”.
11
Schedule “E” - Housekeeping
Page 65 Remove:
Remove the Quaker Oats Company of Canada Ltd. and replace with “PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc.”
Remove date “December 18, 1999”
Page 66, Remove third paragraph and replace with
The default schedule shall define the Continuous Operation schedule.
Page 73 Remove:
Complete section entitled “7/24 Transition Agreement”
12
Letters Of Intent
1.	Bridge Retirement Plan
Any full-time hourly employee at the Peterborough Plant who is between the age of 55 and 65 and who elects early retirement shall be entitled to receive Bridge Retirement payments in accordance with the earnings chart set out below, except that an employee shall not be entitled to receive Bridge Retirement payments while that employee is in receipt of LTD benefits.
Age	Earnings Per Month
55-60	$325 per month to age 60
60-65	$450 per month to age 65
These payments will commence coincident with the employee’s early retirement and will terminate on the 1st day of the month following the employee’s 65th birthday, unless the employee’s birthday falls on the 1st of the month, in which case the payments will terminate on the employee’865th birthday.
Bridge Retirement payments will be in addition to the pension benefits payable under the Retirement Plan for hourly employees.
It is understood that eligibility under the terms of this Early Bridge Retirement Plan will terminate coincident with the termination of the current Collective Agreement.
A joint survivor option bridge payment of $195 (60% of $325) per month shall be provided to the spouse of an employee who retires between the age of 55 and 60, in the event of the retiree’s death. The payments to the spouse will continue until the retiree would have reached the age of 65.
Ajoint survivor option bridge payment of $270 (60% of $450) per month shall be provided to the spouse of an employee who retires between the age of 60 and 65, in the event of the retiree’s death. The payments to the spouse and will continue until the retiree would have reached the age of 65.
It is further understood that this plan will not apply in the event of a plant closure but bridge payments being paid to employees will continue until the employee reaches age 65.
13
Letters Of Understanding
1.	CAW Legal Services Plan Subsidy
Changes will continue to occur at the Peterborough Plant during the term of this contract that may require significant legal advice, including the continued implementation of continuous operations and the early retirement options included in this Collective Agreement. In recognition of these changes, the Company agrees to pay the following subsidies for the benefit of the CAW Legal Services Plan:
August 12,2002:	$48,000
January 10,2003:	$100,000
January 9,2004:	$100,000
January 9, 2005	$50,000
In addition, the Company agrees to pay a contingency subsidy of $10,000 in each of 2003, 2004, and 2005, if needed.
2.	Domestic Violence
The Company and the Union recognize that individuals, particularly women, sometimes face situations of violence or abuse in their personal life that may affect their attendance or performance at work. The parties agree that an employee who has moved into a government-licensed shelter for abuse or violence and who is able to provide adequate written verification from the shelter and a recognized professional (doctor, lawyer, professional counsellor), may be excused from work for up to five (5) consecutive days, giving consideration in each case to the employee’s individual circumstances. An employee who is granted such leave will receive 75% of regular earnings or, if the employee is receiving benefits under any other program (for example, I&A), such lesser amount so that the employee’s total earnings and benefits equal 75% of regular earnings.
This understanding is subject to a standard of good faith on the part of the Company, the Union and the affected employee, and will not be utilized by the Union or employees to subvert the application of otherwise appropriate disciplinary measures or leave programs.
3.	Early Retirement Supplement and Bonus
This letter is to confirm that, within the period of this Collective Agreement but not thereafter, the Company has agreed to offer 25 early retirement supplements and bonuses to eligible employees who wish to voluntarily retire early.
A.
Early Retirement Supplement
14
The supplement will be made available during a 30-day period commencing October 1, 2002 and ending at 5:00 pm October 31, 2002 (the “2002 Window”). The terms and conditions of the supplement are set out below.
1.	To be eligible for the supplement, the employee must be 55 years of age or older as at December 31, 2002, and must otherwise qualify for age 55 early retirement under the provisions of the Hourly Pension Plan as of December 31, 2002.
2.	The Company will provide written notice to all eligible employees at least five (5) working days before the 2002 Window opens.
3.	The supplement will be offered on the following basis:
a.	a maximum of 25 supplements will be made available to eligible employees who make an election to retire;
b. the election must be made during the 2002 Window and must confirm that the employee elects to retire early within the timeline prescribed fcy the Company;
c.	the election must be made on the forms provided by the Company. The election forms will include release language that is intended only to avoid any extraneous or additional Company liability beyond what is provided in this Letter of Understanding and the current Collective Agreement;
d.	the supplements will be granted on the basis of seniority;
e.	once the 2002 Window closes, the Company will review all of the completed forms and will determine each successful applicant’s precise early retirement commencement date, having regard to the needs of the business. The retirement date will in each case be on or after January 1,2003;
f.	the supplement shall be in the form of a lump sum cash payment, in an amount equal to the present value of the early retirement reduction which the employee will incur by retiring early, as set out in the Hourly Pension Plan;
By way of example - (solely for the purposes of illustration)
Assumptions At Date of Retirement:
■	Employee Age - 58 years
■	Credited Service - 30 years
" Pension Formula - $612 per year of Credited Service (based on an assumption cf a $51 pension benefit per month cf Credited Service. This $51 assumption is not intended to be a statement cf the actual formula).
" Early Retirement Reduction - 8% (2 years @ 4%)
■	Annuity Factor - 10 (for calculating present value) (Annuity Factor cf 10 is assumed for the purpose of this example. The actual Annuity Factor will be determined by a Company-appointed actuary based on the interest rate in effect on the date early retirement commences, as prescribed by the Canadian Institute of Actuaries for the calculation of Transfer Values).
Calculation of Retirement Pension Per Year
15
$612x30
Less: Early Retirement Penalty Pension Payable Per Year
$18,360.00
1.468.80
$16,891.20
Calculation cf Early Retirement Supplement $1,468.80 x 10
$14.688.00
g.	the supplement will be paid after deduction of any applicable taxes and other statutory withholdings.
4.	If fewer than 25 eligible employees elect to retire pursuant to the 2002 Window, a
second window will be opened in late 2003. During the 2003 window, the number of | supplements available will be the difference between the 25 supplements made available under the 2002 Window and the number of supplements awarded to successful applicants during the 2002 Window. The process of election and the awarding of supplements in 2003 will be the same as the process outlined in respect of the 2002 Window, except for the timing of the 2003 window and the retirement dates, both of which shall be in the discretion of the Company.
B.	EARLY RETIREMENT BONUS
5.	Each successful applicant of an early retirement supplement either under the 2002 Window or the 2003 window will also receive a retiring bonus that will be paid in the form of lump sum cash payment of $15,000. This payment will be paid after deduction of any applicable taxes and other statutory withholdings.
C.	general provisions
6.	Both the early retirement supplement and bonus are intended to be made so as to qualify as a Retiring Allowance.
7.	The full amount of the supplement and the retiring bonus will be paid from Company funds, and not from Hourly Pension Plan funds. Moreover, the supplement and retiring bonus are in addition to any other benefits to which the employee is entitled under this current Collective Agreement or under the Hourly Pension Plan.
8.	The elements of the supplement and the retiring bonus are subject to all applicable laws and regulations.
4.	Gender Neutral Language
It is agreed that upon commencement of a new collective agreement, the parties will meet
to ensure that the contract reflects gender neutral terminology, except in the case of
provisions that are gender specific (for example, maternity leave).
16
5.	President’s and Chief Steward’s Designate
When the Union President is absent due to vacation, bereavement, Company-recognized leave, illness and accident, or long-term disability, the Company will recognize the Union Vice-president or designate, and will provide such person with sixteen (16) hours per week with pay at th|e President’s rate for the purpose of attending to Union business.
When the Chief Ste leave, illness and ac Assistant Chief Ste hours per week at t business.
ward is absent due to vacation, bereavement, Company-recognized cident. or long-term disability, the Company will recognize the ward or designate, and will provide such person with sixteen (16) ie Chief Steward’s rate with pay for the purpose of attending to Union
If additional time is [required, it may be provided. Time will not be abused.
In cases of long-term absences, the Vice President or designate will be as per clause 8(b), paragraphs 1 & 2. :
6.	President’s! and Chief Steward’s Rate
The Company agrees to pay the Union President and the Chief Steward the same rate as the highest rate in the bargaining unit, exclusive of enhancements.
7.	Return To Work/Modified Duty
During the current modified duty polic the Company and t' be to facilitate the
Company’s policy.
negotiations, the parties have discussed their concerns respecting the y and process, and the focus of the Modified Duty Committee. Both re Union confirm that the focus of the Modified Duty Committee shall fetum to work of specific employees in a manner consistent with the
Within 120 working and the Union will process. If the part will find a mutually regarding the return
days of the ratification of this Collective Agreement, the Company work at the local level to resolve issues regarding the return to work ies are unable to reach agreement on the return to work process, they -agreeable mediator to help them resolve the outstanding issues to work process.
17
Memoranda of Agreement (do not form part of Collective Agreement)
1. Administration of LTD Benefits
At these negotiations, the Company and the Union have discussed concerns regarding the administration of long-term disability (LTD) benefits and, in particular, communications among the Union, the Company, the employee/claimant and the Benefit Carrier.
The Union and the Company acknowledge that they both have a responsibility to improve communications and to participate in resolving issues. The Union and the Company also acknowledge that an employee/claimant has a duty to participate in the resolving administration issues, including, but not limited to, responding to inquiries of the Benefit Carriers.
In order to improve the administration of LTD claims, the Company and the Union will create a mutually agreeable form to be completed by the employee/claimant. That form will include the employee/claimant’s agreement to provide a release of confidential medical information respecting his or her claim to the plant nurse. If the employee/claimant is prepared for the Union and/or the Company to have access to confidential medical information related to the employee’s claim, the employee will also be required to sign a release form in favour of these parties.
If the employee has signed a release in favour of the Union:
a.	the Union Benefits Representative will be able to obtain information about the employee’s pending claim directly from the Benefit Carrier; and
b.	the Company will request that the Benefit Carrier copy the Union Benefits Representative on all appropriate documentation relating to the employee’s claim
All parties agree to provide copies of their correspondence to the Benefit Carrier and to one another, while at all times ensuring that they comply with all applicable privacy laws.
The Company will ask the Benefit Carrier to provide a list of independent medical examiners. Only those examiners approved by both the Company and the Union will remain on that list. If an employee is required to be examined by a medical examiner, an examiner on the approved list must examine the employee. The list of approved examiners will be reviewed by both parties twice per year.
The Union benefit representative, and the Human Resource Manager will meet quarterly to discuss issues related to the administration of LTD benefits.
18
2.	B15(l), Postings, page 49
The parties confirm that, notwithstanding past practice in respect of dual postings (postings shared by 5x8 and 7x24 employees), the Company and the Union wish to revert to the provisions of the Collective Agreement that require that permanent postings shall be open to all eligible employees.
3.	Christmas Scheduling
Normally the Plant will shut down over Christmas for general Plant maintenance. In extenuating circumstances, it may be necessary to keep the Plant open, in which case the Company will notify the Union with as much lead time as possible so that the crews can make necessary schedule adjustments.
4.	DentalCare Plan - Orthodontic Treatment (Benefits Booklet)
We agree to amend the provision under ‘Maximums”onpage 19 in the Company Benefits Booklet that currently reads “Ortho Maximum: $2000 per person per course of treatment”, by replacing it with the following:
Ortho Maximum: $2250 per person per course of treatment.
5.	Elimination of Wage Bonus
Previous Collective Agreements have provided for an employee Wage Bonus Plan. Pursuant to the Collective Agreement of December 19, 1999, the Wage Bonus Plan was to remain in effect through to December 31, 2002. In 2001, PepsiCo, Inc. acquired the Company and required the Company to eliminate the Wage Bonus Plan. As a result, the Company has terminated the Wage Bonus Plan effective December 31, 2001, The Union hereby accepts this termination, and acknowledges that payment of the following by the Company constitutes adequate and sufficient consideration for the termination and elimination of the Wage Bonus Plan effective December 31, 2001:
a.	a 10% payment covering the period from January 1, 2002 to June 30,2002;
b.	a substantial across-the-board increase of eight percent (8%) to base wages on July 1,2002;
c.	above average pension enhancements.
Further to the elimination of the Wage Bonus Plan, all of the provisions of the Contract that relate to or reference the Wage Bonus Plan are deleted from the Contract. In
19
addition, all provisions in any ancillary documentation (including, without limitation, Letters of Understanding, Letters of Intent and Employee Benefit Book) that relate to or reference the Wage Bonus Plan are deleted.
Without limiting the foregoing, the parties acknowledge that the following provisions of the Contract are hereby deleted:
reference to ‘Wage Bonus.. .B-12.. .48,49”
2nd paragraph that reads as follows: “Wage Bonus (Profit Sharing) will be prorated to the last day of regular Quaker earnings; with the timing of the payout in accordance with the Company guidelines.”
1st paragraph that reads as follows: “Notwithstanding the foregoing, Wage Bonus (Profit Sharing) wilL be prorated to the last day of regular Quaker earnings; with the timing of the payout in accordance with the Company guidelines.”
Eliminate
entire provision, which reads as follows:
‘WAGE BONUS The employee Wage Bonus Plan shall remain in effect for the Company’sfiscal years January 1,
1999 to December 31, 1999 and January 1, 2000 to December 31,2000 and January 1,2001 to December 31, 2001 and January 1, 2002 to December 31,2002.”
Eliminate the reference to “(exclusive of wage bonus)”.
Schedule E,
Vacation, first bullet point,
p. 70	Eliminate the reference to “(exclusive of wage bonus)”.
6.	Group Life Insurance Plan - Insurance at Retirement for Active Employees
We agree to amend the Insurance at Retirement provision on page 31 of the Company Benefits Booklet by increasing the amount referenced in the second paragraph from $6,000 to $8,000.
Table of Contents, p.2 Article53(a), p.33:
Article 53(b)(5), p. 34:
B12, pp.48-49
Schedule D,
Numbered Clause 2, p. 64
7.	Healthcare - Major Medical (Benefits Booklet)
We agree to amend numbered paragraph 13 in the Company Benefits Booklet to read as follows:
Hearing aids purchased on the written prescription of a physician and repairs to a maximum of $400 in a 4-year period.
20
8.	Illness and Accident Plan - Waiting Period (Company Benefits Booklet, page 31)
The Company is prepared to amend the 2nd paragraph to read as follows:
First day coverage applies if an illness requires admission to hospital or is the result of accidental injury. “Admission to hospital” means confinement to hospital for 24 hours or more, or outpatient surgery/treatment (other than cosmetic surgery) where a general anaesthetic or drug treatment has been administered and has rendered the employee substantially incapacitated. This is not intended to provide first day coverage for minor treatments.
If your approved claim under the Illness and Accident Plan exceeds 15 working days, your three (3) day waiting period will be reimbursed.
9.	Life Insurance (Benefits Booklet)
We agree to amend the Basic Group Life Insurance provision in the Company Benefits Book (page 29), as follows:
Replace the reference to “$40,000” in the second paragraph with “$45,000”.
10.	Long Term Disability
If the Long-Term Disability Benefit Carrier imposes a premium increase, the Company will provide an average cents per hour increase to offset the premium adjustment.
11.	Pension Increases
Pensions will be increased by $8 over the 3-year term of this Collective Agreement, as follows, to take pension to a flat rate of $51 per month of credited service as of January 1, 2005:
■	$3 at January 1, 2003
■	$3 at January 1, 2004
■	$2 at January 1, 2005
The full $8 pension increase will be given to employees who elect to retire during the term of this Collective Agreement immediately upon retirement.
In order to honour a commitment made to them when they were in active service with the Company, employees who elected to retire between March 1, 2002 and July 1, 2002 will
21
also receive the full increase to $51 per month of credited service, effective January 1, 2003.
12.	Probationary Employee Discipline Meetings
The Company agrees to allow the Chief Steward to attend disciplinary meetings regarding probationary employees. The Union acknowledges and accepts that the grant of this right does not in any way affect or amend the seniority, discipline, discharge, grievance or arbitration provisions of the Collective Agreement.
13.	10% Payment
On or before August 23,2002:
a.	each employee who was active as of June 30, 2002 will receive a payment in the amount of 10% of that employee’s personal Company-paid gross earnings during the period from January 1, 2002 and June 30, 2002, inclusive; and
b.	each employee who retired between January 1, 2002 and June 30, 2002 will receive a payment in the amount of 10% of that employee’s personal Company-paid gross earnings, if any, during the period from January 1, 2002 and June 30, 2002, inclusive.
c.	For the purposes of this provision, “Company-paid gross earnings” will exclude the 2001 wage bonus paid in March, 2002.
14.	2% Vacation Pay Notification
The Company has provided notice to the Union that, effective July 1, 2002, the Company will pay the 2% vacation accrual referenced in ScheduleD, paragraph 2 on a calendar basis instead of from June to July.
To allow for the transition to the above administrative change, the following will apply:
•	The Company will pay the applicable amount for eligible employees based on earning from July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002 in July 2002.
•	The Company will pay the applicable amount for eligible employees based on earnings from July 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002 in January 2003.
•	For 2003 and each subsequent year, the Company will pay the applicable amount for eligible employees based on earnings from each calendar year in January of the following year.
22
January payments will be made in time for employees to put the payments into RRSPs, should they choose to do so.
15.	VisionCare Plan (Benefits Booklet)
We agree to amend the Visioncare Plan provision in the Company Benefits Booklet (page 24) by replacing the first sentence in numbered paragraph 1 under “Covered Expenses” with the following sentence:
As prescribed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist, only one of the following:
a.	Eye glasses (both lenses	and frames);
b.	Contact Lenses;
c.	Eye laser surgery.
16.	Work Hardening Policy
At these negotiations, the Company and the Union have discussed concerns relating to the Company’s proposed work hardening program. The Company will make work hardening available to employees in situations where work is both rehabilitative and meaningful. It is the intent of this program to provide rehabilitative and productive work for ill or injured employees who meet the following criteria:
1.	the employees have exhausted their I&A coverage or their Long-term disability Phase 1 coverage, AND
2.	the employees’ doctors have placed them on a work hardening program at least 15 days prior to the end of the applicable coverage listed above, and the employees have provided to the Plant nurse adequate documentation as to the restrictions and the length of work hardening they require.
The Company agrees to offer up to 90 consecutive calendar days of work hardening duty in order to gradually ease an employee’s return to fulltime work schedule. An employee is expected to return to work for a minimum of 2 hours per day and to gradually increase hours worked during the period of the work hardening program. In addition, an employee shall meet with the Modified Duty Committee to discuss progress in rehabilitation.
It is the employee’s responsibility to notify the Plant nurse if the employee’s treatment is not working effectively so that other treatments may be implemented. The Company will review each employee’s work hardening program every 30 days in order to determine if the employee is making progress. If no progress is being made, that employee’s work hardening program will cease. In the work hardening program is terminated early, or if upon completion of the 90-day work hardening program the employee has not achieved full time status, the employee will not be entitled to further disability benefits. At that
23
time, the Company and the Union will meet to determine whether the Company can permanently accommodate the employee.
If an employee qualifies for the 90 day work hardening and has exhausted I&A but has not yet obtained Phase 1 LTD coverage, then the Company will pay that employee’s regular base rate for hours worked on the job, and 75% of regular base rate for the hours not worked as a result of the work hardening program, If the employee has exhausted Phase 1 LTD, the employee will be paid the employee’s regular base rate for hours worked on thejob, and 60% of regular base rate for the hours not worked as a result of the work hardening program
During the work hardening program, the Company will pay all Company-paid health and welfare benefits.
Time spent on a work hardening program will not count toward the 3-month timeframe that is necessary when re-applying for additional I&A benefits.
If the employee has permanent restrictions, the Company and the Union will meet to determine whether the Company can permanently accommodate the employee.
Excluded disabilities will be the same as those identified the Benefit Book.
17.	Amendments to Company Benefits Book
Amend the following portions of the Benefits Book:
Page 2 of Benefits Book:
Company will provide a loan of $400 per week, to a maximum of $4,000 in ary 12-month period to any employee who has qualified for the Company Illness and Accident Plan, and has applied for El Sick Benefits but has not yet received El Sick Benefits. The loan will also be available for employees awaiting Maternity Leave Employment Insurance Benefits or Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Benefits. See page 32 for details.
Page 32 of Benefits Book:
The Company will provide a loan of $400 per week, to a maximum of $4,000 in any 12-month period to any employee who has qualified for the Company Illness and Accident Plan and has applied for El Sick Benefits but has not yet received Benefits. The Loan will also be available for employees awaiting Maternity Leave Employment Insurance Benefits or Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Benefits.
To obtain the loan, the employee must sign the Company’s loan form acknowledging the employee’s commitment to repay the loanfcy the earlier of (i) the receipt of El Sick
24
Benefits, Maternity Leave Employment Insurance Benefits or Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Benefits; or (ii) return to work. In addition, the employee must provide to the Plant nurse medical proof of disability, including copies of the medical reports submitted along with the proper application(s). If the loan application process has been complete, the loan can be available as early as the first day of commencement of the El Sick Benefits, Maternity Leave Employment Insurance Benefits, or Workplace Safety & Insurance Board Benefits.
If, for any reason, the employee is unable to repay the loan in full by the time the employee returns to work on a full-time basis, the Company shall have the right to deduct the amount due from wages payable to the employee, including vacation, termination or severance pay, until the loan is repaid. Repayment from wages shall be established at the rate of $100 per week.
18.	Housekeeping Changes to the Collective Agreement
The Quaker Oats Company Of Canada Limited Termination Date of June 30,2002
PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc.
Terminates: JUNE 30,2005
Page 3 - Incorporation change: Remove the Quaker Oats Company of Canada Limited, replace with PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc. Remove Dominion of Canada and replace with Province of Ontario.
Page 5 - Recognition - #3 - eliminate second paragraph “The use of masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine”.
Page 11 - Step #3 - 18 - Change Operation Services/Manufacturing Manager to Plant Capabilities Leader.
Page 30 - Union Security - Modify 50(b)
Replace “Between June 15 and July 1, 2002” with June 15 and July 1, 2005
Page 32 - 52 - Termination or Modification First Paragraph:
Replace “30th day of June 2002” with 30th day of June 2005.
Replace ‘30thday of June 2003” with 30th day of June 2006 Second Paragraph:
Replace “30th day of June 2002” with 30th day of June 2005.
Third Paragraph:
Replace “30th day of June 2002” with 30th day of June 2005.
Page 42 - B6 - Recognized Plant Holidays
Front Cover
Remove/Change
To
Remove/Change All days and dates
Page 46 - Bll - Guaranteed Work Plan Replace “June 30, 2002” with “June 30, 2005”
Page 56 - Schedule of Rates
Replace “December 19, 1999” with “July 1,2002”
Page 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 - Wage Rate Job Classification Change rates of pay basis agreed to C4 rates and wage bonus notes
Letters of Intent
Remove “Jeff Mclnroy” references on all Letters of Intent and replace with “Gary Hay stead - Plant Capabilities Leader, Peterborough Plant”
Page SO - Letter of Intent 3 of 14 - Severance Pay Policy First Paragraph:
Replace “Quaker’s” with ‘PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc.’s.”
Fifth Paragraph:
Replace “Quaker” with‘PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc.”
Page 89 - Letter of Intent 8 of 14 - Bridge Retirement Plan Replace existing letter with agreed to replacement.
Page 91 - Letter of Intent 9 of 14 - Tool Allowance
Remove Letter of Intent 9 of 14 and replace with Modified B14 Tool Allowance
language.
Page 94 - Letter of Intent 11 of 14 - Summer Student Hiring Replace the word “Quaker” with ‘PepsiCo Foods Canada Inc.”
Letters of Understanding
Remove “Jeff Mclnroy” references on all Letters of Understanding and replace with “Gary Hay stead - Plant Capabilities Leader, Peterborough Plant”
Page 105,106,107,108 - Letter of Understanding 4 of 10 ■ Early Retirement Supplement
Remove entire letter and replace with Early Retirement Supplement and Bonuses.
Page 110 ■ Letter of Understanding 6 of 10 ■ Signing Bonus Remove entire letter
Page 111 ■ Letter of Understanding 7 Of 10 ■ Union Office Remove entire letter
Page 113 - Letter of Understanding 9 of 10 - CAW Subsidy
Replace letter with agreed to modified letter.