Collective Agreement
April 12,1999 to April 12, 2002
ADM Milling Co. Strathroy Flour Mill
Collective agreement	strathroy
Between
ADM MILLING CO.
Strathroy, Ontario
And
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL(AFL-CIO-CLC).
Local Union242
TERM:	Anrii 12. 1999 to April 12. 2002
Page
ARTICLE I ARTICLE II ARTICLE III ARTICLE IV ARTICLE V ARTICLE VI ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII ARTICLE IX ARTICLE X ARTICLE XI ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIII APPENDIX A
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
SENIORITY AND FILLING PERMANENT VACANCIES
HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
TIME OFF FROM WORK HEALTH AND WELFARE GENERAL PROVISIONS NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT SENIORITY LIST
1
2
2
4
6
a
12
13
15
16 16 17
19
INDEX
ARTICLE I
ARTICLE II ARTICLE III
ARTICLE IV
ARTICLE V
ARTICLE VI
RECOGNITION Recognition Union Membership Checkoff
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ManagementRights
GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
GrievanceProcedure
Arbitration Procedure
Expenses
PromptProcessingandTime Limits
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY JobClassificationAnd Rates Of Pay Leadman Rates Shift Differentials
RatesOf Pay- TemporaryTransfers PermanentTransfers TemporaryVacancies CreationOf New Job Classification
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
IntentAnd No Pyramiding
Workday And Workweek
Starting Times, Shifts And Schedules
Daily And Weekly Overtime Pay
7th Consecutive Day OfWork Premium
Repotting Pay Minimum
Call-In Pay
Overtime
SENIORITY AND FILLING PERMANENT VACANCIES Seniority
ConsiderationOf Qualifications
ProbationaryEmployees
Temporary Employees
Filling PermanentVacancies
Filling PermanentVacancies (Maintenance)
Layoffs
Recalls
Loss Of Seniority
Page
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
4 4
4
5 5
5
6 6
6
6
6
6
7
7
a
8 8
8
8
8
9
9
9
9
10
11
11
Index-1
ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII
ARTICLE IX ARTICLE X ARTICLE XI
ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIII
APPENDIXA
Page
HOLIDAYS Recognized Holidays Pay For HolidaysWorked Pay For HolidaysNotWorked HolidaysConsideredAs Time Worked
12
12
12
12
13
VACATIONS Vacation Eligibility
Vacation Pay For Inactive Employees Vacation Pay ForTenminated Employees Scheduling Of Vacation Period Pay InLieu Of Vacation HolidayPay DuringVacations RehiredEmployees
13
13
14 14
14
15 15 15
TIME OFF FROM WORK	15
Jury Duty And Crown Witness	15
Bereavement Pay	15
HEALTH AND WELFARE Group Insurance Pension
16
16
16
GENERAL PROVISIONS Non-Discrimination SupervisorsWorking Union Stewards
UnionNotice Of Written Discipline UnionSteward- Disciplinary Meetings Notice Board Safety
16
16
16
16
16
17
17
17
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS	17
No Strikes Or Lockouts	17
SCOPE AND TERM OF AGREEMENT
Term Of Agreement
Separability
CompleteAgreement
SENIORITY LIST
18
18
18
18
19
Index-2
1THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 12th day of April, 1999, by and between ADM MILLING CO. hereinafter referred to as the "Company" and the BAKERY. CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL (AFL-CIO-CLC), Local Union242, affiliated with the Canadian Labour Congress, hereinafter referredto as the "Union."
In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, and the terms and conditions as hereinafterset out, the partiesheretoagree as follows:
ARTICLE I	RECOGNITION
Section 1.01	Recognition
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for its production and maintenance employees employed at its Strathroy, Ontario, flour mill located at 62 Albert Street, save and except supervisors, technical employees, laboratory employees, administration, sales, guards, and all other employees.
Section 1,02	Union Membership
A - All present employees who are members of the Unionatthedateof execution of this Agreement shall remain members in good standing during the life of this Agreement, as a conditionof continued employment.
B- All employees hired after the execution of this Agreement shall become members of the Union on the 61st working day following the beginning of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standingfor the life hereto, as a conditionof employment.
Section 1.03	Checkoff
A - The Company will deduct the monthly Union membership dues from the employee's wages on the first full pay period of each month. Deductionswill be made within the framework of the Company's dues deduction program. The monthly dues shall be a single, uniformfixed amount for all employees. Such deductions must be specified to the Company in writing by the Union. Such deductions will be promptly remitted to the Union.
The Union shall defend, indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with the checkoff provisionsof this Agreement.
•1
ARTICLE II	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section2.01	Management Rights
A • The Company retainsany and all management rights not expressly limited by the specific terms of this collective Agreement. Among these rights, but not intended as a wholly inclusive list, shall be the right to manage the plant and direct the workforce; to plan, direct and control plant operations; to determine the means, methods, processes and schedules of production; to determine the products to be manufactured or processed, and the plant or facility at which they are to be manufactured or processed; to determine the location of its plants and the continuance of its operating departments; to transfer work temporarily or permanentlybetween plants; to temporarilyor permanently close the plant or any portion thereof during the term of the collective Agreement; to promote, demote or transfer employees from one job to another; to decide on "make" or "buy" decisions: to determine the number of personnel needed; to determine schedules, shift assignments, and hours of work including overtime; to determine the number of shifts; to demote, discipline, suspend or discharge seniority employees for just cause; to maintain order; to hire, rehire, or recallemployees; to lay off or relieveemployeesfrom duty because of lack of work or any other legitimate reason; to make and enforce reasonable plant rules and regulations; to make and enforce safety rules; to control absenteeism; to assign employees to work and designatethe duties of the employees;to change, modify, eliminate or reassignjob duties; to set the wage rates for newly created jobs; to contract work out or in, including maintenance and construction work, or to have such work performed by other Company personnel; to use contract labourers; and to make any decisions or changes which in the opinion of management, the efficient operationof the plant requires.
The Company agrees that it will not exercise its functions in a manner inconsistent with the specific provisions of this Agreement, and an alleged violation thereof shall be subject to the grievance procedure. It is understood that the express provisions of this Agreement constitutethe only limitations upon the Company's rights.
ARTICLE III	GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section ?I<?1	Grievance Procedure
The parties to this Agreement shall attemptto resolve grievances as quickly as possible. Nogrievanceshall be consideredwherethe circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than 5 working days before the filing of the grievance. An employee or the Union may discuss problemsorallywith the supervisor in an attemptto seek a solutionpriorto the commencement of the formal grievance procedure. A grievance may be filed by anemployee(s) or the Union. Formalgrievanceswill be processed promptly usingthe following procedure:
Step 1 (In Writing)
Betweenthe aggrievedemployee, the Union Steward and the Plant Supervisor. The
Companywill give its answerwithin5 working days.
•2-
Step 2
Between the aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, the Plant Supervisor and the Plant Superintendent. The Plant Superintendentwillgive his answer in writing to the Unionwithin5 working days.
Note 1: Disciplineswith time off shallcommenceat Step2.
Note 2: The Union must notifythe Company of their intentto advance a grievanceto the 3rd Step within 10 working days of receiving the Company's 2nd Step answer or the grievancewill be consideredwaived.
Step 3
Between the Union Steward, a representative(s) of the International, the Plant Superintendent, the Plant Manager or his representative, and a representativeof the President of the Company. The Company representative will give the Union the Company'swritten decision within 30 calendar days following the Step3 meeting
Section 3.02	Arbitration Procedure
A - I nthe event arbitration is to be invoked, the request must be made inwriting to the other partywithin 7 working daysor such further period, as is mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. At this time, both parties will attempt to come to agreement of selecting a single arbitrator.
In the event the parties are unable to agree on a single arbitrator, the Minister of Labour of the Government of Canada shall be asked to appoint an arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall meet as soon as possiblewith both parties to hear evidence and receive representations.
C- The Arbitrator shall not havejurisdiction to alter or change the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give a decision inconsistentwith the terms or provisions of this Agreement. He shall however, have authority to alter or amend a disciplinary penally. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Company, the Union and the employees.
No person may be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiateor settle a grievance.
Section 3.03	Expenses
Each party shall bear its own expenses. Expenses and fees of the Arbitrator shall be equally divided between the Company and the Union.
Section3.04	PromptProcessino and Time Limits
Time limits may be extended by mutual written agreement of both
•3-
parties.
ARTICLE IV
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section4,01	JobClassificationsAnd Rates Of Pay
The following hourly rateswill apply duringthe term of this Agreement:
Job Classifications
Hourly Rates Effective 4-12-99	4-12-00	4-12-01
Miller Utility A Utility B
MaintenanceA
MaintenanceB
MaintenanceC
MaintenanceD
$16.76
15.41
14.29
17.06
16.19
15,83
15.69
$17.01
15.66
14,54
17,31
16,44
16.08
15.94
$17.21
15,86
14.74
17.51
16.64
16.28
16.14
NOTES APPLICABLE TO JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Employees in any job classificationwill perform any jobs or duties to which they may be assigned. Each "job classification" may include a wide variety of differentjobs, tasks and duties. some of which may cross job classification lines. Maintenance, housekeepingand lubricationduties may be required of any employee. Employees who either perform maintenanceduties or assist in performingmaintenanceduties will be paid at the rate of their own regular job classification. There is no contractual obligationfor establishing light duty job classifications.
2.	There are no minimumcrew orjob manning requirements. The Company has the sole rightto determinethe number of employees in anyjob classificationas well as the right to determine crew size in the plant or any portionthereof, providedthere is noviolation of the Canada Labour Code. Classifiedjobs may be filled, vacated or permanently discontinuedat the Company's discretion.
3.	If employees within the bargaining unit do not possess the necessary skills to fill a vacancy, the Company may fill such vacancy by hiring from outside.
4.	Non-employee, contract labour may be used to supplement the Company's workforce.
Section4.02	LeadmanRates
Inthe event the Company selects an hourly-paid employeeto act as a working Leadmanin addition to his regular duties, his hourly rate of pay shall be 800 higher than his classified rate. The Leadmanrateshallbe paid only for those hoursduringwhich the employee performsthe Leadmanfunction. He may simultaneously perform both his regular dutiesand hisLeadmanduties.
■A-
Section 4.03	Shift Differentials
A - 2nd or 3rd Shifts • A shift differential is paid in addition to an employee's regularstraighttime hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on eitherthe 2nd or 3rd shift. The 2nd shift differential is 50£ perhour. The 3rd shiftdifferential is 60^t perhour.
If an employee is scheduled on a 2nd or 3rd shift and is involved in a continuous work period requiringhim to work on more than one shift. then the shift on which he has been scheduled establishes the shift differential. if any, for all hours worked during the continuouswork period. An employee who is scheduled on the day or 1st shift does not qualify for shiftdifferential pay even though he works on the 2nd or 3rd shifts. Shift differentials are not applicable to call-ins or call-backs unless such an assignment continues on into the employee's regularly scheduled 2nd or 3rd shift. Ifan employee is on a regular schedulewhich requires him to overlap2 shifts. then the shift on which he is scheduled the greatest number of hours determines the shift differential, ifany. Should he bescheduledanequalnumberof hourson2 shifts,then the higher shift differentialwill apply.
Note2A: Shift differentialsare not added to an employee's base rate for purposes of computing overtime or for any unworked hours for which the employee is paid such as holidays,jury duty and funeral leave.
B - Two Rotating 12-HourShifts - A shift differential is paid in addition to an employee's regularstraighttime hourly rate if he is scheduled and working on either of 2 rotating 12-hourshifts. Such shift differential is 450 perhour.
Section4,04	Rates Of Pav-Temporary Transfers
A - tf an employee is temporarilytransferredfor Company convenience to a lower-ratedjob classification, he will continue to receive the rate of payfor his regularjob classification.
B • Ifan employee is temporarily transferred by the Company to a higher-rated job classification, he will receivethe higher rate of pay for all hoursworked that day provided he works on the upgradedjob for4 hours or more. This provision applies only when the employeeis specifically assigned to fill a temporary vacancy created by the absence of an employee from work. However, it does not apply to employees who may relieve for breaks or who may be supplementing the workforce performing various tasks or jobs performed by employees in otherjob classifications.
Section 4.05	PermanentTransfers
An employee who is permanently transferred to a lower-ratedjob classificationwill receivethe lower rate at the time he beginswork in the lower-ratedjob. If he is permanently transferred to a higher-ratedjob classification, he will receivethe rate of the higher-rated job after he has completed his training and trial period and can satisfactorily perform the duties of thejob with no more supervisionthan is required by otheremployees on the samejob.
■5-
Section 4.06	Tp.rnporan/ Vacancies
To provide for flexible and efficient operations, temporary vacancies which the Company determines are necessary to fill may be filled with any employee by temporary transfer or through the overtime provisions of this collective Agreement.
Section4.07	Creation Of New Job Classification
A - If the Company creates a newjob classification,the Company will establisha ratefor such classificationand, if requested by the Union, shall after no more than 120 daysofjob experience, negotiatewiththe Uniona permanentratefor such classification. If a newjob classification is created, the Company will notify the International Union Representative n writing of such creation.
B - Such negotiatedrate will be retroactiveto the date that the job was established. Ifthe negotiation of such rate reaches an impasse, there shall be no arbitration of such wage rate. In the event of such impasse, the rate negotiationwill be deferred to the next regular negotiationof the contractand the provisionof retroactivity shall be as providedin this Section.
AND OVERTIME
Section5.01	IntentAnd NoPvramidino
This Article is intended to set forth the normal hours of work and to provide a basis for computing overtime and premium pay, and shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on overtime hours or on hours of work per day or per week, nor shall anything in this Agreement be so construed as to permit the pyramiding or duplicating of overtime or premium payments. Hours for which overtime or premium payments are made shall not be used to compute overtimeor premiumpay for any other hours. Whenever more than one premium could be applied to the same hours, only the larger will be paid. For purposesofthis Section, shift differentials are notconsideredas premium payments.
ARTICLE V	HOURS OF WORK
Section5.02	Workday And Workweek
The workday is a 24-hour period running from 7 AM one day to 7 AM the following day. The workweek begins at 7 AM Monday and ends at 7 AM the following Monday. The workday and workweek may be different for some individuals or shifts in the interestof efficientor less costly operations.
Section 5.03	Starting Times. Shifts And Schedules
A- The Company may vary shift schedules, starting times and quitting timesfor different areasor operations of the mill or for individualemployees.
•6'
B - The normal workweek contains 5 workdays. However, the Company may vary or change the number of hours scheduled, the number of shifts scheduled, the manpowerrequirementsof the various shifts and the scheduling of workdays and hours for business reasons or efficient operations. Employed riiay be scheduled to eat-on-the-job or have a 30-minute unpaid lunch period. Any area of the mill or portionof the employeesmay be scheduledin more than one way.
C- Employeesscheduled inoperationswithjob classificationsrequiring 2 or more shifts may be required to rotate shifts. The Company, at its discretion, may from time to time change an individualemployee's shift assignmentwith a given shift rotation. For example, in a 4-shift operation the Company may determinewhether an individualemployee isassignedtothe A B, C or D shift.
Seotion5.04	Daily And Weekly Overtime Pay
All hours worked in excess of 40 straight time hours in any one workweek or8 straighttime hoursin any one workday shall becompensatedfor at the rateof 1 1/2 times the employee'sstraighttime hourly rate.
Note 1: Ai employee who works continuously beyond his regularly scheduled shift and continues working into the next day, or nis scheduled day off, or into a new workweek shall receive 1 1/2 times his straight time hourly rate (or double time if applicable) for such hours he works beyondthe start of a new day. Such hours shall not be used to create overtime or premium payments during the employee's regular scheduled shift.
Note 2: For purposesof satisfyingthe40 straighttime hour requirement, the following unworked hoursshallcountas straighttime hoursofwork upto8 hours per day or 40 hoursperweek for days the employeewas either scheduled to work orwas laidoff: (I ) a worked or unworked holidayfor which the employee is paid, provided it falls on an employee's scheduledstraighttime day of work, cr (2) a paid absence resultingfrom either bereavement leave, jury duty or vacation time off, or (3) Union committee memberswho missscheduledwork as a resultof attendingcontract negotiations with the Company.
Note 3: Ifrunninga 12-hourschedule, all hoursworked in excess of4Q straighttime hours in any one workweek or 12 straight time hours in any one workday shall be compensated for at the rate of 1 1/2 timesthe employee'sstraighttime hourly rate.
Seotinn5.05	7th Consecutive Day Of Work Premium
During periods when the mill is scheduled on a 1-, 2- <r 3-shift operation (or any combinationthereof). an employee will be paid 2 times his regular rate of payfor work performedon his 7th consecutive day of work in the workweek provided he has worked 40 straight time hours during the workweek and 8 hours in the 6th consecutive weekday.
■7-
Section 5,06	Reporting Pay Minimum
When an employee reportsforwork as scheduled without being notified to the contrary, and isassignedlessthan4 hoursofwork, he shall be paid at Ieast4 hoursat the applicable rate.
Section 5.07	Call-In Pay
An employee, who is called infer emergency or overtimework on his scheduled day off or called backafter he hasfinished hisshift and left the plantand premises, will be paid at hisapplicablehourly ratefor such unscheduledhours worked or4 hours’ payat his straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater. An employee called back or called in to start in advance of his regularstarting time and who continues to work on into his scheduled shift, shall not qualifyfor the 4-hour guarantee provided for inthis Section.
Section 5.08	Overtime
The Company shall have the right to schedule overtime when it is requiredto the extent the law provides. Employees, based on skill, ability and qualifications, will perform the required work andwill cooperate fully inworking necessary overtime.
ARTICLE VI	SENIORITY AND FIL! !NG PERMANENT VACANCIES
Section 6.01	Seniority
A- Employees’seniority as covered in this Agreement shall apply only to employmentat the Company’sStrathroy millingoperation, Strathroy, Ontario, and shall not apply elsewhere.
B- The Company will post an updated seniority list every 12 months listingall employees covered by this Agreement.
Section6.02	ConsiderationOf Qualifications
The application of the seniority provisions of this Agreement may be governed by considerations of whether the employee is qualified to perform the job required. Terms referringto “qualified” or "qualifications"when used inthis Agreement means qualified to competently perform the job, without further training in a safe, efficient and productive manner. If the employee is not so qualified, the applicable seniority provisionswill not apply.
Note: It is recognizedthatanemployeewho permanently bids or who is permanently transferred to a newordifferentjobwillhaveafairtrial/trainlng period on such new job.
.0.
Section 6.03	Probationary Employees
All newemployeeswill be hired as probationaryemployeesfor the first 60 working days of employment after which the employee shall be placed on the seniority list dating back to his date of hire. A probationary employee shall not hive seniority rights and the discharge of such employeewill not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
Section6.04	Temporary Employees
Temporary Employees may be hired as determined by the Company to supplement the workforce. Such employees will not be entitled to benefits under this collectiveAgreement norwill the provisions of this collectiveAgreement applyto them. Such Temporary Employees will not accrue seniority as a result of such temporary employment. Temporary Employees are not considered probationary employees even if the temporary assignmentexceeds the probationary period. The termination of a Temporary Employee is not subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure.
.Note: Temporary employees will be paid the rate of thejob they are performingif they are qualified and are replacing a regular employee. Other temporary employees will bepaid$10.77 perhour.
Section6.05	Filling Permanentvacancies
A- Job vacancies may be posted to determine who is interested in them. Suchjobs may be filled by assignment by the Company or may be filled by hiringfrom the outside.
B- Qualifications- The decision regarding an employee's ability and qualificationto perform the job shall be the sole decision of the Company.
C- Trial Period - An employee permanently assigned a different job classificationwill have, in the Company's opinion, a fair trial and training on suchjob. If after the trial period the employee is considered qualified and capable of performingthe job, hewill be assigned to the job. if however, the employee is considered, in the Company's opinion, to be unqualified and incapable of performing the job, he will return to the classification from which he came.
Section Note: For entry into Maintenance, see Section 6.06 - Filling Permanent Vacancies (Maintenance).
Section6.06	Filling Permanentvacancies (Maintenance)
A - Entry into the Maintenancejob classifications will be made at the Company's discretion by either hiringfrom outside or by the assignment of an employee of the Company's choice to be trained in thejob. The following criteria, among others, may be used in the selectionof an employee for thesejob classifications:
•9-
1.	Results from a Companydesignated test battery to measure maintenance aptitude, interest and other skills and characteristics.
2.	Physicallyableto perform all types of plant maintenancework.
3.	Willing and ableto perform highwork.
4.	Willing and able to continually work overtime and emergency call-in or call-backwork subjectto applicable law.
5.	Willing and able to take formal trade school courses as selected by management and to take such courses on a continuing basis during the training period.
6.	Must have shown good job proficiency, had a good attendance record, and havebeena productiveemployeeinpreviousjobs performedinthe plant.
B - An employee in training must advance through 3 training grades and intothe Maintenance A classificationor bedisqualified. Time spent in each training grade will be approximatelyas follows:
TrainingGrade3 (MaintenanceB)- 24 Months
Training Grades (MaintenanceC) - 18 Months
Training Grade 1 (MaintenanceC) - 12 Months
C - An employee with obvious skills may be advanced at a faster rate. Advancement through the training grades will be based on management's judgment of the employee's maintenance skills and job performance. An employeewho is not progressing satisfactorily to the Maintenance A classification may be kept in any gradefor longer than the above-listed time, or he may bedisqualified. An employeewho is disqualified will, if possible, return to his previousjob classification.
D- An employee intraining will be requiredto take formal trade school courses applicable to the plantwork. Such courses must be approved by Managementprior to enrollment. The Companywill pay for tuition, books and supplies, but not for time spent at such course.
E- The Training Program shall not restrictthe Company from hiring qualifiedemployeesfrom outside.
The Company will post a notice when a vacancy is to be filled through the testing program. An employee may indicate his interest by signing the notice. The Company may test all or any portion of those desiring to betested.
Section 6.07	Layoffs
the plantwill be made on a plant seniority basis provided the employees remaining are qualified and capable of performing the operations without further training. It is recognized that exceptions to seniority can be made where specialized skills and experience require that exception be made to insure efficient and continuous plant
10-
?rations. Employees in the Maintenanceclassification will be exempt from bumping by -...er employeesaffected by a layoff. Notice of such layoffs will be in accordance with the Canada LabourCode.
1- An employee who is retained accordingto plant seniofify shall remain in his assignedjob classificationsolongas his job operates.
•Note: Employeesinthe Maintenanceclassification may not be bumped and may be retainedor recalledoutof seniority order to work in their classification.
Section6.08	Recalls
Recallsto the plantwill be made on a plant seniority basis, providedthe employees recalled are capable of performingthe operationswithout further training. When recalled, an employee must reply promptly after notification and make satisfactory arrangementsforreportingto work.
I. No newemployeeswill be hired until all available, qualified, regularemployees on the plant's seniority list have been offered an opportunity to return to work, except if in managements opinion the occasion requires the services of especially qualified persons for jobs which cannot be filled from among the employees of the plant.
2- Employeesin the Maintenanceclassificationmay be recalled out of seniority order to work in their job classifications.
3. An employeewho is laid off must keep the Company advised of his address and where he can be reachedby telephone if hedesires to be recalled. Failure to do so will result in a forfeit of the employee's rights to be recalled.
Section 6.09	Loss Of Seniority
An employee will lose his seniority rights and employment, and his name shall be removedfrom the Company seniority list for any of the following reasons. The empbyee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Voluntarilyquits or resignshis employmentor retires.
fc absent from work for 3 consecutive scheduled working days without good cause or fails to notify the Company of his absence.
Fails to report to work at the expiration of a leave of absence without having obtained an extensionof his leave of absencefor a definite period of time from the Company.
Fails to report for work after a recall from layoff and does not notify the Companywithin48 hoursthat he is intendingto returnto work, and unless he returns to work as soon as possibleafter receiving notice, and in any event
■11
within 7 calendar days after the mailing of the registered letter or telegram I his last known address left with the Company.
5.	He is discharged for just cause and such discharge is not reversed under the Grievance andArbitration Procedure.
6.	Has been on layoff or off work for any other reason for a period of 12 consecutive months, subject to the provisionsofthe applicable Federal Laws of Canada.
ARTICLE VII	HOLIDAYS
Section7.01	Recognized Holidays
Forpurposesof the Agreement, the following 13 days will be observed as holidayson the days on which they occur:
NewYeah Day-Jan. 1	Thanksgiving Day-2nd Mon. in Oct.
Good Friday	RemembranceDay- Nov. 11
Victoria Day	Christmas Eve Day- Dec. 24
Canada Day * July 1	Christmas Day- Dec. 25
Civic Holiday- 1st Mon.\nAug.	BoxingDay- Dec. 26
Labour Day- 1st Mon. in Sept.	2 Personal Holidays
Notel: PersonalHolidavs: (1) the timing shall be subjectto management's approval based on the needfor efficient operations, (2) does not apply to a new employee until he has completed 12 months of continuous service, (3) granted each year, (4) the employee must be inan activework statusto receive a PersonalHoliday.
If Canada Day or Remembrance Day fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday will be observed on either the preceding Friday or the Monday immediately following the holiday, subject to the scheduling requirements of the Company. If the facility isoperatingon a7-<Jay schedule, the holidaywill be observed on the day itfalls.
Note 3: Effective January 1, 2001, the Civic Holidaywill be removedfrom the above list, reducingthe holidaysto 12.
Section7.02	Pay ForHolidavs Worked
When an employee works on the holiday, he shall receive 1 1/2 times his straight time hourly rate for all hoursworked plus8 hours' holiday pay.
Section7.03	Pay ForHolidavs NotWorked
A - An employee who is not requiredto work on a recognized holiday will be paid holiday payfor that holiday equivalentto 8 hoursat his regular straight time hourly rate provided he meetsall of the following requirements:
-12-
1- He has earned wages on at least 15 days during the 30 calendar days immediately precedingthe recognized holiday.
2. Such employees who were unable to work 15 of the 30 days immediately precedingthe holidaywill receive 1 /20th of the wages he hasearnedduringthe 30 days immediatelyprecedingthe holiday.
Note 1 A: Unworked holidaypayforwhichthe employee is elig iblewi II be offset by any other pay or other form of Company compensation which the employee may receive for the same day.
B • If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to work as scheduled without reasonable cause, he will not qualify for holiday pay as provided in paragraphA of this Section.
Section7.04	Holidays Considered As Time Worked
Only holidaysfor which the employee is eligible to receive holiday pay, and which fall on the employee's scheduled day of work, whether worked or not worked, will be considered as time worked for the purposeof computingovertime pay on a scheduled day "off which the employeeworks.
ARTICLE VIII	VACATIONS
Section 8.01	Vacation Eligibility
A • Vacations will be earned on January 1 each year to be taken between January 1 and December31 andwill be based on the completed years of continuous Service by the employee as of January 1, according to the following schedule:
Years of	Weeks of
Continuous Service	Vacation Time	Vacation Pay
One day for each month of	4%
service upto a maximum of 10 days
2	weeks	4%
3	weeks	6%
4	weeks	8%
5	weeks	10%
Note 1A:	Percentage is calculated on the basis of the previous calendar year's
earningssubjectto the provisions of the FederalCanada LabourCode.
B • An employee shall be eligible for the additionalweek of vacation or vacation pay, when he hasworked past hisSth, 11 and 19thanniversary date of employment.
Lessthan 1
■thru 5 6 thru 10 11 thru 18 19 or more
13-
C- The amount of vacationtime offwill be reduced by 1/52 for each4i straight time hours of absence for any reason (except personal illnessor compensable work-related illness or injury up to 30 days annually) during the previous calendar year. In the application of this provision, an employee with 1 thru 5 years of continuous service will not have his vacation time reduced to less than 2 weeks. Employees with 6 or more years of continuousservicewill not have his vacationtime reducedto Iessthan3 weeks.
D - Vacation pay will be paid at the time the employee takes his vacation providedthe Company has7 days of advanced notice.
Section8.02	Vacation Pay For Inactive Employees
On or after January 1, an employee who is in an inactive status because of illness, injury, approved leave of absence, layoff, or for any other reason who has not taken his earned vacation (that vacation to which he became eligible on January 1)may request pay in lieuof such unused earned vacation. Suchemployeewill not be considered to be in a vacation status as a result of receiving his vacation pay, nor will he be granted vacation time off without pay at a later date.
Section8.03	Vacation Pay ForTerminated Employees
An employee who leaves the employ of the Company for any reason will receivevacationpay as follows:
1.	Earned Vacation - Earned vacation is defined as a vacation for which the employee became eligible on the January 1 date prior to his termination and such unused earned vacation shall be paid to him upon his termination of employment.
2.	Prorated Vacation • Prorated vacation for an employee whose employment terminates for any reason will be calculated from January 1 to his last day of work in the calendar year.
Section8.04	Scheduling OfVacation Period
A - The choice of vacation time shall be given to an employee accordingto his seniorityfor employees who signthe vacation schedule between Marchl and April 30 subject to the operational requirementsof the business. After April 30, vacations will be scheduled on a first-come, first-serve basis, subject to the operationalrequirements of the business.
B- Vacations may betaken in weekly incrementsof one or moreweeks at a time. Vacations cannot be postponed and allowed to accumulatefrom year to year but must be taken each calendar year. Employeesmay take up to 5 days of vacation per year one day at a time, with the approval of Management.
14-
stlon 6.05	Pav In Lieu Of Vacation
Pay in lieu of vacationfor earned vacation in excess of 2 weeks per calendar year, or any portion thereof, may be granted to an individual employee at the employee's option. Holiday pay is not added to vacations paid for underthis Section.
Sections.06	HolidavPav During Vacations
Ifa holiday is observedduring an active employee's vacation, hewill be granted an additional day with pay at a time mutually acceptable to the Company and the employee.
Section8.07	RehiredEmplovees
Employeeswho have lost their seniority and who are later rehired will beentitled to vacations on the basis of their latest employmentdate.
ARTICLE IX	TIME OFF FROM WORK
Section9.Q1	Jury Duty And Crown Witness
A • When an employee is summoned for jury duty or as a Crown witness in a court of law and must lose time from work as a result of such summons, the employeewill pay to the Company any monies receivedfor suchjury orwitnessee duty (not includingexpensemoniesjandthe employeewill receive the payhewould have received had he been working. Such pay shall not exceed 8 straighttime hours per day or 40 straighttime hoursperweek.
B • The employee shall furnish evidence to the Company that he reportedfor or performedjury duty or appearedas a witness on the days for which he claims payment.
C - The employee is requiredto report for work on days or part days when he is not requiredonjury duty or as a witness in a court of law.
Section 9.02	BereavementPay
A- Should a death occur in the immediatefamily of an employee, he may request bereavementleave for up to 3 days for the purposeof making arrangements for the funeral andlor attendanceat the funeral. ''Immediate.family" shall mean spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, and father.
B - In the case of the death of an employee's mother-in-law, father-inlaw. brother-in-lawandlor sister-in-law,grandmother, grandfather, and grandchildren, paywith time off /s limitedto 1 shift.
-15-
Section Note: This will not include pay for days on which the employee is i scheduled to work.
ARTICLE X	HFAI TH AND WFI FARF
Section 10.01	Group Insurance
The group insurance program in effect on the effective date of this Agreement is a separate document and will continue in effect during the term of this collective Agreement.
Section10.02	Pension
The pension plan for bargaining unit employees at the Strathroy flour mill is a separatedocumentwhosetermwill run concurrently with the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 11.01	Non-Discrimination
The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the Company or by any of its representatives. with respect to any employee because of his membership in or connectionwiththe Union.
Section 11.02	Supervisors Working
There shall be no restriction on supervisors or other Company personnel performing any type or amount of work at any time.
Section 11.03	UnionStewards
The name of the Union Steward shall be given to the Company in writing. A Union Steward shall be entitled to leave his work during working hours in order to carry out his functions under the Agreement. Permissionto leavework duringworking hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from the supervisor. Time spent in arbitrations will not be paidfor by the Company.
Section 11.04	UnionNotice Of Written Discipline
The Companywill give the Union a copy of any written disciplinewhich is to be placedinan employee's tile.
■16-
ion 11.05	UnionSteward- Disciplinary Meetings
A Union Steward shall be present at meetings, if one is available on Company property, between management and employeeswhen disciplinary measuresare to be presentedby managementto such employees.
Section 11.06	Notice Board
A notice board shall be supplied by the Company, large enough to accommodate Union notices, in the lunchroom. Notices relevant to Union activities may be posted if properly signed by authorized Union personneland approvedfor posting by the Plant Manager,or his representative.
Section 11 07	Safety
A - The Company agrees to continue its policy of protecting by all reasonablemeansthe safety and healthof employeesonthe Companypremises.
B- The Company will recognizea Safety Committee consisting of 2 Companyofficialsand2 representativesof the Unionmembershipwithone year of seniority or more for the purpose of investigating, discussing and making recommendations concerning plant safety matters. The Union Safety Representativewill be permitted to leave his regular duties, after receiving permission from his immediate Management Representative. for a reasonable period of time to perform the duties outlined in this Section. He will be paid his regular rate of pay for all time spent on such duties during his regular scheduledshift hours of work.
C- Safety rules and regulations issued by the Companyshall be strictly adhered to, includingthe wearing or use of protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipmentrequiredby the Company.
Section Note:	The Company will recognize safety committee requirements
establishedby Canadian FederalLaw.
ARTICLE XII	NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
Sfintinn12,01	No Strikes Or Lockouts
During the term cf this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, curtailmentof work, interferencewith the operationsof the Company, or interference with productioncaused by or engaged in by the Union or any members thereof. Employees may be disciplined up to and includingdischargefor engaging or participating in any of the foregoing activities in violation of this Section12,01, The Companywill not lockout any of its employeesduringthe term of this Agreement
17-
ARTICLE XIII	SCOPE AND TERM CF AGREEMENT
Sprtinn13.01	Term Of Agreement
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from 7 AM April 12, 1999, to 7 AM April 12,2002.	--------------
Section 13.02	Separability
All provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the laws of Canada and that of the Province of Ontario. Should any part hereofor any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalidby reason of existing or subsequently enacted legislationor by a decree of a court of competentjurisdiction, such invalidationof such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remainingportions hereofand they shall remain in full force and effect
Section 13.03	Complete Agreement
This collective Agreement, includinga Letter of Agreement dated April 12, 1999 (whose term runs concurrently with this collective Agreement betweenthe parties), represents the complete agreement betweenthe parties and shall supersede and replace all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, expressed or implied. between the parties hereto and shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties. Past practices, procedures and understandings may be changed or eliminated by management unless specifically prohibited by the provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended in any of its provisions by mutual agreement of both parties. If agreements are madeafter the effective date of this Agreement,they must be inwriting.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first abovewritten.
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO ADM MILLING CO.
WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL(AFL-CIO-CLC),
Local Union242
Is! Micheal Konesko______________________Is! Georoe H. Oliver__________________
International Representative	Plant Manager
Isl Mervin Wavner________________________Isl Robert L. Creviston. Jr.__________
President, Local242	Employee RelationsDepartment
Is! RobertToooino________________________Isl Martin Reed_______________________
PlantChairman	ADM Vice President-	Employee Relations
18-
APPENDIX A
SENIORITY LIST
Mervin Wayner RobertTopping PeterTanton JohnJakimczuk Floyde H. Desjardine Michael Hooper KarIRawlinson Allan H. DeBoer
January 15, 1969 October 14, 1975 March 7,1977 May 24, 1977 August 12, 1981 January 8,1986 August27,1990 May1, 1998
19-
Strathroy
LETTEROF AGREEMENT April 12,1999 Between
ADM MILLING 00., for Its Strathroy, Ontario, flour mill and the BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL (AFL-CIO-CLC), Local Union242.
The partiesagree to the following itemswhich shall remainln effect during the term of the current labour Agreement betweenthe partiesdated April 12,1999 lo April 12,2002.
I. SECTION 8,01 • VACATION ELIGIBILITY
Employees receiving6 weeks of vacation as of February 3, 1995, will continue to receives weeks of vacationwith the 6th week being pay only. All other vacations will be earned underthe vacation schedule as described in Section 8,01,
II.	REIMBURSEMENT FOR WORK BOOTS
TTe Company will agree to contribute$70 each calendaryear so Ihe employee may purchase work boots asrequiredbytha Company. The employee may be requiredto provideproofof purchasepriorto being reimbursed.
The partieshave executed this Letterof Agreement on this 12thday of April, 1999,
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY,TOBACCO	ADM MILLING CO.
WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL(AFL-CIO-CIC),
Local Union242
M Micheal Konesko_________________________ w Csorge H, Oliver
InternafionaRepresentative	Plant Manager
/a/ Mervln Wavnsr President, Local242
M Robert L, Crevlston. Jr.____
Employee RelationsDepartment
1st RobertToppIno Plant Chairman