AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
(CAW-CANADA)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC NEW MINAS FEED PLANT (HEREINAFTER CALLED THE CO-OPERATIVE)
00479 (09)
SEPTEMBER 17, 2000 - SEPTEMBER 16, 2003
INDEX
ARTICLE I	PURPOSE 4
ARTICLE II	RECOGNITION 4
ARTICLE III	UNION SECURITY 4
ARTICLE IV	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RULES 5
ARTICLE V	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 6
ARTICLE VI	DISCIPLINE 8
ARTICLE VII	ARBITRATION 8
ARTICLE VIII	NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK 9
ARTICLE IX	PROBATIONARY PERIOD 9
ARTICLE X	SENIORITY 10
ARTICLE XI	LOSS OF SENIORITY 10
ARTICLE XII	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS, 10
ARTICLE XIII	PERMANENT TRANSFERS, PROMLAYOFFS,ETC. 11
ARTICLE XIV	LEAVE OF ABSENCE 13
ARTICLE XV	WAGES 14
ARTICLE XVI	UNION RIGHTS AND UNION ACTIVITY 14
ARTICLE XVII	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME 16
ARTICLE XVIII	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS 19
ARTICLE XIX	PAID VACATIONS 20
ARTICLE XX	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE 21
ARTICLE XXI	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 22
ARTICLE XXII	EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 23
ARTICLE XXIII	SAFETY AND HEALTH 24
ARTICLE XXIV	DISCRIMINATION 24
ARTICLE XXV	CORRESPONDENCE 24
ARTICLE XXVI	TERM OF AGREEMENT 24
ARTICLE XXVII	C.O.L.A. 24
ARTICLE XVIII	UNION EDUCATION LEAVE 25
ARTICLE XVIX	AMENDMENTS 25
APPENDIX I	SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGES 26
APPENDIX II	LETTERS OF INTENT & UNDERSTANDING
-	Truck Driver Hours
-	Transfer of Work
-	National Day of Mourning
-	Banking of Hours
-	Weekend Work
-	Technological Change
-	Severance Pay
-	Lost Time Due to Stormy Weather
LETTER OF INTENT	RE: Bench Area
-	Clothing
-	Time Clock
-	Overtime Payment
-	Workers’ Compensation Claims
-	Duct & Fumes Control
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PREMIUM FOR STATIONARY-Engineers License LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ABSENTEEPERSONS LETTER OF INTENT	RE: Bench Area
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CLAUSE 17.09 (b)
LETTER OF INTENT	RE: NIGHT SHIFT SCHEDULE
27
27
27
27
27
28
28
28
29
29
29
29
29
30
30
30
31
32
3
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to insure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to insure fair wages, hours and other working conditions.
1.02	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE TT - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the exclusive and sole bargaining agent for all its employees at the New Minas mill except those excluded by the certification order dated March 7, 1988.
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform their respective duties for the Co-operative faithfully and diligently, and to carry out at all times their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods and procedures established by Management, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
The Union also recognizes that as the Co-operative owes its very existence to members' support of Co-operatives, the employees will, at all times, recognize their individual responsibilities in supporting Co-operatives.
ARTICLE III - UNION SECURITY
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this Agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date shall maintain membership in the Union.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that all employees within thirty (30) days of their hiring date shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly dues, whether they join the Union or not.
3.02	No Discrimination or Penalty
No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
4
Check-Off
3.03
a)	With regard to employees in the bargaining unit, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization on a Form A-230-86, deduct the initiation fee (if applicable) and regular monthly Union dues.
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, it shall be a condition of employment that such employee within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring, shall give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) attached, written authorization to deduct the initiation fee, if applicable, and regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the Agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to forward the total amount of deductions made under (a) and (b) above to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the tenth day of the month following that in which deductions were made.
d)	Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and bylaws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
3.04	A copy of the current Agreement will be made available by the Co-operative to all members of the bargaining unit.
3.05	The co-operative agrees to show the amount deducted for Union dues, during the calendar year, on each employee's T4 slip.
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RULES
4.01	The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this Agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, suspend, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote;
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees;
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
4.02	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement. In any case, the Co-operative shall exercise such rights in a fair and just manner.
4.03	The Co-operative has the right to make rules that are reasonable, provided they satisfy the following requirements:
a)	The rule must not be inconsistent with this Agreement.
b)	It must be clear and unequivocal.
c)	It must be brought to the attention of the employees affected before the Co-operative can act on it.
d)	The employee concerned must have been notified that a breach of such rule would result in his discharge. If the rule is used as the foundation for discharge that rule should have been consistently enforced by management.
5
ARTICLE V - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
5.08
5.09
A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of any specific article or section of this Agreement.
In order to facilitate the orderly processing of a grievance, the Union shall appoint and the Co-operative shall recognize a Grievance Committee, one of whom shall be the Unit Chairperson or his designate. The Union shall keep the Mill Manager advised of the names of such committee members.
It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee have their regular work to perform as employees. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining their supervisor's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
In order that a loss in production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding, the Co-operative agrees that the Grievance Committee members shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
Should a grievance arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under the Agreement, there shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lockouts by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
In the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this Agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee shall present such grievance in writing directly to the Mill Manager at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
It is agreed that at the request of the Co-operative, the union Grievance Committee will meet with Management representatives to discuss any complaints or grievances that Management may have.
The time periods as stated in this article are exclusive of weekends and holidays. They may be reasonably extended by mutual agreement between the parties hereto.
A grievance affecting an individual employee to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within five (5) working days of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, and it shall be handled in the following manner:
6
Step 1 - The employee shall be accompanied by the Chairperson or in his absence another member of the Grievance Committee, and shall submit in writing and discuss his grievance with his supervisor.
The supervisor shall give his decision in writing to the employee or to the Grievance Committee member involved within forty-eight (48) hours after presentation of the grievance.
Any grievance which cannot be resolved at Step 1, above, shall be referred to the Chairperson, or in his absence, a member of the Grievance Committee and committed to writing for resolution at the next Step.
Step 2 - If the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, the Chairperson or in his absence, another member of the Grievance Committee, shall within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of the decision in Step 1, submit to the Feed Operations Manager a signed written "Statement of Grievance" on proper forms. The "Statement of Grievance" shall name the employee involved, shall state the facts giving rise to the grievance, shall identify all the provisions of this Agreement alleged to be violated by appropriate reference, shall state the contention of the employee and of the Union with respect to these provisions, and shall indicate the remedy sought.
Upon receipt of the written grievance, the Feed Operations Manager, or his designated representative, shall within forty-eight (48) hours, meet with the Chairperson or Grievance Committee member involved in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The representative of the Co-operative shall give the Chairperson or his alternate an answer in writing no later than forty-eight (48) hours after such meeting.
Step 3 - If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the V.P.Agriculture, within five (5) days of receipt of the decision at Step 2.
The V.P. Agriculture or his appointee within five (5) days of having received the grievance shall either:
a)	submit his decision in writing to the Union;
OR
b)	arrange a meeting with the Union to attempt to resolve the grievance. Such a meeting would consist of the V.P.
Agriculture or his appointee and the Feed Operations Manager and such other representatives of Management named by the Feed Operations Manager, on the one hand; and the aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, and the national Representative of the Union, on the other hand. The Co-operative shall, within five (5) days after such meeting, submit its decision in writing to the Union.
Step 4 - If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 3,
either party may submit the grievance to arbitration as outlined in Article VII of this Agreement. The parties may by mutual agreement submit the grievance to the Labour Management Forum's voluntary, non-binding arbitration process before proceeding to arbitration.
7
If either party has not initiated the arbitration procedure within thirty (30) calendar days following receipt of the decision at Step 3, the grievance will be deemed to have been resolved or withdrawn. Any grievance unresolved at the time of signing this Agreement, shall be subject to the above time limits.
ARTTCT.F. VT - DTSr.TPT,TNF,
6.01	The Co-operative favours "corrective discipline" over "punitive discipline". Unless there is just and sufficient cause for immediate dismissal the Co-operative shall follow a procedure of progressive discipline, gearing the penalty to the seriousness of the violation imposing appropriate discipline from a verbal warning to a termination of employment.
6.02	An employee committing any of the following offenses will be liable to disciplinary action up to and including immediate dismissal:
(The parties agree that, if a dismissal is grieved, the arbitrator or arbitration board shall have jurisdiction to rule on the appropriateness of the penalty assessed)
1.	Insubordination
2.	Theft
3.	Fighting
4.	Being on the Co-operative's premises or in company vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or drugs
5.	Bringing, having or consuming alcoholic beverages and/or drugs on the Co-operative's premises or in company vehicles
6.	Smoking in prohibited areas
7.	Willful damage to the Co-operative's property or the property of others
8.	Punching another employee's time card
9.	Harassment
The above mentioned grounds for discipline are not meant to be exhaustive but merely illustrative.
6.03	When an employee is called into the office for any reason that may result in disciplinary action he shall be accompanied by the Steward or another member of the Grievance Committee, however, the employee shall have the right to ask the Steward or his replacement to leave the meeting.
6.04	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Manager within three (3) working days of the discharge.
ARTTCT.F VTT - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any grievance be submitted to
arbitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party in this Agreement, within thirty (30) calendar days. Such request shall include up to three (3) nominees to act as arbitrator. The party receiving such notice shall within three (3) full working days also submit up to three (3) nominees.
8
Both parties shall within five (5) full working days get together to agree on one of the nominees to act as arbitrator.
If they are unable to agree on an arbitrator, they shall ask the Federal Minister of Labour to appoint one. The arbitrator shall- ^ be chosen having regard to his qualifications and his familiarity with industrial relations.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
7.03	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.04	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on the parties of this Agreement.
7.05	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator, not borne by any third party, shall be shared equally by the Co-operative and by the Union. All other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them.
ARTICLE VTTT - NON INTERRUPTION OF TaTORK
a)	The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in), any sit-downs or slowdown or any strike or stoppage of operations or any curtailment or work or restriction of or interference with production or any picketing of the Co-operative premises, during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this Agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of this Agreement.
The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the Agreement.
ARTICLE TX - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
9.01	Employees will be considered as probationary employees until they
have completed sixty (60) working days in any four (4) month period and the discharge of any such employee shall not be subject to the grievance procedure. Upon completion of the probationary period, seniority will be backdated to the beginning of the probationary period.
8.01
8.02
9
ARTICLE X - SENIORITY
Seniority shall mean accumulated service with the Co-operative.
All time worked prior to the signing of this Agreement shall be included when computing an employee's seniority, provided that his seniority begins from the time of starting his last uninterrupted employment. An interruption in employment shall not be interpreted to mean an absence from work because of layoff, sickness, accident or with permission of the Co-operative.
A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a bulletin board within thirty (30) days after the signing of this Agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure within one (1) week following the date of posting.
An updated seniority list will be made available to the Union Steward at reasonable intervals during the contract.
ARTICLE XI - LOSS OF SENIORITY
11.01	An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure;
c)	he is laid off for a period equal to his length of service to a maximum of eighteen (18) consecutive months.
d)	is absent without notification or permission for a period in excess of five (5) consecutive work days.
ARTICLE XII - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
10.01
10.02
10.03
12.01	An employee temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of three (3) hours or more shall have his pay increased for the total duration of such assignment to the first step in the higher range that will give him an increase. This provision will only have effect where the employee replaces an employee of a higher rate.
12.02	Employees on temporary assignments as in 12.01 above, shall on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate.
12.03	a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period.
b) Once it becomes obvious that a temporary vacancy will extend beyond two months, the vacancy will be posted and filled under Article XIII.
c)	An employee returning from sick leave of two (2) years or less will return to his previous job at the same step in the range as he had on going out and the employee filling the job in his absence will return to his former job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
- 10
ARTICLE 13.01
13.02
13.03
d)	An employee returning from sick leave of more than two (2) years may exercise his seniority to bump the employee with least seniority (provided he can do the work of that position) and subsequently exercise his rights under Article XIII to bid for any vacancy that may arise.
XTTT - PERMANENT TRANSFERS, PROMOTIONS, LAYOFFS, F.TC.
a)	Tn the event of promotions, transfers, within the bargaining
unit, preference shall be given on the basis of seniority where
ability, skill and competence to perform the work are substantially equal.
b)	Where promotions, permanent transfers or layoffs (subject to section 13.08) are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union of the decision and reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
a) Where a permanent job becomes vacant or a new permanent job is created, it will be posted. The first posting of such job shall be for forty-eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, before the vacancy is permanently filled. AH vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for twenty-four (24) hours excluding weekends and holidays before they are permanently filled.
b)	If a new permanent job is to be posted, the posting showing the qualifications required will be given to the Union at least one work day prior to its posting.
c)	If a vacant job is to be posted and the qualifications are to be different from the past posting(s), the reason(s) for the change(s) will be discussed with the Union prior to posting.
d)	When a permanent job becomes vacant and is not to be refilled immediately, management will advise the Union Steward in writing of the reason(s) within forty-eight (48) hours.
e)	Where a permanent job is phased out, the employee who held the job may bump any other employee with less seniority provided he has the qualifications to become competent in the job within thirty (30) working days. If he fails to prove such competence, he will be assigned to such other job as management deems him capable of and for which he has seniority, provided such a job is available. Where the employee moves to a lower rated job, his pay rate will be reduced to the top of the range for such job. If he moves to another job within the same grade, his pay will remain unchanged and he will progress through the range based on the normal time progressions.
Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing and in
duplicate, to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager will forward a
copy to the Chairperson.
11
13.04	Any permanent employee who wishes to be considered for vacancies posted during his absence must notify the Plant Manager, in writing, with a copy to the Union. If the individual is awarded the job he must take it.
13.05	Within the first thirty (30) working days on the job,if the successful applicant proves to be unsatisfactory as determined by management, or if the employee believes he is unsuited, he shall return to his former job. Reposting of the job is not necessary and a replacement will be selected from the balance of the applicants with preference given on the basis of seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are substantially equal. If none of the balance of the applicants so meet the job requirements, then management will select whomsoever it may consider satisfactory for the job and who is ready to accept it.
13.06	Upon promotion to a higher grade, employees will go to the next step in the new grade which will provide an increase, Subsequent salary increases will follow the normal time progressions outlined in the Salary Schedule, providing work performance is satisfactory. Permanent status in the new position will be granted after sixty (60) days satisfactory performance.
13.07	Upon promotion to a supervisory or management job, a bargaining unit employee may, within the six (6) months probationary period, return to his former position with no loss of seniority. He will not, however, accrue seniority beyond the six month probationary period.
In the event of a layoff, retention shall be on the basis of seniority, provided the senior employee is able to perform the work available in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization period. Past experience on the job will be recognized.
The Co-operative shall give an employee two (2) weeks' notice, in writing, of a planned lay off of one (1) week or more, or pay in lieu thereof. If circumstances require such notice to be extended, the Co-operative shall, in writing, rescind the original notice and advise the employee of the new lay off date. Where the lay off is for less than one (1) week, two (2) days notice shall be given, except where such layoff clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable; e.g., Acts of God. This will not apply to probationary employees
Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority when jobs become available, provided they have the proven ability to perform such jobs. The Co-operative shall give notice of recall by registered mail to the last address given to the Co-operative in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the Co-operative of his intentions by telephone Of telegram within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter or forfeit his rights to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within five (5) work days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
13.08 a)
b)
12
ARTICLE
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
d) RECALL FOR RELIEF WORK
Qualified employees will be recalled for relief work on a seniority basis. During the first sixty (60) calendar days of recall for relief work the Co-operative will not be required to give notice of layoff.
An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall to other than his regular job without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
(i) He so advises management by telephone or telegram within
twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail;
(ii) There is a junior employee on layoff in the same grade or lower and with proven ability to do the job.
XTV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for reasons which, in the opinion of management, are legitimate. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid off. Seniority will be accumulated during such authorized absence.
Requests for leave of absence under 14.01 shall be made two weeks in advance, in writing, with a copy to the union. The union will. advise management, with respect to the effect of such leave on the employee’s seniority rights, prior to management’s decision. such leave shall not exceed one year. In the case of military or other special courses, these will be given consideration as they arise.
a)	An employee wishing to engage in full time Union work shall be granted leave of absence provided that:
1.	He give thirty (30) days' notice of application for such leave.
2.	The leave of absence does not exceed the amount of the employee's seniority.
3.	Upon return within two years, the provisions of clause 12.03
c) , shall apply.	i
4.	Upon return after two years, but prior to the amount of the employee's accumulated seniority, the provisions of clause
12.03	d) shall apply.
5.	Not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b)	The effect of such leave of absence on employee benefits shall be the same as for layoff (see Article XXII).
If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
Co-op Atlantic will pay up to two (2) employees for up to four (4) days for the purpose of bargaining.
In the event that an employee cannot arrange an evening or Saturday
- 13 -
14.06	In the event that an employee cannot arrange an evening or Saturday appointment with a doctor or dentist, the Co-operative will allow up to two (2) hours for each such appointment. Where possible, the employee shall give at least 24 hours notice of each appointment.
The employee may be required to show proof of having kept such appointment. Any abuse of this privilege will result in discipline.
14.07	An employee who is elected to a provincial legislature or the House of Commons will be granted a leave of absence for up to five (5) years. During the first year his position will be protected and during the next four years his right to employment in the bargaining unit will be protected.
14.08	CHILD CARE LEAVE - The provisions of the Canada Labour Code will apply.
14.09	JURY DUTY/WITNESS DUTY - When an employee must serve on "jury duty" or is subpoenaed as a witness in a court proceeding other than on his or her own behalf they will be allowed the necessary time off at no reduction in regular salary. Where the employee is eligible for any payment as a result of serving as a witness or juror such payments must be endorsed to the Co-operative.
ARTICLE XV - WAGES
15.01	A schedule of wage rates shall be attached to this Agreement in the form of Appendix II and shall be part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVT - TTNTON RIGHTS AND TTNTON ACTIVITY
16.01	The Union shall notify the Co-operative in writing the names of its
representatives as follows:	Officers, Bargaining Committee
Members, Grievance Committee Members including Stewards.
16.02	The Co-operative shall provide the Chairperson with all necessary information relating to the following matters for the employees within the Bargaining Unit, on a current basis.
a)	A list of employees showing their names, addresses and classifications;
b)	Job postings, job awards, promotions and demotions and permanent transfers;
c)	Hirings, discharges, suspensions, written warnings, resignations, retirements and deaths unless the employee requests, in writing, that this information be withheld from the Union.
16.03	Employees in the Bargaining Unit shall have access to their own personnel records at reasonable times and shall, upon request, be provided with copies of any official material contained in such records.
16.04	The Co-operative shall provide bulletin boards at appropriate locations upon which the Union shall have the right to post notices relating to matters of interest to the Union and to the employees.
14
16.05	The Co-operative agrees to allow time f°r the Unit^ Chairperson (or appropriate steward) to acquaint new bargaining unit employeesiwith the collective agreement and the role of the Union. Such meetings will be arranged so that not more than fifteen (15) minutes will be on paid work time.
16.06	Union representatives shall be permitted to leave their work during working hours in order to carry out their function under this agreement, including the investigation and processing of grievances and attendance at meetings with management. Permission to leave their work during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from his supervisor and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. All such time spent shall be without loss of regular pay.
16.07	Leave of absence without pay and with no loss of seniority shall be granted to all employees for the purpose of attending Union functions such as conventions, schools, seminars, etc. Such leave of absence shall be restricted to one (1) employee at any one time for a maximum of twenty-five (25) working days for any one employee in any one year and a maximum of thirty-five (35) working days in a year for all employees combined.
The manager may permit a second employee such leave at the same time provided it does not affect the work place to such a degree that production would be jeopardized.
All such leave must be requested in writing to management at least two (2) weeks in advance.
Employees on such leave will be paid their regular pay by the Co-operative and their benefits will be kept in effect. The Co-operative will bill the Union for such pay and the employer's share of benefit costs related thereto.
16.08	Special meetings between Management and Union committee shall be held within three (3) working days after receipt by either party from the other of notice requesting such special meeting, together with an agenda of the subject or subjects to be discussed.
16.09	Meetings between the Management and the Union Committee will be held on the premises of the Co-operative, and those members of the Union Committee who must attend such meetings during their working hours will be paid by the Co-operative for such time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
16.10	It is agreed that when the National Representative wishes to enter the plant to discuss Union business with members of the Bargaining Unit, he will obtain prior permission from Management; such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
15
ARTTCLF, XVTT - HOURS OF WORK AND OVFRTTMF,
17.01	a) The regular work week for production workers and maintenance
workers shall be Monday through Friday, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
b) The regular work week for driver-salesmen shall be fifty (50) hours per week.
17.02	The Co-operative shall provide the Union with a schedule setting forth the normal daily hours of work for every employee indicating normal starting and quitting times for each.
17.03	a) The daily hours scheduled may be altered from time to time as
required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative’s business. The Co-operative agrees, however, that except by mutual consent, no individual employee's schedule shall be changed without twenty-four (24) hours, (°ne day's) notice nor any group's schedule, without three days' notice. The Union will be advised beforehand of changes to be made in the group’s schedule, or when feasible, in an individual's schedule. Alternative schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of the employees, may be submitted by the Union. Such schedules may be implemented by the Co-operative provided management agrees they meet satisfactorily the requirements of the business.
b) When an employee's job is moved permanently from one shift to another, and he does not want to move with the job, the affected employee shall be entitled to bump the most junior employee (on the same shift) provided they can do each others jobs.
17.04	a) Time and one-half shall be paid after the number of prescribed
hours in any day except in the case of the Driver-Salesman who shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked over fifty (50) hours per week.
b) When an employee other than a Driver-Salesman is instructediby management to report later than his regular scheduled starting time, one and one-half times his regular rate will apply after his scheduled quitting time. Similarly, when an empl°yee is required to work before his scheduled starting time, he will be paid one and one-half times his regular rate for such hours worked. In all other cases, part (a) of this section will apply.
17.05	All permanent employees who are required to work on a weekend shall
be paid one and three quarters d 3/4) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
17.06	a) The Co-operative agrees to grant two d) rest periods which will normally be taken in the third and seventh hour of work. The
Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
16
17.06	b) Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours or one (1) hour beyond normal quitting time without a thirty (30) minute meal period, fifteen minutes of which shall
be paid time.
c) Breaks and meal periods will be taken in such a way that equipment will remain in operation when required.
17.07	a) In the case of unscheduled overtime a meal supplement of $5.25 will be paid on the following basis:
A meal supplement shall be paid if an employee works two (2) to five (5) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time; a second meal supplement will be paid if the employee works five (5) to nine (9) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time; and a third meal supplement will be paid if the employee works more than nine (9) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time.
b) Where an employee works overtime on Saturday he will be paid
the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime was scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee will be responsible for his own lunch.
17.08	a) If overtime in excess of one (l) hour is to be worked, notice
of four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties concerned.
b)	If overtime is to be worked on the employee's "sixth" or "seventh" day, then notice shall be given to the employee prior to the end of his last scheduled shift unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties concerned.
c)	It is agreed that the notice requirement will be waived in the case of truck drivers and in all cases where such overtime results from:
1.	Emergencies beyond the reasonable control of management.
2.	Failure of an employee to appear for his shift unless he advises management not later than five (5) hours before the end of the current shift.
17.09	a) When overtime is required during the week, the employee
performing that work will be offered the overtime first. If the employee performing the work declines, then the overtime will be offered to other qualified employees on that shift, on the basis of seniority.
b) Week-end overtime will be on a rotation basis. A schedule to cover everyone for an equal opportunity for overtime will be provided. If an employee is not needed on his scheduled weekend, his name will not appear on the schedule until the next rotation.
- 17
If a senior person wants overtime on any week-end other than his scheduled week-end, he must notify the foreman in writing one week in advance and seniority will govern his right to overtime.
Except in cases of personal necessity, sickness and vacation, the person on the schedule is responsible to be available or have a replacement for his turn on the schedule. Any trading must go through the foreman. The intent of this clause is to provide the Co-op with an extra production shift on Friday night normally consisting of mixing, grinding and pelleting but may include other functions. Any other overtime will be covered by 17.09 (c).
c)	If extra overtime is needed on a week-end (other than that done by employees scheduled on rotation) or if any of the overtime during the week cannot be worked by the employees, under 17.09 (a) , it will be offered in order of seniority to other qualified employees in the bargaining unit. In any case, the most junior qualified employee available shall not have the right to refuse the overtime.
17.10	An employee who has gone home and is especially called back to work in an emergency outside his normal working hours, shall be paid four hours pay at his straight time rate if on a day other than Sunday, or five (5) hours pay at his straight time rate if on a Sunday, or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with the provisions of 17.04 and 17.05, whichever is more advantageous to him.
17.11	Effective on the signing of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees to pay a premium of sixty (60) cents per hour to all plant employees working on the evening shift and a premium of sixty-five (65) cents per hour to all plant employees working on the night shift.
17.12	Should future clarification of the application of the Canada Labour
(Standards) Code require changes in the provisions of this Agreement with respect to hours of work and overtime for Driver-Salesmen, it is agreed that this clause will be reopened during the term of the Agreement for the purpose of making such changes.
17.13	The maintenance persons will be on call on a continual basis to deal with emergencies and in such cases clause 17.10 shall apply.
17.14	The maintenance persons will work such overtime as authorized and/or directed to keep the Co-operative's property and equipment in good condition (subject to the Canada Labour Code, if applicable) . Hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week shall be at one and one-half (1XA) times the regular rate, subject to 17.05.
17.15	A foreman or other supervisory employee with more than seven (7) permanent staff reporting to him will not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that it displaces a bargaining unit job or makes unnecessary the hiring of a bargaining unit employee.
18
ARTTCLF, XVTTT - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
18.01 a
The Co-operative agrees to pay all permanent employees at their regular rates for the eight following holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
If any of these falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed.
b)	In addition, there will be two floating holidays - one in lieu of Boxing Day and one in anticipation of an new statutory holiday. To qualify for such holidays, an employee must have completed thirty (30) days service prior to Boxing Day, in the first case, and thirty (30) days service prior to August 1st i the second case.
c)	In determining when an employee is to take the floating holidays, his wishes will be followed wherever possible, subject however, to management’s needs to keep the work scheduled in an efficient manner.
Management will make every effort possible to ensure a two-day Christmas holiday.
d)	In addition to the present eight (8) identified holidays and the two (2) floating holidays referred to above, each employee, who has completed his probationary period, shall be entitled to one (1) additional paid holiday to be identified as a "Personal Day". This holiday must be taken within the contract year with the understanding that not more than one employee is on such holiday at any one time unless approved by management in advance. The employee must give management reasonable notice of his choice of the day to be taken as his Personal Day.
e)	If an employee works on a holiday, he shall be paid f°r the holiday and shall receive one and three quarters (1 3/4) times his regular rate for all hours worked.
f)	An employee who has completed his probationary period will be allowed a holiday with pay on the day his wife gives birth.
18.02	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay (subject to 18.01, above).
- 19
ARTTCLF, XTX - PATD VACATIONS
19.01	a) Annual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allocated to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate superintendent, based on his needs to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time.
b) It is agreed that requests for vacation time during the period June 15 - September 15 will be limited to two weeks in order that less senior employees will have an opportunity to have some of their vacation time during that period. However, if additional time is available during that period, seniority will prevail in the choice for such available time off.
19.02	Am employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously
employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than three (3) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
19.03	a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) or more years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
b) Am employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (M) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (2XA) days for any six (6) month period.
19.04	a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
b) An employee, who by April 30, has been continuously employed for nine (9) years, but less than ten (10) years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (^) day per complete month of service beyond nine (9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
19.05	a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously
employed for twenty-two (22) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
b) An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-one (21) years but less than twenty-two (22) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (^) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-one (21) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
20
An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for thirty (30) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation six (6) work weeks.
An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-nine (29) years but less than thirty (30) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (%) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-nine (29) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%) days for any six (6) month period.
An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to (l) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1. With permission up to 30 days annually;
2. Due to sickness up to 30 days annually; or such longer periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
3.	Up to one year due to a compensable accident.
In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months to April 30.
ARTTC.T,F, XX - COMPASSIONATE TDAVE
20.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family, within the following limits:
a)	5 days - spouse, child, mother, father
b)	3 days - brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law
c)	1 day - grandparent, grandchild, sister-in-law, brother-in-law.
20.02	Should a grandparent or guardian fill the role of parent of the employee, (a) above would apply.
20.03	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the day's vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he may be required to return on that date and use remaining vacation credits at a later date.
20.04	In the event that the employee attends a funeral of a relative specified above which requires considerable travel time, the employee shall be guaranteed additional one-half (1/2) day compassionate leave for every four (4) hours of travel to a maximum of two (2) days.
19.06
19.07
19.08
19.09
19.10
21
ARTICLE XXT - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Long and Short Term Disability Plans and the Group Health Care (Blue Cross) Plan, in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
Permanent employees who were eligible to participate in the Long Term Disability Plan in February 1970, but declined to do so will not be required to participate in that plan. However, should they later join this plan, they shall continue to participate thereafter.
21.02
All permanent employees of the bargaining unit (as defined in clause 2.01 of the Agreement) shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one year, May 1, to April 30. Any employee hired after May 1, will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
A maximum of five (5) days of unused sick leave credits may be carried forward to the next year and may, be accumulated to a maximum of twenty-five (25) days sick leave with full pay in that year.
b) Within three weeks of the end of the benefit year (May 1 -
April 30) and each benefit year thereafter each employee will be paid seventy-five (.75%) percent of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave in excess of five (5) days to his credit at the end of the benefit year.
c) The above reimbursement will be increased to 100% if those
employees on payroll (including those on layoff) at that date, have as a group, used less than fifty (50%) percent of their credited full pay sick leave during that benefit year.
d)	Upon expiration of his full pay sick leave credits, a permanent employee will be eligible for either:
1.	Supplementary sick leave - 50% of his regular pay for all days absent. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five (5) consecutive work days;
OR
2.	Benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan beginning on the eighth (8) calendar day of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer.
e)	A permanent employee shall be eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan beginning with the 27th week of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer.
f)	It is agreed that the employees' interest in any reduction of Unemployment Insurance contributions that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative's sick leave plan shall be waived in view of the increased benefits in this article.
22
g)	The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfactory medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave. Any claim covering more than three consecutive days MUST be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday MUST be supported by a medical certificate.
To be satisfactory, a medical certificate must specify the date and nature of the illness and the duration of time such illness prevented the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
h)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
21.03 The Co-operative agrees to implement a dental plan based on the
Master Policy with "The Co-operators" subject to the terms of such plan. The premiums for such plan will be paid on the basis of 66 2/3% by the Co-operative and 33 1/3% by the employee.
ARTTCT.F. XXTT - EFFECT OF TAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	Where an employee misses time during the year (Jan. 1st - Dec.
31st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences, if they total ^ thirty days or more, shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
22.02	A layoff for an indefinite period which extends beyond the end of the month in which it occurs, will have the same effect on coverage under the Group Life Plan as would termination under the provisions of that plan, except that if an employee wishes to remain on layoff status he cannot exercise his right under the conversion clause of the policy and vice versa.
22.03	Coverage under the Short and Long Term Disability Plans cease at time of layoff or termination. An employee who returns from layoff to full time work within six months of layoff will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work. An employee returning after a layoff of more than six months will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three months’ service.
22.04	If an employee is laid off temporarily for an indefinite period, his Group Health (Blue Cross) coverage will remain in effect for a maximum of six (6) months provided that he pays the total premium
(employers and employees share) for the six (6) month period at time of layoff. Should the employee return within this period, deductions will not be made for this plan until prepaid coverage has expired. Should the employee terminate his employment while on layoff, any unused part of such will be returned to him.
23
22.05	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of
layoff, if such layoff is for ten (10) working days or more or for an indefinite period.
ARTICLE XXTTT - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	The Co-operative agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that safety and health of the employees is governed by Part IV of the Canada Labour Code. If reasonable provisions are not made for the Safety and Health of employees, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
23.02	Injury on the Job
Am employee who sustains a work related injury and is unable to continue at their job,shall be paid their regular wage for the remainder of the scheduled shift on which the injury occurs.
ARTICLE XXTV - DISCRIMINATION
24.01	The Co-operative agrees that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or employees because of the enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement or because of Union activity.
24.02	The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination against any member of the Union because of race, creed, colour, sex or age.
ARTICLE XXV - CORRESPONDENCE
25.01	Except where otherwise provided, official communications in the
form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed to the Local Union Chairperson c/o Co-op Atlantic Feed Plant, New Minas, Nova Scotia. A copy of said correspondence will be forwarded to the National Representative at Suite 1306 Cogswell Tower, 2000 Barrington Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3K1
ARTICLE XXVT - TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall remain in effect until September 16, 2003, and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and the 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this Agreement or to negotiate a new one.
If at the date of expiration, a new Agreement has not been signed, the present Agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation in the Labour Code of Canada have been complied with.
ARTICLE XXVII - C.O.L.A.
26.01
26.02
A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the third year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) (1991=100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% of the August, 1999, C.P.I., which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
24
Starting on the first of the month in which the published C.P.I. exceeds 105.0% of the August, 2002, figure, a premium of one and one half cents (1.5<0 per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P.I. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.I. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium adjusted as necessary to keep it at one and one half cents (1.5C) per hour for each 0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after September 16, 2003.
APTTCT.E XXVTTT - UNION EDUCATION LEAVE
28.01	Commencing in September 1996 the Co-operative will contribute $500 annually to the C.A.W. paid education leave program c/o 205 Placer Court, Willowdale, Ontario, M2H 3H9.
ARTICLE XXVIX - AMENDMENTS
29.01	All provisions of this Agreement with the exception of those defining the Term of the Agreement, may be amended by mutual consent at any time.
I*
T/-'
day
This AGREEMENT signed this
o _f____fah PUlftTK	A.D.?001 between the parties herein-
before mentioned.
7^
CO-OP ATLANTIC	CAW-Canada
New Minas Feed Plant
25
APPENDIX I
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGES Effective
_____Date_______Start 3 mos 6 mos 12 mos
GRADE I Millhand
GRADE II
Crusher-Grinder
Operator
Shipper-Receiver Packer-Sewer Mixer Operator -Medication Dispenser Palletizer
Unloader Bin Charger Swingman
GRADE III
Pellet Mill Operator Absenteeperson Maintenance I
Maintenance II
Driver-Salesman
Lead Hand Premium -
17 Sept.00 12.95 17 Sept.01 13.25 17 Sept.02 13.55
17 Sept.00 13.25 17 Sept.01 13.55 17 Sept.02 13.85
17 Sept.00 13.25 17 Sept.01 13.55 17 Sept.02 13.85
17 Sept.00 13.95 17 Sept.01 14.25 17 Sept.02 14.55
17 Sept.00 13.40 17 Sept.01 13.70 17 Sept.02 14.00
60 cents per hour
13.45	13.95	14.97
13.75	14.25	15.27
14.05	14.55	15.57
13.75	14.29	15.34
14.05	14.59	15.64
14.35	14.89	15.94
13.80 14.35 15.46 14.10 14.65 15.76 14.40 14.95 16.06
14.55 15.15 16.34 14.85 15.45 16.64 15.15 15.75 16.94
14.00 14.60 15.78 14.30 14.90 16.08 14.60 15.20 16.38
26 -
APPENDIX II
Letters of Intent and/or Understanding
Truck Driver Hours
It is not the intention of Co-op Atlantic to reduce the hours of the truck drivers below an average of fifty (50) hours per week, however if conditions change and a reduction of hours is necessary, the hours will not be reduced below an average of forty (40) hours per week.
Transfer Of Work
In the event that the Co-operative transfers all or part of its operations resulting in the layoff of one or more employees, the Co-operative will endeavour to transfer the affected employee(s) if the transfer can be accommodated. The provisions of the moving and relocation allowance policy shall apply if the Cooperative offers a transfer.
National Day of Mourning
Co-op Atlantic agrees that the employees of its plant in New minas will be allowed to observe the National Day of Mourning by standing back from their machines for the period of one(l) minute silence at eleven (11) o'clock a.m. April 28th each year in memory of those workers killed on the job
Banking of hours
Employees, if the so desire, shall be entitled to bank overtime hours to a maximum of forty (40) straight time hours at any one time. Once having elected to utilize the time bank, the arrangement shall continue until such time as the employee subsequently advises the company in writing that they wish to opt out of the time bank. When such advise is given to the company, it shall become effective with the commencement of the second pay period following such advise.
Employees shall have their overtime banked at a rate equivalent to what they would have been paid had they received such overtime on their regular pay cheque.
Employees shall be entitled to withdraw accrued hours from their time bank for purposes of time off in lieu of pay. Time off will be by mutual agreement between the employee and the appropriate supervisor. Alternatively, at the request of the employee, accrued hours may be withdrawn in the form of pay, to be paid not later than the second pay period following such advise.
All outstanding hours in the time bank shall be fully paid to the employee by the last pay period in November of each year.
27
Weekend Work
In the event it becomes necessary to revise work schedules and employees are required to work Saturday and/or Sunday, the co-operative the cooperative shall initiate meetings with the union to discuss alternate schedules as applicable. This is to ensure there is an understanding of the desires of the employees as well as the operational requirements of the Cooperative. Work schedules will not be implemented without four (4) weeks notice to the employees and there is a mutual agreement between the Cooperative and the Union.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The provisions of the Canada Labour Code will apply.
SEVERANCE PAY
Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) years' service or more and the termination was not a dismissal for cause, the co-operative will pay to the employee one (1) weeks pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximum of twenty-five weeks.
An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his. seniority rights expire. (See article eleven). An employee aged fifty-five (55) or older who is laid off may take severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that severance allowance will be paid only where termination results from technological change, automation, reorganization or other similar reason beyond the control of the employee.
Likewise, it is understood that the severance allowance will not be paid when an employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b)	is laid off prior to age 55 and has seniority rights
c)	is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through the grievance procedure
d)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employee Pension Plan
e)	is offered other comparable employment within Co-op Atlantic, at the same geographic location
It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this Article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary, or estate as the case may be.
The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
28 -
LOST TIME DUE TO STORMY WEATHER
In cases of severe bad weather (eg. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, a grace period of one hour will be allowed so that employees who arrive at work within one hour of their normal starting time will suffer no loss of pay. The grace period will only apply where the Manager rules that the storm did in fact constitute "severe bad weather".
CLOTHING
The Co-operative will provide maintenance workers with coveralls as required. Mill Workers will receive two (2) pairs of coveralls per year, one (1) thermal pair and one (1) regular pair. In addition, the Cooperative will provide one (1) pair of boots per year to a maximum expense of fifty dollars ($50), and 50% of the cost of a second pair, if required, to a maximum of fifty (50) dollars.
LETTER OF INTENT
Time Clock
The use of the time clock to record time worked will be discontinued with the following exceptions:
Employees must continue to punch in and out (at the appropriate times) for all:
-	Unsupervised work (including truck drivers)
-	Overtime
-Absences from the work place (during working hours) for personal reasons.
LETTER OF INTENT Overtime Payment
Overtime worked to Saturday midnight at the end of a pay-cheque will be paid on the next pay cheque (approximately twelve days later).
LETTER OF INTENT
Advances on Workers' Compensation Claims
Where an employee goes beyond three (3) weeks without a Workers Compensation cheque and the delay is not due to his own errors or omissions, the Co-operative will make him an advance for those weeks in an amount equal to two thirds (2/3) of his pay rate and recover it from him once the delayed payment is received.
LETTER OF INTENT Duct and Fumes Control
Co-op Atlantic agrees to extend the present dust removal system to the mixer and hammer mill area. It will be Co-op policy that trucks are to be shut off when being loaded on the bulk truck scales (when possible).
- 29 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING PREMIUM FOR STATIONARY ENGINEERS LICENCE - PRODUCTION STAFF
A premium of $.25 per hour will be paid to a limited number (to be determined by management) of production staff on the evening or night shift, excluding maintenance, who possess a valid class IV or higher stationary engineers licence for the Province of Nova Scotia and whose job can logically cover the responsibility of tending the boilers.
The above licence will not be a requirement for production jobs, other than maintenance, providing another person on the same shift has a valid licence. If the holder of a valid licence leaves or changes shifts and he was the only person on the shift with a valid licence, the replacement will be required to possess a valid licence unless other arrangements satisfactory to management can be made to fulfil the requirements for a licensed operator on shift.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING ABSENTEEPERSONS
The Co-operative will appoint three "Absenteepersons". These are not new positions but existing production jobs with additional duties. Employees appointed as absenteepersons will be required to perform any job or combination of jobs in the production area. The appointees will be paid at the Group III level,
If at any time during the life of this agreement it is determined by either party that this arrangement is unsuitable, notice will be given in writing and within thirty (30) days the previous structure and pay scale shall be restored. It is also understood that these new appointments in no way affect management's flexibility to assign work to other employees.
Letter of Intent RE: Bench Area
The Parties agree the Union's request to
to meet during the term of the agreement to address improve the bench area.
- 30
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: CLAUSE 17.09 (b)
1.	The senior employee wanting overtime on the weekend other than his scheduled overtime must notify the foreman, in writing, one week in advance and seniority will govern his right to overtime. This notice will include the area of work (ex: mixing, grinding or pelleting) in which they want overtime.
2.	If a person's place on the schedule has been taken by a more senior person as per #1 above, the person bumped can take the place of a less senior person on the same rotation provided they are able to do the work required.
3.	Once a senior employee has used his seniority as per #1, he is responsible to be available. If he cannot be available, he must notify the foreman, in writing, as soon as possible and the f°reman will arrange for a replacement. The mostisenior person displaced fram
the original schedule will be given the first option on such overtime
provided they are able to do the work required.
4.	The person who is on the original schedule and is^ not available sh°uld notify the foreman as soon as p°ssible bef°re lining up his replacement.
31
LETTER OF INTENT RE: NIGHT SHIFT SCHEDULE
The Co-op and the Union agree on a trial basis that the first shift of the night shift will be on Monday night at 12:00 a.m..
On the week that the night shift is scheduled to work on the regular scheduled overtime shift, their first shift will be on Sunday night at 12:00 a.m..
This trial basis will last for 3 complete rotations of the regular scheduled overtime list.
If either the Union or the Co-op decides that this schedule is unsatisfactory during this trial period, the shifts will all return to their original schedule.
If both parties agree to the schedule after the trial period it will continue for the life of the contract.
32