AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
TQPNOTCH NPTRI LIMITED
32885 Ventura Avenue, Abbotsford, B.C.
V2S 5B5
SOURCE				
EFF.			07	Of
TERM.	95		OL	3 6
No.Uh EMPLOYEES		4.4: .■		
SOMBRE O'EMPLOYES				
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION. LOCAL 1518
#700 - 4211	Ringsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6	
	INDEX	
ARTICLE		PAGE
1	GENERAL	2
2	SCOPE	2
3	RELATIONSHIP	3
4	MANAGEMENT	4
5	UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION	5
6	WAGES	6
7	HOURS OF WORK	9
8	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	12
9	VACATIONS	13
10	SENIORITY	17
11	SAFETY AND HEALTH	21
12	TOOL REPLACEMENT	22
13	SEVERANCE PAY	22
14	JURY DUTY	24
15	MEALALLOWANCE	24
16	WORK CLOTHING	25
17	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	25
18	SERVICE PAY PLAN	25
19	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	26
20	AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	30
21	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	31
22	DURATION OF AGREEMENT	34
0Oc/7Co%
2
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this day of	A.D., 1994
BETWEEN:
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED
32885 Ventura Avenue, Abbotsford, B.C. V2S 6A3 (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION. LOCAL 1518 #700 - 4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
1.01	It is the purpose of this Agreement to maintain mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, and to provide a satisfactory means of settling any differences or grievances which may arise and to establish and set forth conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE
2.01	This Agreement applies to all employees of the Company in the following Plaints:
Abbotsford Plant	Armstrong Plant
where Local 1518 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union has been duly certified by the Canada Labour Relations Board, except those employees excluded by the certification.
ARTICLE 3 - RELATIONSHIP
3.01	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or any of its representatives with respect to any employee because of his membership in ^r^cvcyuiection with the Union and that membership in the^Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged.
3
3.02	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation,
interference, restraint, or coercion exercised or practiced upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives. No employee shall	conduct	Union
activities during his working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement without first securing permission from the Company.
3.03	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees and the Union agrees that there will be ho strikes or other collective action, which will stop or interfere with production until the dispute is dealt with under the Grievance Procedure.
3.04	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall also be
considered to	include the feminine except where
specifically indicated otherwise.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of
the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, and demote employees; provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kind and location of machines and the tools to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its products and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
(d)	It is understood and agreed that inasmuch as the Company recognizes the Union as an employees' bargaining agency, as an evidence of good faith, the Union will use its best efforts to have its members' responsibilities under this contract carried out in letter and spirit.
(e)	The Company may bring forward at any meeting with the Union Committees any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or its Committeemen affecting the relationship between the Union and the Company^so that a satisfactory mutual understanding may be reached by the conferring parties.
The Company also agrees to carry out the terms of this contract in letter and spirit.
4.02
4
ARTICLE	5 ~ UNION SECURITY AND RECOGNITION
5.01	The Company acknowledges that the employees in the unit described above have selected the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent and recognizes the Union as such for all employees in the said unit.
5.02	The Company agrees that all employees now members of the Union and all employees who become members of the Union shall remain members in good standing of the Union while employed by the Company during the life of this Agreement, as a condition of employment.
5.03	Since the Union is recognized as the bargaining agent for all employees, as defined in Article 2, and in order to promote harmony among all such employees, it is hereby provided that all new employees shall become members of the Union. The Company shall be kept informed, in writing, of the amount of the monthly Union dues and the Union entrance fee as set by the Union Constitution, By-laws or by decision of a regularly constituted local Union meeting.
5.04	New employees will not be subject to compulsory checkoff until they have been in the employment of the Company for thirty (30) days of actual work, unless they become members of the Union before that time. After thirty (30) days worked, payment of Union dues is a condition of employment.
5.05	Subject to the other provisions of this Article, all employees to whom this Article applies shall give the Company written authorization for the deduction and remittance of the Union dues aforesaid, in a form satisfactory to the Company.
5.06	Upon receipt of an authorization in writing by an employee affected, forwarded through the Secretary of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of each such employee the Union entrance fee and Union membership dues once each calendar month and such deductions shall be remitted promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union.
5.07	The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability arising out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon checkoff authorization supplied by the Union or for the purpose of complying with any of the foregoing checkoff provisions.
5
5.08	There shall be no contracting out of work presently performed by members of the bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Union agrees not to arbitrarily withhold such agreement in any case where the Company proves beyond a reasonable doubt that it is economically justifiable to contract out. In particular, but not so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to contract out work of a nature which it has in the past contracted out, and work in the future which, in its opinion, is of such a type as to beincompatible in nature or uneconomical with work presently being performed by members of the bargaining unit. The Company agrees to provide the Union with reasonable notice of its intention to contract out work.
ARTICLE	6 - WAGES
6.01	Wages shall be paid in accordance with Schedule "A" of this Agreement which is attached hereto and forms a part thereof.
6.02	If an employee meets with an accident while at work during his shift making him incapable of completing his shift, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at his regular rate of pay. Employees who are incapable of completing their shift due to sickness, shall be paid for the balance of the shift at the applicable Accident and Sickness Plan pay percentages.
6.03	When an employee is temporarily transferred to another job, he shall receive the rate of pay applicable to the job to which he has been temporarily transferred, except where the rate of pay is less than that paid on his former job. In such cases, the employee shall receive the rate of pay of his former job. However, if the transfer is of a permanent nature, which shall take into consideration seniority, the employee shall receive the rate of pay applicable to his new job. If this be lower than his former rate, he shall be paid the higher rate for ten (10) days before reverting to the lower rate.
6.04	Transfers to lower paid jobs shall be referred to a joint Union Management Committee before an employee's rate is reduced.
6.05	When a job category is to be established, eliminated or absorbed into a classification by the Company, is agreed that the Company shall advise the Union of the proposed change at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such change for the purposes of discussing with the Company, the personnel and the rate of the job. Any disagreement under this Clause concerning rate of pay, seniority, ability or job posting shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure - Article 21.
6
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
Employees who lose their seniority for any reason and are rehired or retained in the Company's employ shall not lose the credit for their days of experience in computing their pay rates and shall receive the rate for the job classification being filled.
The Company agrees to make every reasonable effort to continue established pay periods.
Employees promoted or permanently transferred to another classification shall be paid the starting rate for their new classification for the first thirty (30) working days, after which the top rate for the job shall apply, subject to Article 6.03.
The wage schedule shall include in the basic rates a Steam Certification provision as follows:
Pellet Mill Operator-----Boiler Operator's Cert 40c/hour
Millwright "A”-----------4th Class Engineer	55c/hour
Millwright Engineer------4th Class Engineer	75c/hour
Any new job postings for these classifications will carry a Steam Certificate qualification as stated and the rate set out in the wage schedule. Any employee earning a Steam Premium other than his normal posted job qualifications shall be paid the appropriate premium as part of his basic hourly rate.
The Company will reimburse one hundred (100) percent of the course fees for ,a pellet mill operator boiler operator certificate and a 4th class power engineer's certificate. The above will be paid on successful completion of the course subject to prior Company approval on taking the course.
Any employee appointed to the Millwright Foreman position, supervising two (2) or more other millwrights, shall receive a premium of sixty six (66) cents per hour over his classified rate. Such premium to be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
7
ARTICLE 7 ~ HOURS OF WORK
7.01
The standard hours of work shall be:
7.02
Abbotsford Plant. Armstrong Plant
(a)	1. Eight (8) hours in any one (1) day, forty (40) hours in any one (1) week worked on a schedule of Monday to Friday or Tuesday to Saturday, subject to Article 7.01(d).
2.	Truck driver and bulk loader classifications may be scheduled• ten (10) hours in any one (1) day, forty (40) hours in any one (1) week, scheduled within a Monday to Saturday work week.
3.	Truck drivers engaged in the delivery of bulk feed products to Vancouver Island may be scheduled twelve (12)
.'hours in any one (1) day, thirty-six (36) hours in any one (1) week, scheduled within Monday to Saturday work. The thirty-six (36) hours shall be deemed by the company as forty (40) hours worked.
The truck drivers in order of seniority, will work a schedule of thirty-six (36) hours in any one (1) week and shall remain on this schedule for a period of four (4) months at which'time the employee will stand down.
(b)	The Company shall schedule the hours and days of work and post them outlining the starting and finishing times of all employees. Any time worked outside the schedule of hours shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rates. The senior employees shall have the choice of schedule of hours for their department or classification if they are capable of doing the work. Such choice of schedule of hours must be exercised at time of posting, when a vacancy occurs in the same classification or at six month intervals from the date of the posting.
(c)	The schedule of hours and days may be changed from time to time as required to meet the needs of the business but such changes shall not be made effective until notice of three (3) working days has been given to the employees concerned unless changed by mutual agreement. Any changes in the schedule of hours will be discussed and agreed to by the local Union Committee.
(d)	A Tuesday to Saturday work week may apply to two (2)truck drivers, two (2) millwrights, two (2) plant personnel and warehousemen for the purpose of sales.
Employees in the manufacturing plants working the afternoon or night shift shall work seven and a half (7 1/2) hours per day and thirty seven and a half (37 1/2) hours per week with a lunch period of half (1/2) an hour on Company time for a total paid time of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
8
7.02	(con't) The Company agrees to pay a premium of forty (40) cents per
hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours of 4:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight and a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour to all personnel employed on shifts where the majority of hours are worked between the hours 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M. Such premium shall be incorporated into the employee's basic rate.
7.03	When it becomes necessary for any overtime to be worked, such overtime shall first be offered to the senior, qualified employee regularly employed in the department where the overtime is to be worked. Failing to get -sufficient employees in this manner such overtime may be offered to qualified employees in other departments on a seniority basis.
The company and the union agree to establish a list of qualified employees for all classifications. Such list to be revised and posted September 1st and March 1st each year.
7.04	(a) All employees worked in excess of the hours mentioned in
Article 7.01 of this Agreement shall be paid at overtime rates of time and one half (1 1/2) of the regular hourly rate for the first two (2) hours of overtime and double (2 times) the regular rate thereafter.
(b) Any employee called into work and capable of adequately performing his work shall be guaranteed a minimum of:
(a) four (4) hours' pay if the employee commences work;
(b) two (2) hours' pay if the employee does not commence work;
at the appropriate rates of pay.
7.05	Any employees called in off schedule for emergency work shall be paid one (1) hour's travel time at regular rates and shall be through when the emergency is over, but shall receive at least four (4) hours' pay at his regular overtime rate. Seniority shall not necessarily apply for an occurrence endangering Company personnel, property or assets.
7.06	All employees shall have two (2) fifteen minute rest intervals during each day without deduction in pay, with rest periods to be provided in the time schedule.
7.07	Employees may elect to bank hours of 'overtime at appropriate time and a half (1 1/2) or double (2) time hours. Employees can bank up to a maximum of five (5) days per quarter, Employees must elect prior to January 1st and July 1st of each calendar year whether they wish to bank their eligible hours each quarter.
9
7.07(con't)
ARTICLE 8 ~ 8.01
(a)
(b)
(C)
8.02
8.03
8.04
8.05
Employees may take this banked overtime only at times mutually agreed by the employee and the plant manager/supervisor.	Three (3) weeks' notice will be
required prior to any banked time being taken unless otherwise agreed. Banked overtime will be taken in the quarter in which it originated, or no later than the end of the following quarter. Portions of banked overtime must be taken in increments of not less than one (1) shift and not more than five (5) shifts at any one time. Unused time will be paid out on termination, or on the first pay date following the end of each three (3) month period unless the employee chooses a carryover. Carryover will be for a maximum of three (3) months from the end of any quarter at which time hours will be paid out.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Statutory holidays will be paid for at the employee's regular rates on the following basis:
Employees with less than thirty (30) days worked with the Company. None.
Employees with thirty (30) days or more worked shall be entitled to pay for up to ten (10) statutory holidays. When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday, the day observed by the Provincial government shall be considered the holiday.
Number of hours paid shall be the employee's regular shift hours provided the employee has earnings in the pay period in which the holiday falls or is observed.
Statutory Holidays referred to above are as follows:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance	Day
Canada Day	Christmas	Day
B.C. Day	Boxing Day
Any Statutory Holidays not specifically mentioned in this Agreement declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments, shall form part of this Agreement and paid for as provided.
If an employee is absent on his scheduled work day before a Statutory Holiday or his scheduled work day immediately following a Statutory Holiday, payment for the holiday is left to the discretion of the Management.
Except Watchmen, all employees who work on Sundays shall be paid for such work, double their regular hourly rate. Employees who may be required to work on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid double their regular hourly rate for all hours worked plus any pay they may be eligible for under Article 8, 8.01.
10
8.06
8.07
ARTICLE
9.01
9.02
9.03
Statutory holidays which fall on or are observed on an employee's regular day off, shall be paid for on the following basis:
a)	Regular shift hours pay at the employee's regular rates, or
b)	A day or days off with pay to be taken at a time mutually agreed to by the employee and the Company.
c)	Regular shift hours for drivers under Article 7.01(a) 3 shall be recognized as being twelve (12) hours.
An employee who is absent for reasons of sickness or accident during the period in which a statutory holiday occurs shall receive pay for such statutory holiday at the applicable Workers' Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity percentages as is applicable.
9 ~ VACATIONS
Vacation eligibility, length of vacation and rate of vacation pay shall be calculated on the following basis:
a)	Cut-off date for establishing vacation entitlement shall be January 1st each year.
b)	Eligibility for current year vacation entitlement shall be based on the employee1s number of working days in the year vacation is earned, a complete year shall be 182 or more working days.
c)	Length of vacation and/or percentage of vacation pay to be based on number of years of seniority.
d)	A week of vacation eligibility shall be defined as forty (40) working hours, not inlcuding statutory holidays.
If an employee has completed one (1) full year of service as at January 1st in any year he shall be eligible for two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
All employees who have been in the employ of the Company for less than one (1) year as at January 1st of each year shall in that year be given holidays at the rate of five sixths (5/6) of a day for each one (1) month's work in the previous year provided the employee is still on the payroll of the Company.
(a)	If an employee has worked 182 or more days in the year vacation is earned the following vacation schedule shall apply:
Years of	Weeks of
Seniority	Vacation Eligibility
Three (3)
Eight (8)
Fifteen (15) Twenty-three (23)
Three (3) Four (4) Five (5)
Six (6)
11
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
9.07
(b)	An employee not completing 182 days of actual work shall be eligible for vacation as per the above scale, but shall be paid vacation pay as per Article 9.06(b).
Any employee who is eligible for more than three (3) weeks vacation shall be allowed only three (3) weeks of their vacation during the period June 15 to September 15 unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Employees qualifying for an additional weeks vacation as per the previous schedule will be granted the additional week on the basis of their individual anniversary date.
(a)	Employees shall receive vacation pay based on the rate that has been gained by permanent posting at the time the vacation is taken. The earned rate of pay for temporary transfers of more than thirty (30) working days immediately prior to the time vacation is taken, for vacation purposes, shall be considered regular rate.
(b)	Employees covered by Article 9 not completing 182 eight (8) hour working days in the previous calendar year shall receive vacation pay equal to the greater of:
1)	average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year times current rate of pay, calculated as follows:
a)	employees with 182 or more working days shall be paid based on average daily hours on actual number of days worked
b)	employees with less than 182 working days shall be paid based on average weekly hours worked in the qualifying year
2)	two (2) percent of the employee's previous year's earnings for each week of eligible vacation as per the scale set out in Article 9.03.
Personnel may take their vacations at times mutually agreed upon by the employee and the Plant Manager. A list to be submitted to the Plant Manager by February 1st of the current year. Vacations as far as possible shall be staggered so as not to deplete any division of the plant staff and cannot be taken more than three weeks at any one time unless mutually agreed otherwise. Employees not submitting a holiday list by February 1st shall lose seniority preference in selection of vacation time. All vacation time due must be commenced by October 31st and completed by December 31st of the current vear unless mutually agreed otherwise in writing.
12
9.08
9.09
9.10
9.11
9.12
9.13
9.14
9.15
Any employee who leaves the service of the Company on his own accord or is dismissed for cause, shall be paid for any unused holiday credits in the year in which the employee quits or is dismissed for cause, in accordance with the applicable percentage as outlined above. This will not apply to layoffs by the Company or retirement, in which case normal paid vacations will apply.
For each seven (7) days' vacation, vacation pay shall be at the rate of forty (40) hours pay per Article 9.06(a) or two
(2) percent of the previous year's earnings, whichever is greater. Employees will be paid their vacation pay on the day prior to proceeding on vacation for the period of vacation being taken. Upon application by the employee vacation pay will be paid in advance. Any advance issued under this clause will be for the employee's full vacation pay entitlement.
In the case of employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Company for one (1) year or more, time spent by an employee while on Workers' Compensation or off work due to a non-compensable accident or sickness, up to a maximum of eleven (11) months, will be counted as time worked in computing vacation allowance.
No employee shall be allowed to take his holiday pay and work his regular vacation period for the first three (3) weeks of his vacation entitlement. Vacation weeks in excess of three (3) in any year may be taken in the form of vacation pay rather than paid time off, such election to be made after the three (3) weeks vacation have been taken.
If one of the ten (10) statutory holidays stipulated in Article 8, 8.02 hereof falls on a week day within the vacation period assigned to or chosen by the employee, the employee may be required to take such holiday with pay outside his vacation period.
Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee, in multiples of one week, by separate cheque. Anything less than one week shall be included in the regular pay cheque.
After sixty (60) days worked each employee shall be granted a floating holiday to be taken by the employee upon mutual agreement between the employee and local management. This day is to be taken within the calendar year.
Permission for leave of absence without pay 'iqr personal reasons must be obtained as follows: (a) “leave of absence without pay for one (1) week or less, may be authorized verbally by the General Manager, (b) leave of absence without pay for more than one (1) week, must be applied for and approved in writing by the General Manager.
13
9.15(con't) In no case will leave of absence exceed a three (3) month
	period. Under no circumstances will leave of absence be granted to allow an employee to accept another position temporarily, or venture into business for himself. When an employee is on leave of absence without pay for more than twenty (20) working days, the employee shall pay a pro rated total premium for benefit plans.
ARTICLE 10	- SENIORITY
10.01	For the purpose of seniority, employment, promotion, demotion, layoff and rehiring, all employees covered by the terms of this agreement shall be included in one seniority group in each location.
10.02	An employee's seniority shall date from the date upon which he entered the employ of the Company. However, employees shall have worked ninety (90) days within a period of twelve (12) months before their names are placed on the seniority list. Employees not on the seniority list shall not have recourse to the Grievance Procedure if dismissed on grounds of unsuitability. Layoffs of less than twelve (12) months by the Company shall not break continuity of seniority.
10.03	Any employee within the bargaining unit promoted or transferred outside of the bargaining unit shall not retain his job classification but shall be allowed to retain his seniority for a period of four (4) months. During such period the employee shall have the right to revert to the bargaining unit voluntarily or on instruction by Management.
10.04	The Company will supply to the Committee each January, a seniority list. Such list shall show name, classification, and Union seniority date. Said seniority list shall be posted on the bulletin board and revised every four (4) months. The Company further agrees to send a copy of all revised seniority lists to the Union Office at #700-4211 Kingsway, Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6.
10.05	If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness he shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to the absence, having regard to his capacity. In the case of such absence other than layoff, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company of the reason for&is absence and the length of time he expects to .be away.
14
10.06	When an employee fails to return to work when recalled, or cannot be located after reasonable effort on the part of the Company, a double registered letter will be mailed to the last known address of the employee, and if within two (2) days after delivery of such notice to the employee's last known address, fails to report for work or give reasonable cause for not reporting, he shall be considered to have quit his position voluntarily and his existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When such notice is sent to such employee, a copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union. In rehiring, the last employee laid off shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired.
10.07	Provided that an employee has the ability to perform the work, the last employee hired shall in the case of layoff
be the first laid off. In rehiring, the last employee laid off shall, subject to the above provisions, be the first rehired. In cases where it is necessary to secure workers in less time than the required notice, the Company, if unable to make contact with the senior eligible employee, may recall the next senior employee and so on down the list until the vacancies are filled. However, should the senior employee subsequently report within the required time, he shall be given the work for which the next senior employee was recalled.
10.08	(a) Vacancies other than temporary, holiday relief, sickness
relief or authorized leave of absence, shall be posted on the notice board for four (4) working days. The vacancies shall be filled on the basis of seniority and ability and awarded to the employee who has submitted a written application to the Plant Manager. Ability being acceptable within reasonable standards, after a reasonable trial to do the job, seniority shall prevail. When the vacancy being filled requires the employee to be the holder of a valid license or certificate the Company need not rely on the above seniority provision, For the purposes of this clause license and certificate shall be limited to those licenses required in the truck driver classification and mixing classification and those certificates required in the pellet machine operator and millwright classifications as per section 6.09. Employees so promoted or transferred shall be given reasonable time in which to qualify, up to thirty (30) days and failing will be returned to their former position. An employee who is absent due to sickness, accident or vacation not exceedinyt^hirty (30) days at the time the vacancy was posted, sheiil receive equal consideration provided the employee makes his request within three (3) working days after his return to work. No employee shall be awarded more than two (2) postings in any calendar year unless mutually agreed otherwise.
15
10.08
10.09
10.10
10.11
(b)	In the case of planned, extended, temporary transfers for such reasons as holidays, sickness or accident, or authorized leave of absence, the basis of transfer shall be made by seniority for the senior qualified employee. The senior qualified employee within each location will be offered the transfer first and so on down the applicable seniority lists, until by this process a temporary vacancy has been filled.
Should the vacancy not be filled by this procedure, then the basis of transfer shall be the junior qualified employee. The word •'qualified*' as used in this clause shall be interpreted to mean "ability to perform the work without assistance". The procedure as outlined above shall be applicable for the initial transfer and subsequent transfers, if necessary, shall be by appointment.
(c)	Employees temporarily transferred shall retain their existing classification until permanently transferred by way of posting, but shall be paid in accordance with Section 6.03.
Unplanned, short term, temporary transfers for vacation relief, sickness or accident relief, or authorized leave of absence need not be made by seniority.
(a)	The Company shall supply application forms for employees to use for job postings. Any employee who applies for job postings shall fill out duplicate copies, with one copy to be submitted to the Plant Chief Steward and the other copy to the Plant Manager.
(b)	Job postings that differ in regular qualifications than that previously required on the job, shall be subject to discussion with the Union Committee before being posted.
(c)	Successful applicants' names, where applicable, shall be posted with the application within three (3) working days of the expiry date of the'posting.
(d)	Classified employees shall not be required to perform work outside their posted classification when work is required within their classification or as 'otherwise mutually agreed.
Employees (not more than two from any manufacturing location) to be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside of the location shall be granted leave of absence without pay not exceeding thirty (30) days each upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld. The Union shall give the Company a written notice of oBe (1) week before exercising this prerogative. Upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union, the number of employees as referred to in this clause may be increased.
16
ARTICLE 11	- SAFETY AND HEALTH
11.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during the hours of their employment. Protective devices and equipment to protect the employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Where such protective devices and equipment are provided by the Company, such devices and equipment must be used by the employees as determined by the Safety Committee.
11.02	The Union agrees that it will co-operate with the Company in enforcing safety rules and policies. The parties shall establish a standing safety committee at each manufacturing location. Meetings of the Safety Committee shall be held once each month, preferably prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Local Union.
11.03	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged for refusal to work on any job, or in any work place or to operate any equipment where it is determined by a representative of the Safety Committee that the situation is unsafe or unhealthy.
ARTICLE 12 ■	- TOOL REPLACEMENT
12.01	All tools that are the property of the maintenance employees and which are used on any job in the plant shall be replaced by the Company because of depreciation through ordinary wear, or if lost through no negligence on the part of the owner. It is the duty of all maintenance employees to supply the Union Committee and the Management with a full and complete value list of their tools as at April 1st each year.
ARTICLE 13 ■	- SEVERANCE PAY
13.01	Any employee who is terminated by the Company after completion of twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment, unless dismissed for just cause, shall be entitled to severance pay equal to the greater of a) two (2) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work for each completed year of employment, or b) five (5) days wages at his regular rate of pay for his regular hours of work.
13.02	Should it become economically necessary to close the entire location or a particular major section or sections of the said location, on a permanent basis, or to reduces the staff on a permanent basis and it is not reasonably expected that those affected will be re-employed in this or any other of the Company's operations, subject to Article 13.02(d), a separation allowance will be paid to such employees subject to the following:
17
13.02	(a)	They Have five (5) or more years' seniority. (b)	They are presently employed by the Company or are accu- mulating seniority. (c)	The closing is not brought about by war, strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other cessation of work, fire, government action or Act of God. (d)	Employees shall have the option to receive severance pay or transfer to another location. Said option shall be exercised within ninety (90) days of the date of closure or date of permanent layoff. The scale ..for severance allowance shall be the greater of: 1.	Severance pay calculated as per 13.01. 2.	Severance pay based on the following formula: Number of years of service -5x2 weeks pay Example: 5 years - 2 weeks pay per 13.01 (7 years - 5) x 2 = 4 weeks pay (10 years - 5) x 2 = 10 weeks pay (20 years - 5) x 2 = 30 weeks pay (30 years - 5) x 2 = 50 weeks pay An employee shall have the option to remain on the payroll and the seniority list for possible recall. In this event, the Company shall hold the severance allowance until the employee is recalled or ninety (90) days, whichever is sooner. If the employee is recalled within the foregoing period, no severance allowance shall be payable. If the employee is not recalled within ninety (90) days, the severance allowance shall be paid by the Company forthwith. For the purposes of this Section, the location, section or sections shall be deemed to be closed on a permanent basis, when it or they cease to operate for a period of ninety (90) days.
13.03	Employees who receive severance pay under the provisions of this Article shall, in doing so, terminate both their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights or privileges under this Agreement or under any other Labour agreement or agreements between the signing parties.
ARTICLE	14 -JURY DUTY
14.01	An employee who is summoned for jury duty or who receives a summons or subpoena to appear as a witness in a court proceeding, other than a court proceeding occasioned by the employee' s private affairs, shall be grantee^ leave of absence with pay for the required period of absence, and all jury or witness fees received by the employee shall be remitted to the Company.
18
ARTICLE 15 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
15.01	(a) If an employee is required to work more than two (2) hours
past his eight (8) hour or ten (10) hour shift, the Company shall pay the employee five (5) dollars to purchase a meal or up to ten (10) dollars upon presentation of a receipt. The Company shall grant the employee a meal period of up to one (1) hour duration without pay.
Each employee who is required to layover away from his domiciled point shall be compensated for the reasonable cost of a hotel room and for regular meals during the layover, period upon presentation of a standard Company expense' report with receipts. Acceptable meal costs are considered to be in the range of five (5) dollars for -breakfast and lunch, and ten (10) dollars for dinner.
(b) An employee working a twelve (12) hour shift shall qualify for a meal allowance of up to $10.00 upon presentation of a receipt.
ARTICLE 16 - WORK CLOTHING
16.01	The Company shall supply coveralls and raingear where agreed to between local management and the local union committee. It is mutually agreed that where such apparel is provided for the employees' use, such apparel must be worn. Provisions of this clause only apply to employees after attaining seniority.
16.02	The Company agrees to reimburse employees with seniority covered by Wage Schedule ,,A" in permanent classifications up to one hundred and five (105) dollars per calendar year on proof of purchase of safety footwear that meets C.S.A. standards for a manufacturing environment. This clause subject to Article 11.01.
ARTICLE 17 - BEREAVEMENT T.RAVF.
17.01	After thirty (30) days worked an employee shall be granted
in the event of a death of a member of his immediate family, bereavement leave on any of his three (3) normal working days that occur during the three (3) days immediately following the day of the death. Immediate family shall mean parents, spouse, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, and grandparents.
A day off with pay to attend the funeral will bSsgranted if the funeral is not within the three days immediately following the day of the death, total leave not to exceed three (3) days.
19
ARTICLE
18.01
18.02
ARTICLE
19.01
19.02
19.03
18	-__SERVICE_E&X_PLAN
Service Pay Plan - Employees with twenty-five (25) years of service with the Company or more shall be eligible for payment under this plan. Payment shall be based on one hundred (100) dollars for each year of service. The total sum shall be payable upon termination of employment.
An employee within the bargaining unit must retire at
reaching sixty-five (65) years of age.
)
19	— EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
After thirty (30) days worked, employees shall have the option of joining the existing Medical Services Plan and /Medical Services Association extended benefit plan. Total cost of these plans to be paid by the Company.
The Company shall provide an Accident and Sickness Plan to provide a benefit of seventy five (75) percent of gross weekly earnings payable first full day of accident, first full day of sickness, fifty two (52) week benefit period. Total cost of the Plan to be borne by the Company.
Gross weekly earnings shall be defined as forty (40) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay, except where an employee has been on lay off anytime in the four (4) weeks immediately prior to the date of disability, gross weekly earnings shall be calculated based on average weekly hours worked in the three (3) months immediately prior to the date- of disability. In no case shall the benefit be calculated on less than twenty four (24) hours at the employee's classified rate of pay.
Employees absent due to illness or accident over three (3) months, shall be required to notify the Company each thirty (30) days and report his progress. A maximum of twelve (12) months' sick leave will be granted and after this time, if the employee does not report for work, he loses his classified job. Failure to report from time to time, as required under this Section, will cause an employee to lose his classified job status with the Company. It is understood and agreed between the employer and the Union that weekly indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the employer. If payment of valid claims is not made by the insurance company within three (3) weeks from the time that the employer receives the completed application, the employer shall then^pay to the claiming employee, an amount equal to his entitlement. Payments made by the employer for claims later found to be invalid or payments made by the employer which are later paid by the carrier, shall be returnable to the employer.
20
19.03	Where there is a question as to the validity of an employee's claim of ten (10) or more working days, it shall be referred to a specialist in the field of concern. Said specialist to be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the employee. The cost of the evaluation shall be paid for fifty (50) percent by the employee and fifty (50) percent by the company. If the specialist rules in favour of the employee the employee portion of the evaluation shall be reimbursed directly to the employee. The decision of the specialist shall be final and binding on all parties.
19.04	Where an employee submits a claim to the Workers' Compensation Board, which would, were it not for the existence of Workers' Compensation, entitle the employee to weekly indemnity benefits under this section, and such claim is disputed or delayed by the Workers' Compensation Board, the employee may submit a claim for weekly indemnity benefits. If the Workers' Compensation Board later accepts responsibility for the payment of such disputed or delayed claim, then weekly indemnity benefits received are to be reimbursed to the employer. At the employer's option, the employee, with the full support and co-operation of the Company and the Union, will pursue the appeals procedure under the Workers' Compensation Board.
19.05	Dental Plan - The Company and the Union agree to enter a prepaid Dental Plan. The Carrier of the Plan to be Retail Clerks' Dental Plan (effective September 1, 1994). Cost of the Plan to be fully paid by the Company.
19.06	Life insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee in an amount of forty thousand (40,000) dollars. Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance shall be provided for each qualifying employee with a death benefit equal to the life insurance amount and a standard dismemberment schedule.
19.07	All benefits under Article 19 are effective upon completion of thirty (30) days worked after date of employment for all permanent full time classifications. Accident and Sickness, Long Term Disability, and A.D.& D. coverage ceases immediately upon termination or lay off. Extended Health, Dental and B.C. Medical coverage expires at the end of the month in which termination or lay off occurs. Life Insurance expires thirty (30) days after termination or lay off. G-
21
19.07	The Company shall pay the appropriate premiums for all employees who have worked an average of twenty four (24) hours per week in the previous month. Employees on short term lay off, or temporarily on short hours, may maintain B.C. Medical, Dental, Extended Health, Life Insurance, and A.D.’fi D. coverage by paying a pro rated share of the premiums for up to three (3) months.
The Company agrees to maintain benefit premium payments for employees off work for illness or injury for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
19.08	The Company agrees to reimburse employees to a maximum of ten dollars ($10.00) per claim towards the cost of providing medical certification when same is required by the Company or its insurance carrier.
19.09	The Company agrees to provide a longterm disability plan to provide a benefit of fifty (50) percent of an employee's regular earnings subject to the following conditions:
1.	Benefits commence upon the expiration of weekly indemnity benefits.
2.	Benefits continue for one (1) year while unable to perform own occupation and to age sixty five (65) if prevented from performing any occupation.
3.	Benefit reduced by C.P.P., W.C.B. and I.C.B.C. disability benefits.
4.	Maximum benefit two (2) thousand dollars per month.
5.	Coverage to exclude pre-existing conditions at date of coverage. A pre-existing condition is one that existed before a member became insured. No benefit is payable if a disability is related to a pre-existing condition and begins within ninety (90) days of the member becoming insured. An employee must be free from all drugs and medications associated with that condition for ninety (90) days either before or after the effective date of the policy. This exclusion does not apply if the member after becoming insured has been actively working for (12) twelve consecutive months with no absence related to the pre-existing condition.
Cost of the above plan to be paid one hundred (100) percent by the Company.
19.10	The Union reserves the right to have the employees vote on participating in the U.F.C.W. Education Fund and the Company agrees to administer the deductions.
Effective January 1, 1995, the company shall increase their pension contribution by fifteen (15) cents per hour.
19.11
22
ARTICLE 20	- AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
20.01	The Company will provide the Union with two (2) months' notice of intention to introduce automation equipment or a technological change which will result in displacement or reduction of personnel.
20.02	Employees becoming redundant due to new equipment or technological change shall be eligible for retraining to qualify them for the operation of such new equipment. Such retraining will be provided by the Company without loss of pay to the affected employee (s).
20.03	In cases where retraining of employees is not practical or where other positions within the Company are not available, the employee(s) shall elect for termination of employment or shall elect to remain on the seniority list. An employee on recall under this section shall receive all the benefits he had accrued to the date of being placed on the recall list. Such benefits to be paid at the end of the recall period or at such earlier time as he may elect to terminate.
20.04	Employees whose services are terminated because of automation or technological change shall receive a separation allowance in accordance with the scale outlined in Article 13, Section 13.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
21.01 (a)	A standing committee shall be maintained in each location in the following manner: The Union shall elect from time to time, from its members in each Plant, a standing committee of up to three (3) employees which shall represent the Union for all purposes of this Article. • For the purposes of this Article, any grievances with the exception of 21.06 (b) shall be filed by the grievor within a period of five (5) working days after the grievance has occurred or when it becomes known.
(b)	It is agreed between the parties that under the application of Article 21.01(a), the time limits referred to herein may be waived by mutual agreement between the parties or by an arbitration board. Sundays and Statutory Holidays shall not be considered as working days wherever this phrase occurs in this Article.
(c)	All grievances shall be taken up on Company time during
(d)	regular day shift working hours. The Company recognizes the right of the Grievance Committee to process any grievance that is brought to their attention or to pursue matters affecting relations between the Company and the employees as they relate to the terms of the Collective Agreement. For the purpose of this
23
21.01(d)
21.02
21.03
Agreement, a grievance is defined as any difference between the parties, concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
The employee shall first discuss his grievance with his Shop Steward. If the Shop Steward is unable to settle the grievance with his foreman within two (2) working days, it shall be processed to 21.03.
The Chief Shop Steward will present a written grievance to the Manager of the location who shall call a meeting within two (2) working days to discuss the grievance with the Union Committee and the aggrieved employee or employees, if desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within three (3) working days, it shall be referred to 21.04.
21.04	The Union Committee shall take the matter up with a
Committee designated by the Company.	An outside
representative of the Union may be called in if so desired. Failing a satisfactory settlement of this Section within five (5) working days or otherwise mutually agreed, it shall be referred to 21.05.
21.05	In the event that the grievance is not satisfactorily settled by these methods, it shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration to be set up in the following manner:
(a)	The Company and Union shall appoint one (1) member each who shall then get together and endeavour to appoint a Chairman satisfactory to both parties. Failing agreement, they shall apply to the Canada Labour Relations Board to name a Chairman, further requesting that such appointment be made within seven (7) working days.
The Board, thus set up, shall decide its own method of procedure provided, however, that both parties are given ample opportunity of presenting their case. The Board shall render its decision and the majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
(b)	The Company shall pay all the expenses of its nominee and
the Union shall pay all the expenses of its nominee. The expenses and compensation of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the parties.
21.06	(a) The Company must give the Chief Shop Steward notice in
writing of the suspension or discharge of any employee and the reasons on the day such action is taken.
(b) If an employee is dismissed for any reason an&eels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall, within seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of written notice of dismissal, notify both the Grievance Committee and the Company in writing. The dismissal in question shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with as such.
24
21.06	(b) xf subsequently, it is decided that the employee was unjustly dismissed, he shall then be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated as may be deemed fair in the circumstances.
21.07	When a grievance which involves an error in the proper earnings of an employee is subsequently settled and as a result of such settlement, the wages of an employee are adjusted, such adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date on which the error in the earnings was made. If the date cannot be established, then the adjustment shall be effective the date the grievance was laid or such other date as may be agreed upon.
21.08	Stewards shall have the right to investigate or adjust grievances on domicile premises on Company time without loss of pay. The Steward shall obtain permission from the location Manager or his delegate before leaving his work, which permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
21.09	When the Company deems it necessary to discipline, an employee, they shall have the Union Steward present. In the case of suspension or dismissal, the Union Steward and Chief Steward shall be present.
21.10	A written warning will be disregarded after twelve (12) calendar months, providing there has been no other written warning, suspension, or other progressive discipline in that period. In order for the warning to be disregarded, the employee must work 80% of his available hours within the twelve (12) calendar month period or the twelve (12) calendar month period shall be extended until the 80% rule is met.
21.11	The Company agrees to keep the Union Committee informed of the names of the individuals responsible for directing the working force and the Union agrees to keep the Company informed of the members of the individual Safety and Grievance Committees.
ARTICLE 22 - DURATION OF AGRE!
22.01	The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st dav of Julv. 1994 to, the iOth day of June, 1995 and thereafter from'year to year unless at any time within the four (4) months ‘immediately preceding the date of expiry of the Agreement, written notice to contrary intention is given by either party to the other party.
Wage increases effective as per dates on Schedule "A”. All other amendments effective date of ratification.
25
22.02	The parties hereto agree to commence negotiations within
ten (10) days after receipt of such notice. if no agreement is reached at the expiration of this Agreement and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time a subsequent agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either party.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
TOPNOTCH NUTRI LIMITED 32885 Ventura Avenue Abbotsford, B.C.
V2S 5B5	si
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS' UNION, Local 1518 #700 - 4211 Kingsway Burnaby, B.C. V5H 1Z6
SCHEDULE A	ABBOTSFORD PLANT ARMSTRONG PLANT DUNCAN PLANT	STARTING RATE	JULY 1, 1994 RATE AFTER 30 DAYS WORKED
PRODUCTION	CAT.1 LABOURER, WAREHOUSEMAN	16.85	17.10
	CAT.2 FORKLIFT OPERATOR BAGGING MACHINE OPER. GRINDERMAN SEED EQUIP. OPER. PROCESS OPERATOR UTILITY MAN CAR/TRUCK UN LOADER BULK LOADER	17.86	18.11
	CAT.3 MIXERMAN PELLET MILL OPERATOR	18.24	18.49
	CAT.4 WORKING FOREMAN	18.62	18.87
DRIVERS	CLASS 3	18.39	18.64
	CLASS 1	18.64	18.89
MILLWRIGHTS	MILLWRIGHT ENGINEER *	19.60	19.85
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS A *	19.40	19.65
	MILLWRIGHT -CLASS B	18.61	18.86
	MILLWRIGHT -HELPER	17.96	18.21
	ELECTRICIAN MILLWRIGHT	18.85	19.10
INCLUDES STEAM PREMIUM AS PER ART. 6.09
Amendments to the Agreement
Between :
Topnotch Nutri Limited Buckerfield's Manufacturing
And:
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1518
Article 2 - Scope
2.01	Delete-Duncan Plant.
Article 6 - Wages
6.02	Amend to read as follows:
If an employee meets with an accident while at work during his shift making him incapable of completing his shift, he shall be paid for the balance of the shift at his regular rate of pay. Employees who are incapable of completing their shift due to sickness, shall be paid for the balance of their shift at the applicable Accident and Sickness pay percentages.
Article 7 - Hours of Work
7.01	Delete Duncan Plant.
7.01	(a)	3 Mew.
Truck drivers engaged in the delivery of bulk feed products to Vancouver Island may be scheduled twelve (12) hours in any one (1) day, thirty-six (36) hours in any one (1) week, scheduled within Monday to Saturday work. The thirty-six (36) hours shall be deemed by the company as forty (40) hours worked.
The truck drivers in order of seniority, will work a schedule of thirty-six (36) hours in any one (1) week and shall remain on this schedule for a period of four (4) months at which time the employee will stand down.
2
7.03	Amend first sentence to read:
When it becomes necessary for any overtime to be worked, such overtime shall first be offered to the senior, qualified employee regularly employed in the department where the overtime is to be worked.
Further amend by adding the following new paragraph:
The company and union agree to establish a list of qualified employees for all classifications. Such list to be revised and posted September 1st and March 1st each year.
7.07 Amend first paragraph to read as follows:
Employees may elect to bank hours of overtime at appropriate time and a half (1 1/2) in double (2) time hours. Employees can bank up to a maximum of five (5) days per quarter. Employees must elect prior to January 1st and July 1st of each calendar year whether they wish to bank their eligible hours each quarter.
Further amend in the second paragraph as follows:
"3 shifts" to read "5 shifts"
Add the following:
unless the employee chooses a carry-over. Carry-over will be for a maximum of three (3) months from the end of any quarter at which time hours will be paid out.
Article 8 - Statutory Holidays
8.06	(c) New. Regular shift hours for drivers under Article
7.01	(a) 3 shall be recognized as being twelve (12) hours.
Article 9 - Vacations
9.07	Amend "April 15th" to read "February 1st".
9.13 Delete and substitute the following:
Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee, in multiples of one week, by separate cheque. Anything less than one week shall be included in the regular pay cheque.
3
9.15 Amend "Plant Manager" to read "General Manager".
Article 15 - Meal Allowance Amend to read 15.01 (a) .
(b) New:	An employee working a twelve (12) hour shift shall
qualify for a meal allowance of up to $10.00 upon presentation of a receipt.
Article 16 - Work Clothing
16.02	Amend $80.00 to read $105.00.
Article 17 - Bereavement Leave
Delete "or any relative residing full time with the employee"
and substitute with "grandparents"
Article 19 - Employee Benefits
19.03	Amend in the fifth sentence:
"within two (2) weeks" to read "within three (3) weeks"
19.05	Amend to provide for coverage under the Retail Clerks Dental Plan effective September 1, 1994.
19.06	Life insurance: Amend $20,000.00 to read $40,000.00.
19.10 Retail Clerks Pension Plan
Effective January 1,	1995, the company shall increase
their pension contribution by 15 cents per hour.
4
Article 21 - Grievance Procedure
21.10 Amend by adding the following new paragraph.
In order for the warning to be disregarded, the employee must work 80% of his available hours within the 12 calendar month period or the 12 calendar month period shall be extended until the 80% rule is met.
Article 22 - Duration of Agreement
Amend to provide for a one year agreement.
Schedule "A" - Delete Duncan Plant.
Amend by increasing all wage rates by 40 cents per hour effective July lf 1994.