SOURCE	-

TERM. < -O' C>9 4?
TERM.
No. Of EAmOYEfS
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC NEW MINAS FEED PLANT
004^ 03
Article	I	PURPOSE	1
ARTICLE	II	RECOGNITION	1
ARTICLE	III	UNION SECURITY	1
ARTICLE	IV	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RULES	2
ARTICLE	V	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	3
ARTICLE	VI	DISCIPLINE	5
ARTICLE	VII	ARBITRATION	7
ARTICLE	VIII	NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK	8
ARTICLE	IX	PROBATIONARY PERIOD	8
ARTICLE	X	SENIORITY	8
ARTICLE	XI	LOSS OF SENIORITY	8
ARTICLE	XII	TEMPORARY TRANSFERS,	9
ARTICLE	XIII	PERMANENT TRANSFERS,	
		PROMOTIONS, LAYOFFS, ETC.	9
ARTICLE	XIV	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	11
ARTICLE	XV	WAGES	12
ARTICLE	XVI	UNION RIGHTS AND UNION ACTIVITY	12
ARTICLE	XVII	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	14
ARTICLE	XVIII	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	17
ARTICLE	XIX	PAID VACATIONS	18
ARTICLE	XX	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE	20
ARTICLE	XXI	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	20
ARTICLE	XXII	EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS	22
ARTICLE	XXIII	SAFETY AND HEALTH	22
ARTICLE	XXIV	DISCRIMINATION	22
ARTICLE	XXV	CORRESPONDENCE	23
ARTICLE	XXVI	TERM OF AGREEMENT	23-
ARTICLE	XXVII	AMENDMENTS	23
APPENDIX	I	DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION	
APPENDIX	II	SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGES	
APPENDIX	III	LETTER OF INTENT	
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE SEVERANCE PAY
LOST TIME DUE TO STORMY WEATHER CLOTHING
1
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious
relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to insure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to insure fair wages, hours and other working conditions.
1.02	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of both
parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the exclusive and
sole bargaining agent for all its employees at the New Minas mill except those excluded by the certification order dated March 7, 1988.
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to
perform their respective duties for the Co-operative faithfully and diligently, and to carry out at all times their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods and procedures established by Management, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
The Union also recognizes that as the Co-operative owes its very existence to members' support of Co-operatives, the employees will, at all times, recognize their individual responsibilities in supporting Co-operatives.
ARTICLE III - UNION SECURITY
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this Agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date shall maintain membership in the Union.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that all employees within 'thirty (30) days of their hiring date shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly dues, whether they join the Union or not.
- 2 -
3.02	No Discrimination or Penalty
No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
3.03	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees in the bargaining unit, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) , attached, deduct the initiation fee (if applicable) and regular monthly Union dues.
3.03	b) With regard to employees hired after the signing of
this Agreement, it shall be a condition of employment that such employee within thirty calendar days from the date of hiring, shall give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) attached, written authorization to deduct the initiation fee, if applicable, and regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the Agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to forward the total amount of deductions made under (a) and (b) above to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the tenth day of the month following that in which deductions were made.
d)	Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and bylaws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
3.04	A copy of the current Agreement will be made available by
the Co-operative to all members of the bargaining unit.
3.05	The co-operative agrees to show the amount deducted for
Union dues, during the calendar year, on each employee's T4 slip.
ARTICLE IV - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RULES
4.01	The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this Agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, suspend, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote; .
3
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees;
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
4.02	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or
authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement.
4.03	The Co-operative has the right to make rules that are
reasonable, provided they satisfy the following requirements:
a)	The rule must not be inconsistent with this Agreement.
b)	It must not be unreasonable.
c)	It must be clear and unequivocal.
d)	It must be brought to the attention of the employees affected before the Co-operative can act on it.
e)	The employee concerned must have been notified that a breach of such rule would result in his discharge. If the rule is used as the foundation for discharge that rule should have been constantly enforced by management from the time it was first introduced.
ARTICLE V - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of any specific article or section of this Agreement.
5.02	In order to facilitate the orderly processing of a grievance, the Union shall appoint and the Co-operative shall recognize a Grievance Committee, one of whom shall be the Chief Steward. The Union shall keep the Mill Manager advised of the names of such committee members.
5.03	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee have their regular work to perform as employees. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining their supervisor's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5.04	In order that a loss in production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding, the Co-operative agrees that the Grievance' Committee members shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
- 4 -
5.05	Should a grievance arise between the Co-operative and
Union or employees as to the meaning or application of the. provisions of this Agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under the Agreement, there shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lockouts by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
5.06	In the case of any general allegation by the Union that
the Co-operative has violated this Agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee shall present such grievance in writing directly to the Mill Manager at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
5.07	It is agreed that at the request of the Co-operative, the
union Grievance Committee will meet with Management representatives to discuss any complaints or grievances that Management may have.
5.08	The time periods as stated in this article are exclusive
of weekends and holidays. They may be reasonably extended by mutual agreement between the parties hereto.
5.09	A grievance affecting an individual employee to be
accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within five (5) working days of the occurrence giving rise to thegrievance, and it shall be handled in the following manner:
Step 1 - The employee who may, if he so wishes, be accompanied by the Chief Steward or in his absence another member of the Grievance Committee, shall discuss his grievance with his supervisor. The supervisor shall give his decision orally to the employee or to the Grievance Committee member involved within thirty-six (36) hours after presentation of the grievance.
Any grievance which cannot be resolved at Step 1, above, shall be referred to the Chief Steward, or in his absence, a member of the Grievance Committee and committed to writing for resolution at the next Step.
Step 2 - If the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, the Chief Steward or in his absence, another member of the Grievance Committee, shall within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of the decision in Step 1, submit to the Mill Manager a signed written "Statement of Grievance" on proper forms. The "Statement of Grievance" shall name the employee involved, shall state the facts giving rise to the grievance, shall identify all the provisions of this Agreement alleged to be violated by appropriate reference, shall state the contention of the employee and of the Union with respect to these provisions, and shall indicate the remedy sought.
- 5 -
Upon receipt of the written grievance, the Mill Manager, or his designated representative, shall within forty-eight (48) hours, meet with the Chief Steward or Grievance Committee member involved in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The representative of the Co-operative shall give the Chief Steward or his alternate an answer in writing no later than forty-eight (48) hours after such meeting.
5.09	Step - If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager, Agricultural Division, within five (5) days of receipt of-the decision at Step 2.
The Production Manager or his appointee within five (5) days of having received the grievance shall either:
a)	submit his decision in writing to the Union;
OR
b)	arrange a meeting with the Union to attempt to resolve the grievance. Such a meeting would consist of the Production Manager or his appointee and the Mill Manager and such other representatives of management named by the Mill Manager, on the one hand; and the aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, and the Business Agent of the Union who may be accompanied by the International Representative of the Union, on the other hand. The Co-operative shall, within five (5) days after such meeting, submit its decision in writing to the Union.
Step 4 - If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 3, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration as outlined in Article VII of this Agreement.
If either party has not initiated the arbitration procedure within thirty (30) calendar days following receipt of the decision at Step 3, the grievance will be deemed to have been resolved or withdrawn. Any grievance unresolved at the time of signing this Agreement, shall be subject to the above time limits.
ARTICLE VI - DISCIPLINE
6.01	An employee committing any of the following offenses will be liable to:
(In applying this system of progressive discipline, no disciplinary reprimands more than twelve (12) months old will be taken into account).
First offense - warning in writing
Second offense - maximum three (3) days suspension
Third offense - dismissal for cause
6
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
1.	Loitering
2.	Absence without good reason
3.	Failing to advise his foreman when not able to report for his shift
4.	Habitual lateness
5.	Habitual absenteeism
6.	Improper use of the	Co-operative's	property
7.	Violation of safety	rules	of	a	minor	nature
8.	■ Leaving the job before quitting time
9.	Gambling on the Co-operative's premises
10.	Horseplay
An employee committing any of the following offenses will be liable to immediate dismissal:
1.	Willful disobedience to authority except where obedience would endanger his life or limb
2.	Theft
3.	Fighting
4.	Being on the Co-operative's premises or in company vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or drugs
5.	Bringing, having or consuming alcoholic beverages and/or drugs on the Co-operative's premises or in company vehicles
6.	Smoking in prohibited area's
7.	Willful damage to the Co-operative's property or the property of others
8.	Punching another employee's time card
9.	Absent without notification or permission for a period in excess of five (5) consecutive work days
The above mentioned grounds for discipline are not meant to be exhaustive but merely illustrative. Any other acts of substance related to the fitness of the person may be considered cause.
When an employee is called into the office for any reason that may result in disciplinary action he shall be accompanied by the Steward or another member of the Grievance Committee, however, the employee shall have the right to ask the Steward or his replacement to leave the meeting.
A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Manager within three working days of the discharge.
7
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	When either party requests that any grievance be submitted
to artitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party in this Agreement, within thirty (30) calendar days. Such request shall include up to three (3) nominees to act as arbitrator. The party receiving such notice shall within three (3) full working days also submit up to three nominees.
Both parties shall within five (5) full working days get together to agree on one of the nominees to act as arbitrator.
If they are unable to agree on an arbitrator, they shall ask the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia to appoint one. The arbitrator shall be chosen having regard to his qualifications and his familiarity with industrial relations.
7.02	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not
been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
7.03	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any
decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
7.04	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on the
parties of this Agreement,
7.05	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator, not borne by any
third party, shall be shared equally by the Co-operative and by the Union. All other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them.
ARTICLE VIII ~ NON INTERRUPTION OF WORK
8.01	a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members to cause or take part in (and it is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in), any sit-downs or slowdown or any strike or stoppage of operations or any curtailment or work or restriction of or interference with production or any picketing of the Co-operative premises, during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this Agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or
direct any lockout of employees during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations f-or renewal or extension of this Agreement.
- 8 -
8.02	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the' members of the-Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IX ~ PROBATIONARY PERIOD
9.01	a) New employees will be considered as probationary
employees for the first ninety (90) calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee shall not be the subject of a grievance. At the completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be backdated ninety (90) days.
b) Continuous full time employment in a temporary
position will be recognized for vacation and seniority purposes, once the ninety (90) days probationary period has been completed. For all other purposes, the employee' s date of hire shall be the date he went on probation.
ARTICLE X - SENIORITY
10.01	Seniority shall mean accumulated service with the Co-operative. All time worked prior to the signing of this Agreement shall be included when computing an employee's seniority, provided that his seniority begins from the time of starting his last uninterrupted employment. An interruption in employment shall not be interpreted to mean an absence from work because of layoff, sickness, accident or with permission of the Co-operative.
10.02	A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a bulletin board within thirty (30) days after the signing of this Agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure within one (1) week following the date of posting.
10.03	An updated seniority list will be made available to the Union Steward at reasonable intervals during the contract.
ARTICLE XI - LOSS OF SENIORITY
11.01	An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and
his name-removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure;
c)	he is laid off for a period in excess of six (6) consecutive months if he has one year or more seniority at time of layoff;
d)	if he has less than one year's seniority the allowable break shall be the time equivalent to one-half his length of service up to four (4) months.
9
1TICLE XII - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
12.01	An employee temporarily assigned to a job in a higher
grade than he presently occupies for a period of one (1) shift, with the understanding that should the assignment be made within the first hour of the shift it will be considered a full shift, shall have his pay increased for the total duration of such assignment to the first step in the higher range that will give him an increase. This provision will only have effect where the employee replaces an employee of a higher rate.
12.02	Employees on temporary assignments as in 12.01 above,
shall on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former-rate.-
12.03	a) -A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum
term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period.
b) Once it becomes obvious that a temporary vacancy will extend beyond two months, the vacancy will be posted and filled under Article XIII.
c)	An employee returning from sick leave of two (2) years or less will return to his previous job at the same step in the range as he had on going out and the employee filling the job in his absence will return to his former job and so forth..with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
d)	An employee returning from sick leave of more than two (2) years may exercise his seniority to bump the employee with least seniority and subseguently exercise his rights under Article XIII to bid for any vacancy that may arise.
ARTICLE XIII ~ PERMANENT TRANSFERS, PROMOTIONS, LAYOFFS, ETC.
13.01	a) In the event of promotions, transfers, within the bargaining unit, preference shall be given on the basis of seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are substantially egual.
b) Where promotions, permanent transfers or layoffs
(subject to section 13.08) are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union of the decision and reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
10
13.02	a) Where a permanent job becomes vacant or a new
permanent job is created, it will be posted. The first posting of such job shall be for forty-eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, before the vacancy is permanently filled. All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for twenty-four (24) hours excluding weekends and holidays before they are permanently filled.
b)	When a permanent job becomes vacant and is not to be
refilled immediately, management will advise the Union Steward in writing of the reason(s) within forty-eight (48) hours.
c)	Where a permanent job is phased out, the employee who held the job may bump any other employee with less seniority and in the same or a lower job grade provided he has the qualifications to become competent in the job within thirty (30) working days. If he fails to prove such competence, he will be assigned to such other job as management deems him capable of and for which he has seniority, provided such a job is available. Where the employee moves to a lower rated job, his pay rate will be reduced to the top of the range for such job. If he moves to another job within the same grade, his pay will remain unchanged and he will progress through the range based on the normal time progressions.
13.03	Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing
and in duplicate, to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager will forward a copy to the Chief Steward.
13.04	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted
vacancies that occur during his absence must advise the Plant Manager, in writing, leaving the phone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee.
13.05	If the successful applicant for a job proves to be
unsatisfactory as determined by management within the first thirty (30) working days on the job, he shall return to his former job. Reposting of the job is not necessary and a replacement will be selected from the balance of the applicants with preference given on the basis of seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are substantially equal. If none of the balance of the applicants so meet the job requirements, then management will select whomsoever it may consider satisfactory for the job and who is ready to accept it.
11
13.06	Upon promotion to a higher grade, employees will go to the next step in the new grade which will provide an increase. Subsequent salary increases will follow the normal time progressions outlined in the Salary Schedule, providing work performance is satisfactory. Permanent status in the new position will be granted after sixty (60) days satisfactory performance.
13.07	Upon promotion to a supervisory or management job, a bargaining unit employee may, within the six (6) months probationary period, return to his former position with no loss of seniority.
13.08	a) In the event of a layoff, retention shall be on the
basis of seniority, provided the senior employee is able to perform the work available in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization period. Past experience on the job will be recognized.
b)	The Co-operative shall give an employee one week's notice of a planned layoff of one week or more and two days notice of a layoff of less than one week, except where such layoff clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable; e.g., Acts of God.
c)	Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority when jobs become available, provided they have the proven ability to perform such jobs. The Co-operative shall give notice of recall by registered mail to the last address given to the Co-operative in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the Co-operative of his intentions by telephone or telegram within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter or forfeit his rights to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within five (5) work days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall. An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall to other than his regular job without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
( i) He so advises management by telephone or telegram within twenty-four hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail;
(ii) There is a junior employee on layoff in the same
grade or lower and with proven ability to do the job.
ARTICLE XIV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for reasons which/ in the opinion of management, are legitimate. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid off. Seniority will be accumulated during such authorized absence.
12
14.02	Any leave of absence granted under Section 14.01 shall be in writing, and not exceeding two weeks in any one year, and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights. In the case of military or other special courses, these will be given consideration as they rise.
14.03	a) An employee wishing to engage in full time Union work shall be granted leave of absence provided that:
1.	He give thirty (30) days' notice of application for such leave.
2.	The leave of absence does not exceed one (1) year.
3.	Not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b) The effect of such leave of absence on employee
benefits shall be the same as for layoff (see Article XXII).
14.04	If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
ARTICLE XV - WAGES
15.01	A schedule of wage rates shall be attached to this
Agreement in the form of Appendix II and shall be part of this Agreement.
- - ?
ARTICLE XVI ~ UNION RIGHTS AND UNION ACTIVITY
16.01	The Union shall notify the Co-operative in writing the
names of its representatives as follows:	Officers,
Bargaining Committee Members, Grievance Committee Members and Stewards.
16.02	The Co-operative shall provide the Union Chief Steward
with all necessary information relating to the following matters for the employees within the Bargaining Unit, on a current basis.
a)	A list of employees showing their names, addresses and classifications;
b)	Job postings, job awards, promotions and demotions and
permanent transfers;
c)	Hirings, discharges, suspensions, written warnings, resignations, retirements and deaths unless the employee requests, in writing, that this information be withheld from the Union.
16.03	Employees in the Bargaining Unit shall have access to
their own personnel records at reasonable times and shall, upon request, be provided with copies of any official material contained in such records.
13
6.04	The Co-operative shall provide bulletin boards at
appropriate locations upon which the Union shall have the right to post notices relating to matters of interest to the Union and to the employees.
16.05	The Co-operative agrees to acquaint new employees with the fact that a collective agreement is in effect and to introduce a new employee to a member of the Union.
16.06	Union representatives shall be permitted to leave their work during working hours in order to carry out their function under this agreement, including the investigation and processing of grievances and attendance at meetings with management. Permission to leave their work during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtained from his supervisor and such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. All such time spent shall be without loss of regular pay.
16.07	Leave of absence without loss of seniority or other benefits shall be granted to all employees for the purpose of attending Union functions such as conventions, schools, seminars, etc. Such leave of absence shall be restricted to one (1) employee at any one time for a maximum of ten (10) working days per employee. The manager may permit a second employee said leave at the same time provided it does not affect the work place to such a degree that production would be jeopardized. The employee(s) must advise management at least one (1) week in advance, wherever possible.
16.08	Special meetings between Management and Union committee shall be held within three (3) working days after receipt by either party from the other of notice requesting such special meeting, together with an agenda of the subject or subjects to be discussed. ,
16.09	Meetings between the Management and the Union Committee will be held on the premises of the Co-operative, and those members of the Union Committee who must attend such meetings during their working hours will be paid by the Co-operative for such time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
16.10 It is agreed that when the Business Agent wishes to enter the plant to discuss Union business with members of the Bargaining Unit, he will obtain prior permission from Management; such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
14
ARTICLE
17.01
17.01
17.02
17.03
17.04
17.05
XVII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
a)	The regular work week for production workers shall be Monday through Friday, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week.
b)	The regular work week for driver-salesmen shall be fifty (50) hours per week.
c)	The regular work week for maintenance employees shall be forty (40) hours per week to be worked in five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours per day Monday through Saturday.
The Co-operative shall provide the Union with a schedule setting forth the normal daily hours of work for every employee indicating normal starting and quitting times for each.
The daily hours scheduled may be altered from time to time as required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. The Co-operative agrees, however, that except by mutual consent, no individual employee's schedule shall be changed without twenty-four (24) hours, (one day's) notice nor any group's schedule, without three days' notice. The Union will be advised beforehand of changes to be made in the group's schedule, or when feasible, in an individual's schedule.
Alternative schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of the employees, may be submitted by the Union. Such schedules may be implemented by the Co-operative provided management agrees they meet satisfactorily the requirements of the business.
a)	Time and one-half shall be paid after the number of prescribed hours in any day except in the case of the Driver-Salesman who shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked over fifty (50) hours per week.
b)	When an employee other than a Driver-Salesman is instructed by management to report later than his regular scheduled starting time, one and one-half times his regular rate will apply after his scheduled quitting time. Similarly, when an employee is required to work before his scheduled starting time, he will be paid one and one-half times his regular rate for such hours worked. In all other cases, part
(a) of this section will apply.
a)	All permanent employees who are required to work on a sixth day in any one week, shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on their sixth day of work.
b)	All permanent employees who are required to work on a seventh day in any one week, shall be paid two (2) times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on their seventh day of work.
15
17.06	The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15 minutes) each, provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two (2) hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
17.07 a)	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours or one (1) hour beyond normal quitting time without a thirty (30) minute meal period.
b)	It is agreed that a meal supplement of $4.75 shall be paid if an employee works two (2) to (5) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time: that a second meal supplement will be paid if the employee works five (5) to nine (9) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time; and that a third meal supplement will be paid if the employee works more than nine (9) hours overtime beyond normal quitting time.
c)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday he will be paid the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime was scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee will be responsible for his own lunch.
17.08 a)	If overtime in excess of one (1) hour is to be worked, notice of four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties concerned.
b)	If overtime is to be worked on the employee's "sixth" or "seventh" day, then notice shall be given to the employee prior to the end of his last scheduled shift unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties concerned.
c)	It is agreed that the notice requirement will be waived in the case of truck drivers and in all cases where such overtime results from:
1.	Emergencies beyond the reasonable control of
2.	management. Failure of an employee to appear for his shift unless he advises management not later than five (5) hours before the end of the current shift.
17.09 a)	When overtime is required at the end of a shift, the employee normally responsible for doing the work is expected to work such overtime.
16
17.09	b) Weekend overtime will be offered first to the employee(s) who normally does (do) that work and, if there are more than one such person, in order of seniority. If such employee(s) decline(s) the overtime then it will be offered in order of seniority to the other qualified employees in the bargaining unit. In any case, the most junior qualified person available shall not have the right to refuse the overtime.
17.10	An employee who has gone home and is especially called back to work in an emergency outside his normal working hours, shall be paid four hours pay at his straight time rate if on a day other than Sunday, or five (5) hours pay at his straight time rate if on a Sunday, or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with the provisions of 17.04 and 17.05, whichever is more advantageous to him.
17.11	Effective on the signing of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees to pay a premium of fifty (50) cents per hour to all plant employees working on the evening shift and a premium of fifty-five (55) cents per hour to all plant employees working on the night shift. Effective September 15, 1988, the Shift Premiums shall be fifty-five (55) cents for the evening shift and fifty-five(55) cents for the evening and sixty (60) cents for the night shift. This premium shall not be considered as part of the basic rate. 4
17.12	Should future clarification of the application of the Canada Labour (Standards) Code require changes in the provisions of this Agreement with respect to hours of work and overtime for Driver-Salesmen, it is agreed that this clause will be reopened during the term of the Agreement for the purpose of making such changes.
17.13	The maintenance persons will be on call on a continual basis to deal with emergencies and in such cases clause 17.10 shall apply.
17.14	The maintenance persons will work such overtime as authorized and/or directed to keep the Co-operative's property and equipment in good condition (subject to the Canada Labour Code, if applicable) . Hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week shall be at one and one-half (1*5) times the regular rate.
17.15	A foreman or other supervisory employee with more than seven (7) permanent staff reporting to him will not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that it displaces a bargaining unit job or makes unnecessary the hiring of a bargaining unit employee.
17.16	All overtime work will be on a rotation basis.
17
ARTICLE XVIII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
18.01 a
The Co-operative agrees to at their regular rates for holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
pay all permanent employees the eight following
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Armistice Day Christmas Day
If any of these falls on a Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed.
b) In addition, there will be two floating holidays - one in lieu of Boxing Day and one in anticipation of an new provincial or federal holiday. To qualify for such holidays, an employee must have completed thirty (30) days service prior to Boxing Day, in the first case, and thirty (30) days service prior to August 1st in the second case.
c)	In determining when an employee is to take the floating holidays, his wishes will be followed wherever possible, subject however, to management's needs to keep the work scheduled in an efficient manner.
Management will make every effort possible to ensure a two-day Christmas holiday.
d)	In addition to the present eight (8) identified holidays and the two (2) floating holidays referred to above, each employee, who has completed his probationary period, shall be entitled to one (1) additional paid holiday to be identified as a "Personal Day". This holiday must be taken within the contract year with the understanding that not more than one employee is on such holiday at any one time unless approved by management in advance. The employee must give management reasonable notice of his choice of the day to be taken as his Personal Day.
e)	Employees shall receive one day's pay for each holiday and if an employee works on said holiday he shall receive time and one half (l*jx) for time worked plus a day off with pay at a time selected by the employees.
18.02	If a permanent employee works on any of the above eleven (11) holidays, he shall be paid at one and one-half (1*5) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight hours' pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under section 18.01, above.
18.03	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay (subject to 18.02, above) .
18
ARTICLE XIX - PAID VACATIONS
19.01	a) Annual vacations are provided to employees for the
purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allocated to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate superintendent, based on his needs to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be give preference after 20 years where available three (3) weeks prime time.
It is agreed that requests by senior employees for vacation time during the period June 15 through September 15 will be limited to two(2) consecutive weeks in order that less senior employees will have an opportunity to have some of their vacation time during that period. However, if additional time during that period is available, then seniority will prevail in the choice for such available time off.
19.02	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been
continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than three (3) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
19.03	a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been
continuously employed for three (3) or more years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
b) An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (%) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (2*5) days for any six (6) month period.
19.04	a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been
continuously employed for ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
19.04	b) An employee, who by April 30, has been continuously
employed for nine (9) years, but less than ten (10) years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (*5) day per complete month of service beyond nine (9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2h) days for any six (6) month period.
19
,9.05 a) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been
continuously employed for twenty-two (22) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
b) An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-one (21) years but less than twenty-two (22) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (h) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-one (21) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2*s) days for any six (6) month period.
19.06	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for thirty (30) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation six (6) work weeks.
19.07	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-nine (29) years but less than thirty (30) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (*5) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-nine (29) years, not exceeding two and one-half (25s) days for any six (6) month period.
19.08	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to (1) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
19.09 Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1. With permission up to 30 days annually;
2. Due to sickness up to 30 days annually; or such longer periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
3.	Up to one year due to a compensable accident.
19.10	In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months to April 30.
20
ARTICLE XX - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
20.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave
with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family, within the following limits:
a)	5 days - spouse, child, mother, father
b)	3 days - brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law
c)	1 day - grandparent, grandchild, sister-in-law,
brother-in-law.
20.02	Should a grandparent or guardian fill the role of parent
of the employee, (a) above would apply.
20.03	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave
during his scheduled vacation the day's vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduled return from vacation he may be required to return on that date and use remaining vacation credits at a later date.
ARTICLE XXI - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
21.01	All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall
participate in the Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Long and Short Term Disability Plans and the Group Health Care (Blue Cross) Plan, in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
Permanent employees who were eligible to participate in the Long Term Disability Plan in February 1970, but declined to do so will not be required to participate in that plan. However, should they later join this plan, they shall continue to participate thereafter.
21.02	a) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit (as
defined in clause 2.01 of the Agreement) shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one year, May 1, to April 30. Any employee hired after May 1, will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
A maximum of five (5) days of unused sick leave credits may be carried forward to the next year thus entitling such employee to a maximum of ten (10) days sick leave with full pay in that year.
b) Within three weeks of the end of the benefit year
(May 1 - April 30) and each benefit year thereafter, each employee will be paid seventy-five (75%) percent of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave in excess of five (5) days to his credit at the end of the benefit year.
21
1.02	c) The above reimbursement will be increased to 100% if those.employees on payroll (including those on layoff) at that date, have as a group, used less than fifty (50%) percent of their credited full pay sick leave during that benefit year.
d)	Upon expiration of his full pay sick leave credits, a permanent employee will be eligible for either:
1.	Supplementary sick leave - 50% of his regular pay for all days absent. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five (5) consecutive work days;
OR
2.	Benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan beginning on the eighth (8) calendar day of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer.
e)	A permanent employee shall be eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan beginning with the 27th week of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer.
f)	It is agreed that the employees' interest in any reduction of Unemployment Insurance contributions that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative's sick leave plan shall be waived in view of the increased benefits in this article.
g)	The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfactory medical certificate in.support of a claim for sick leave.' Any claim covering more than three consecutive days MUST be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday MUST be supported by a medical certificate.
To be satisfactory, a medical certificate must specify the date and nature of the illness and the duration of time such illness prevented the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
h)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
21.03	The; Co-operative agrees to implement a dental plan based on the Master Policy with "The Co-operators" subject to the terms of such plan. The premiums for such plan will be paid on the basis of 66 2/3% by the Co-operative and 33 1/3% by the employee.
22
ARTICLE XXII ~ EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	Where an employee misses time during the year (Jan. 1st -
Dec. 31st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences, if they total thirty days or more, shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
22.02	A layoff for an indefinite period which extends beyond the
end of the month in which it occurs, will have the same effect on coverage under the Group Life Plan as would termination under the provisions of that plan, except that if an employee wishes to remain on layoff status he cannot exercise his right under the conversion clause of the policy and vice versa.
22.03	Coverage under the Short and Long Term Disability Plans cease at time of layoff or termination. An employee who returns from layoff to full time work within six months of layoff will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work. An employee returning after a layoff of more than six months will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three months' service.
22.04	If an employee is laid off temporarily for an indefinite
period, his Group Health (Blue Cross) coverage will remain in effect for a maximum of six (6) months provided that he pays the total premium (employers and employees share) for the six (6) month period at time of layoff. Should the employee return within this period, deductions will not be made for this plan until prepaid coverage has expired. Should the employee terminate his employment while on layoff, any unused part of such will be returned to him.
22.05	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to
time of layoff, if such layoff is for ten (10) working days or more or for an indefinite period.
ARTICLE XXIII - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	The Co-operative agrees to make reasonable provisions for
the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that safety and health of the employees is governed by Part IV of the Canada Labour Code. If reasonable provisions are not made for the Safety and Health of employees, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XXIV - DISCRIMINATION
24.01	The Co-operative agrees that there shall be no
discrimination against any employee or employees because of the enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement or because of Union activity.
23
"M.02 The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination against any member of the Union because of race, creed, color, sex or age.
ARTICLE XXV - CORRESPONDENCE
25.01	Except where otherwise provided, official communications
in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed to the Local Union Chairman c/o Co-op Atlantic Feed Plant, New Minas, Nova Scotia. A copy of said correspondence will be forwarded to the Union Representative at Suite 1306 Cogswell Tower, 2000 Barrington Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3K1
ARTICLE XXVI - TERM OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This Agreement shall remain in effect until September 16,
1989. and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and the 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this Agreement or to negotiate a new one.
26.02	If at the date of expiration, a new Agreement has not been
signed, the present Agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the Province of Nova Scotia has been complied with.
ARTICLE XXVII1 - AMENDMENTS
27.01	All provisions of this Agreement with the exception of
those defining the Term of the Agreement, may be amended by mutual consent at any time.
This AGREEMENT signed this ___________________________________ day
of ________________________A.D., 1988 between the parties herein-
before mentioned.
CO-OP ATLANTIC	National Automobile, Aerospace and
New Minas Feed Plant	Agricultural Implement Workers
Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
/PRS010
24
APPENDIX I (A)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I, ______________________________, being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic, at its feed plant at _______________________________, and
a member of Local _______________ of the CAW-Canada, hereby
authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit and the amount of the Union initiation fee and monthly membership dues to Local ________
of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
Witness
NAME __
ADDRESS
Date
* * *
NUMBER * *
APPENDIX I (B)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I, ______________________________, being an employee of Co-op
Atlantic, at its feed plant at _______________________________,
hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local ________ of the CAW-Canada.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic, to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
Witness
NAME __
ADDRESS
Date
NUMBER
- 25
APPENDIX II (A)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGES
	Effective Date		Start	3 mos	6 mos	12 mos
GRADE I						
Millhand	18	Sept. 87	8.55	9.05	9.55	10.57
	18	Sept. 88	9.10	9.60	10.10	11.12
GRADE II						
Fork Lift Operator	18	Sept.87	8.65	9.18	9.71	10.77
Bobcat Operator Unloader - Bin Charoer	18	Sept.88	9.20	9.73	10.26	11.32
GRADER III						
Crusher-Grinder Operator	18	Sept.87	8.85	9.35	9.89	10.94
Shipper-Receiver	18	Sept.88	9.40	9.90	10.44	11.49
Packer-Sewer Mixer Operator -Swingman
Unloader - Bin Charger GRADE IV
Pellet Mill also Maintenance	Operator I	18 18	Sept. Sept.	87 88	8.85 9.40	9.40 9.95	9.95 10.50	11.06 11.61
Maintenance	II	18	Sept.	87	9.55	10.15	10.75	11.94
		18	Sept.	88	10.10	10.70	11.30	12.49
Driver-Salesman		18	Sept.	87	9.00	9.60	10.20	11.38
		18	Sept.	88	9.55	10.15	10.75	11.93
Lead Hand Premium - .45 cents per hour
/PRS010
26
APPENDIX III
LETTER OF INTENT
It is the intention of the Co-operative to give the truck drivers one hundred (100) hours pay every two (2) weeks, excluding vacation periods when they will be paid forty (40) hours per week. A reconciliation with actual hours worked will be performed every four pays. The^differenge, if any, will be included along with the next pay.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Co-operative may contract out bargaining unit work provided that such contracting out does not reduce the hours of work for truck drivers below an average of fifty (50) hours per week.
Such average will occur over two (2) six month periods, August 1st to January 31st inclusive and February 1st to July 31st inclusive.
Calculation of such hours will be based on actual hours worked.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Technological Change shall mean:	The introduction of changes by
the Co-operative in the manner its operations and service are carried out, which significantly affects the terms and conditions of employment of the members of the bargaining unit.
SEVERANCE PAY
Employees who lose their job due to plant closure or technological change shall be entitled to severance pay in accordance with the following:
1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 to 20 years over 20 years
2	weeks pay
3	weeks pay
4	weeks pay
5	weeks pay
Any employee accepting severance pay shall forfeit all rights and privileges provided in this Agreement and shall be deemed to have quite the employ of the Co-operative.
27
PENDIX III (cont.)
LOST TIME DUE TO STORMY WEATHER
In cases of severe bad weather (eg. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, a grace period of one hour will be allowed so that employees who arrive at work within one hour of their normal starting time will suffer no loss of pay. The grace period will only apply where the Manager rules that the storm did in fact constitute "severe bad weather".
The Co-operative will provide two (2) pairs of coveralls once a year to Maintenance workers.
CLOTHING
/PRS010