| SOURCE Oj
AGREEMENT
between
Local 1288P,
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union - AFL-CIO-CLC
Co-op Atlantic,
Feed Plant and Distribution Centres Moncton, N.B,
September 25, 1999 - September 24, 2002
t -i ttni / n
and
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 • PURPOSE
ARTICLE 2-RECOG
ARTICLE3 ■ UNION t RITY
ARTICLE 4 -MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLES - STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
ARTICLE 6 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARTICLE 7 -DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
ARTICLE!) - NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK
ARTICLE IO -PROBATIONARY PERIOD
ARTICLE II - SENIORITY
ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
ARTICLE 13 -TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
ARTICLE 14 • PERMANENT PROMOTIONS,TRANSFERS,LAY-OFFS,&RECALLS
ARTICLE 15 -LEAVE OF ABSENCE
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
ARTICLE 17 - COLA
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ARTICLE 19 - STATUTORYHOLIDAYS ARTICLE 20 - PAID VACATIONS ARTICLE 21 -COMPASSIONATE LEAVE ARTICLE 22 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ARTICLE 23 -EFFECT OF LAY-OFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ARTICLE 24- SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE - GENERAL TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND PLANT CLOSURE ARTICLE 25 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS ARTICLE 26 -BULLETIN BOARDS ARTICLE 27 -CORRESPONDENCE ARTICLE 28 - TERM OF AGREEMENT LETTER OFUNDERSTANDINGTO EMPLOYEES APPENDIX 1(A) - DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION APPENDIX 1(B) ■ DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION APPENDIX 2(A) - JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES. MONCTON FEED PLANT APPENDIX 2(B) • JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRE APPENDIX 3(A) - INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY)
APPENDIX 3(B) • INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)
APPENDIX 4 - RE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE APPENDIX 5 • TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER APPENDIX6 - RE GROCERYHOURS APPENDIX 7 -PRODUCE HOURS
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGRE QUALITY CONTROL FUNCTION LETTER OF INTENT RE SPECIAL COMMITTEE(18 01 g)
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: “FRONT DOOR"SERVICE (FRED PLANT) LETTER OF AGREEMENT RE: LIST OF ARBITRATORS LETTER OF INTENT RE: EIGHT (8) HOUR SHIRTS
1
1
2-	3 3
3-	4
4-	6 6
6-7
7
8
8-	9 9
9-	10
10-	13
13-	14
14-	16
16-	17
17-	20 20-21 21-22 23
23-25
25
25-27
27
27
27
28
29
30
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LOC *T '288P, UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKE RS , INTERNATIONAL UNION - AFL - CIO - CLC (hereinafter called the Union)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC Moncton, N B
(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
ARTICLE 1: PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to maintaina harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to ensure prompt and equitable disposition ofgrievances and to ensure fair wages, hours and other working conditions
1 02	It is recognized by this agreementto be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, bot h collectively
and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2 01	The Co-operative recognizes the Union as the Collective B argaining Agent for its employees in the
Moncton Feed Plant and in the Moncton Distribution Centres with the exception of Feed Plant Manager; Feed Plant Superintendent; Distribution Centre Managers; Foremen; Office Employees; Servicemen; Maintenance Men; Carpenters; Mechanics; Watchmen; and Stationery Engineers.
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform faithfully and diligently their respective duties for the Co-operative, and that they will at all times carry out their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods, and procedures established by management, subject to the provisions of this agreement.
2 03 The Union, recognizing that the Co-operative owes its very existence to member support of local Co-operatives, agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operative and Co-op Label Products
I
ARTICLE 3-UMON M
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
a) The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a conditionofemployment	any employee who at the
date of signing of this agreement is a member of the Union in gi	ding, or who becomes
a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the U. curing the term of this agreement An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues
b)	M
The Co-operative further agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly Union dues from date of hire.
3.02	No Discrimination or Emily
a)	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidationof any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discriminationofany kind whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
b)	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular monthly dues and the Union denies same, such assertion shall constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the grievance procedure established in this agreement,
3.03	Check-Off
a)	Withregard to employees hired before the signing of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form prescribed in Appendix I (a) attached, and so long as the employee remains a member of the Union, deduct regular monthly Unions dues
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this agreement it shall be a condition of employment that such employee give the Co-operative, in form prescribed tn Appendix I (b) attached, written authorization to deduct regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to deduct Union dues from the employee's pay at the end of each month and to forward the total amount to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the )0lh day of the month following. The Union will certify in writing to the Co-operative the amount of the monthly membership dues.
2
d)	The Union agrees that the amount of the monthly dues to be deducted from members during the term ofthe Agreement shall he levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Local Union
ARTICLED • MANAC T RIGHTS
4	01 The Union agrees that subject, only to the provisions of this agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency,
b)	hire, suspend, discharge for just cause, classify, transfer, promote, demote. No employee will he demoted as a disciplinary measure.;
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiencyof individual employees;
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged
4 02	The Union agrees that any ofthe rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to thesigning
of this agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated. granted or modified by this agreement.
ARTICLES ■ STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
5.0!	For the purposes of this article, there will he three (1) locations:
1	Price Street
2	Henri Dunant
3. Feed Plant / Agricultural Products
5	02 In order to facilitate the orderly processing of complaints and grievances, the Co-operative
acknowledges the union's right to select:
a)	One (1) steward from each shift at each location (produce shifts will be separate from other shifts).
b)	One (I) chief steward (in addition to the above) at each location.
c)	One (I) steward for the truck drivers at Price Street which, for the purposes of this article, will he considered a shift at the Price Street location.
d)	A Grievance Committee at each location consisting ofthe Chief Steward and any two (2) other permanent employees. The Unit Chairperson shall have the right to participate in any and all union related activities.
3
e)	A Union Grievance Committee of two (2) representatives from the committees at each location noted above who would act on behalf of the whole Bargaining Unit in any grievance that is
raisedjointly by the Plant and the Distribution Centres employees under section 6,03 below.
f)	The Union shall keep management informed as to the names of mt officers, stewards and members of the Grievance Committees.
5 03 it js understood that Stewards and members ofthe Grievance Committees have their regular work to perform as employees of the Co-operative. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that ifit is necessary to sendee a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining the Co-operative representative's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5 04 In order that loss of production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possible and on this understanding the Co-operative agrees that Stewards shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
5 05 Meetings between the management and the Grievance Committees shall be held on the premises of the Co-operative and those membersofthe Union Committee who must attend such meetingsduring
working hours will be paid by the Co-operative for time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
5 06 For the purpose of Collective Bargaining the Employer shall recognize a Union negotiating committee of not more than five (5) employees of the Co-op, one of whom shall be the tfiit Chairperson.
5	07 The members of the Union negotiating team, as per Article 5 06 above, will be paid up to a
maximum of 7 days, B hours per day at the regular rate of pay including all premiums if applicable for the time spent negotiating.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6 01	Should complaints or grievances arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the
meaning and application ofthe provisions of this agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this agreement, there shall be no strike, slow-down, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lock-outs by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
6,02	a) It is agreed that grievances at any location (as defined in article 5 01 above) will be processed by the Stewards and Grievance Committee for that location. Grievances arising under section
6,03	below, will be dealt with by the Union Grievance Committee (as defined in article 5.02 (e) above).
b)	Grievances relating to disciplinary action shall be submitted to the management level who imposed the discipline.
4
c)	When Management calls an employee in on a disciplinary matter or if discussions lead to a disciplinary^ situation, the steward shall he present unless the employee otherwise decides.
6.03	It is agreed that in the case of any general allegation^ the Union that the Co-operative has violated this agreement r manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Cot 'may present the grievance in writing directly to the Vice President, Human Resources and c^drate Affairs, or Ris/Rer designate. Subsequent action will he governed by Steps 4 and 5 of the normal Grievance Procedure.
6.04	A grievance to he acceptedmusthe initiated^ the employ eeaggrieved within four (4) working days (subject to Section 7 02) of the occurrence and shall be handled in the following manner
The employeeaccompaniedby a steward, shall discussthe grievance with his immediate supervisor.
The decision of the immediate supervisor shall he given within twenty-four hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 2
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then the Union shall put the grievance in writing on suitable forms and the Chief Steward, or his alternate, shall submit it to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to the agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 3
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate managementperson as indicated in Appendix 4 to this agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate managementperson as indicated in Appendix 4 to this agreement and the latter shall schedule and hold a meeting within fourteen (14) calendar days between himself, or his appointee, and the Grievance Committee to attempt to resolve the grievance. At such meeting the management person referred toabovem ay beaccompanied by up to four other representatives of management and the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by the Business Agent or International Representative of the Union
The managementperson shall give his decision in writing within 5 (five) days, excluding weekends and holidays. These time limits may he extended by mutual agreement in writing of the parties concerned.
• 5 -
STEP 5
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 4 then either party may request arbitration as provided in Article 8 below. If neither party notifies the other of its intention (as per Section 8.01 below) within twenty-one days of having receivedtbe written decisions ^tep 4, then the grievance shall be deemed to be settled These time limits may be extended by agreement in writing, of the parties concerned.
ARTICLE 7 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
7.01	No employeewill be disciplined or dischargedwithoutjust cause. The Co-operative recognizes the principle of progressive discipline,except where a serious incident warrants immediate suspension or discharge.
7	02 A claim by a permanent employeewho has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement ofsuchgrievance is lodged with the appropriate managementpersonat Step 4 ofthe GrievanceProcedure within four working day softhedischarge Such grievance shall not be limited to Step 4 ofthe grievance procedure.
7	03 A record of disciplinary action against an employee shall be removed from the employee's file after 24 months, provided no disciplinary action of a similar nature has occurred during the 24 month period.
7	04 Upon written request, employees shall be granted foil access to their file.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8 01	No grievance may be submitted to arbitrationwhichhasnotbeencarried throughthe applicablesteps
of the grievance procedure.
8	02 a) When either party wishes to submit a grievance to arbitration it shall notify the other party in writing and, at the same time, state its preference for a single arbitrator or an arbitrationboard, otherwise, the grievance shall be deemed resolved and/or withdrawn.
b)	If a single arbitrator has been requested, the party receiving the notice shall advise the other party in writing of its disapproval within five (5) days of receiving the notice. The party initialing the grievance shall either: I) retain the option for a single arbitrator or 2) agree lo an arbitration board and notify the other party accordinglyand proceed to select an arbitrator or board of arbitrationin accordance with 8,02 c) and 8 05,
c)	If the party receiving notice agrees, or fails to advisethe other party in writing of its disapproval within five (5) days, the parties shall immediately undertake to reach agreement on a person to act as arbitrator. If the parties are unable to reach agreementon an arbitrator within fifteen (15) days ofthe aforementionednotice, then one ofthe persons namedin 8.05 shall be named as the arbitrator.
6
8.03	If a single arbitrator has not been agreed to or established in accordance with Article 8.02, then, upon receiving referenceto arbitration, each party shall within five (5) days notify the other party of its nominee to the board ofarbitration.
8.04	Thenomineesna~,od in accordance with 8.03 shall within ten (10) days of their appointment agree upon a chairp 'the arbitration board. If the parties are unable to reach agreement upon a chairperson wiu a (10) days then one of the persons named in accordance with Article 8.05 shall be named as the chairperson of the arbitration board.
8.05	The arbitratorsreferredto above shall consist of five (5) names mutually agreed to by the uni on and the co-operative. Selection of an arbitrator shall be made by the processof rotation from the list of arbitrators. If the selected arbitrator is unavail ableto hear the arbitration for 60 days, then the party initiating the grievancehas the option of moving to the next arbitrator on the rotation. If the above arbitratorsare unavailable, or by mutual agreement ofthe parties, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour.
8.06	Time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, ofthe two parties.
8	07 The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision which
will alter, modify or amend any part ofthis agreement
8.08	Arbitration decisionsare to be rendered within fifteen (IS) days ofthe hearing being completed
8.09	The decision of the single arbitrator or of the majority of the Board or of the Chairman, failing a majority Board decision, shall be binding on the parties to this Agreement.
8.10	Each ofthe parties hereto shall share equally the expense ofthe single arbitrator or of the Chairman ofthe Arbitration Board and shall bear the full expenseofits own appointeeto an Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE9- NON-iNTERRUPTiONCF WORK
9	01 ait The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction its members to cause or take part
in(and itis agreed that the Co-operativemay discharge any employeewho causes or takes part in), any sit-down or slow-down or any strike or stoppage ofoperations, or any curtailment of
work or restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Cooperative's premises, during the life ofthe agreement or during the course ofnegotiationsfor a renewal or extension of this agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock out ofemployeesduring the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension ofthis agreement.
9	02 The Union agreesthat no strike vote ofthe membersofthe Union will be taken during the term of this agreement or duringthe courseofnegotiations for renewal or extension of the agreement, until
all steps relating to the conciliation procedure in the Province of New Brunswick have been compliedwith.
7
ARTICLE 10 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10	01 a) New employees will be considered as probationary employees for the first ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee shall not be the subject of a grievance, but all other conditions of this agreement shall apply. At the completion ofthis probationary period, sent ]j be back-dated to his last date of hiring.
b)	If an employee is absent for more than ten (10) working days during his probationary period, management may extend his probationary period by up to an equal number of working days. Management agrees to notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate section in writing of such extension and the employee'sstart date. Management and the Union will sign such noticeonce the content of such notice is agreed upon
ARTICLE 11. SENIORITY
j I 01 aj There shall be two kinds of seniority, sectional seniority and bargaining unit-wide seniority.
Sectional seniority shall be an employee's service with the Co-operative within one section (i.e. Feed Plant or Distribution Centres) and shall be applicable to promotions, transfers, layoffs, recalls and as may be set out in other provisions of this Agreement.
b)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be the accumulated service of an employee with the Co-operativein both sections and shall prevail in all matters of interpretation ofthis agreement except where sectional seniority is expressly indicated.
c)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be established from the date an employee last entered or last enters the service of the Co-operative, subject to Article {0.01.
d)	Sectional Seniority will not be transferable from one section to another but will be retained in the section where it is earned. The Seniority List will show this.
e)	When more than one individual is hired at the same time, their initial interview time will determine their placement on the Seniority list.
11.02	A seniority list showing the status of each employee, including those on layoff shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board in each section within thirty days after the signing of this agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure. A new seniority list shall be posted eveiy three (3) months thereafter.
11.03	FF,F,D MTT.T.: lit the event of a layoff or Feed Mill closure, Feed Mill employees shall be placed on the part-time seniority list in accordance with their seniority and shall:
(a)	Have super seniority over part time employees for all available part-time hours in accordance with their seniority;
(b)	Be given hiring preference to full-timepositions, over part-time employees, in accordance with their seniority;
(c)	Receive 80% of the full time wage rate in accordance with their seniority.
ARTTCT.E 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
12.01	Ai employee', ’irity standing shall he cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if
a)	he voluntai i._, quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated according to provisions ofthe Grievance Procedure,
c)	he is laid off from the DistributionCentre or Feed Plantsection foraperiod in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months, if he has less than two years seniority at time of lay-off, or for a period in excess oftwenty-four (24) consecutive months if he has two years or more seniority at the time of lay-off
d)	Notwithstanding (c) above, no employee's seniority will be cancelled due to lay-off beyond twenty-four (24) months as a result of a shut-down from the destruction and rebuilding ofthe facility.
ARTICLE 13 -TEMPORARYTRANSFERS
13	01 Where an employee is temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, he will be paid, for such assignment, at the corresponding step in the higher grade.
13.02	a) In the Distribution Centres, where a temporaiy assignment of one week or more in duration
becomes available,preference in filling the assignment will be given to employees in the same grade, or lower grades on the same shift within the same functional area (i.e.; General Merchandise; Produce; Groceiy) and then to employees who are on all other shifts and the selection from amongst these will be based on seniority provided the senior person is able to do the job. Employees in the same grade shall be excluded from lateral transfers during the months of June, July, and August.
b) In the Feed Mill, employees will be given preference in order of seniority over outside help in tilling such temporary assignments in higher grades on the same shift, provided they are able to do the job.
13.03	An employee who replaces a foreman or other supervisory employee temporarily for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, shall receive $1.00 per hour additional pay for the duration of such transfer. I n the Distribution Centre only, such employee shall not bump into overtime hours during the temporaiy transfer until all full-time employees as per Article 18,09 have been offered the overtime opportunity.
13 04 Employees on temporaiy assignments as in 13.01 or 13.03 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their formerjobs at their former rate.
-9-
13.05	a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave
or holiday period of the employee being replaced.
b)	If the regular incumbent's absence on sick leave or workmen's compensation extends beyond three (3) months, the job will be posted and filled under clause 14 p ' provided that should the regular incumbent return from sick leave or compensation he will	o his previousjob and
thereplacement to his previousjob and so forthwith regard to arty . ...er employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
] 3 _06 If a holiday (as set out in Article 18) falls in a period when an employee is replacing someone in a higher classification, the employee shall be paid for the holiday at the rate he receives for tie worked on the temporary transfer.
This clause shall apply only where the temporary' transfer was in effect the day before the holiday. For the purpose of qualifying for the higher rateunder 13.01 or 13.03, above, the holiday will count as a working day
ARTICLE 14 - PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS. AND RECALLS
14	01 a) When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, including any new position, it shall be posted within forty-eight (48) hours, at all locations, and shall remain posted for seventy-two (72) hours before the vacancy is permanently filled. If a longer delay is necessary', the Union shall be advised in writing of the reasons.
b)	All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the firstvacancy shall be posted for forty-eight (48) hours before they are permanently filled.
c)	Where workers concerned are absentfor legitimate reasons, these time limits may be extended.
d)	Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during this
absence must advise his immediate supervisor accordingly, leaving the telephone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if
necessary'. The Co-operative will then make every' reasonable effort to contact such employee. If unable to contact the employee, the Union Steward shall be so notified.
14 02 Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing to the supervisor indicated on the posting.
14 03	a) I n the event of a permanent promotion or a permanent transfer, within either section of the
bargaining unit, to fill a posted vacancy, preference shall be given on the basis of Sectional
Seniority' where ability', skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
b)	If no employee from the section in which the vacancy occurs bids on the job, preference shall be given to employees from the other section on the basis of Bargaining Unit-Wide Seniority' where ability', skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal
10
c)	Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union, in writing, ofthe decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employees) affected,
d)	If no employee from either section, having the required ability, skill and competence to
perfon fork, bids on the job, management shall select whomever it may consider satisfaCv	A the job.
e)	Where a person from outside the unit is hired in either section to fill a posted job and the employee from one of the sections had bid on the job, the Co-operative shall advise the Unit Chairperson and the Chief Steward of the section where the job is located, of its reasons for doing so before the employee goes onto thejob.
f)	When work and/or job(s) aretransferred, the transferred job(s) shall be posted and the affected employee(s) shall have the right to bump.
g)	A notice, stating to whom the job was given shall be posted on the Union's bulletin boards within forty-eight (48) hours (excluding week-ends and holidays) after the vacancy is filled
14.04	a) The successful applicantfor a postedjob shall be given atrial and trainingof up to 30 calendar days. If the successful applicant decides to bid to another job or accept a temporary transfer during his 30 day trial and training period, he shall return to his original job if thes econd bid is not acceptable or when the temporary trans fer is finished, Thistrial and training period may be extended by mutual consent ofthe Union and Management.
b)	A promoted or transferred employee within the same section shall have his former job protected for thirty (30) calendar days. If within the first thirty (30) calendar days on the new job, either he proves unsatisfactory, as determined by Management, or he decides not to continue in that job, he shall be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without any loss of seniority. Any employee who was transferred to fill a vacancy created by the first promotion or transfer shall also be entitled to return to his formerjob and pay rate without loss of seniority.
If such promotion or transfer is between sections, the trial period may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management.
c)	Areplacement shall be selected from the balance of the applicants, provided onesuchapplicant has the necessary skill, ability and competence to meet thejob requirement. Preference shall be given on the basis of section seniority where two or more of the applicants have relatively equal skill, ability and competence to perform the work. If none of the balance of the applicants meet thejob requirements, or if there was only one applicants theoriginal posting, the job shall be reposted.
d)	If there are no suitable applicants following the reposting, then the Co-operative shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for thejob.
11
14.05	a) In the event of a lay-offwithin either section of the Bargaining Unit, retention shall be on the
basis of sectional seniority. Theemployeewhosejob disappears (temporarily or permanently) can bump any employeejunior to him whose work he can do in a satisfactoiy manner following a reasonable familiarizationor training and trial period of up to thirty (30) calendar days.
b)	If the employeeis not successful or does not want to continue in\ dition within the time period in (a) above, he may bump the junior employee in the section and will have to reach a satisfactoiy level of performance after a reasonable familiarizationor training and trial period of up to thirty (30) calendar days.
c)	Where an employee moves into a lower grade to avoid lay-offhe shall retain his current rate and will receive any general increases to the pay ranges until he bids off the job.
14.06	a) The Co-operative shall give an employee two (2) weeks notice of a planned lay-off of one
week or more and two days notice of a lay-off ofless than one week, except where the latter clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable, e.g.: Acts of God. Where an employee works past the layoff notice date, new notice must be given if there is to be a layoff. Layoff notice shall not be used in an unjust manner and/or be an indefinitenotice.
b)	Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority where jobs and or work become available, provided they have the demonstrated abilityto perform such jobs.
c) Employees on lay off who do not wish to be recalled far periods of one(l) week or less, shall advise the company. Employees shall advise the company when they wish to be recalled for periods of one (1)week or less.
d)	The employer shall give notice of recall by telephone or by registered letter to the last telephone number and address given to the employer in writing by the employee. The employee shall advise the employer of his intentions by telephone or by registered letter as soon as possible, but, in any case, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter. If he fails to do so, he will forfeit his right to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within seven (7) days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
e)	An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall fa other than his regular iob without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
1. He so advises the employer, in the manner prescribed in (c) above, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall notice by registered mail; and
2	There is a junior employee on layoff in the s ame grade or lower with demonstrated
ability to do the job.
12
14.07	a) No supervisory person will be transferred into the Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not filled through the posting procedure. Seniority earned thereafter will apply
in the section where it is earned, seniority accumulated prior to leaving the bargaining unitwill remain, provided the person's absence has not exceeded six (6) months.
b) Any m f the Bargaining Unit who is promoted to a job outside the unit shall have his old j ob,	.ted for thirty' (30) days. After that time, he shall be subj ect to 14.07 (a) above.
c)	A working foreman will be allowed on an evening or night shift provided that the number supervised does not exceed seven (7) and so long as it has no effect on existing Bargaining Unitjobs or members.
ARTICLE 11 • LEAVE QFABSENCE
15.01	a) The Co-operative will grant leave of absence without pay for up to two weeks per year to
employees to enablethem to attend labour schools, conferences or conventions, provided that the employee advises management at least two weeks in advance Not more than one employeeper shift or two employees per location may be absent at the same time except at the Price Street location where up to three (not more than one per shift)may be absent at the same time. Requests for increaseof numbers of individualsand/or the extension to the length of the leave of absence will be given consideration taking into account operational requirements.
b)	Theterms "shift" and "location" in this article shall have the samemeaning as in 5.0! and 5.02 above.
c)	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for other reasons, which in the opinion of management, are legitimateand which do not, in combination with (a), above, present staffing problems.
d)	Any leave o f absence under (a) or (c) above, must be in writing to the employee and signed by the Department Manager.
15.02	Any leave of absence granted under 15,01 will not affect an employee's seniority' rights or his employee benefits provided the employee maintains his regular contributions to the plans.
15	03 a) An employee wishing to engage in full-time Union work shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority, provided that:
1)	he gives thirty (30) days notice of application for such leave;
2)	the leave of absence does not exceed one year;
3)	not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b)	The effectof such leave of absence on employeebenefits shall be the same as for a lay-off (see Article XXIII).	‘	‘
13
15.04 If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
16.01	A schedule of job classifications and wages shall be attached to tlii uent in the form of Appendix 2 and shall be part of the agreement.
16	02 The steps ofthe grades indicate the within-gradeincreases that can be anticipated by employees. Such increases are not automatic but will depend upon satisfactory progress. The Unit Chairperson shall be notified if a review is to be delayed, or if an increase is to be withheld. The steward of the affected mdividual(s) shall be present whensac/tindividuaiA) is notified.
16.03	An employee who is promoted to ajob in a higher grade than he presently occupies shall be paid at thecorresponding step in the higher grade except that he will not be paid the top rate until he has completed thirty' (30) days in the newj ob or any extended trial period agreed to under article 14.04 (b), Upon completion of such period, any increase shall then be paid retroactively to the date of promotion.
16.04	a) A Sliift Premium of fifty-five (55£) per hour will be paid for hours worked on the evening shift
and of sixty-five (656) per hour for hours worked on the night shift as described in (b) below A shift premium of $2.25 per hour will be paid, for hours worked on Saturday and Sunday, lo employees who work both Saturday and Sunday as part of their regular work week
b)	For purposes of this agreement, an employee is considered to be on the evening shift if the major part of his regular work day falls between 4;00 p.ra. and midnight. Likewise an employee is considered to be on the night shift when the major part of his regular work day falls between midnight and 8:00 a.m.
c)	The schedule of hours and days of work of each employee shall be posted in an appropriate place This schedule may be altered from time to time as required for the uperation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. If an employee's schedule is changed without forty-eight (48) hours notice, such employee shsl be paid one and one-half (1 /%) times his regular rate for all hours worked within the required period of notice
16.05	a) i) The Co-operative may use part-time employees to replace M-timeGrade 1 employees
absent (not at work), on vacation; sick leave, workers compensation, disability'; union business; approved leave; and temporary transfers. Such replacement must be completed by the end ofthe shift following the absence.
ii)	A part-the employee may only replace a temporarily transferred grade t employee when the transfer takes place on the same shift as the absence occurred.
iii)	Management will notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate location in writing of each part-time person hired with start date and reason for hire.
14
b)	i.) Wherever posable, known absencesof more than two 2 weeks on the day shift shall be offered to full-time employees on the evening or night shift by seniority, prior to being filled by part-time employees.
ii.	) Part tf-w* employees shall not be used to replace temporary transfers that are a result of extra v
iii.	) Part-timeemployees shall not be used to the extent that they reduce or delete the regular hours offull time employees, or prevent the creation ofnew full timejobs
iv)	No part-timer(s) will be employed while there is on layoff a full time employee with seniority who is willing and able to do the work.
v.	) A part-timeemployeewho serves350 hoursprobationinaccordancewith article 1605 c) ii) will not be required to serve any further probationupon appointmentto a full-time position
vi,	) Upon appointmentto a full-time position, a part-timeemployee with less than 350 hours of servicewill serve a probationary period in the full-time position equal to 480 hours less part-tim ehoursserved. Example: A new full-time employee has completed 250 hoursof parttime work. The probationary period in the full-time position will be480 - 250 = 230 hours.
c)	i.) A part-timeworkerwill regulariywork up to twenty-six (26) hours per week or less except in situations where additional hours are required pursuant to 16.05 (a) i).
ii) A part-time worker is on probation for the first three hundred and fifty (350) hours of employment.
iii.	) A part-timeworkeris seniority for the purposeofwage incrementsis based on total hours
worked. Full-time seniorityshall, in all cues, take preference over part-time seniority.
iv.	) Part-timeemployees who become hill-time employees shall have their part-timeseniority date recognized as their full-time seniority date.
d) i.) Part-time workers shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of the full-time rates (set out in Appendix 2) for the same work and lengthoftime on the job.
ii.	) Part-timeworkers shall be paid vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of gross earnings and statutory holidays accordingto the legislation. Part-timeemployees shall havethe option
of 4% (ofvacation) calculatedon each pay, or 4% to he paid out on January 15th and July 15th of each year.
iii.	) Part-timeemployees will not qualify for the "birthday" holiday unless they attain seniority, in which case it will he paid retroactivelyprovided it fell more than thirty (30) days after the employee's hire date.
15
jv ) Upon appointment to a full-timepusition, employees who have completed probation in accordance with 16.05 b) v.) and c) ii), will be placed at the three month rate in appendix
2	Employees with less than 3 50 hours will be placed at the start rate and will progress to the
3	month rate upon completion of probation in accordance with 16.05 b) vi.)
v.) Three months after being placed at the three month rate, etn month rate and, after a further six months, will move to the 12 nu
will move tu the six *te.
vi.) Upon appointment to a full-time position, all paid hours as a part-time employee will bo converted to their full-timeequivalentfor the calculation of vacation entitlement in Article 20 of the agree; neat. Example; A new full-time employee with 1040 part-time hours would have 'A year credited as full-time service for the calculation of vacation per Article 20
e)	i.) The Co-op shall supply to the union a part-time seniority list based on date of hire. Available work, in accordance with 16.05 (a) i.), will be assigned based on date of hire. The Co-operative shall supply in writing to the union a list c£ which full-timeemployee is absent and which part-time employeeis working on each shift in accordance with Article 16.05 a) i).
ii.) The union shall be notified in writing of the part-time hours worked, the shift, the parttime employee who worked, and all other relevant information and documentation;
t) i.) Part-time employers may replace Grade I employees for overtime hours when full-time employees are unable to work the overtime hours in accordance with Article 18.09.
ii.	) The Co-operative may use up to two (2) part time employees in Groceiy, and up to two (2) part-time employees in Produce, on Sunday and Thursday, for evening or midnight shifts only, in addition to 16.05 a) i.),
iii.	) Upon appointment to a full-time position, employees with 480 part-time hours will be entitled to the benefits in Article 22 ofthe agreement. Employees with less than 480 hours will be entitled to benefits upon completion of480 hours (part-time + full-timehours).
g) When it is establishedthrough the grievance procedure that (here has been a violation of 16,05 in the use of part-time, the Settlementof the grievance shall be a pay out to the grievor(s), unless mutually agreed otherwise.
ARTICLE 171 COLA
A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the third year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price index (C.P. I.) (J 98 ]=100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% ofthe August, 2001, C.P L, which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
Starting on the first o fthe month in which the publishedC. P. I. exceeds 10 5.0% of die August, 2001, figure, a premium of one and one half (1.50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P. I. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.l, will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one and one half (1.50) per
- 16 •
hour for each 0 3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustmentwill be made to the premium after September24} 2002,
ARTICLE 18 > HOURS OFWORK AND OVERTIME
18,0] a) PROr 2-Tours ofworkwill be:
Evening Shift. l\30 p,m, to 1:00 a..m., 4 x 10 hours, Sunday to Thursday inclusive: Shift A • Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday Shift B • Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday For all purposesunder the collective agreement, Shift A and Shift R shall be considered one shift, the Evening Shift.
Day Shift: Regular hours as set out below in (f)
Night Shift: 11:0O p.m. to 7:00 a,m. starting Sunday at 11:0Q p.m. and finishing at 7:00 am. Friday.
Weekend Shift: refer to Appendix 7
b)	PRICE STREET fEXCLTJ'DING PROD! IAP0 - The hours of work will be:
Evenine Shift:3:00 p,m, to 11;00 p,m, Sunday to Thursday inclusive.
Night Shift 11 ;00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, starting Sunday at 11 ;00 p.m. and finishing Friday 7:00 a.m.
Day_S_hift: 7:00 a.m, to 3:00 p.m. Monday to Friday, 40 hours per week
Weekend Shift: See Appendix 6
c)	TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVERS • First fifty (50) hours per week Monday to Friday, inclusive, to be at regular rate with overtime in excess of fifty (50) hours at one and one-halft I ’/?) times the regular rate.
d)	HENRI DlfNANT
Dav Shift: 7:00 am • 3;30 pm Monday to Friday, inclusive
Evenine Shift 3:30 pm • 12:00 am Monday to Friday, inclusive
e)	FEED MILL • The hours ofwork will be:
Dav Shift - 8:00 a.m. • 4:00 p,m„ Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evenine Shift- 4:00 p,m. * 12:00 a,m„ starting Monday at 4:00 p.m, and finishing Friday at 12:00 Midnight.
17
J 3.02
18 03
18 04
Night Shift: 12:00 MiduiglU to 8;00 a.m. Starting Sundry tu Friday.
There will be one "Utility Man”?
Sundry Midnightto 8:00 a,in, Monday Monday 9:00 p.m, to 5:00 a.m, Tuesday Tuesday 9:00 p,m, to 5:00 a.ni. Wednesday Wednesday 9:00 p.m, to SOO a.ni* Thursday Thursday 9:00 p,m, to SOO a.m. Friday
Employees shall receive two paid twenty (20) minute rest periods per shift.
t)
7:00 a.m. ■ 3:00 p.m.; 8 hours per day; Monday through Friday;
40 hours per week.
g) The 13% most junior (by seniority)employeesby fimctionalarea(i e., produce; drivers;Henri Dunant), and the 16% most junior (by seniority) employees by functional area (i.e. Grocery) may be scheduled to work as needed so long as the work week does not exceed 40 hours and the daily hours do not exceed 10 with at least 2 days off per week. All other clauses of the agreement apply. This clause does not apply in the Feed Mill.
a)	Double time will be paid for Sunday work except for employees regularly scheduled i o work on Sunday in 18.01> above, in which case doubletime will be paid far Saturday work.
b)	Where an employee is required to work an additional day as overtime in the week preceding a "holiday week" and subsequentlydoes not work his regular number of days in the holiday week, he shall be paid double time for hours worked on the additional day.
o) Time and one-half shalt be paid after eight (8) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours or for any hours worked outside a regular shift in any week except in the case of truck and tractor drivers who are subjectto 18.01 (c).
d)	The truck and tractor drivers shall be paid time and one-haif far hours worked in excess of fifty (SO) in any week.
a) The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (IS) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-halfhours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personalnecessity,employees shall not ask for additional time off duringthe working day. The Union agrees that rest periods should not be abused.
b) The Co-operative agrees to g rant paid restperiods of twenty (20) minutes each provided the working time or any one shift exceeds two and one-halfhours. 18,03 b) applies to those employees who subjectto 18,01, work eight (8) hour shifts.
Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without athirty (30) minute meal period. Fur those employees who, subjectto 18,01, work eight (8) hour shifts, 18,03 b) shall apply,
18
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
18,09
a)	Where an employeeworks two (2) hours or more overtime in a day (provided such overtime and regular hours are continuous not including meal and break periods) the Co-operative shall pay such an employee a meal supplement of six dollars ($6.00).
b)	Where an employee works overtime cn Saturday, he will he paid the meal supplement only i f th we was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5j hours. If such ovei j scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee shall he responsible for his own lunch.
c)	Tractor drivers shall be granted a meal supplement of $41.00 per week in lieu of 18.05 (a) above. All expenses related to the maintenance of equipment and for noils will be borne by the Co-operative.
An employee who has gone home and is especiallycalled back to work in any emergency outside his normal working hours, shall be paid four (4) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual
overtime hours worked in accordance with provisions of 18.02, whichever is more advantageous to him.
My employee who is unable to appear for his scheduled shift will notify his immediate supervisor or the appropriate Superintendentwithin a reasonabletime prior to commencement of the shift and will give, wherever possible, twenty-four (24) hours notice of when he will return to work.
Management shall endeavour to give employees twenty-four(24) hours notice where overtime is to be worked. In any event, if overtime in excess of one (1) how is to be worked, notice of four (4) hours working time shall be given, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned.
In cases of emergency beyond the reasonable control of management, it is agreed that notice of overtime will be waived.
a)	When overtime is required, bargaining unit employees with seniority, who are normally responsible fordoing the work, or if they are not available, their temporary replacement, shall
be given preferencein performing the required overtime work. “Normally responsible”means fork-lift work shall be assigned to forklift operators on the shift on a seniority basis; receiver work shall be assigned to receivers on the shift on a seniority hasis; etc. etc.
b)	In the event that employees noted in (a) above are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section on the shift who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner and who are available. Janitor’s seniority shall be recognized for the purposes of overtime provided the individual can perform the required work in a satisfactory manner.
c)	In the event that employes noted in (b) are not available or that more employees are required, then preferenceshall be given in order ofseniority to those employees normally responsible to perform the required overtime. “Normally responsible” means forklift work shall he assigned to forklift operators on a seniority' basis; receiver work shall he assigned to Receivers on a seniority' basis; etc.etc..
- 19
d)	In the event that employees noted in (e) are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall he given in order of seniority tu those employees within the section who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner,
e)	When required the employees may start their shift prior tu the rev^r shift start time. Such hours shall be considered overtime and shall he in accords! 18.1)9 a), b), c),
d)	respectively.
18	10 Under certain circumstances,employeesmay be paid for up to two (2) hours missed in a day due
to stormy weather. Details are set out in Appendix 5 to the agreement.
18,11	1, The Co-operative agrees that, far employees working 4 ■ 10 hour shifts, time and one-
half shall be paid alterten (10) hours worked in any day or after forty' (40) hours or fur any hours worked outside a regular shift.
2.	Each employee shall have two consecutive days off, The first day of rest sJwIJ be equivalent tu Saturday and the second equivalent to Sunday fur the purpose of this agreement.
3.	Statutory holidays set out in 19<01 a) shall be paid at ten (IO) hours per shift.
4.	Where, in the agreement, eight (8) hours are paid for employees working ten (10) hour shifts, those ten (IO) hours shall he paid at ten (10) hours.
5.	Employees working 4 • 10 hour shifts shall be entitled to 40 hours sick time as per Article 22,02 a) 1.
ARTICLE 19 • STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
19.01	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all employeeswho have worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday at their regular rates for the ten fallowing holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Dominion Day
New Brunswick Day
Labour Day
ThanksgivingDay
RemembranceDay
Christmas Day Boxing Day
If any ofthe above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday,then they may beobserved onMonday and Tuesday or Friday and Monday. Ifthe work schedule is changed for holidays, it shall be discussed with the Union. No such change shall result in an employee, excludingthose covered in 18.01 g), working two days ofthe three day holiday triless mutually agreed by the company and the employee,
e)	The Co-operative agrees to limit the changes to the work schedule in Article 19.01 b)
20
d umstmas Day and Boxing Day. The co-operative agrees to endeaver to find the
hest possible Christmas holiday schedule for the evening shift.
d)	In addition to the ten holidays listed above, it IS agreed that each employee who has been
employed for thirty (30) days prior to his birthday shall be granted one additional paid h	o be identifiedas "Employee's Birthday". Such holiday shall be observed on the
ei. <j‘s actual birthday unless the employeearranges an altemateday with Management at least two weeks prior to his birthday. Such alternate day shall be within one week prior to or followingthe actual birthday. A birthday falling on a Saturday, .Sunday or one of the holidays listed above shall be observed on such alternate day.
19.02	If an employeeworks on any of the above eleven (I I) holidays, he shall he paid at two (2) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Section 19.01
19 03	An employee on sickleave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days
immediatelypreceding a holiday, shallnot qualify for holiday pay unless he works on the holiday or the first scheduled workday following the holiday.
ARTICLE 20 - PATD VACATIONS
20.01	Annual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for attending to personal business. Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate Distribution Centre or Plant Manager, based on his need to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
20 02	An employeewho by April 3 0 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least
one (I) year, and less than two (2) fish years, shall he entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
20.03	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) workweeks plus one-half(1/2) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (2‘A) days for any six (6) month period.
20.04	fin employeewho by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed Rr three (3) full years but less than nine (9) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
20.05	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for nine (9) years hut less than ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation ofthree (3) work weeks plus one-half(14) day per month of completed service beyond nine(9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%) days for any six (6) month period.
21
20 06 An employee who by April 30ih m any )cur has been continuously employed lor leuuw/
years but less than nineteen ( 19) full years shall be entitled to an annual \ acatiop of four (4) work
weeks.
20.07	An employee who by ApnJ 30 has beeu continuously employed for nineteen (19/ years bui less than twenty (20) years shall be entitied to an annual vacation of four (4)-	*eks plus one-half
(1/2) day per month of completed service beyond nineteen (19) years tceedmg two and one-half (2!/2) days for anystx (6) month period
20 08 An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty (20) )ears but less than twenty-seven (27) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of I ire (5) work weeks
20 09 An employee who by Apru 30 has beeu continuously employed for twenty-seven (27) years but less than twenty-eight (28) years shall be entitled tu an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half(.1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-seven (27) years, not exceeding two and one-half (214) days for any six (6) month period
20 10 An employee who by April 33 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty-eight (28)
years ur more shall be entitiedto an annual vacation of six (6) work weeks.
20 11 An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed far a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled tu annual vacation of an amount equal to one (I )Hay fur each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (djmonth period
20 12 Vacation pay foreacn week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount
may be reduced by one-firty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are
j) with permission up to 30 days annually;
2)	due tu sickness up to 30 days annually, or such longer periods nut exceeding six (6) months % an employee may be entitiedto receive sick leave pay or rick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative,
3)	up tu one year due to a compensable accident
4)	all shirt premiums shall be included as regular wages for the purpose of vacation pay
20 13 in nu event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less man four percent(4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve months to April 30
20 14 Employees are expected to taxe their vacation in the year in wliieh it is credited However, arrangements may be made to cany over a portion of vacation credits on the same basis as ail Coop Atlantis Employees
22
ARTICLE 21 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
21.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family (by marriage, adoption or common law), within the following limits:
a) Spv /rent or child - f i v e (5) working days;
5)	Brother, sister, parent ofspouse - three (3) working days;
Grandparent, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandchild • one working day.
21.02	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to his scheduledretum from vacation he may berequired to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
21.03	a)	Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative specified above and such attendance
required considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (V4) day of additional paid leave for each four hours of travel time required to a maximum of two (2) days. Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
ty This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee's vacation.
ARTICLE 22 • EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Co-op Atlantic Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Short Term Disability Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Dental Plan in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
The Co-operative will discuss any contemplated changes in the Group Benefit plans with the Union before any implementation thereof.
1.	All permanent employees shall be entitled to a maximum of five {5 j days sick leave with full regular pay in any one benefit year, May 1st - April 30th. Any employee hired after May 1st will have Ills sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
2.	By the second pay period in May each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave to his credit at the end of the benefit year; or
22.01	a)
o
22.02	a)
23
b)
<0
e)
0
22 03 a)
b)
c)
d)
All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall be covered under the snort i erm Disability Plan commencingwith the eighth calendar day of disability providing they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the insurer, an outline of which is attached as Appendix3 (a) to this agreement.
A permanent employeewho has used all of this full-pay sicklea'	vs and subsequently
is absent due to sicknesswill receive supplementary sickleave pt	,to two-thirds (213)
of his regular pay for any such days. Supplemental sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five consecutive work days.
It is agreed that the employee's interest in any reduction of Employment Insurance contributions after January 1st, 1973 that may result from the upgrading of the Co-operative’s sick leave plans shall be waived in view of the increased benefits provided in this article and elsewhere in the agreement.
The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfactory medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave. The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave or disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers Compensation, his various benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except that the employee's normal full two-week share of the premiums will be taken fim any pay cheque received by the employee after the sick leave commences
The group benefits in question are Group Life Insurance; Short Term and Long Term Disability; Blue Cross and Dental.
The level of Group Life insurance will be based on the employee's salary at date the leave began but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Plan
During absence of the employee, as above, no contributions will be made to the Pension Plan but there will he no reduction in service for pension purposes as a result of such absence(s)
22.04 Miscellaneous
a)	The Co-operative agrees to supply smocks to j anitors and those employed in recoup at no cost to the employees.
b)	Further the Co-operative agrees to make smocks available to those employed in produce for their use when needed.
24
The employer will provide a boot/ciothing allowance of $100.00 per calendar year, upon presentation of receipts, (Effective date of ratification)
ARTICLE23 - EFFECT QFLAY-QEE QNEMPLOYEE PBNOTS
23 01 Except w' ivided in22.03 above, where an employeemisses time during the year (January 1 st to Dec A1 st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences if they total four work weeks or more shall result in his length o f service for pension purposesbeing reduced accordingly.
23.02	a) Anemployee on layoff may keep his coverage under the Group Life; Blue Cross and Dental
Plans in effectfor up to twelve (12) months by paying the full premium one (1) month in advance (subject to agreement by the insurer) Should the employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
b)	The level of Group Insurance will be determined as in 22 03 (c), above.
23.03	An employee will not be eligible for sick ferare while on lay-off except that where he was receiving such benefrtsat time oflay-offthe claim will be handled as ifno lay-off had occurred.
23 04 a) Coverage under the Short Term and Long Term Disability Plans ceases at time of lay-off except that where benefits were being received at time of lay-off they will continue to be paid so long as the employeemeets the conditions of disability as set out in the Plan (s).
k) An employee who returns from lay-off to full-time work within twelve (12) months of lay-off will have his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work.
An employeewhoreturns to full-timework after more than twelve (12) months lay-off'will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) month's service.
23.05	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time o f lay-off
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE - GENERAL: TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE: AND PLANT
CLOSURE
24.01	a) Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years sendee or more, and the termination was not a dismissal for "cause" and was not the result of technological change or a plant closure or lay-off of five or more employees in a plant, the Co-operative will pay to the employee one and one-half (1.5) week's pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximumof52 weeks.
5) An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid o//father than having his employmentterminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
-25-
24.02
24.03
24.04
a)	Where termination results from technological change, or a plant closure or lay-off of five or more employees in a plant the following severance allowances will be paid:
One and one-half (1.5) weeks of severance for the first five (5)years of sendee, and two (2) weeks of severance for all years over 5 years,
b)	For the purpose of this Agreementthe term "technological chaty ;rs to changes in the plant or equipment or changes in process or method of operation that change significantly the working conditions or security of employment cf a member or members of the bargaining unit or alter significantlythe basis on which this agreement was negotiated.
c)	The employershall notify the Union 4 months before the introduction of any technological change, plant closure, department closure or lay-off of five or more employees.
d)	Where new or greater skills are required than are already possessed by the affected employee(s) under the present methods ofoperation, such employee(s) shall, at the expense of the employer, be given a reasonable period of time to acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation.
e)	The Employer shall, if dictated by the change, reassign affected individuals to an
appropriate classification within the attached appendices in accordance with the collective agreement.
An employee who, at time of lay-off, is within five (5) years of becoming eligible for early retirement under the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan, may take the severance pay at any
time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and, in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subjeetto the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
It is understood that the severance allowances under 24.01 and 24.02 will not be paid when the employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b)	is dismissed for just cause and this is not reversed through grievance procedure
c)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employee Pension Plan
(|)	having less than twenty (20) years sendee, is offered other employment within Co-op
Atlantic which is suitable to his qualifications; experience; length of time to retirement; etc; or
e)	having twenty (20) years service or more is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable to his qualifications,
experience; length of time to retirement; etc.
26
24.05	a) It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this article,
such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee,his beneficiary or estate as the case may be.
b) T1' '^e of payment shall be as requested by the employee,but in no case shall this belater t	Ive (12) months after the employee's last dayofemployment with the Co-operative.
24.06	a)	F°r the purposes of this article “Plant” shall include Feed Mill and Distribution Centres.
ARTICLE 25 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS
25 01 All production standardswill be set recognizing that a safe and healthy workplace is paramount.
Standards shall be set, monitored, and applied in a uniform, fair and reasonable manner. If production standards are used as any form ofmeasure, the union shall have access to all relevant documentation and information.
ARTICLE 26 - BULLETIN BOARDS
26.01	The Co-operative agrees to provide a suitable notice board at the Feed Plant, the Price Street Distribution Centre (one for Grocery and one for Produce), and the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre for the exclusive use of the Union in posting notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
26.02	The co-operative agrees to post, in a visiblelocation, the part-time schedule/hours in accordance with Article 16.05.
ARTICLE 27 - CORRESPONDENCE
27.01	Except where olhenvise provided, official communications in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed as shown below:
Mr. David Dunst on
c/o United Food & CommerdalWorkers International Union, Local 12E8P 96 Norwood Avenue, Suite 218 Moncton, New Brunswick E1C6L9
27
■ARTIft F 7.8 ■ TF.RM OF AGREEMENT

23 oi This agreement sliail remain in effect from the 25th day of September, 1999 fo.iJHi24jh day ot SgTttfluiifit 2M2 and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of'one year each, unless either parry notifies the other between the 60th and 30th day priortn the expiration date by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this agreement. otiate a new cr.c
2S 02 ff at (fie date of expiration a new agreement has not been signed, the present agreement will s;.u m force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation bv law of the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with
THIS AGREEMENT signed this
dav of
AD., 200® between the parties
hereinbefore mentioned
CO-OP ATLANTIC
LOCAL 12S8P
united food & commercial workers
INTERNATIONAL UNION AEL-CIO-CIC
28
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
To All Bargaining Unit Employees.
The co-operative agrees that supervisors will not perform bargaining unit work that is not provided for in the Collective Agreement.
It is not the intent of the Co-operative to subject any employee to verbal slander, harassment, discrimination or intimidation.
The Co-operative is in full agreement with employees bringing their work related problems to their stewards. However, it is expected that non work related problems will be dealt with outside of working hours.
It is understood that if a supervisor becomes verbally abusive towards a steward during a Step 1 grievance meeting. the steward may elect to leave the meeting and proceed to the next step in the grievance procedure.
It is understood and agreed by both parties that courtesy and common sense will prevail in all dealings.
A. Beaumont, Manager Distribution Department
29 -
APPENDIX I (a)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,_________________________________being an employee of Co-op Atlantic at the (Feed Plant),
(Distribution Centre), at Moncton and a member of Local 1288P ofthe United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of union initiation fee and monthly membership dues to Local 1288P ofthe said Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted fran my earnings.
NAME_______________________________________MJMBER________________
ADDRES S_______________________________________________________
DATE________________
APPENDIX 1 (b)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,_________________________________being an employee of Co-op Atlantic at the (Feed Plant),
(Distribution Centre), at Moncton hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlanticto deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local 12RRP, United Fond & Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amount so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the LocalUnion, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficientdischargeof Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings
NAME________________________________________NUMBER________________
ADDRESS___________________________________________________________
WITNESS____________________________ DATE___________________
30
APPENDIX: (a)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON FEED PLANT
JOB TITLES
Millhands
GRADE II
Fork-lift Operator Grain Processor Bulk Unloader
GRADE III
Bin Charger Mixer Helper
Control RoomOperafor(Mixer)
Pellet Mill Operator
Packer-Sewer
Shipper-Receiver
Shipper-Receiver
(Agri-Products)
Utility Man
GRADE IV
Quality Controller
EFF. DATE START
25 Sep,59	$12,33
25 Sep,2000	12,63
25 Sep,2001	12,93
25 Sep,99	$12,53
25 Sep,2000	12,83
25 Sep,2001	13,13
25 Sep,99	$12,73
25 Sep.2000	13,03
25 Sep,2001	13,33
25 Sep,99	$12,93
25 Sep,2000	13,23
25 Sep,2001	13,53
3MOS. 6 MOS. 12 MOS.
$12,93	$13,53	$14,73
13,23	13,83	15.03
[3,53	14.13	15,33
$13,13	$13,73	$14,93
13,43	14,03	15,23
13,73	14,33	15,53
$13,33	$13,93	$15.13
13,63	14,23	15,43
13,93	14,53	15,73
$13,53	$14,13	$15,33
13,83	14,43	15,63
14.13	14,73	15.93
Employees assigned as Production Co-ordinator shall receive a $1.00 per hourpiremium.
31
APPENDIX 2(b)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
JOB TITLES
START 3 Mos.
12Mos.
JANITOR
WAREHOUSEMAN I GENERAL WAREHOUSE DUTIES
WAREHOUSEMAN II ASST. RECEIVERS FORK-LIFT OPERATOR LOADERS
MANABOARD OPERATOR HARDWARE REPACK LOADER-PRODUCE LOADER-MARRY
25 Sep,99	$12,55
25 Sep.2000	12.85
25 Sep,2001	(3,15
25 Sep,99	$12,75
25 Sep.2000	13.05
25 Sep,2001	13,35
25 Sep,99	$12,95
25 Sep,2000	13,25
25 Sep.200!	13,55
$13.15	$13,75	$14,95
13,45	14,05	15,25
13,75	14,35	15,55
$13,35	$13,95	$15.15
13,55	M.25	15,45
13,95	14,55	15,75
$13,55	$14,15	$15,35
13,85	14,45	15,65
14,15	14,75	15.95
TRUCK DRIVER
25 Sep,99	$13,06
25 Sep.2000	13,36
25 Sep,2001	13.66
$13,66	$14,26	$15,46
13,96	14,56	15,76
14,26	14,86	16,06
TRACTOR DRIVER
WAREHOUSEMAN HI SHIPPERS RECEIVERS RECEIVER RETURNS (HENRI DUNANT)
RECEIVER RETURNS/DAMAGE (PRICE STREET)
QUALITY CONTROL INVENTORY HANDLER RECEIVER REPACK GROCERY
25 Sep,99	$13.21
25 Sep, 2000	13,51
25 Sep,2001	13,81
25 Sep,99	$13,15
25 Sep.2000	13,45
25 Sep,2001	13,75
$13,81	$14,41	$15,61
14,11	14,71	15.91
14,41	15,01	16,21
$13,75	$14,35	$15,55
14,05	14,65	15,85
14,35	14,95	16,15
NOTE.
BOOKER-RECEIVER (Grocery) - .200 per hour premiumwill he paid to the employeedoingtliis jol
32
APPENDIX 3 (a)
INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accident that prevents the employee from performinghis normal duties.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% ofregular salary rate at time c£disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc)
WAITING PERIOD
No benefits are paid for the first seven calendar days of any disability.
DURATION OF COVERAGE
Maximum of fifty-two weeks (12 months) for any one disability. Should an employee return to work and go out again within thirty (30) days because of the same illness or accident, it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
31 £ per $! 00.00 ofregular earnings (as at April 1/87) will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS
I) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot; 5) disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation; 6) benefitswiU also be reduced by the amount received by the employee from the Canada Pension Plan or under other similarlegislation due to the same disability.
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off;
b)	on employee's 70th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
33
APPENDIX 3 (b)
INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY)
COVERAGE
Provides payment for loss of earnings due to sickness or non-occupational accide BENEFITS PAYABLE
66 2/3% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.) WAITING PERIOD
Benefits commence after 52 weeks (12 months) absence due to disability DURATION OF COVERAGE
Benefits continue for 78 weeks (18 months) if the employee is totally disabled mid unable to perform his normal duties. If disability continues, benefits are paid until the employee reaches age 65, provided he is totally disabled and prevented from engaging in any gainful occupation for which he is qualified or may reasonably became qualified. Should an employee return to work and go out again within six (6) months because of the sameillness or accident it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
The employee's share of the premium is 18.40 per $100,00 of regular earnings as at April 1/87 which will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future increases in the premium.
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
A.	1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflictedinjury; 4) participation in a not
B.	Benefits under this Plan will be reduced by the amount the insured person receives from:
I) Worker's Compensation; 2) basic disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan; 3) sick leave or other renumeration received from the employer, 4) payments under any other loss-of-eamingsinsurance after 78 weeks (18 months).
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination ofemployment or lay-off;
b)	on employee's 65th birthday
(THE ABOVE IS MERELY A SUMMARY OF THE PLAN AND IN NO WAY CHANGES OR MODIFIES THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE POLICY)
-34-
APPENDIX 4 ■ RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For purposes of Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement, the "appropriate management person" will be:
Feed Plant	1 • Grievor's Foreman (if on the shift, if not, then would proceed to second step
and Plant Superintendent)
2.	Plant Superintendent
3.	Feed Plant Manager
4.	Vice President Agriculture
Price St. Distribution Centre
1.	Grievor's Foreman • Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman - Written
3.	Operations Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Henri Dunam Distribution Centre
1.	Grievor's Foreman ■ Verbal
2.	Grievor's Foreman- Written
3.	Distribution Department Manager
35
APPENDIX 5
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER.
1	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, C, A,'s policy is to pay only for time worked
2 a) However, a "grace period" of two hours will be allowed so that employees	rive at work
within two hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
b)	The "grace period" will only apply where the General Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, or the managementperson in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute "severe bad weather".
c)	Such ruling will he made by the end ofthe first day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the C A operation(s) during the storm and the observed seventy ofthe storm.
3	a) None o fthe foregoing will apply where an employee was notified at least one-halfhour before
his/her normal starting time not to come to work.
b)	Such notification may he by way of a general announcement over the local radio station or by a telephone call or personal visit to the employee's place of residence
c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to monitor the appropriate radio broadcasts and fo see that he/she or some other adult is availableto receive a message at his/her place of residence
4.	Failing such notice any employee who shows up for work will he paid for a minimum of four hours (including any "grace period" whether or not there is work available.
5.	a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commencement of the work day (or shift) and
management decides to shut down the operation employeesthen at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
b) However, no employee shall receive more than two hours pay for time not worked in any one day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
6.	a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in the face ofdeteriorating weather
conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
b) However, he/she shall be paid only for time worked unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which case he/she will be entitled to the same "grace period" as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
7.	Any "grace period" allowedunder this policy shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime pay in any day or week.
36
APPENDIX 6
Grocery Hours
Overtime after 10 hours/day 40/wk
The first 2 consecutive days off will be considered their Sat-Sun per Collective Agreement Hours
SUNDAY
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
5:00 AM. -3:30 P.M. 5:00 A.M. -3:30 P.M. 5:00 A.M.- 3:30 P.M. 5:00 A.M.-3:30 P.M.
The implementation and operation of these shifts will not affect any current member of the Bargaining unit. This means that no present employee will be transferred to the above noted shifts against the employees will.
Management and the Union agree to strike a committee to study work scheduling that may be able to meet both the employer's and employee'sneeds.
37
APPENDIX?
PRODUCE HOURS
The work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours made up of three x twelve-hour(3 x 12 hr) days to be paid at the forty-hour (40 hr. rate, i e, hoursworked will be paid at 40/36 x the rep’ ’ 'ate for the job in Appendix2 (b)
Each employee will have two consecutive days off The first day of rest shall be equivalent to Saturday and the second equivalent to Sunday for the purpose of this agreement
a)	Overti m e pay shal I be 1.5 limes the reg ular rate.
A day ofvacation or sick leave will be paid as 12 hours at the regular rate
With regard to statutory holidays set out in 19.01 (a), above, an employee on this shift will receive either the holiday off with pay or an alternate work-day off with pay in the week preceding or following the holiday. The employee will be advised two weeks in advance of the holiday or the alternate (whichever comes first) of when the holidaywill be observed.
The days and hoursof work for this shift and the proportion of employees on the shift working the various days are as follows:
Day	% Working
Sunday	50 %
Tuesday	100%
Thursday	100%
Saturday	SO%
Except as provided in the new clause 18.01 (g), no present employeewill be transferred to this shift against the employee's will.
The parlies hereinbefore mentioned, do hereby agree to amend the collective agreement as indicated in the foregoing, effectivefrom September 25, 1999 to September24, 2002, inclusive
Co-op Atlantic
38
Local 1288P
Hours of Work 7;00 a.m -8:00p.m 7:00 a.m -8:00p.m 7:00 a.m -8:00p.m 7:00 a.m -8:00p,m
LETTER Of-....jERSTAiNDINfi REGARDING QUALITY CONTROL FUNCTION'
It is understood that in future the Bulk Unloader may do the sampling of ingredients coming in b> truck and the office staff may, as necessary, operate the truck scaler and load outgoing bulk shipments.
Co-op Atlantic
Local 1288P, U.F.C.W.
39
LETTER OF INTENT
The Union and the Co-op shall form a committee io deal with Article IS 01 (g), and will endeavour to find a mutually agreeable schedule to deal with consecutive days off and a limit on shift changes per year
FOR CO-OP ATLANTIC
FORUF.CW
40
Letter of Understanding
Re: Feed Plant - Service of Front Door Customers after 4:00 p.iu..
With the introduction of the new schedule of hours in the Feed Plant, it is understood that “Front Door" customer service will be carried out by the “Evening Shift” staff after 4:00 p.m..
Individuals from the “Evening Shift” will be assigned by the Production Coordinator, or his temporary replacement, as required to satisfactorily carry out an> such nccessaiy customer service.
Co-op Atlantic	Local 1238P, U.F.C.W
41
LETTER OF AGREEMENT RE; ARBITRATORS
1.	Pursuant to Article 8.05 of this agreement, the following arbitrators are to be appointed on a rotation basis:
1.	Brian Bruce
2.	George McAllister
3.	Judith MaePherson
4.	Donald MacLean
5.	Thomas Kuttner
2.	Should the above arbitrators he unavailable and the parties areunahfetoagreeon an arbitrator, then the appointment shall he made by the Minister of Labour.
3.	Names on the above list may be added or deleted by mutual agreement between the parties.
Co-op Atlantic
Local 1288P, U.F.C.W.
42
Letter of Intent
The company and the union agree tu explore the idea of a change of hours of work in the distribution centres to reflect paid 8 hour shifts as agreed per the Peed Mill.
Co-up Atlantic	Local 1288P, U.F.C.W,
Ron Sansom___________ Date:April 10/01 Debra Smith_________________________