I
AGREEMENT
between
Local 1288P,
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union - AFL-CIO-CLC
and
Co-op Atlantic,
Feed Plant and Distribution Centres Moncton, N,B.
September 25,1996 - September24, 1999
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
ARTICLE i 'JRPOSE................
ARTICLE i ^COGNITION ............
ARTICLE 3 UNION SECURITY.........
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .....
ARTICLE 5 STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE .......................
ARTICLE 6	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ...
ARTICLE 7 DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
ARTICLE 8 ARBITRATION ...........
ARTICLE 9 NON-INTERRUPTION OF WORK ARTICLE 10 PROBATIONARY PERIOD .,
ARTICLE II SENIORITY ............
ARTICLE 12 LOSS OF SENIORITY ....
ARTICLE 13 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS .
ARTICLE 14 PERMANENT PROMOTIONS. TRANSFERS. LAY-OFFS,
AND RECALLS .............
ARTICLE 15 LEAVE OF ABSENCE .........
ARTICLE 16 WAGE AND JOB CLASSIFICATION
ARTICLE 17 COLA .....................
ARTICLE 18 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
ARTICLE 19 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS .......
ARTICLE 20 PAID VACATIONS ...........
ARTICLE 21 COMPASSIONATE LEAVE.......
-A|TjCLE 22 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS .......
.2
.4
.4
.6
.8
.9
.11
.11
.12
.13
.13
.15
.19
.21
.23
.24
.27
,29
.31
.32
.35
ARTICLE 24
ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28
SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE -GENERAL: TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE;
PLANTCLOSURE ...............
PRODUCTION STANDARDS........
BULLETIN BOARDS.............
CORRESPONDENCE .............
TERM OF AGREEMENT ..........
.36
,38
.38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING TO EMPLOYEES .......41
APPENDIX 1 (A) DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION ... .41 APPENDIX 1(B) DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION ...42
APPENDIX 2(A) JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES
■ MONCTON FEED PLANT .........43
APPENDIX 2(B) JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES
- MONCTON DISTRIBUTION CENTRE .. .44
APPENDIX 3(A)	INCOME GUARANTEE
(SHORTTERM DISABILITY) .......45
APPENDIX 3(B)	INCOME GUARANTEE
(LONGTERM DISABILITY) ........46
APPENDIX 4	RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ......47
APPENDIX 5	TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY
WEATHER ......................48
APPENDIX 6	RE: GROCERY HOURS ............SO
APPENDIX7	PRODUCE HOURS ................SO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: QUALITY CONTROL FUNCTION	 52
LETTER OF INTENT RE: RETROACTIVITY .......53
LETTER OF INTENT RE: SPECIAL COMMITTEE (18.01 g) .. ,53
LETTER OF INTENT RE: CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS ..54
LETTER OF INTENT RE: PART-TIME ...........54
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LOC. .288P, UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONALUNION 
(hereinafter called the Union)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC

(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and the Co-operative and to provide collective bargaining relations to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wages, hours and other working conditions.
1.02	It is recognized by this agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Co-operativerecognizes the Union as the Collective
Bargaining Agent for its employees in the M oncton Feed Plant and in the Moncton Distribution Centres with the exception of: Feed Plant Manager; Feed Plant Superintendent;Distribution Centre Managers; Foremen; Office Employees; Servicemen; Maintenance Men; Carpenters; Mechanics; Watchmen; and Stationery Engineers.
•1
2.02	The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform faithfully and diligently their respective duties forthe Co-operative, and that they will at all times carry out their individual responsibilities wording to the regulations, methods, and procedure dished by management, subjectto the provisions ot o,.a agreement.
2.03	The Union, recognizing that the Co-operative owes its very existence to member support of local Co-operatives, agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operative and Co-op Label Products.
ARTICLE 3 ■ UNION SECURITY
3.01	Maintenance of Membership
a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this agreement is a member of the Union in good standing, or who becomes a member after that date, shall maintain membership in the Union during the term of this agreement. An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause so long as he pays his regular monthly dues.
b)	Modified Rand Formula
The Co-operative further agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that any employee hired after the signing of this agreement shall commence and continue to pay regular monthly Union dues from date of hire.
3.02	No Discrimination or Penalty
a)	No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union; and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimination of any kind whatsoever be practiced or -2-
permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
b)	If any employee asserts that he has paid his regular
moU' Mjes and the Union denies same, such assertion sha iitute a grievance and shall be dealt with accorumg to the grievance procedure established in this agreement.
3.03	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees hired before the signing of this agreement, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form prescribed in Appendix 1 (a) attached, and so long as the employee remains a member of the Union, deduct regular monthly Unions dues.
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this agreement it shall be a condition of employment that such employee give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (b) attached, written authorization to deduct regular monthly Union dues for the duration of the agreement.
c)	The Co-operativeagrees to deduct Union dues from the employee’spay at the end of each month and to forward the total amount to the designated official of the Local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following. The Union will certify in writing to the Co-operative the amount of the monthly membership dues.
d)	The Union agrees that the amount of the monthly dues to be deducted from members during the term of the Agreement shall be levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Local Union.
■3-
ARTICLE 4- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
14.01	The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this
agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	hire, suspend, discharge forjust cause, classify, transfer, promote, demote. No employee will be demoted as a disciplinary measure.;
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees;
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operativeis engaged.
4.02	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or
authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 • STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
5.01	For the purposes of this article, there will be three (3) locations:
1.	Price Street
2.	Henri Dunant
3,	Feed Mill/Agricultural Products
5.02	In order to facilitatethe orderly processing of complaints and grievances, the Co-operative acknowledges the union’s right to select:
a) One (1) steward from each shift at each location (produce shifts will be separate from other shifts).
b) One (1) chief steward (in addition to the above) at each location.
c)	One (1) steward for the truck drivers at Price Street which, for the purposes of this article, will be considered a shift at the Price Street location.
d)	AC ce Committee at each location consisting of the C—vi Stewardand any two (2) other permanent employees. The Unit Chairperson shall have the right to participate in any and all union related activities.
e)	A Union Grievance Committee of two (2) representatives from the committees at each location noted above who would act on behalf of the whole Bargaining Unit in any grievance that is raisedjointly by the Plant and the Distribution Centres employees under section 6,03 below.
f)	The Union shall keep management informed as to the names of current officers, stewards and members of the Grievance Committees.
5.03	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committeeshave their regular work to perform as employees of the Co-operative. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without giving an explanation for leaving and obtaining the Co-operative representative's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
5.04	In order that loss of production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced
outside of working hours whenever possible and on this uiideislanding the Co-operativeagrees that Stewards shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances,
5.05	Meetings between the management and the Grievance Committees shall be held on the premises of the Cooperative and those members of the Union Committee who must attend such meetings during working hours
-5-
will be paid by the Co-operative for time lost from work at their regular rate, provided that when meetings are called at the request of the Union, such meetings will not be unreasonably frequent.
5.06	For the purpose of Collective Bargainingtnv employer shall recognize a Union negotiating committee of not more than five (5) employees of the Co-op, one of whom shall be the Unit Chairperson.
5.07	The members of the Union negotiating team, as per Article 5:06 above, will be paid up to a maximum of 7 days, 8 hours per day at the regular rate of pay including all premiums if applicable for the time spent negotiating.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	Should complaints or grievances arise between the Cooperative and Union or employees as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under this agreement, there shall be no strike, slowdown, stoppage of work, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lock-outs by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
6.02	a) It is agreed that grievances at any location (as defined
in article 5.01 above) will be processed by the Stewards and Grievance Committee for that location. Grievances arising under section 6,03 below, will be dealt with by the Union Grievance Committee (as defined in article
5.02	(e) above).
b)	Grievances relating to disciplinary action shall be submitted to the management level who imposed the discipline.
c)	When Management calls an employee in on a disciplinary matter or if discussions lead to a disciplinary situation, the steward shall be present unless the employee otherwise decides.
-6-
6.03	It is agreed that in the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee may rnt the grievance in writing directly to the Vice Prci Human Resources and Corporate Affairs. Subsequent action will be governed by Steps 4 and 5 of the normal Grievance Procedure.
6.04	A grievance to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within four (4) working days (subject to Section 7.02) of the occurrence and shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP I
The employee accompanied by a steward, shall discuss the grievance with his immediate supervisor. The decision of the immediate supervisor shall be given within twenty-four hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 2
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then the Union shall put the grievance in writing on suitable forms and the Chief Steward, or his alternate, shall submit it to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to the agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP3
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in Appendix 4 to this agreement. The latter shall give his decision in writing within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays.
STEP 4
If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, then the Grievance Committee shall submit it in writing to the appropriate management person as indicated in -7- t
S Vj
Appendix 4 to this agreement and the latter shall schedule and hold a meeting within fourteen (14) calendar
days between himself, or his appointee, and the Grievance Committee to attempt to resolve the grievance. At such meeting the manager herson referred to above may be accompanied b, ) four other representatives of management and the Grievance Committee may be accompanied by the Business Agent or International Representative of the Union.
The management person shall give his decision in writing within 5 (five) days, excluding weekends and holidays. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing of the parties concerned.
STEP5
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 4 then either party may request arbitration as provided in Article 8 below. If neither party notifies the other of its intention (as per Section 8.01 below) within twenty-one days of having received the written decision at Step4, then the grievance shall be deemed to be settled. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement in writing, of the parties concerned.
ARTICLE 7 • DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
7.01	No employee will be disciplined or discharged without just cause. The Co-operative recognizes the principle of progressive discipline, except where a serious incident warrants immediate suspension or discharge.
7.02	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the appropriate management person at Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure within four working days of the discharge. Such grievance shall not be limited to Step 4 of the grievance procedure.
-a-
7.03	A record of disciplinary action against an employee shall be removed from the employee’s file after 24 months, provided no disciplinary action of a similar nap*' has occurred during the 24 month period.
i
7.04	Upv..	oyees shall be granted full
access to their file.
ARTICLE 8 ■ ARBITRATION
8.01	No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been carried through the applicable steps of the grievance procedure.
8.02	a) When either party wishes to submit a grievance to arbi-
tration it shall notify the other party in writing and, at the same time, state its preference for a single arbitrator or an arbitration board, otherwise, the grievance shall be deemed resolved and/or withdrawn.
b)	If a single arbitrator has been requested, the party receiving the notice shall advise the other party io writing of its disapproval within five (5) days of receiving the notice. The party initiating the grievance shall either: 1) retain the option for a single arbitrator or 2) agree to an arbitration board and notify the other party accordingly and proceed to select an arbitrator or board of arbitration in accordance with 8.02 c) and 8.05.
c)	If the party receiving notice agrees, or fails to advise the other party in writing of its disapproval within five (5) days, the parties shall immediately undertake to reach agreement on a person to act as arbitrator.
If the parties are unable to reacn agreement on an arbitrator within fifteen (15) days of the aforementioned notice, then one of the persons named in 8,05 shall be named as the arbitrator.
8.03	If a single arbitrator has not been agreed to or established in accordance with Article 8,02, then, upon receiving reference to arbitration, each party shall
-9-
within five (5) day s notify the other party of its nominee to the board of arbitration.
8.04	The nominees named in accordance with ° 03 shall within ten (10) days of their appointme, ?e upon a chairperson of the arbitration board, n —e parties are unable to reach agreement upon a chairperson within ten (10) days then one of the persons named in accordance with Article 8,05 shall be named as the chairperson of the arbitration board.
8.05	The arbitrators referred to above shall consist of five (5) names mutually agreed to by the union and the cooperative. Selection of an arbitrator shall be made by the process of rotation from the list of arbitrators. If the selected arbitrator is unavailable to hear the arbitration for 60 days, then the party initiating the grievance has the option of moving to the next arbitrator on the rotation. If the above arbitrators are unavailable, or by mutual agreement of the parties, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour.
8.06	Time limits referred to in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, of the two parties.
8.07	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
8.08	Arbitration decisions are to be rendered within fifteen (15) days of the hearing being completed.
8.09	The decision of the single arbitrator or of the majority of the Board or ot the Chairman, failing a majority Board decision, shall be binding on the parties to this Agreement.
8.10	Each of the parties hereto shall share equally the expense of the single arbitrator or of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board and shall bear the full expense of its own appointee to an Arbitration Board.
-10-
MKI lk.Lt Y ■ NUN-INI tKRUPTION OF WORK
9.01	a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or
sanction its members to cause or take Dart in (and it is agref5'1 ' at the Co-operativemay discharge any employee \ uses or takes part in), any sit-down or slowdown of any strike or stoppage of operations, or any curtailment of work or restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative’s premises, during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock out of employees during the life of the agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this agreement.
9.02	The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the agreement, until all steps relating to the conciliation procedure in the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
ARTICLE 10- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10.01	a) New employees will be considered as probationary
employees for the first ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employee shall not be the subject of a grievance, but all other conditions of this agreement shall apply. At the completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be back-dated to his last date of hiring.
b) If an employee is absent for more than ten (10) working days during his probationary period, management may extend his probationary period by up to an equal number of working days. Management agrees to notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate section in writing of such extension and the employee’s start date. Management
-11-
and the Union will sign such notice once the content ot such notice is agreed upon.
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11.01	a) There shall be two kinds of seniority, i. ml seniori-
ty and bargaining unit-wide seniority. Sectional seniority shall be an employee’s service with the Co-operative within one section (i.e. Feed Plant or Distribution Centres) and shall be applicable to promotions, transfers, layoffs, recalls and as may be set out in other provisions of this Agreement.
b)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be the accumulated service of an employee with the Co-operative in both sections and shall prevail in all matters of interpretation of this agreement except where sectional seniority is expressly indicated.
c)	Bargaining unit-wide seniority shall be established from the date an employee last entered or last enters the service of the Co-operative, subject to Article 10.01.
d)	Sectional Seniority will not be transferrable from one section to another but will be retained in the section where it is earned. The Seniority List will show this.
e)	When more than one individual is hired at the same time, their initial interview time will determine their placement on the Seniority list.
11.02	A seniority list showing the status of each employee, including those on layoff shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board in each section within thirty days after the signing of this agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it has been disputed under the Grievance Procedure. A new seniority list shall be posted every three (3) months thereafter.
12-
11.03	FEED MILL: In the event of a layoff or Feed Mill closure, Feed Mill employees shall be placed on the part-time seniority list and shall:
(a)	Ha( jer seniority over part time employeesfor all avah»L>le part-time hours in accordance with their seniority;
(b)	Be given hiring preference to full-time positions, over part-time employees, in accordance with their seniority;
(c)	Receive 80% of the full time wage rate in accordance with their seniority.
ARTICLE 12- LOSS OF SENIORITY
12.01	An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged forjust cause and is not reinstated according to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
c)	he is laid off from the Distribution Centre or Feed Plant section for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months, if he has less than two years seniority at time of lay-off, or for a period in excess of eighteen (18) consecutive months if he has two years or more seniority at the time of lay-off.
d)	Notwithstanding(c) above, no employee's seniority will be cancelled due to lay-off beyond eighteen (18) months as a result of a shut-down from tine destmctionand rebuilding of the facility.
ARTICLE 13 ■ TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
13.01	Where an employee is temporarily assigned to aj ob in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, he will be paid, for
-13-
such assignment, at the corresponding step in the higher grade.
13.02	a) In the Distribution Centres, where a ten, "'ry assign-
ment of one week or more in duration be available, preference in filling the assignment will be given to employees in the same grade, followed by the employees in lower grades on the same shift within the same functional area (i.e.; General Merchandise; Produce; Grocery) and then to employees who are on night/evening shifts and the selection from amongst these will be based on seniority provided the senior person is able to do the job. Employees in the same grade shall be excluded from lateral transfers during the months of June, July, and August.
b)	In the Feed Mill, employees will be given preferencein order of seniority over outside help in filling such temporary assignments in higher grades on the same shift, provided they are able to do the job.
13.03	An employee who replaces a foreman or other supervisory employee temporarily for a period of two (2) or more continuous hours, shall receive $ 1.00 per hour additional
Eay for the duration of such transfer. In the Distri-ution Centre only, such employee shall not bump into overtime hours during the temporary transfer until all full-time employees as per Article 18.09 have been offered the overtime opportunity.
13.04	Employees on temporary assignments as in 13.01 or
13,03	above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their formerjobs at their former rate.
13,05	a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period of the employee being replaced.
b)	If the regular incumbent’s absence on sick leave or
workmen’s compensation extends beyond three (3)
-14-
months, the j ob will be posted and filled under clause 14.01, provided that should the regular incumbent return from sick leave or compensation he will return to his previous] ob and the replacement to his previous j ob and so f'’ vith regard to any other employees promoted as a rl t the original vacancy.
13,06	If a holiday (as set out in Article 18) falls in a period when an employee is replacing someone in a higher classification, the employee shall be paid for the holiday at the rate he receives for time worked on the temporary transfer.
This clause shall apply only where the temporary transfer was in effect the day before the holiday. For the purpose of qualifying for the higher rate under 13.01 or 13.03, above, the holiday will count as a working day.
ARTICLE 14- PERMANENT PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, LAY-OFFS,AND RECALLS
14,01	a) When aj ob vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, including any new position, it shall be posted within forty-eight (48) hours, at all locations, and shall remain posted for seventy-two (72) hours before the vacancy is permanently filled. If a longer delay is necessary, the Union shall be advised in writing of the reasons.
All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for forty-eight (48) hours before they are permanently filled.
Where workers concerned are absent for legitimate reasons, these time limits may be extended.
Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during this absence must advise his immediate supervisor accordingly, leaving the telephone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable -15-
b)
c)
d)
effort to contact such employee. If unable to contact the employee, the Union Steward shall be so notified.
14.02	Applications for posted vacancies will be made in writing to the supervisor indicated on the pos'
14.03	a) In the event of a permanent promotion or a permanent
transfer, within either section of the bargaining unit, to fill a posted vacancy, preference shall be given on the basis of Sectional Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
b)	If no employee from the section in which the vacancy occurs bids on the job, preference shall be given to employees from the other section on the basis of Bargaining Unit-Wide Seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work are relatively equal.
c)	Where promotions or permanent transfers are made on other than the basis of seniority, the Co-operative will advise the Union, in writing, of the decision and the reasons for it prior to advising the employee(s) affected.
d)	If no employee from either section, having the required ability, skill and competence to perform the work, bids on thejob, management shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for thejob.
e)	Where a person from outside the unit is hired in either section to fill a posted job and the employee from one of the sections had bid on thejob, the Co-operative shall advise the Unit Chairperson and the Chief Steward of the section where the j ob is located, of its reasons for doing so before the employeegoes onto thejob.
f)	When work and/or job(s) are transferred, the transferred job(s) shall be posted and the affected emp!oyee(s) shall have the right to bump.
g)	A notice, stating to whom thej ob was given shall be posted on the Union's bulletin boards within forty-eight
-16-
(48)	iding week-ends and holidays) after the
vacancy is filled.
14.04	a) T' successful applicant for a posted job shall be
gi ..rial and training of up to 30 calendar days. This tria. and training period may be extended by mutual consent of the Union and Management.
Ib) A promoted or transferred employee within the same section shall have his formerjob protected for thirty (30) calendar days. If within the first thirty (30) calendar days on the newjob, either he proves unsatisfactory, as determined by Management, or he decides not to continue in that job, he shall be entitled to return to his former job and pay rate without any loss of seniority. Any employee who was transferred to fill a vacancy created by the first promotion or transfer shall also be entitled to return to his formerjob and pay rate without loss of seniority.
If such promotion or transfer is between sections, the trial period may be extended by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and Management.
c)	A replacement shall be selected from the balance of the applicants, provided one such applicant has the necessary skill, ability and competence to meet the job requirement. Preference shall be given on the basis of section seniority where two or more of the applicants have relatively equal skill, ability and competence to perform the work. if none of the balance of the applicants meet the j ob requirements, or if there was only one applicant to the original posting, thejob shall be reposted.
d)	If there are no suitable applicants following the reposting, then the Co-operative shall select whomever it may consider satisfactory for thejob.
14,05	a) In the event of a lay-off within either section of the Bargaining Unit, retention shall be on the basis of sectional seniority. The employee whosejob disappears -17-
(temporarily or permanently) can bump any employee junior to him whose work he can do in a satisfactory manner following a reasonable familiarization or training and trial period of up to thirty (30) calend 4ays.
1b)	If the employee is not successful or does not want to continue in the position within the time period in (a) above, he may bump thejunior employee in the section and will have to reach a satisfactory level of performance after a reasonable familiarization or training and trial period of up to thirty (30) calendar days.
c)	Where an employee moves into a lower grade to avoid lay-off he shall retain his current rate and will receive any general increases to the pay ranges until he bids off the job.
14,06	a) The Co-operative shall give an employee two (2)
weeks notice of a planned lay-off of one week or more and two days notice of a lay-off of less than one week, except where the latter clearly results from causes that are unforeseeable, e.g.: Acts of God. Where an employee works past the layoff notice date, new notice must be given if there is to be a layoff. Layoff notice shall not be used in an unjust manner and/or be an indefinite notice.
b) Employees shall be recalled in the order of their seniority where jobs become available, provided they have the demonstrated ability to perform suchjobs.
c)	The employer shall give notice of recall by telephone or
telegram confirmed by registered letter to the last telephone number and address given to the employer in writing by the employee. The employee snail advise the employer of his intentions by telephone or telegram con-fimed by registered letter as soon as possible, but, in any case, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received the registered letter. If he fails to do so, he will forfeit his right to recall. If he indicates that he will return, then he must do so within seven (7) days of having received the registered letter or forfeit his right to recall.
-18-
d)	An employee may refuse to exercise his right to recall Iq other than his regular job without prejudicing his right to future recall if:
1.	He’ ’visesthe employer, in the manner prescribed in (c) j, within twenty-four (24) hours of having received a recall noticeoy registered mail; and
2.	There is ajunior employee on layoff in the same grade or lower with demonstratedability to do thejob.
14,07	a) No supervisoiyperson will be transferred into the
Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not filled through the posting procedure. Seniority earned thereafter will apply in the section where it is earned, seniority accumulated prior to leaving the bargaining unit will remain, provided the person’s absence has not exceeded six (6) months.
Ib) Any member of the Bargaining Unit who is promoted to a job outside the unit shall have his oldj ob protected for thirty (30) days. After that time, he shall be subject to
14.07	(a) above.	’
c) A working foreman will be allowed on an evening or night shift provided that the number supervised does not exceed seven (7) and so long as it has no effect on existing Bargaining Unitjobs or members.
ARTICLE 15- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15,01	a) The Co-operative will grant leave of absence without pay for up to two weeks per year to employees to enable them to attend labour schools, conferences or conventions, provided that the employee advises management at least two weeks in advance. Not more than one employee per shift or two employees per location may be absent at the same time except at the Price Street location where up to three (not more than one per shift) may be absent at the same time. Requests for increase of numbers of individuals and/or the extension to the length of the leave of -19-
absence will be given consideration taking into account operational requirements.
b)	The terms “shift” and “location” in this article shall have the same meaning as in 5.01 and 5.02 abo>
c) The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to employees for other reasons, which in the opinion of management, are legitimate and which do not, in combination with (a), above, present staffing problems.
d)	Any leave of absence under (a) or (c) above, must be in writing to the employee and signed by the Department Manager.
15.02	Any leave of absence granted under 15.01 will not affect an employee’s seniority rights or his employee benefits provided the employee maintains his regular contributions to the plans.
15.03	a) An employee wishing to engage in full-time Union work shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority, provided that:
)) he gives thirty (30) days notice of application for such leave;
2)	the leave of absence does not exceed one year;
3)	not more than one employee from the bargaining unit is on such leave of absence.
b)	The effect of such leave of absence on employee benefits
shall be the same as for a lay-off (see Article XXIII),
15.04	If an employee works elsewhere while on leave of absence, he may be dismissed unless he has written permission from management to do such work.
■20-
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE AND JOBCLASSIFICATION
16.01	A scheduleof job classifications and wages shall be attach 4 to this agreement in the form of Appendix 2 and shf >art of the agreement.
16.02	The steps of the grades indicate the within-grade increases that can be anticipated by employees. Such increases are not automatic but will depend upon satisfactory progress. The Unit Chairperson shall be notified if a review is to be delayed, or if an increase is to be withheld. The steward of the affected indi vidual(s) shall be present when such individual(s) is notified.
16.03	An employee who is promoted to ajob in a higher grade than he presently occupies shall be paid at the corresponding step in the higher grade except that he will not be paid the top rate until he has completed thirty (30) days in the newjob or any extended trial period agreed to under article
14,04	(b). Upon completion of such period, any increase shall then be paid retroactively to the date of promotion.
16.04	a) A Shift Premium of fifty-five(550) per hour will be
paid for hours worked on the evening shift and of sixty-five (650) per hour for hours worked on the night shift as describedin (b) below. A shift premium of $2.25 per hour will be paid, for hours worked on Saturday and Sunday, to employees who work both Saturday and Sunday as part of their regular work week.
Ib)	For purposes of this agreement, an employee is consid-
ered to be on the evening shift if the major part of his regularwork day falls between 4:00 p.m, and midnight. Likewise an employee is considered to be on the night shift when the major part of his regularwork day falls between midnight and 8:00 a.m.
c)	The schedule of hours and days of work of each employ-
ee shall be posted in an appropriate place. This schedule may be altered from time to time as required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative’sbusi-
-21-
ness. If an employee’s schedule is changed without forty-eight (48) hours notice, such employee shall be paid one and one-half (1M) times his regular rate for all hours worked within the required period or 'me.
16.05	a) The Co-operative may use part-time employees to
replace full-time Grade 1 employees absent on vacation; sick leave; workers compensation; disability; union business; approved leave; and temporary transfers. Such replacement must be completed by the end of the shift following the absence.
b) A part-time worker will regularly work up to twenty-six (26) hours per week or less except in situations where additional hours are required pursuant to 16.05 (a).
Ic)	Wherever possible, known absences of more than two
2 weeks on the day shift shall be offered to full-time employees on the evening or night shift by seniority, prior to being filled by part-time employees.
Id)	A part-time worker is on probation for the first three hundred and fifty (350) hours of employment.
e)	A part-time worker's seniority for the purpose of wage increments is based on total hours worked. Full-time seniority shall, in all cases, take preference over parttime seniority.
0	me workers shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of
the full-time rates (set out in Appendix 2) for the same work and length of time on thejob.
Ig) Part-time workers shall be paid vacation pay equal to four percent (4%) of gross earnings and statutory holidays according to the legislation. Part-time employees shall have the option of 4% (of vacation) calculated on each pay, or 4% to be paid out on January 15th and July 15th of each year.
•22-
h)	The Co-op shall supply to the union a part-time seniority list based on date of hire. Available work, in accordance with 16.05 (a), will be assigned based on date of hire. The Co-operative shall supply in writing to the union a v~ ‘which full-time employee is absent and which pi ne employee is working on each shift in accordance with Article 16;05 a) and the Letter of Intent re: Part Time.
i)	Part-time employees will not qualify for the “birthday” holiday unless they attain seniority, in which case it will be paid retroactively provided it fell more than thirty (30) days after the employee’s hire date.
j)	Management will notify the Chief Steward of the appropriate location in writing of each part-time person hired with start date and reason for hire.
k)	Part-time employeesshall not be used to the extent that they reduce or delete the regular hours of full time employees, or prevent the creation of new full time jobs.
l)	No parf-tfmer(s) will be employed while there is on layoff a full time employee with seniority who is willing and able to do the work.
ARTICLE 17 - COLA
A cost-of-livingallowance will become effectiveduring the third year of this agreementif the rise in the Consumer Price Index(C.P,I.) (1981=100) publishedby Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% of the August, 1998, C.P.I., which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
Starting on the first of the month in which the published C.P, I, exceeds 105,0% of the August, 1998, figure, a premium of one and one half (1.50) per hour for each 0,3 point that the C.P.l. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regularrate. The C.P.l. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one and one half (1.56) per hour for each
-23-
0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after September 24, 1999.
ARTICLE 18 - HOURS CF WORK AND OVERTIME
18.01a) PRODUCE - The hours of work will be:
Evening Shift: 2:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Sunday to Thursday inclusive:
Day Shift: Regular hours as set out below in (f)
Night Shift: 11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. starting Sunday at 11:00p.m, and finishing at 7:30 a.m. Friday.
Weekend Shift: refer to Appendix 7
b)	PRICE STREET (EXCLUDING PRODUCE) - The
hours of work will be:
Evening Shift: 3:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. Sunday to Thursday inclusive.
Night Shift: 11 ;30 p.m, to 8:00 a.m. starting Sunday at 11:30 p.m, and finishing Friday 8:00 a.m.
Day Shift: Regular hours as noted below in (f):
Weekend Shift: See Appendix 6
c)	TRUCK/TRACTOR DRIVERS- First fifty (50) hours per week Monday to Friday, inclusive, to be at regular rate with overtime in excess of fifty (50) hours at one and one-half (Hf) times the regular rate.
d)	HENRI DUNANT - The hours of work will be:
Day Shift: 7:00 am - 3:30 pm Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Evening Shift: 3:30 pm -12:00 am Monday to Friday, inclusive.
-24-
e)	FEED MILL - The hours of work will be:
Day Shift: 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., Monday to Friday, inp’
Evening Shift: 4:30 p.m, - 1:00 a.m., starting Monday at 4:30 p.m. and finishing Saturday at 1:00 a.m.
Night Shift: 11:30 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Sunday to Friday
f)	REGULAR WORKWEEK- 7:00 am - 3:30 p.m.;
8 hours per day: Monday through Friday: 40 hours per week.
g)	The 13% mostjunior (by seniority) employees by functional area(i.e., grocery: produce: drivers: Henri Dunant) may be scheduled to work as needed so long as the work week does not exceed 40 hours and the daily hours do not exceed 10 with at least 2 days off per week. All other clauses of the agreement apply. This clause does not apply in the Feed Mill.
18.02	a) Double time will be paid for Sunday work except for employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday in 18.01, above, in which case double time will be paid for Saturday work.
b)	Where an employee is required to work an additional day as overtime in the week preceding a “holiday week” and subsequently does not work his regular number of days in the holiday week, he shall be paid double time for hours worked on the additional day.
c)	Time and one-halt shall be paid after eight (8) hours worked in any day or after forty (40) hours or for any hours worked outside a regular shift in any week except in the case of truck and tractor drivers who are subject to
18.01	(c).
The truck and tractor drivers shall be paid time and one-half for hours worked in excess of fifty (50) in any week. -25-
18.03	The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, • 'oyees shall not ask for additional time off during orking day. The Union agrees that rest periods shou^ not be abused.
18.04	Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a thirty (30) minute meal period.
18.05	a) Where an employee works two (2) hours or more over-
time in a day (provided such overtime and regular hours are continuous not including meal and break periods) the Co-operative shall pay such an employee a meal supplement of six dollars ($6.00).
b)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday, he will be paid the meal supplement only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime is scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee shall be responsible for his own lunch.
c)	Tractor drivers shall be granted a meal supplement of $41,00 per week in lieu of 18.05 (a) above. All expenses related to the maintenance of equipment and for tolls will be borne by the Co-operative.
18.06	An employee who has gone home and is especially called back to work in any emergency outside his normal working hours, shall be paid four (4)hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with provisions of 18,02, whichever is more advantageous to him.
18.07	Any errployeewho is unable to appear for his scheduled shift will notify his immediatesupervisor or the appropriate Superintendentwithin a reasonabletime prior to commence ment of the shift and will give, wherever possible, twenty-four (24) hours notice of when he will rebum to work.
-26-
18.08	Management shall endeavourto give employees twenty-four (24) hours notice where overtime is to be worked.
In any event, if overtime in excess of one (I) hour is to be worked, notice of four (4) hours working time shall be g;'	inless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the part .icerned.	'	'
In cases of emergency beyond the reasonable control of management, it is agreed that notice of overtime will be waived.
18.09	a) When overtime is required, bargaining unit employees
with seniority, who are normally responsible for doing the work, or if they are not available, their temporary replacement, shall be given preference in performing the required overtime work. “Normally responsible” means fork-lift work shall be assigned to fork lift operators on a seniority basis; receiver work shall be assigned to receivers on a seniority basis; etc. etc.
b)	In the event that employees noted in (a) above are not available or that more employees are required, then preference shall be given in order of seniority to those employees within the section who are able to do the work in a satisfactory manner and who are available. Janitor’s seniority shall be recognized for the purposes of overtime provided the individual can perform the required work in a satisfactory manner.
c)	When overtime is required at the end of a regular shift, “available” shall mean “actually on hand”.
18.10	Under certain circumstances, employees may be paid for
up to two (2) hours missed in a day due to stormy weather. Details are set out in Appendix 5 to the agreement.
ARTICLE 19 ■ STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
19.01	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all employees who have worked for thirty (30) days prior to the holiday at their regular rates for the ten following holidays:
-27-
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
New Brunswick Day Boxing Day
b)	If any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If Christmas Day and Boxing Day fall on Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday, then they may be observed on Monday and Tuesday or Friday and Monday. If the work schedule is changed for holidays, it shall be discussed with the Union. No such change shall result in an employee, excludingthose covered in 18.01 g), working two days of the three day holiday unless mutually agreed by the company and the employee.
c)	In addition to the ten holidays listed above, it is agreed that each employee who has been employed for thirty (30) days prior to his birthday shall be granted one additional paid holiday to be identified as “Employee’s Birthday”. Such holiday shall be observed on the employee’s actual birthday unless the employee arranges an alternate day with Management at least two weeks prior to his birthday. Such alternate day shall be within one week prior to or following the actual birthday. A birthday falling on a Saturday, Sunday or one of the holidays listed above shall be observed on such alternate day.
19.02	If an employee works on any of the above eleven (1 1) holidays, he shall be paid at'two (2) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Section 19.01,
19.03	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fourteen (14) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay unless he works on the holiday or the first scheduled workday following the holiday.
-28-
nn IIVI.C HJ - r«IU YMV.H HUNS
20.01	Amual vacations are provided to employees for the purpose of rest and relaxation from their duties, and for
ar ling to personal business. Vacation time will be id to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the appropriate Distribution Centre or Plant Manager, based on his need to keep work scheduled in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
20.02	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and less than two (2) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks.
20.03	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for two (2) years but less than three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (M) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years not exceeding two and one-half (2M) days for any six (6) month period.
20.04	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for three (3) full years but less than nine (9) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
20.05	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for nine (9) years but less than ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (h) day per month of completed service beyond nine(9) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%$ays for any six (6) month period.
20.06	An employee who by April 30th in any year has been continuously employed for ten (10) full years but less than nineteen (19) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
-29-
20.07	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for nineteen (19) years but less than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond nineteen (19) year * exceeding two and orie-half (21/2) days for ai (6) month period.
20.08	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty (20) years but less than twenty-seven (27) full years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
20.09	An employee who by April 30 has been continuously employed for twenty-seven (27) years but less than twenty-eight (28) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks plus one-half (1/2) day per month of completed service beyond twenty-seven (27) years, not exceeding two and one-half (21/2) days for any six (6) month period.
20.10	An employee who by April 3 0 in any year has been continuously employed for twenty-eight (28) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) work weeks.
20.11	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to a maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
20.12	Vacation pay for each week of vacation shall be the normal weekly rate, provided that this amount may be reduced by one-fifty second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1)	with permission up to 30 days annually;
2)	due to sickness up to 30 days annually; or such longer
-30-
periods not exceeding six (6) months as an employee may be entitled to receive sick leave pay or sick benefits under plans provided by the Co-operative;
3)	one year due to a compensable accident.
4)	all shift premiums shall be included as regular wages for the purpose of vacation pay.
20.13	In no event shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve months to April 30,
20.14	Employees are expected to take their vacation in the year in which it is credited. However, arrangements may be made to carry over a portion of vacation credits on the same basis as all Co-op Atlantic Employees.
ARTICLE 21 ■ COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
21.01	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family (by marriage, adoption or common law), within the following limits:
a)	Spouse, parent or child - five (5) working days;
b)	Brother, sister, parent of spouse - three (3) working days;
c)	Grandparent, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-inlaw, son-in-law, grandchild- one(l) working day.
21.02	Where an employee becomes entitled to compassionate leave during his scheduled vacation the days of vacation so replaced shall be credited to him. Where the compassionate leave period expires one week or more prior to
. his scheduled return from vacationhe may be required to return on that date and use the remaining vacation credits at a later date.
■31
21.03	a) Where an employee attends the funeral of a relative specified above and such attendance required considerable travelling time, the employee is entitled to one-half (1/2) day of additional paid leave for each for • urs of travel time required to a maximum of two (2,	.
Individual requests for more travel time will be considered on their merits by the Department Manager or his appointee.
b)	This additional leave will not be paid where it occurs during an employee’s vacation.
ARTICLE 22 ■ EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
22.01	a) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Co-op Atlantic Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Short Term Disability Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, the Group Health Care Plan and the Group Dental Plan in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
b) The Co-operative will discuss any contemplated changes in the Group Benefit plans with the Union before any implementation thereof.
22.02	a) 1. All permanent employees shall be entitled to a maxi-
mum of five (5) days sick; leave with full regular pay in any one benefit year. May 1 st - April 30th. Any employee hired after May 1 st will have his sick leave credits for that year reduced proportionately.
2. By the second pay period in May each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%)of his regular daily rate for each day ot full pay sick leave to his credit at the end of the benefit year; or
b) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall be covered under the Short Term Disability Plan commencing with the eighth calendar day of disability providing they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the
-32-
insurer, an outline of which is attached as Appendix 3 (a) to this agreement.
c)	A permanent employee who has used all of this full-pay s'- '^ave credits and subsequently is absent due to sick-i yill receive supplementary sick leave pay equal to t\w-thirds (2/3) of his regular pay for any such days. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five consecutive work days.
d)	It is agreed that the employee’s interest in any reduction of Employment Insurance contributions after January
1 st, 1973 that may result from the upgrading of the Cooperative’s sick leave plans shall be waived in view of the increased benefits provided in this article and elsewhere in the agreement.
e)	I. The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfacto-
ry medical certificate in support of a claim for sick leave. Any claim covering more than five consecutive days must be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday ;	be supported
by a medical certificate unless the employee phones in to his immediate supervisor on each such day he is absent and the supervisor agrees to waive this requirement.
2.	To be satisfactory a medical certificatemust specify the date and nature of the illness and the duration of time such illness prevented the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
3.	The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
f)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker’s Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
-33-
22.03	a) Where an employee is absent and receiving sick leave
or disability benefits under this agreement or under Workers Compensation, his various benefits under group insurance plans will be kept in effect at no cost to him, except that the employee’s normal full two-v share of the premiums will be taken from any pay, e received by the employee after the sick leave commences.
b)	The group benefits in question are: Group Life Insurance; Short Term and Long Term Disability; Blue Cross and Dental.
c)	The level of Group Life insurance will be based on the employee’s salary at date the leave began but will vary upward or downward to reflect any changes in dependency status in accordance with the provisions of the Group Life Pian.
d)	During absence of the employee, as above, no contributions will be made to the Pension Plan but there will be no reduction in service for pension purposes as a result of such absence(s).
22.04	Miscellaneous
a)	The Co-operativeagrees to supply smocks tojanitors and those employed in recoup at no cost to the employees.
b)	Further the Co-operative agrees to make smocks available to those employed in produce for their use when needed.
c)	The employer will provide a boot allowance of 50% of the cost of boots up to a maximum of $ 50.00 per calendar year, upon presentation of a receipt.
■34-
ARTICLE 23 - EFFECT OF LAY-OFF ON EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS
23.01	Er- ~nt where provided in 22.03 above, where an
<	yee misses time during the year (January 1 st to
L>^-*anber 31 st) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan, any such absences if they total four work weeks or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
23.02	a) An employeeon layoff may keep his coverage under
the Group Life; Blue Cross and Dental Plans in effect for up to twelve (12) months ty paying the full premium one (1) month in advance (subject to agreement by the insurer), Should the employee return before the prepaid premium is used up, he will be refunded the unused portion and deductions will resume on the regular basis.
b) The level of Group Insurance will be determined as in
22.03	(c), above.
23.03	An employee will not be eligible for sick leave while on lay-off except that where he was receiving such benefits at time of lay-off the claim will be handled as if no layoff had occurred.
23.04	a) Coverage under the Short Term and Long Term
Disability Plans ceases at time of lay-off except that where benefits were being received at time of lay-off they will continue to be paid so long as the employee meets the conditions of disability as set out in the Plan (s).	'
b) An employee who returns from lay-off to full-time work within twelve (12) months of lay-off will have his co ver-.agereinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one month of his return to work.
-35-
c) An employee who returns to full-time work after more than twelve (12) months lay-off will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three (3) month’s service.
23.05	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of lay-off.
ARTICLE 24 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE - GENERAL; TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE; AND PLANT CLOSURE
24.01	a) Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of
an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years service or more, and the termination was not a dismissal for “cause” and was not the result of technological change or a plant closure or lay-off of five or more employees in a plant, the Co-operative will pay to the employee one week’s pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maximum oftwenty-five (25Jweeks.
b) An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
24.02	a) Where termination results from technological change,
or a plant closure or lay-off of five or more employees in a plant the following severance allowances will be paid:
1.	For an employee with one (1) year but less than ten (10) years of continuous service - one (I) week for each full year of continuous service up to ten (10) weeks;
2.	An employee with more than ten (10) years continuous service - two (2) weeks for each year over ten (10).
b)	For the purpose ofthis Agreement the term “technological
change” refers to changes in the plant or equipment or changes in process or method of operation that change significantly the working conditions or security of employment of a member or members of the bargaining unit or alter significantly the basis on which this agreement was negotiated.
-36-
c)	The employer shall notify the Union 4 months betore tne introduction of any technological change, plant closure, department closure or lay-off of five or more employees.
d)	y new or greater skills are required than are already p sed by the affected employees) under thepresent methods of operation, such employee(s) shall, at the expense of the employer, be given a reasonable period of time to acquire the skills necessitated by the new method of operation.
e)	The Employer shall, if dictated by the change, reassign affected individuals to an appropriate classification within the attached appendices in accordance with the collective agreement.
24.03	An employee who, at time of lay-off, is within five (5) years of becoming eligible for early retirement under the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan, may take the severance pay at any time prior to orupon expiry of his seniority and, in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
24.04	It is understood that the severance allowances under
24.01	and 24.02 will not be paid when the employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b)	is dismissed forjust cause and this is not reversed through grievance procedure
c)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employee Pension Plan
d)	having less than twenty (20) years service, is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic which is suitable to his qualifications; experience; length of time to retirement; etc; or
■37-
e)	having twenty (2U) years serviceor more is offered other employment within Co-op Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable to his qualifications; experience; length of time to retirement; etc.
24.05	a) It is agreed that where an employee qualifk a sev-
erance allowance under this article, such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee, his beneficiary or estate as the case may be.
b) The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee’s last day of employment with the Co-operative.
24.06	a) For the purposes of this article “Plant” shall include
Feed Mill and Distribution Centres.
ARTICLE 25 - PRODUCTION STANDARDS
25.01	All production standards will be set recognizing that a safe and healthy workplace is paramount.
Standards shall be set, monitored, and applied in a uniform, fair and reasonable manner. If production standards are used as any form of measure, the union shall have access to all relevant documentation and information.
ARTICLE 26 • BULLETIN BOARDS
26.01	The Co-operativeagrees to provide a suitable notice board at the Feed Plant, the Price Street Distribution Centre (one for Grocery and one for Produce), and the Henri Dunant Distribution Centre for the exclusive use of the Union in posting notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
26.02	The co-operative agrees to post, in a visible location, the part-time schedule/hours in accordance with Article 16.05.
■38-
ARTICLE 27 - CORRESPONDENCE
27.01	Ey' * where otherwise provided, official communica-ti . the form of correspondence between the Co-Operative and the Union must be addressed as shown below:
Mr. David Dunston
c/o United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 1288P 96 Norwood Avenue, Suite 218 Moncton, New Brunswick E1C6L9
•39-
ARTICLE 28 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
28.0J This agreement shall remain in effect from 25th day of September, 1996 to the 24th day of Sept , 1999 'aHffshall continue automatically thereafter Qu ,g the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this agreement, or to negotiate a new one.
28.02	If at the date of expiration a new agreement has not been signed, the present agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by law of the Province of New Brunswick have been complied with.
THIS/ ------------------------------------------------d,y
of_________________________A.D., 1997 between the parties
hereinbefore mentioned.
-40-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
To All Bargaining Unit Employees:
The co-tv	t ve agrees that supervisors will not perform bar-
gaining uni: work that is not provided for in the Collective Agreement.
It is not the intent of the Co-operative to subject any employee to verbal slander, harassment, discrimination or intimidation.
The Co-operative is in full agreement with employees bringing their work related problems to their stewards. However, it is expected that non work related problems will be dealt with outside of working hours.
It is understood that if a supervisor becomes verbally abusive towards a steward during a Step 1 grievance meeting, the steward may elect to leave the meeting and proceed to the next step in the grievance procedure.
It is understood and agreed by both parties that courtesy and common sense will prevail in 0,1
APPENDIX I (a)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I, being an employee of Co-op Atlantic at the (Teed Plant), (Distribution Centre), at Moncton and a member of Local 1288P of the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of union initiation fee and monthly membership dues to Local 128 8 P of the said Union.
A. Beaumont, Manager Distribution Department
■41
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriateofficial designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so dedv	‘ %ommy
earnings.
NAIVE	NUMBER
ADDRESS
WITNESS	DATE
APPENDIX I (b)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
I,_______________________________________being an employee
of Co-op Atlantic at the (Feed Plant), (Distribution Centre), at Moncton hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local 1288P, United Food & Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amount so deducted to the appropriateofficial designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
NAME	NUMBER
ADDRESS
-42-
WITNESS
DATE
APPEINDX 2 (a)
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON FEED PLANT
JOETITLE,	EFF.		3	b	12
	DATE	START	MOS.	MOS.	MOS.
GRADE I					
Milibands • Warehouse	25 Sep,96	$11,93	$12,53	$13.13	$14.33
• Sweeping	25 Sep,97	$12.13	$12.73	$13.33	$14.53
	25 Sep,98	$12,33	$13,93	$13,53	$14,73
GRACE II Fork-lift Operator	25 Sep,96	$12.13	$12,73	$13.33	$14.53
Grain Processor	25 Sep,97	$12.33	$12.93	$13.53	$14.73
Bulk Unloader	25 Sep,98	$12,53	$13,13	$13,73	$14,93
GRADE III Bin Charger	25 Sep.96	$12,33	$12.93	$13.53	$14.73
Mixer Helper	25 Sep,97	$12,53	$13.13	$13.73	$14.93
Control Room Operator (Mixer) Pellet Mill Operator Packer-Sewer Shipper-Receiver Shipper-Receiver (Agri-Products)	25 Sep,98	$12,73	$1333	$13,93	$15.13
GRADE IV Lead Hand - Agri-Products	25 Sep,96	$12,53	$13.13	$13.73	$14.93
Quality Controller	25 Sep,97	$12,73	$13.33	$13.93	$15.13
	25 Sep.98	$12,93	$13,53	$14,13	S15 U3 3
Production Co-ordinator/	25 Sep,96	$13.33	$13.93	$14.53	$15.73
Pellet Mill Operator	25 Sep,97	$13,53	$14.13	$14.73	$15.93
■ Evenings	!5 Sep,98	$13,73	$1433	$14,93	$16,13
					
•43-
APPENDIX 2 (b)
SCHEDULE OF JOBGRADES AND WAGE SCHEDULES MONCTON DISTRIBUTIONCENTRES
TITLES	EFF. DATE	START	3 MOS.	i	1 12 MOS.
Janitor	25 Sep.96	$12,15	$12.75	$13,35	$14,55
	25 Sep.97	$12.35	$12.95	$13,55	$14,75
WAREHOUSEMAN I	25 Sep,98	$12,55	$13,15	$13,75	514.95
General Warehouse Duties	25 Sep.96	$12.35	$12.95	$13.55	$14.75
	25 Sep,97	$12.55	$13.15	$13.75	$14.95
WAREHOUSEMAN!!	25 Sep,98	$12,75	$1335	513,95	515,15
Asst. Receivers	25 Sep.96	$12,55	$13,15	$13.75	$14.95
Fork-Lift Operator	25 Sep.97	$12.75	$13.35	$13.95	$15.15
Loaders Manaboard Operator Hardware Repack Loader-Produce Loader-Many	25 Sep,98	$12,95	$13.55	514,15	S15J5
Truck Driver	25 Sep,96	$12,66	$13.26	$13,86	$15,06
	25 Sep. 97	$12,86	$13.46	$14.06	$15,26
	25 Sep,98	$13,06	$13.66	$14,26	515,46
Tractor Drive!	25 Sep.96	$12.81	$13.41	$14.01	$15.21
	25 Sep. 97	$13.01	$13.61	$14.21	$15,41
WAREHOUSEMAN III	25 Sep,98	$13,21	513,81	514,41	$15.61
Shippers	25 Sep,96	$12.75	$13,35	$13.95	$15,15
Receivers	25 Sep. 97	$12.95	$13.55	$14.15	$15.35
Receiver Returns (Henri Dunant)	25 Sep,98	$13.15	$13.75	51435	$1535
Receiver ReiunWDdindge (Price Street)
Quality Control
Inventory Handler Receiver Repack Grocery
NOTE: Booker-Receiver (Gfcocsy)- .200 per hour premium will be paid to the employeedoing this job.
-44-
nrrcnuiA j ya)
INCOME GUARANTEE (SHORT TERM DISABILITY) COVERS'"
V /
Provides>ayment of loss of earnings due to sickness or nonoccupational accident that prevents the employee from performing hrs normal duties.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
661/% of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
No benefits are paid for the first seven calendar days of any disability.
DURATION OF COVERAGE
Maximum of fifty-two weeks (12 months) for any one disability. Should an employee return to work and go out again within thirty (30) days because of the same illness or accident, it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
PREMIUMS
310 per $ 100.00 of regular earnings (as at April 1/87) will be deducted from each pay cheque. This may be increasedby up to 50% of any future increases m the premium.
EXCLUSIONS
I) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot; 5) disabilities covered by Worker's Compensation;
6) benefits will also be reduced by the amount received by the employee from the Canada Pension Plan or under other similar legislation due to the same disability.
-45-
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off;
b)	on employee’s 70th birthday
(The above is merely a summary of the plan and n> .<o way changes or modifies the conditions set forth in the policy).
APPENDIX 3 (b)
INCOME GUARANTEE (LONG TERM DISABILITY) COVERAGE
Provides payment for loss of earnings due to sickness or nonoccupational accident.
BENEFITS PAYABLE
of regular salary rate at time of disability (excluding overtime, bonuses, etc.)
WAITING PERIOD
Benefits commence after 52 weeks (12 months) absence due to disability.
DURATION OF COVERAGE
Benefits continue for 78 weeks (18 months) if the employee is totally disabled and unable to perform his normal duties. If disability continues, benefits are paid until the employee reaches age 65, provided he is totally disabled and prevented fain engaging in any gainful occupation for which he is qualified or may reasonably become qualified. Should an employee return to work and go out again within six (6) months because of the same illness or accident it shall be considered a continuation of the same claim and there will be no waiting period.
•46-
PREMIUMS
The employee’s share of the premium is 18.40 per $ 100.00 of regular eariv-'Ts as at April 1/87 which will be deducted fran each pay :. This may be increased by up to 50% of any future inch in the premium.
EXCLUSIONSAND LIMITATIONS
A.	1) Pregnancy; 2) war; 3) self-inflicted injury; 4) participation in a riot.
B.	Benefits under this Plan will be reduced by the amount the insured person receives from:
1) Worker’s Compensation; 2) basic disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan; 3) sick leave or other renumeration received from the employer; 4) payments under any other loss-of-earnings insurance after 78 weeks (18 months).
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
a)	on termination of employment or lay-off;
b)	on employee’s 65th birthday
(The above is merely a summary of the plan and in no way changes or modifies the conditions set forth in the policy).
APPENDIX 4 ■ RE: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For purposes of Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement the “appropriate management person” will be:
Feed Plant
1.	Grievor’s Foreman (if on the shift, if not, then would proceed to second step and Plant Superintendent)
2.	Plant Superintendent
3.	Feed Operations Manager
4.	Vice President Agriculture
-47-
Price St. Distribution Centre (excludingProduce and Drivers)
1.	Grievor’s Foreman	■ Verbal
2.	Grievor’s Foreman	- Written
3.	Distribution Centre Manager
4.	Distribution Department Manager
Produce (excluding Drivers)
1,	Grievor’s Foreman	- Verbal
2.	Grievor’s Foreman	- Written
3.	Senior Foreman
(Distribution Centre Manager when 2 & 3 are the same).
4,	Distribution Department Manager
Henri Dunant Distribution Centre (excludingDriven)
1.	Grievor’s Foreman	- Verbal
2.	Grievor’s Foreman	- Written
3.	Distribution Department Manager
Drivers(distribution Centre(s)
1,	Grievor’s Foreman	- Verbal
2,	Grievor’s Foreman	- Written
3,	Transportation Manager
4,	Distribution Department Manager
APPENDIX S
TIME LOST DUE TO STORMY WEATHER
1.	In cases of severe bad weather (e.g. snow storms) which prevent employees generally from getting to work on time or at all, C.A.’s policy is to pay only for time worked.
2,	a) However, a “grace period” of two hours will be allowed
so that employees who arrive at work within two hours of their normal starting time will suffer no loss in pay.
b)	The “grace period' will only apply where the General
Manager, in the case of Moncton operations, crthe management person in charge at a location outside Moncton, rules that the storm did, in fact, constitute “severe bad weather”. -48-
c)	Such ruling will be made by the end of the first day after returning to normal operations and the manager making the ruling will be guided by the degree of absenteeism in the C. A, operation(s) during the storm and the observed seT of the storm.
3,	a) None of the foregoing will apply where an employee was
notified at least one-half hour before his/her normal starting time not to come to work.
b)	Such notification may be by way of a general announcement over the local radio station or by a telephone call or personal visit to the employee’s place of residence.
c)	It will be the responsibility of each employee, in times of stormy weather, to monitor the appropriate radio broadcasts and to see that he/she or some other adult is available to receive a message at his/her place of residence.
4.	Failing such notice any employee who shows up for work will be paid for a minimum of four hours (including any “grace period” whether or not there is work available.
5.	a) Where weather conditions deteriorate after commence-
ment of the work day (or shift) and management decides to shut down the operation employees then at work will be paid to normal quitting time or two hours beyond actual punching out time, whichever is less.
b) Flowever, no employee shall receive more than two hours pay for time not worked in any one day except as necessary to meet the minimum reporting pay requirements.
6,	a) Any employee who requests permission to leave early in
the face of deteriorating weather conditions shall not be unreasonably denied such permission.
b) Flowever, he/she shall be paid only for time worked
unless the operation is subsequently shut down, in which -49-
case he/she will be entitled to the same “grace period” as any other employee in that section receives for that day.
7.	Any “grace period” allowed under this policy shall be considered as time worked for the purpose 'culating overtime pay in any day or week.
APPENDIX 6
GROCERY HOURS
Overtime after 10 hours/day 40 hours/wk,
The first 2 consecutive days off will be considered their Sat-Sun per Collective Agreement.
Hours
Sunday
Monday
Wednesday
Thursday
5:00 A.M. - 3:30 P.M, 5:00 A.M. - 3:30 P.M, 5:00 A.M. -3:30 P.M. 5:00 A.M. -3:30 P.M.
The implementation and operation of these shifts will not affect any current member of the Bargaining unit. This means that no present employee will tie transferred to the above noted shifts against the employees will.
Management and the Union agree to strike a committee to study work scheduling that may be able to meet both the employer’s and employee’s needs.
APPENDIX 7
PRODUCE HOURS
The work week shall be thirty-six (36) hours made up of three x twelve-hour (3x12 hr.) days to be paid at the forty-hour (40 hr. rate, i.e., hours worked will be paid at 40/36 x the regular rate for thej ob in Appendix 2 (b).
•50-
Each employee will have two consecutive days off. The first day of rest shall be equivalent to Saturday and the second equivalent to Sunday for the purpose of this agn" ->nt.	'
a) Ovenime pay shall be 1 A times the regular rate.
A day of vacation or sick leave will be paid as 12 hours at the regular rate.
With regard to statutory holidays set out in 19.01 (a), above, an employee on this shift will receive either the holiday off with pay or an alternate work-day off with pay in the week preceding or following the holiday. The employee will be advised two weeks in advance of the holiday or the alternate (whichever comes first) of when the holiday will be observed.
The days and hours of work for this shift and the proportion of employees on the shift working the various days are as follows:
Day	%Working Hours of Work
Sunday	50%	7:00	a,m.	-	8:00	p,m,
Tuesday	100 %	7:00	a.m.	-	8:00	p,m.
Thursday	100 %	7:00	a.m.	-	8:00	p.m.
Saturday	50%	7:00	a.m.	-	8:00	p.m.
Except as provided in the new clause 18.01 (g), no present employee will be transferred to this shift against tne employee's will.
■51-
The parties hereinbefore mentioned, do hereby agree to amend the collective agreement as indicated in the foregoing, effective fern September 25, 1996 to September 24, 1999, inclusive.
Co-op Atlantic
Local 1288P
United Food 8c Commercial Workers International Union A PL-ClO-CLC
LETTER OF UNDE RSTA N DIN G REGARDING QUALITY CONTROL FUNCTION
It is understood that in future the Bulk Unloader may do the sampling of ingredients coming in by truck and the office staff may, as necessary, operate the truck scales and load outgoing bulk shipments.
Co-op Atlantic
Local I288P
United Food 8c Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO-CLC
■52*
LETTER CF INTENT REGARDING RETROACTIVITY
It is understood that changes in pay rates be retroactive to September25, 1996. All other changes become effective at date of signing;
Co-op Atlantic
Local 1288P
United Food & Commercial Wxtere International Union AFL-CIO-CLC
LETTEROF INTENT REGARDINGSPECIALCOMMITTEE
The Union and the Co-op shall form a committee to deal with Article 18.01 (g), 13% most junior employees, and will endeavour to find a mutually agreeable schedule to deal with consecutive days off and a limit on shift changes per year.
Co-op Atlantic	Local 1288P
United Food & Commercial Wbrkers International Union AFL-CIO-CLC
■53-
letter CF INTENT REGARDING CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
The Co-operative agrees to:
a)	Limit the changes to the work schedule in cle 19.01 b) to Christmas Day and Boxing Day;
b)	Endeavour to find the best possible Christmas holiday schedule for the evening shift.
Co-op Atlantic
Local 1288P
United Food & Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO-CLC
LETTER OF INTENT REGARDING PART TIME
The Parties hereby agree that:
1.	ththe interpretation of Article 16.05 a), “absenf’means not at work;
2.	A part-time employee may only replace a temporarily transferred Grade I employee when the transfer takes place on the same shift as the absence occurred;
3.	Part time employees shall not be used to replace temporary transfers that are a result of extra work;
-54-
4.	Part-time employees may replace Grade I employees for
overtime hours when full-time employees are unable to work the overtime hours in accordance with Article 18;(v'
Lo-operative may use up to two (2) part time employees in Grocery, and up to two (2) part-time
employees in Produce, on Sunday and Thursday, for evening or midnight shifts only, in addition to 16,05 a);
6.	The union shall be notified in writing of the part-time hours worked, the shift, the part-time employee who worked, and all other relevant information and documentation;
7.	When it is established through the grievance procedure that there has been a violation of 16,05 or this letter of intent in the use of part-time, the settlement of the grievance shall be a pay out to the grievous), unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Co-op Atlantic	Local 128SP
United Food & Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO-CLC