between
LOCAL 1252 - FISHERMEN'S UNION UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
CO-OP ATLANTIC TRURO FEED PLANT
349 WILLOW STREET, TRURO, NOVA SCOTIA
FEBRUARY 1,1900—JANUARY 31,1992
ooilSOM
AGREEMENT LOCAL 1252 FISHERMEN'S UNION UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (hereinafter called the Union)
AND
CO-OP ATLANTIC TRURO FEED PLANT 349 WILLOW ST.
TRURO. NOVA SCOTTA
(hereinafter called the Co-operative)
ARTKUS-I „ - ..RyRESSB
101	The purpose of this Agreement is to provide collective bargaining relations between the Union and the Co-operative to ensure prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to ensure fair wager, hours and pther working
condition6 and, thereby, to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Union and t#ie Co-operative.
102	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of both parties to co-operate fully, both collectively and individually, for the promotion of tfre aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE XI___BECQffMmSK
2Q1 The co-operative recognizes the Union as the exclusive and sole bargaining agent fpr all its employees at the Truro Mill except those excluded by the certification order dated August 18, 1977.
202 The Union recognizes the responsibility of its members to perform their respective duties for £he Co-operative faithfully and diligently, and to cajrry out at all times their individual responsibilities according to the regulations, methods and procedures established by Management, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
The Union also recognizes that as the Co-operative owes it^ very existence to members* support of Co-operatives. The Union agrees to encourage its members to support their local Co-operatives and Co-op products.
hSSJCM HI - UNION SECURITY •
3oi Maintenance of
a)	The Co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of
employment that any employee who at the date of signing of this Agreement: is a member of the Union in good standing, or whet becomes a member after that date, shall maintain n)embership in the Union during the term of this Agreement (subject to Clause 302). An employee shall have satisfied the requirements of this clause sip long as he pays his regular monthly dues.	‘
b)	Rand .Formula
The co-operative agrees that it shall be a condition of employment that all employees hired after the date of I signing of this AdrSfW®nt, except those excluded by certification order dated March 7, 1988 shall, within
thirty (30) days of their hiring date, commence and continue to pay regular monthly union dues whether they join the Union or not.
302	No Discrimination or Penalty
No employee shall be subjected to any penalties against his application for membership or for reinstatement as a member in the Union except as may be provided in the Constitution and By-laws of the Union: and no coercion or intimidation of any kind shall be practiced to compel or influence an employee to join the Union nor shall any discrimation of any kind whatsoever be practiced or permitted with respect to employees who are or who become members of the Union.
303	Check-Off
a)	With regard to employees in the bargaining unit, the Co-operative agrees that it will, upon receipt of written authorization in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) (attached) deduct the initiation fee (if applicable) and regular monthly Union dues.
b)	With regard to employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, it shall be a condition of employment that such employee within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring, shall give the Co-operative, in form prescribed in Appendix I (A) or (B) attached^ written authorization to deduct the initiation fee, if applicable, and regularly monthly Onion dues for the duration of the Agreement.
c)	The Co-operative agrees to forward the total amount of deductions made under (a) and (b) above to the designated official of the local Union on or before the 10th day of the month following that in which deductions were made.
d)	Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and By-laws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
304 A copy of the current Agreement will be made available by the Co-operative to all members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE IV ~ MANAGEMENT RIG----
401	The Union agrees that subject only to the provisions of this Agreement it is the exclusive right of the Co-operative to:
a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency
b)	hire, layoff, suspend, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote
c)	judge the skill, knowledge and efficiency of individual employees
d)	manage the enterprise in which the Co-operative is engaged.
402	The Union agrees that any of the rights, powers or authority the Co-operative had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Co-operative, except those specifically abridged, delegated, granted or modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE V - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
501	A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of any specific article or section of this Agreement.
502	In order to provide an orderly procedure for the servicing of grievances, the Union will elect a Chief Steward and a Grievance Committee whose duty it shall be to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the designated representative of the Co-operative in accordance with the grievance procedure and the Union will notify the Co-operative's management of the names and positions of the Union's elected officials and committee members.
503	It is understood that Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee have their regular work to perform as employees. It is acknowledged that grievances should be serviced as soon as possible and that if it is necessary to service a grievance during working hours, employees will not leave their jobs without obtaining their supervisor's permission. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
504	In order that a loss in production will be kept to a minimum, it is understood that grievances will be serviced outside of working hours whenever possibleand on this understanding, the Co-operative agrees that the Chief Steward or Grievance Committee morin* shall not lose any pay for time lost by servicing grievances.
505	Should a grievance arise between the Co-operative and Union or employees as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement, or as to the compliance by either party with any of its obligations under the
Agreement, there shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage, or suspension thereof by the Union or its members, or lockouts by the Co-operative on account of such grievance.
506	In the case of any general allegation by the Union that the Co-operative has violated this Agreement in a manner that affects broad principles rather than specific individuals, the Union Grievance Committee shall present such grievance in writing directly to the M i11 Manager at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
507	It is agreed that at the request of the Co-operative, the Union Grievance committee will meet with Management representatives to discuss any complaints or grievances that Management may have.
508	The time periods as stated in this Article, are exclusive of weekends and holidays. They may be reasonably extended by mutual agreement between the parties hereto.
509	A grievance affecting an individual employee to be accepted must be initiated by the employee aggrieved within five (5) working days of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, and it shall be handled in the following manner:
Step 1 The employee shall be accompanied by the Chief Steward or in his absence another member of the Grievance Committee unless he requests the Steward not to be present, shall discuss his grievance with his supervisor.
The supervisor shall give his decision orally to the employee or to the Grievance Committee member involved within thirty-six (36) hours after presentation of the grievance.
Any grievance which cannot be resolved at Step 1, above, shall be referred to the Chief Steward, or in his absence, a member of the Grievance Committee and committed to writing for resolution at the next step.
Step 2 If the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, the Chief Steward, or in his absence, another member of the Grievance Committee, shall within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of the decision in Step 1, submit to the Mill Manager a signed written "Grievance Report" form.
Upon receipt of the written grievance, the M i l l Manager, or his designated representative, shall within forty-eight (48) hours, meet with the Chief Steward or
Grievance Committee member involved in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The representative of the Co-operative shall give the Chief Steward or his alternate an answer in writing no later than forty-eight (48) hours after such meeting.
Step 3 If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager, Agricultural Division, within five (5) working days of receipt of the decision at Step 2.
The Production Manager or his appointee within five (5) days of having received the grievance shall either:
a)	submit his decision in writing to the Union; or
b)	arrange a meeting with the Union to attempt to resolve the grievance. Such a meeting would consist of the Production Manager or his appointee and the Mill Manager and such other representatives of Management named by the Mill Manager, on the one hand; and the aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, and the Business Agent of the Union who may be accompanied by the International Representative of the Union, on the other hand.
The Co-operative, shall within five (5) day8 after such meeting, submit its decision in writing to the Union.
step 4 If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 3, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration as outlined in Article VII of this Agreement.
If either party has not initiated the arbitration procedure within thirty (30) calendar days following receipt of the decision at Step 3, the grievance will be deemed to have been resolved or withdrawn. Any grievance unresolved at the time of signing of this Agreement, shall be subject to the above time limits.
ARTICLE VI___D SCIPLINE
6.01	The Co-operative favours "Corrective discipline" over "Punitive discipline". Unless there is just and sufficient cause for immediate dismissal, the Co-operative shall follow a procedure of progressive discipline, gearing the penalty to the seriousness of the violation, imposing appropriate discipline from a verbal warning to a termination of employment.
6.02	A written warning, or other discipline, for a similar or related offense shall not be considered in a subsequent disciplinary action if a period of twelve (12) months or
more has expired without a violation or infraction being committed that warrants a written warning or stronger disciplinary action.
6.03	When an employee is t o be called into the office for disciplinary action he shall be advised in advance and may request the presence of the Chief Steward or, in his absence, an alternate. When the employee requests the presence of the steward, no discipline meeting will be held until a steward is available.
6.04	A claim by a permanent employee who has attained seniority that he has been unjustly discharged shall be treated as a
grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager within five (5) working days of the discharge.
6.05	There shall be only (1) employee personnel file for disciplinary action, and the employee shall have access to review this file, provided reasonable notice is given, and management is present. This right will not be exercised more often than every three (3) months unless circumstances dictate otherwise.
ARTICLE VII — ARBITRATION
701	When either party requests that any _ grievance be submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party in this Agreement. Such request shall include up to three (3) nominees to act as arbitrator. The party receiving such notice shall within three (3) full working days also submit up to three (3) nominees.
Both parties shall within five (5) full working days get together to agree on one of the nominees to act as arbitrator. If they are unable to agree on an arbitrator, they shall ask the Minister of Labour for Canada to appoint one. The arbitrator shall be chosen having regard to his qualifications and his familiarity with industrial relations.
702	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
703	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision which will alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
704	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on the parties of this Agreement.
705 Expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne jointly by the parties hereto.
yin - M.QK IN BBKZEUflE OR
!
801 a) The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize!
sanction its members to cause or take part in (and| is agreed that the Co-operative may discharge any employee who causes or takes part in), any sit-dow|s or slow-down or any strike or stoppage of operations,|or any curtailment of work or restrictions of or f interference with production, or any picketing of the Co-operative premises, during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for a renewal or extension of this Agreement.
b)	The Co-operative agrees that it will not cause or
direct any lockout of employees during the life of the Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of this Agreement.
802 The Union agrees that no strike vote of the members of the Union will be taken during the term of this Agreement or during the course of negotiations for renewal or extension of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IX - PROBATIONARY fiEBIQP
901 a) New employees wi^l be considered as probationary
employees for the first ninety calendar days of their employment and the discharge or suspension of any such employees shall not Be the subject of a grievance. At the completion o£ this probationary period, seniority shall be back-da^ed ninety (90) days.
b) Continuous full-time employment in a temporary position will be recognized for vacation and seniority purposes, once the ninety (90) days probationary period is completed. For all other purposes, the employee's date of hire shall be the date he went on probation.
ARTICLE X - SENIS&m
1001 Seniority shall mean accumulated service with the
Co-operative. All time worked prior to the signing of this Agreement shall be included when computing an employee's seniority, provided that his seniority begins from the time of starting his last uninterrupted employment. An interruption in employment shall not be interpreted to mean an absence from work because of lay-off, sickness, accident or with permission of the Co-operative.
1002	A seniority list showing each employee's status shall be posted by the Co-operative on a Bulletin Board within thirty (30) days after the signing of this Agreement. Seniority shall be deemed to be correct unless it ha8 been disputed under the Grievance Procedure within one week following the date of pasting.
1003	An updated seniority list will be made available to the Union Steward at reasonable intervals during the contract, at least once every six (6) months.
AB11CJJS. .&L.- Ififig QF..SEHI9Rm.
1101 An employee's seniority standing shall be cancelled and his name removed from the seniority list if:
a)	he voluntarily quits or resigns;
b)	he is discharged for just cause and is not reinstated ccording to provisions of the Grievance Procedure;
c)	he is laid off for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months if he has two (2) years or more seniority at time of layoff;
d> he is laid off far a period in excess c£! six
consecutive months ij he has one year or more seniority at time of lay-off;
e)	if he has less than one year's service tho allowable break shall be the time equivalent t o one-half his length of service up to four (4) months;
f)	while on layoff he fails to report for work within forty-eight (48) hours of being so notified by the employer (see 1306 (a), below). The employer may grant an extension of this time limit in special cases.
&MICLE XU,.*.. TEMPORARY-. TRANS EBBS
1201	An employee temporarily assigned to a job in a higher grade than he presently occupies for a period c£ one (1) or more continuous working days shall have his pay increased for the total duration of ouch assignments, to the first step in the higher range that will give him an increase. This provision will only have effect where the employee replaces an employee of a higher rata.
1202	Employees on temporary assignments as in 1201 above, shall, on completion of such temporary assignment, return to their former jobs at their former rate,
1203	a) A temporary assignment shall not exceed the maximum
term of leave of absence, sick leave or holiday period,
b) Once it becomes obvious that a temporary vacanay will extend beyond two months, the vacancy will be posted and filled under Article XIII.
c)	An employee returning froto sick leave of two (2) years or less will return to his previous job at the same step in the range as he had on going out and the employee filling the job in his absence will return to his former job and so forth with regard to any other employees promoted as a result of the original vacancy.
d)	An employee returning from sick leave of more than two years may exercise his seniority to bump the employee with least seniority and subsequently exercise his rights under Article XIII to bid for any vacancy that may arise.
ARTICLE..XIII-..PERMANENT TRANSFERS, PROMOTIONS. LAY-OFFS. ETC.
1301	a) In the event of layoffs within the bargaining unit,
retention shall be on the basis of seniority, providing the senior employee has the ability to perform the work required.
b)	In the event of promotions, transfers, and filling of vacancies within the bargaining unit, preference shall be given on the basis of seniority, where ability, skill and competence to perform the work required are substantially equal.
c)	Where promotions or lay-offs (subject to Clause 1306) are made on other than the basis of seniority the co-operative will advise the Union of the decision and reasons for it prior to advising the einployee(s) affected.
1302	a) Where a permanent job becomes vacant or a new permanent job is created, it will be posted. The first posting of such job shall be for forty-eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, before the vacancy is permanently billed. All vacancies occurring due to the transfer of workers to fill the first vacancy shall be posted for twenty-four (24) hours, excluding weekends and holidays before they are permanently filled.
b)	Where an employee applies for a posted job in the same grade as he presently occupies or a lower grade, Management may decline the application if the transfer would interfere with the efficiency of the operation.
1303	Applications from members of the Bargaining Unit for posted vacancies in the Bargaining Unit will be made in writing and in duplicate to the Production Supervisor or Trucking Supervisor as applicable, A copy will be forwarded to the Chief Steward.
1304
1305
1306
1307
1308
Any permanent employee who wishes to be advised of posted vacancies that occur during his absence must advise the Plant Manager, in writing, leaving the phone number at which he can be contacted and must agree to accept the cost of a collect phone call, if necessary. The Co-operative will then make every reasonable effort to contact such employee.
If the successful applicant for a job proves to be unsatisfactory as determined by Management, or chooses himself to return to his former position, within the first sixty (60) days on the job, he shall return to his former job.
Reposting of the job is not necessary and a replacement will be selected from the balance of the applicants with preference given to seniority where ability, skill and competence to perform the work required are substantially equal. If none of the balance of the applicants so meet the job requirements then Management will select whomsoever it may consider satisfactory for the job, and who is willing to accept it.
a)	Employees laid off shall be recalled as required in the reverse order that they have been laid off provided they have the required skill, competence and ability to do the work available. Recall of employee if the layoff is less than thirty (30) days will be based on seniority and ability to do the work available. Sufficient notice will have been given when the employer contacts by telephone, telegram or registered
letter, the last address given to the employer in
writing by the employee.
b)	The Co-operative will give two (2) weeks notice excluding weekends and holidays of lay-off due to shortage of work, when reasonably foreseeable.
Upon promotion to a higher grade, employees will go to the next step in the new grade which will provide an increase. Subsequent salary increases will follow the normal time progressions outlined in the salary schedule, providing work performance is satisfactory. Permanent status in the new position will be granted after sixty (60) days.
a) Upon promotion to a supervisory or management job a bargaining unit employee may, within the six months probationary period, return to his former position with no loss of seniority.
If permanent status is granted after the six (6) months probationary period the employee shall lose that seniority that he had at the date of promotion.
b) No supervisory person will be transferred into the
Bargaining Unit except where there is a vacancy that is not: filled through the posting procedure. Seniority earned thereafter or prior to going out of the Bargaining Unit will apply.
1309 CONTRACTHTG OUT
The Co-operative agrees that no bargaining unit employee shall be laid off or terminated as a result of the employer contracting out any of its work or services before every attempt to absorb affected individuals into the Co-op’s employ has been exhausted. Should this not be successful the affected individuals shall be subject to severance pay as per Article 1310.
1310 SEVERANCE pay
Where the Co-operative terminates the employment of an employee who has completed five (5) consecutive years'service or more and the termination was not a dismissal for cause, the co-operative will pay to the employee one (1) weeks pay at his current rate for each full year of service to a maxium of twenty-five weeks.
An employee who would qualify under the above except that he is laid off rather than having his employment terminated, will qualify once his seniority rights expire.
An employee aged fifty-five (55) or older who is laid off may take severance pay at any time prior to or upon expiry of his seniority and in so doing, forfeits further seniority rights. He may, in addition, take early retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Coop Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
Without limiting the foregoing, it is understood that severance allowance will be paid where termination results from technological change, automation, reorganization or other reason beyond th§ control of the employee.
Likewise, it is understood that the severance allowance will not be paid when an employee:
a)	resigns voluntarily
b) is laid off prior to age 55 and has seniority rights
c) is laid off for just cause and this is not reversed through the grievance procedure
d)	has reached normal retirement age as defined in Co-op Atlantic Employees Pension Plan.
e)	prior to age 55 is offered other employment within CooP Atlantic at the same geographical location and which is suitable in relation to his qualifications, experience, age, etc*
It is agreed that where an employee qualifies for a severance allowance under this Article,such allowance shall be paid in a lump sum to the employee,his beneficiary or estate as the case shall be.
The date of payment shall be as requested by the employee, but in no case shall this be later than twelve (12) months after the employee's last day of employment with the Co-operative.
1311 gggffflOIflSICAL CHANGE
For the purposes of this Agreement the term Technological Change shall be understood to mean changes introduced by Co-op Atlantic in the manner in which it carries out its daily operations and service where such change significantly affect(s) the terms and conditions or security of employment of a monte* or members of the bargaining unit or alters significantly the basis on which this Agreement was negotiated,
The Co-operative shall notify the Union two (2) months before the introduction of any technological change.
ARTICLE XIV - LEAVE OF ABSEHCE
1401	The Co-operative may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for Union leave or for good and sufficient reason. Any person who is absent with written permission shall not be considered to have been laid off. Seniority will be accumulated during such authorized absence.
1402	Any leave of absence granted under Clause 1401 shall be in writing, and not exceeding two (2) weeks in any one year, except by mutual agreement, and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights. In the case of military or other special courses, these will be given consideration as they arise,
1403	The Co-operative w i 11 allow up to two (2) members elected by the Union to attend meetings for negotiations of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
ARTICLE XV - WAGES
1501 A schedule of wage rates shall be attached to this
Agreement in the form of Appendix II and shall be part of this Agreement.
1501 a) C.O.L.A./ G.S.T.
A cost-of-living allowance will become effective during the second year of this agreement if the rise in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.) (1981**100) published by Statistics Canada exceeds 5.0% of the January, 1991, C.P.I., which shall be the base figure, on the following basis:
Starting on the first of the month in which the published C.P.I. exceeds 105.0% of the January, 1991, figure, a premium of one and one half cents (1.50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the C.P.I. exceeds the base figure will be paid to each employee in addition to his regular rate. The C.P.I. will, thereafter, be reviewed at two-month intervals and the premium will be adjusted as necessary to keep it at one and one half cents (1.50) per hour for each 0.3 point that the index exceeds the base figure. No adjustment will be made to the premium after January 31, 1992.
article—WIQW- .REPPESBNm.QM
1601	a) Special meetings between Management and the Union will
berheld where deemed necessary by both parties. The request for such a meeting will be made to the other party along with an agenda and a suggested time and place for the meeting. The party receiving the request shall indicate to the other within three (3) days, excluding weekends and holidays, whether or not it agrees to such a meeting. Any meeting agreed to will be held within five (5) days of giving such reply, excluding weekends and holidays.
b) At any such meetings the Union will be represented by not more than three employees plus the Business Agent and/or International Representative. Management may be represented by an equal number. These limits may be exceeded by mutual consent.
1602	Employees shall not suffer any loss of regular pay while attending such meetings during working hours.
1603	It is agreed that when the Business Agent wishes to enter the plant to discuss union business with membas of the bargaining unit, he will obtain prior permission from Management. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE XVII ~ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
1701 The regular work week for production and maintenance staff shall be forty (40) hours and shall be worked in five (5) consecutive days.
1701
1701
1702
1703
1704
1705
a) The regular work day shall be eight (8) hours.
b) All employees in grade IX and maintenance mechanic classifications w i 11 be paid a thirty (30) minute lunch period and will be on the premises and on call during that time.
The Co-operative shall provide the Union with a schedule setting forth the regular daily hours of work for every employee indicating normal starting and quitting time for each.
a)	The daily hours scheduled may be altered from time to time as required for the operation and improvement of the Co-operative's business. The Co-operative agrees, however, that, except by mutual consent, no individual employee's schedule shall be changed without twenty-four (24) hours, (one day’s) notice nor any group’s schedule, without three (3) days notice. The Union will be advised beforehand of changes to be made in the group's schedule, or when feasible, in an individual’s schedule. Alternative schedules, considered to be more in keeping with the wishes of the employees, may be submitted by the Union. Such schedules may be implemented by the Co-operative provided Management agrees they meet satisfactorily the requirements of the business.
b)	When it becomes necessary to work overtime, it shall be on a straight seniority basis to the regular operators of the equipment and then offered to others that have the ability to operate that specific equipment on a seniority basis.
a)	Time and one-half shall be paid after eight (8) hours in any day except in the case of the Driver-Salesman who shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked over fifty (50) hours per week.
b)	When an employee other than a Driver-Salesman is instructed by Management to report later than his regular scheduled starting time, one and one half (lh) times his regular rate will apply only after the completion of eight (a) hours duty. Similarly, when an employee is required to work before hie scheduled starting time, one and one-half (1%) times his regular rate of pay will apply on those hours worked in excess i of the regular work day of eight (8) hours.
Permanent employees shall be paid double time for hours worked on Sunday except where such hours are a normal part of the shift.
1706
17.06
1707
1708
1709
1710
The Co-operative agrees to grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each provided the working time of any one shift exceeds two and one-half (2k) hours. The Union agrees that except in cases of personal necessity, employees shall not ask for additional time off during the working day. The Union agrees that rest periods are a privilege and should not be abused.
b) No employee will work more than two double shifts in a row unless another regular operator of the equipment is not available.
Employees not able to report for duty are required to give Management as much notice as possible in order that a suitable replacement may be arranged. Employees working on regular continuous operating jobs must remain on the job
until relieved.
a) Employees shall not be required to work more than five
(5) hours without a thirty (30) minute meal break.
b)	Employees who work two (2) hours or more beyond their existing shift will receive a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period.
c) Wine an employee works more than two (2) hours beyond quitting time the Co-operative shall pay him a meal supplement of $5.00. Should such overtime continue for more than six (6) hours a further meal allowance will be paid. The meal supplement will increase to $ 5.25 effective February 1,1991.
d)	Where an employee works overtime on Saturday he will be paid the meal allowance only if the overtime was scheduled for five (5) hours or less and it exceeds five (5) hours. If such overtime was scheduled to last five (5) hours or longer, then the employee will be responsible for his own lunch.
An employee who has gone home and is especially called back fcy Management, except when Management cannot be contacted, to work in an emergency outside his regular working hours, shall be paid three (3) hours pay at his straight time rate or his actual overtime hours worked in accordance with the provisions of 1704 and 1705, whichever is more advantageous to him.
a)	A shift premium of 550 an hour will be paid to employees on the evening shift.
b)	A premium of 650 cents per hour worked will be paid to employees on the night shift.
c)	For purposes of this Agreement an employee is
considered to be on the evening shift if his regular starting time is between 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. and on the night shift if his regular starting time is between 10:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.
1711	Should future changes in the Canada Labour Code with respect to hours of work and overtime for Driver-Salesmen require changes in the provisions of this Agreement then such changes will be considered automatically made.
1712	One Maintenance person, as designated by the Maintenance Foreman, will be on call on a continual basis and be available to deal with emergencies and in such cases,
Clause 1709 shall apply. It is understood that such designation would be on a rotating basis.
1713	The Maintenance staff will work such overtime as authorized and/or directed to keep the Co-operative's property and equipment in good condition (subject to the Canada Labour Cede, if applicable). Hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week shall be at one and one-half (1*0 times the regular rate.
1714	A foreman or other supervisory employee with more than seven (7) permanent staff reporting to him will not repeatedly and continuously perform any work of a bargaining unit employee.
ARTICLE XVIII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
1801	a) The Co-operative agrees to pay all permanent employees at their regular rates for the eight following holidays :
New Year's Day	Dominion Day	Armistice Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day
b)	If any of there falls on a Sunday, the day proclaimed i n its stead shall be observed.
c)	In addition, there will be two floating holidays - one in lieu of Boxing Day and one in anticipation of a new provincial or federal holiday. To qualify for such holidays an employee must have completed thirty (30) days’ service prior to Boxing Day, in the first case, and thirty (30) days’ service prior to August 1st in the second case.
d)	In addition to the present eight (8) identified holidays and the two (2) floating holidays referred to above, each employee, who has completed his
probationary period, shall be entitled to one (1) additional paid holiday to be identified as a "Personal Day”. This holiday must be taken within the contract year with the understanding that not more than one employee is on such holiday at any one time unless approved by management in advance. The employee must give management reasonable notice of his choice of the day to be taken as his Personal Day.
e)	In determining when an employee is to take the floating @holidays, his wishes will be followed wherever
possible, subject however, to Management’s needs to keep the work scheduled in an efficient manner.
f)	Management will make every effort possible to ensure a two-day Christmas holiday.
1802	If a permanent employee works on any of the above eleven holidays, he shall be paid at one and one-half (1^) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such days in addition to the eight (8) hours* pay at his regular rate for which he would qualify under Clause 1801, above.
18.02 a) Employees who are required to work Saturday on any paid holiday weekend will be paid two times (2x) the hourly rate of the employee for each hour worked by the employee.
1803	An employee on sick leave or leave of absence who has not worked during the fifteen (15) days immediately preceding a holiday, shall not qualify for holiday pay (subject to 1802, above).
ARTICLE m s, PAIP VACATIONS
1901 a)
b)
Vacation time will be allotted to suit the wishes of the employee where possible, but will be subject finally to approval by the Plant Manager, based on his needs to keep work schedules in the most efficient way. Employees are expected to take their vacation leave at least one week at a time. Senior employees will be given preference.
It is agreed that requests by senior employees for vacation time during the period June 15 through September 15 will be limited to two (2) consecutive weeks in order that less senior employees will have an
opportunity to have some of their vacation time during that period.
i
However, additional time during that period is available, then seniority will prevail in the choice for such available time off.
1902	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of at least one (1) year, and lass than two (2) full years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) weeks.
1903	a) An employee who by April 30 has been continuously
employed far two (2) years but less then three (3) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) work weeks plus one-half (^) day per month of completed service beyond two (2) years and not exceeding two and one-half (%) days for any six (6) month period.
b) An employee who by April 30 in any year has been
continuously employed for three (3) or more years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks.
1904	a) An employee who by April 30 has been continuously
employed for nine (9) years, but less than tan (10) years, shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) work weeks plus one-half (*s) day per month of completed service beyond nine (9) years not exceeding two and one-half (2^) days for any six (6) month period.
b) An employee who by April 30 in any year ha6 been continuously employed for ten (10) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) work weeks.
1905	a) An employee who by April 3 0 in any year han been
continuously employed for nineteen (19) years but less than twenty (20) years shall be entitled to an annual vacation of tour (4) work weeks plus one-half (^) day per month of completed service beyond nineteen(19) years, not exceeding two and one-half (2%> days for any six (6) month period.
b) An errployee who by April 30 in any year ham been continuously employed for twenty (20) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) work weeks.
c)	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for thirty (30) years or more shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) weeks."
\
1906	An employee who by April 30 in any year has been continuously employed for a period of less than a year but at least thirty (30) days shall be entitled to annual vacation of an amount equal to one (1) day for each full month of service up to maximum of five (5) working days for any six (6) month period.
1907	Vacation pay is based on the normal weekly rate (subject to legislation) provided that this amount may be reduced by one fifty-two second (1/52) for each week of absence excepting absences which are:
1)	up to thirty (30) days annually where absent with permission.
2)	up to six months in any one year due to illness, or for any one illness, covered by paid sick leave or insured benefits under a plan provided by the Co-operative;
3)	up to six months in any one year if on compensation or for any one absence on compensation.
1908	In no case shall the employee's annual vacation pay be less than four percent (4%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) month period in which he earned his vacation credits.
ARTICLE XX - OMPASSIONATE LEAVE
2001	A permanent employee is entitled to compassionate leave with pay at the time of death of a member of his immediate family, within the following limits:
a)	5 days - spouse, child, mother, father
b)	3 days - brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law
c)	1 day - grandparent, grandchild, sister-in-law, brother-in-law
2002	Should a grandparent or guardian fil^. the role of parent of the employee,
(a) above would apply.
2003	Relatives, as noted above, include persons who are related to the employee by marriage, adoption or common-law.
2004	Individual requests for extended compassionate leave wi11 be considered on their merits by the manager or h i s appointee.
ARTICLE XXI _ MPLOVEE BENEFITS
2101	All permanent employees of the bargaining unit shall participate in the Pension Plan, the Group Life Insurance Plan, the Long and Short Term Disability Flans, the Group Health Care (Blue Cross) Plan and the Group Dental Plan, in accordance with the provisions of those plans.
2102	a) All permanent employees of the bargaining unit (as
defined in Clause 201 of the Agreement) shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) days sick leave with full regular pay in any one year, May 1 - April 30.
Any employee hired after May 1 will have h i s sick leave credit s for that year reduced proportionately. A maximum of five (5) days of unused sick leave credits may be carried forward to the next year thus entitling such employee to a maximum of ten (10) days sick leave with full pay in that year.
b)	Within three (3) weeks of the end of the 1977-78 benefit year (May 1 - April 30) and each benefit year thereafter, each employee will be paid seventy-five
(75) percent of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave in excess of five (5) days to his credit at the end of the benefit year; ojr
c)	If on April 30, 1979 and each April 30 thereafter, those employees on payroll (including those on layoff) have, as a group, used less than fifty percent (50%) of their credited full pay sick leave during the benefit year, then each employee will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate for each day of full pay sick leave in excess of five (5) days to his credit at the end of the benefit year.
d)	Upon expiration of his full pay sick leave credits, a permanent employee will be eligible for either:
1)	Supplementary Sick Leave - 50% of his regular pay for all days absent. Supplementary sick leave pay will not be paid after the employee has been absent due to sickness for more than five (5) consecutive work days.
2)	Benefits under the Short Term Disability Plan beginning on the eighth (8th) calendar day of disability provided they meet the conditions of eligibility as set down by the Insurer.
e)	A permanent employee shall be eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan beginning on the
27th week of disability provided he meets the conditions of eligibility as set down by the Insurer.
f)	It is agreed that the employee's interest in any reduction of Unemployment Insurance contributions that resulted from the upgrading of ,the Co-operative1s sick leave plan shall be waived in view of the increased benefits provided at that time.
g)	The Co-operative may at any time require a satisfactory medical certificate in support;of a claim for sick leave. Any claim covering more than three (3) consecutive days must be supported by such a medical certificate. Similarly, any claim covering one or more days immediately preceding or following a holiday must be supported by a medical certificate.
To be satisfactory, a medical certificate must specify the date and nature of the illness and the duration of time such illness prevented the employee from working. It must be signed by a qualified medical practitioner.
The cost of such medical certificate will be borne by the employee.
h)	Sick leave will not be paid to probationary employees nor to any employee eligible for benefits under the Worker’s Compensation Act or by virtue of any other federal or provincial legislation.
i)	Cash advances will be provided to employees who are in hardship cases due to not receiving funds owing to them by the Workers Compensation Board or benefit plans due to the fault of Co-opAtlantic .
ARTICLE XXII - EFFECT OF LAYOFF ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
2201	Where an employee misses time during the year (Jan. 1 -Dec. 31) during which he does not make regular contributions to the Pension Plan any such absences if they total thirty (30) days or more shall result in his length of service for pension purposes being reduced accordingly.
2202	A layoff for an indefinite period which extends beyond the end of the month in which it occurs will have the same effect on coverage under the Group Life Plan as would termination under tl*e provisions of the Plan, except that if an employee wishes to remain on layoff status he cannot exercise his rights under the conversion clause of the Policy and vice versa.
2203	Coverage under the Short and Long Term Disability Plans cease at time of layoff or termination. An employee who returns from layoff to full-time work within six (6) months of layoff will nave his coverage reinstated immediately upon completion of an application card, provided this is done within one (I) month of his return to work.
An employee returning after a layoff of more than six (6) months will be eligible for coverage on the first of the month following completion of three months’ service.
2204	If an employee is laid off temporarily for an indefinite period his Group Health (Blue Cross) coverage will remain in effect for a maximum of six (6) months provided that he pays the total premium (employer's and errployee's share) for the six (6) month period at time of layoff. Should the employee return within this period, deductions will not be made for this Plan until prepaid coverage has expired.
Should the employee terminate his employment while on layoff any unused part of such premium will be returned to him.
2205	An employee may take any vacation pay he has earned to time of layoff, if such layoff is for ten (10) working days or more or for an indefinite period.
ARTICLE XXIII ■ BULLETIN BQ&BBS
2301 The Co-operative will provide a suitable notice board on
its premises for the posting of notices or announcements of routine and appropriate Union matters.
ABT.ICLE... XXIV ~ SAEEIY .MU HEALTH
2401 The Co-operative agrees to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that Safety and Health of the employees is governed by Part IV of the Canada Labour Code. If reasonable provisions are not made for the safety and health of employees, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XXV - DISCRIMINATION
2501	The Co-operative agrees that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or employees because of the enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement or because of Union activity.
2502	The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination against any member of the Union because of race, creed, color, sex or age.
ARTICLE XXVI - CORRESPONDENCE
2601 Except where otherwise provided, official communications in the form of correspondence between the Co-operative and the Union must be addressed to Local 1252, U.F.C.W. c/o Co-op Atlantic, 349 Willow St., Box 74, Truro, N, S, 82N 5A5. A copy of said correspondence will be forwarded to the business agent at Suite 6, 2819 Isleville St., Halifax, NS B3K 3X3
ARTICLE XXVII - MLSCELLANEOUS
The foreman will not perform bargaining unit work beyond the present practice to an extent that will cause the layoff of a bargaining unit employee.
ARTICLE XXVIII - TERM OF AGREEMENT
2701	This Agreement shall remain in effect up to and including January 3let-, 1QQ2 and shall continue automatically thereafter during the periods of one year each, unless either party notifies the other between the 60th and the 30th day prior to the expiration date, by written notice that it wishes to terminate or to amend this Agreement or to negotiate a new one.
2702	If at the date of expiration a new Agreement has not been signed, the present Agreement will stay in force until such time as all the steps relating to conciliation by-law of the province of Nova Scotia has been complied with.
ARTICLE XXVIX - AMENDMENTS
2801 All provisions of this Agreement with the exception of
those defining the term of the Agreement may be amended by mutual consent at any time.
THIS AGREEMENT signed this
day of
A.D. 1990 between the parties
hereinbefore mentioned.
Co-op Atlantic	Local 1252 - Fishermen's Union
Tiruro Feed Plant	United Food and Commercial
Workers International Union
APPMJDiK-I-IAl.
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
____________________ , being an employee of
Co-op Atlantic, at its feed plant at..	......................,
and a member of Local 1252 - Fishermen's Union of United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic, to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the Union initiation fee and monthly dues to Local 1252 - Fishermen's Union of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
I further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my earnings.
_______________________________ Name___
Witness
Address
Postal
_______________________________Code
Date Phone
S.I.N.
Number
********************
APPENDIX I IB)
DUES CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
1/ ________________________________________, being an employee of
Co-op Atlantic, as its feed plant at_____________________________,
hereby authorize and direct Co-op Atlantic to deduct from my pay at the end of each calendar month from any earnings accumulated to my credit the amount of the individual monthly membership dues paid by members of Local 1252 - Fishermen's Union of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
further authorize Co-op Atlantic to pay the amounts so deducted to the appropriate official designated by the Local Union, whose receipt therefore shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of Co-op Atlantic for the amount so deducted from my
earnings.	Name
Witness	Address
	Postal
	code
Date	S.I.N.
	Number
TBIffip., FEED.. PLANT APPEND** It
SCHEDULE OF JOB GRADES AND WAGE RATES
JOB GRADE AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Eff.Date
GRABE-I
Millhands
Start 3 Mos. 6 Mos. IZJLQSj
1 Feb. 90 1 Feb. 91
9.75
10.40
10.25
10.90
10.75
11.40
11.85
12.50
GRADE II
Receiver Warehouseman Grain Processor Mixer Operator Pellet Mill Operator Packer-Sewer Swingman
1 E£b. 90	10.05
1 Feb. 91	10.70
10.55	11.05	12.15
11.20	11.70	12.80
Maintenance Mechanic I
1 Fdo. 90	10.05	10.55
1 Feb. 91	10.70	11.20
11.15	12.25
11.80	12.90
Maintenance Mechanic II
1 Feb. 90	10.75
1 Feb. 91	11.40
11.35	11.95	13.15
12.00	12.60	13.80
river-Salesperson
1 Feb. 90 10.05 10.65 11.25 1 Feb. 91 10.70 11.30 11.90
12.45
13.10
Driver-Salesperson-Tractor	15C per hour above driver
salesperson Rate above
Lead Hand Premium - 55$ per hour
/PRS016
Mr • Mark Dobson UFCW
Suite 6, 2819 Isleville St,,
Halifax, NS B3K 3X3
SUBJECT:	T.FTTF.R OF TTWDF.RRTAWnTWn - TRATNTWG
Dear Mr. Dobson:
The co-operative agrees to provide all employees equal opportunity to receive on-the-job training for jobs outside of their own in the same grade. An exception to this will be the mill hand classification who will be allowed to request training in Grade II classifications. Each employee wishing training will request such training in writing specifying his first and alternate choice. The following terms will apply:
(a)	The training will be completed within the twelve (12) months following such requests;
(b)	Selection for training will be made using the date of request. If dates are the same, seniority will be the deciding factor if it is feasible to train on machine requested by most senior requester:
(c)	A record of the training taken by each employee will be maintained. Such record will be made available to said employee, with reasonable notice, but within twenty-four (24) hours of his request;
(d)	Training will be carried out in sequences of five (5) consecutive work days, where possible, and as required,and will be carried out during the evening shift unless mutually agreed.
Yours truly,
Louis.Snyder, Manager Co-op Atlantic Truro Feed Mill
Mr. Mark Dobson UFCW
Suite 6, 2819 Isleville St.,
Halifax, NS B3K 3x3
SUBJECT:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ^PAmUINCH PERIOD
Dear Mr. Dobson:
The purpose of this letter is to avoid possible confusion in this area at a later date.
As per Article XVII 17.01 (b) employees in Grade I, II and Maintenance Mechanic classification will be paid a thirty (30) minute lunch period and will be on the premises and on call during that time.
The above does not apply to an employee who is not an the premises and on call during the lunch period.
It is not spelled out in the Article but the basis for agreeing to this Article was that the said employees remain on the job fifteen (15) minutes beyond their regular eight (8) hour shift.
Yours truly,
Louis Snyder, Manager Co-op Atlantic Truro Feed Mill