AGREEMENT
SOURCE	o3 m i tm			
EFF.	no		AM	0 1
TERM.	A2>.		o-3	¥7
No. Of EMiHCUT	5	a <f:C		
N O M -RE D'IMP lOVES		..		
BETWEEN :
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL 468
of the Municipality of Burnaby,
AND :
CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED:
Cities of Vancouver, North Vancouver, New Westminster and White Rock;
Towns of Port Coquitlam and Port Moody;
Municipalities of Burnaby, West Vancouver, Coquitlam, Richmond, Delta, Surrey; and
District of North Vancouver.
APRIL 1, 1990 TO MARCH 31, 1993
UCT -t
ooBoqo 3
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
I	BARGAINING AGENCY	1
II	UNION SECURITY	2
III	CHECK-OFF	2
IV	MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS	2
V	HIRING PROCEDURE	3
VI	WAGES	5
VII	NOTICE	8
VIII	FREE TRANSPORTATION	8
IX	HOURS OF WORK	8
X	OVERTIME	9
XI	SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS	10
XII	REST PERIOD	H
XIII	LUNCH PERIOD	H
XIV	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS	H
XV	VACATIONS	12
XVI	SENIORITY	14
XVII	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	16
XVIII	REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES	17
XIX	JURY DUTY	I9
XX	SEVERANCE PAY	I9
XXI	SICK LEAVE BENEFITS	20
XXII	HEALTH AND WELFARE	21
XXIII	GENERAL PROVISIONS	22
XXIV	UNION LABEL	23
XXV	UNION REPRESENTATIVE	23
XXVI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	24
XXVII	BOARD OF ARBITRATION	24
XXVIII	PENSION PLAN	26
XXIX	DENTAL PLAN	28
XXX	DURATION	28
Letters of Understanding
* * ★ **
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this First day of April, 1990.
BETWEEN :	CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED
AND :	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468 of the City of Burnaby, in the Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART.
In consideration of the maintenance of harmonious relations and settled conditions of employment, and recognizing the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to working conditions, hours of work, and rates of pay, the parties to this Agreement do hereby enter into; ordain, establish and agree to the following terms:
TI T:	BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement and working at the bakery of the Company, located at__________________________________
Section 2 Personnel performing the functions of management and who have the right to hire and discharge shall be excluded from the bargaining unit. They shall not perform any of the work covered by the collective agreement except in the case of emergency. Such persons, if eligible, shall receive retiring cards from the union.
The Superintendent shall not give direct work orders to employees but shall do so through a foreman or forelady except where an on shift foreman or forelady is temporarily unavailable. The Company will write its superintendents outlining the superintendents status, under the terms of the collective Agreement, Section 2 and 3 of Article 1, with a copy to the Union.
Section 3 For the purposes of the Agreement, an emergency is when:	i) a major machinery break-down, or
ii)	a power failure occurs or
iii)	an employee fails to report for, work on time, or
. . .2
-2-
iv)	an employee is unable to complete his shift due to sickness or accident and a replacement is required and exists until the cause of the emergency is rectified.
ARTICLE II: UNION SECURITY
All bakery employees, as set out hereinafter under Article VI, Section 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall become and remain members of the Union, in good standing, while employed by the Company-
ARTICLE III:	CHECK-OFF. ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES
All said employees shall receive from the Union and sign for, a copy of the Agreement, and at the same time shall authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages and pay over to the Secretary of the Union, any dues, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's by-laws, owing by them to the said Union. Upon receipt of said written authorization, the Company agrees to make these deductions and pay same to the Union Secretary on or before the third Saturday in each month.
Employees may authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages contributions to either the Bakovan credit Union or employer-sponsored in-house credit union.
ARTICLE IV:	MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
Section 1 a) The Union agrees that the management of the Company, including the right to plan, direct and control operations and the direction of the work is vested exclusively in the Company.
b)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of management not specifically covered in this Agreement.
c)	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2 The Company shall have full right to employ or discharge employees, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, but no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful Union activity or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any, provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be required to do through any lawfully established picket line.
.. .3
-3-
Section 3 The Company has the right to operate its plant for
as many hours and on a six (6) or seven (7) day plant basis, as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels there will be a demand.
To make possible such operation of the Company's plant, the Union hereby undertakes to supply to the Company sufficient extra employees to work part-time at prevailing jobbers' rates.
The Company agrees to give the Union not less than three (3) days' notice when requiring three (3) or more extra part-time employees for this purpose. This three (3) days' notice does not apply to requests for regular jobbers and other employees which the Union will furnish as soon as possible.
ARTICLE V:	HIRING PROCEDURE
Section 1	(a) The Union will be given the first opportunity of
supplying staff except janitors, as per Article V, Section 2, and regular full-time employees eligible for rehire under Article XVI, Section 1.
The Company need not accept any worker named by the Union who is unable to perform his job competently. Any disagreement arising in respect to the competency of such employee shall be determined under procedure laid down herein for the adjustment of grievances.
(b)	In the event of the Union's being unable to supply a suitable person to fill a full-time vacancy, within seven (7) days after a request by the Company, the company shall be free to fill the vacancy with anyone of its own choosing. The Union agrees to accept such employee into its membership providing the Company has given such seven (7) days notice requesting a regular full-time employee, and providing he is able to pass the eligibility requirements for membership in the Union.
In the event that he can not pass the eligibility requirements, or the Company has failed to give the seven (7) days notice, he shall be dismissed by the Company forthwith. When an applicant for membership is rejected, the Union will, if requested to do so by the Company, set out, in writing, the reason membership was rejected.
In the case of jobbers:
i
i) required within twenty-four (24') hours, the Union will advise the Company of its ability to supply as soon as possible .	. . .4
-4-
ii) required after more than twenty-four (24) hours, the Union will advise the Company twelve (12) hours before such person is scheduled to work, if it is unable to supply a suitable person.
(c)	The Company shall be free to fill any vacancy for jobbers with persons of its own choosing in the event the Union is unable to provide suitable jobbers when required.
The Union agrees that jobbers supplied to the Company will be fully qualified for the work for which they are required.
The Union also agrees not to send as a jobber to the Company any past employee who has been previously employed and released for cause, unless agreed to by the Company.
(d)	All jobbers hired Monday, after ratification, shall be paid at the following rates:
- first 15 working days.....85% of Bench Hand rate,
- second 15 working days....90% of Bench Hand rats,
-	after 30 working days. ...100% of Bench Hand rate.
(e)	Jobbers hired Monday, after ratification of the 1985 contract, shall be paid for statutory holidays on the following basis, based on the previous 4 weeks average:
-	14 hours average in a holiday week.... 3 1/2 hours pay extra.
-	21 hours average in a holiday week.... 5 1/4 hours pay extra.
-	28 hours average in a holiday week.... 7 tours pay extra.
Section 2 In the event the company is unable to find suitable janitors among existing long-service employees, the Union shall be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy. It is understood, all janitors shall become and remain members of the Union, in good standing, wichin thirty (30) days of hiring.
Section 3 The union may replace any non-Union jobber or any non-union regular part-time employee, whenever qualified union replacements are available, with the following exceptions:
i) during a scheduled work week; or ii) when one week's notice must be given, under Article VII, Section 1(a).
Section 4 Regular full-time Union employees, who are laid off by the Company, shall be eligible for recall for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks, subject to the following:
. . .5
-5-
(1)	If an employee an lay-off (whether eligible or not for Severance Pay) refuses recall to a regular full-time position, they will have relinquished all recall rights.
(2)	If an employee who is laid off and is eligible for Severance Pay elects to take said Severance Pay, forfeits all recall rights and shall then be considered as a terminated employee.
(3)	An employee who is recalled to a regular fulltime position within the recall period, shall be reinstated with all rights and benefits they enjoyed prior to lay-offs.
(4)	If an employee who is eligible for severance Pay has not been recalled by the expiration of the recall period, then they shall receive Severance Pay, in accordance with Article XX.
(5)	the foregoing benefits, for regular full-time employees will terminate in the event the employees do not return to work within seven (7) days (except for proper and sufficient reason) of recall after lay-off.
ARTICLE VI :	WAGES
Section 1 (a) The following shall be the minimum weekly wage:
Classification
Effective April i/90
Effective December 2/90
Doughman	$703.77
Cake Hand Decorator	703.77
Ovenman	702.31
Bench Hand	697.94
Receiver/Shipper	701.43
Checker & Bread Machine Wrapper	697.94
Janitor	689.62
Working Foreperson - Retail	736.16
Working Foreperson - Wholesale	724.51
Cake Machine Wrapper	697.94
$713.77 713.77 712.31
707.94 711.43
707.94 699.62 746.16 734 .51
707.94
Classification
April 1/91 April 1/92
Doughman $743.77 Cake Hand Decorator 743.77 Ovenman 742.31 Bench Hand 737.94 Receiver/Shipper 741.43 Checker & Bread Machine Wrapper 737.94 Janitor 729.62 Working Foreperson - Retail 776.16 Working Foreperson - Wholesale 764.51 Cake Machine Wrapper 737.94
$773.77 773.77 772.31 767 .94 771.43
767.94 759.62 8,06.16 794.51
767.94
-6-
No existing Foreperson shall suffer a reduction in wages by reason of implementation of this Contract.
Retroactivity is to be calculated on the basis cf straight-time rates for all hours worked. Employees who have left the employ of the Company between the expiry date of the last Agreement and the date of ratification of this Agreement will be entitled to retroactive pay, if they apply to the employer, in writing, within one hundred and twenty (120) days after retroactive pay is paid by the employer to other employees. Each employer will notify their Union of overall retroactive payment.
(b)	Extra compensation of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be allowed for all work, or any part thereof, performed between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m..
Section 2	(a) Apprentices - period of apprenticeship shall be
three (3) years, with apprentices being mutually acceptable to both parties.
(b)	One (1) apprentice shall be allowed for up to ten (10) journeymen, and one (l)for every ten (10) journeymen, thereafter. Where a shop has a separate cake and bread department, the same ratio will apply in each department.
(c)	All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
(d)	The Union agrees to work with the Company with a view to indenturing apprentices under the Apprenticeship and Trademen's Qualification Act (R.S. 1960, Chap. 13, and Amendment).
Section 3	(a) A jobber is a worker employed on a daily basis
under the wages and conditions listed below:
wage rates, per day, for the first three (3) days:
effective April	1,1990 .............S140.70
effective April	1,1991 .............$146.70
effective April	1,1992 .............$152.70
After three (3) consecutive days, daily rate shall revert to one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly rate.
Section 4 The Company will not be required tp pay an employee while absent from employment, due to sickness or' otherwise, except as provided for in this Agreement.
.. .7
-7-
section 5 Wages of regular employees shall be paid weekly, those of jobbers on termination of employment or before the expiration of the working day next succeeding the termination of employment. Weekly wages shall be paid on one cheque.
Section 6 An employee working in a higher rated classification shall receive the rate of the higher classification for the entire shift. However, this provision is not intended to prevent customary flexibility in scheduling relief for rest periods and lunch periods, up to one (l) hour per shift. In no case, shall a higher classified employee temporarily assigned to a lower classification receive any reduction in pay for the performance of work in the lower classification.
Section 7 All employees upon the completion of three (3) consecutive months of full-time service shall be placed on the payroll of the Company as a regular full-time employee and shall be covered for all benefits under this contract, as soon as possible, and in any event, not later than one (1) month and one (l) day after first qualifying. The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
If an employee becomes absent from work due to sickness, compensation or jury duty while normally working to qualify for full-time status, such employee will be credited with the time he had earned prior to absence.
When the employee returns to work from the absence, the time he has been credited with will count towards the above three (3) consecutive months.
An employee will not lose his seniority date because of sickness, accident or jury duty.
Section 8 Employees other than full-time who average twenty-eight (28) hours or four (4) days per week in any consecutive thirteen (13) week period shall be covered for the following benefits:
-	100 % M.S.P.
-	proportionate benefits for weekly indemnity
-	proportionate benefits for group life insurance
If the employee receiving the benefits does not meet the hour requirements for a period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, the Employer may discontinue the benefits.
Benefits shall apply as soon as possible, but in any event, not later than one (1) month and one (l) day after an employee first qualifies.
. . .8
-8-
The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
ARTICLE VII: NOTICE
Section 1 (a) Before laying off or discharging a regular full-time employee, the Company w i 11 give such employee one (1) weeks notice or one ( 1 ) weeks pay in lieu thereof, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
Jobbers who work four (4) consecutive full weeks shall be entitled to one (1) weeks notice, or one (1) weeks pay in lieu thereof, before being laid off or discharged, except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
In the event such notice is cancelled by the employee continuing to work for an additional five (5) days, then the employee is entitled to another notice.
The above clause shall not apply in the case of In-Store Bakeries where the jobber's hours are extended in the week to five (5) days of work, due to unscheduled employee absences. However, the employee affected and the Union must be notified as soon as possible or the above does not apply.
The Shop Steward of the Department shall be supplied with a copy of such notice, within forty-eight (48) hours.
Where the Employer is required to give notice because of the return of a sick or injured employee, the returning employee shall also give one (1 ) weeks notice of his intention to return to work.
(b)	Employees will give the Company one ( 1 ) weeks notice when desiring to terminate their employment, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
ARTICLE VIII: FREE TRANSPORTATION
Free transportation will be provided all female employees whose shift finishes after 11.30	p.m., provided such
shift ends before 6:00 a.m.
ARTICLE IX: HOURS OF WORK
Section 1	(a) The regular work week shall consist of five (5)
seven-hour days.
.. .9
-9-
(b) All Saturday shifts shall be completed by 6.00 p.m. All work performed on Sunday shall be paid at straight-time rates plus a premium of $1.60 per hour (80 cents for each full half-hour worked).
Section 2 In a week in which one or more holidays fall, the work week that week shall be reduced by seven (7) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hours limited by this sub-section, shall be classed as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate.
Section 3 A jobber's hours of work shall be seven (7) hours per shift or any part thereof.
Section 4 Jobbers working a full week in which one of more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
ARTICLE X: OVERTIME
Section 1	(a) Overtime shall be calculated on a daily basis and
shall consist of the number of hours in excess of those scheduled for each employee.
(b) The overtime rate shall be time and one-half (1§) and shall be paid weekly.
Section 2	(a) The Company agrees that in arranging shifts and in
employing extra personnel, as jobbers, on a part-time basis, it will endeavour to eliminate as much overtime as possible. The Union agrees on request, to furnish enough extra part-time personnel to operate the Company's plant or in-store bakery for a sufficient number of hours to produce the required quantity of bakery products. In the event of the Union's being unable to supply sufficient jobbers, the Company shall be free to hire jobbers of its own choosing. Nevertheless, the parties agree that an emergency may be created by a power shortage or major breakdown, in the plant or in-store bakery, or by the failure of employees to report to work, due to sickness or otherwise. In such event, the regular employees agree to work such overtime as is necessary and is allowed under permit of the Provincial Department of Labour, until such time as the Union is able to supply the said extra personnel or the cause of the emergency has been rectified.
{b) Except as provided for in Article X, Section 2(a) foregoing, it is mutually agreed that in no event shall an employee be conpelled to work overtime.
Section 3 Subject to Article X, Section 2(b) of this Agreement, and due to the need to satisfy retail customer service requirements in the in-store bakeries, the Union recognizes that overtime work may be required from time to time.
... 10
-10-
ARTICLE XI: SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS
Section 1	(a) The Company shall determine the schedule of work-
ing hours for each employee and may change such schedule at its own discretion, according to the provisions of this Agreement, wherever possible, the Company shall give consideration to senior employees. Each employee shall have a twelve and one-half (12£) hour break between the end of one regular shift and the beginning of the next. In the case of a day off, twenty-four (24) hours shall be added to the twelve and one-half (129) hour break, for all employees.
(b) It is agreed that the first shift shall not start earlier than 6:00 a.m., nor later than 7:00 a.m., with the exception of doughmen. Other shifts to follow continuously subject to the following exceptions :
(i)	On two (2) days per week, when the dividerman may be required to start work one (l)hour earlier. This 5:00 a.m. exception shall also apply to public holidays and the two days preceding and two days following the public holidays.
(ii)	Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may start not later than 9:00 a.m., nor earlier than 6:00 a.m.. The Company may use the provisions of (i) above, in scheduling single shifts.
(iii)	Where a statutory holiday or holidays fall in conjunction with a weekend, in-store bakeries may call a 4:00 a.m. start, on the first day back.
The first day back may be a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday .
In such a week where a 4:00 a.m. start is called, the in-store bakery is permitted only one (1)5:00 a.m. start.
(c)	It is not the intent of the Company to unnecessarily change shifts which have been established but the Company is free to do so, should the requirements of the operation make certain changes necessary.
Employees on posted jobs will not be taken off the posted jobs as long as the job remains available, except:
(i)	When there is another job posted and the employee wishes to exercise his or her seniority.
(ii)	Whoa the job is eliminated.
. . . 11
-11-
(iii)	When there is a reduction in the work force.
(iv)	Employees may be moved out of seniority for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days, unless it is mutually agreed to extend this period. Should a competent replacement become available in the interim, the employee will immediately revert back to his former position.
(v)	When the employee does not perform competently.
Section 2 It is agreed that the Company has the right to rearrange the working hours of regular employees so that the work of part-time employees or jobbers may be spread amongst that of the regular employees, to the best advantage.
Section 3 Employees not on a posting but scheduled to five (5) days in a work week may only be entitled to twenty-four (24) hours notice of change in shift. The Shop Steward of the department shall be advised at the time or on the Shop Steward's next shift.
Section 4	It	shall be the duty of employees	to advise	the Company, as	far	as possible in advance of the	shift, in	cases when
due to illness	or other cause they are unable	to report	to work.
Section 5	So	far as is possible, consistent	with the	operation
of the plant or in-store bakery in producing the required volume of bakery products, the Company agrees to work towards the reduction of night work.
ARTICLE XII: REST PERIODS
All employees shall be given a fifteen (ID) minute rest period approximately midway in each half shift at a time to be designated by the Management, in accordance with the requirements of the Company's operation.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to locate time clocks in such a manner to ensure full rest periods.
ARTICLE XIII: LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be granted of one half (2) hour duration commencing not earlier than the third hour, not later than the fourth hour of each shift.
ARTICLE XIV: PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
Section 1 The following public holidays shall be recognized by the Company, as outlined in Section 2 of this Article, and the
.. .12
-12-
regular full-time employees shall not suffer any reduction in pay thereof:
New Years Day Good Friday Empire Day Dominion Day B . C. Day
and all other holidays proclaimed Governments as a public holiday, public holiday.
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
ny the Provincial or the Federal or in substitution for any such
Section 2	(a) During the week in which a public holiday falls,
the employee's day off in lieu of the public holiday may be changed to another day in that week.
(b) All employees shall be granted New Years Day off on January 1st, when it falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Employees on production of hand-made bread shall not observe New Years day on January 1st.
(c)	All shifts must be completed by 7:00 p.m., on December 24th and December 31st.
(d)	Effective Sunday after ratification, work on a Statutory holiday shall be paid at one and one-half (l£) times regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE XV: VACATIONS
Section 1 After one (1) full year of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive two
(2)	weeks vacation with pay.
Section 2 Vacations must be taken by the employee entitled to same. Wages shall not be paid in lieu of vacation.
Section 3 Employees are to receive vacations between Wtey 15th and September 15th. Preference for vacations will be according to seniority, however, the Company will determine how many within each job classification m^ be on vacation at any one time, subject to requirements of the operation.
Section 4 Employees are to receive summer vacations between May 15th and September 15th, however, the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 6th and 7th weeks of vacation or any part thereof may be taken at any time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) outside of the summer vacation period, if the employee so desires, subject to Section 3 of this Article.
.. .13
-13-
Section 5 After three (3) full years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive three
(3)	weeks vacation pay.
After eight (8) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
After thirteen (13) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay.
After eighteen (18) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay, and to seven (7) weeks vacation with pay after twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service with the Company-
Vacations shall be taken as follows:
(i)	Those entitled to three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) weeks between May 15th and September 15th and the extra weeks between January 1st and March 31st.
(ii)	Those entitled to five (5), six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) or three (3) weeks at their option, between May 15th and September 15th —two (2) weeks between January 1st and March 31st and any additional week or weeks between September 15th and December 31st.
Employees who first qualify for extra vacations by March 31st, take the vacation commencing not later than April 1st of the sane year.
Section 6 In the event of one public holiday falling during an employee's annual vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to the first (1st) day off with pay, he would normally return to work. In the event of two public holidays falling during his annual holidays with pay, he shall be entitled to the first two (2) days off with pay, he would normally return to work; and for three public holidays to the first three (3) days off with pay.
Section 7 Vacation allowances on termination of employment:
- four percent (4%) for those entitled to two (2) weeks,
additional two percent (2%) for each additional week's vacation
.. .14
-14-
Section 8 The Company agrees that an employee's annual vacation with pay shall not be broken because of the intervention of any public holiday.
Section 9	(a) Winter holidays schedule must be first posted by
November 1, selection by November 15th, and completed by December 1. Summer holiday schedule must be posted and completed by April 15th, and include any fifth (5th), sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) weeks vacation scheduled between September 15th and December 31st.
(b) For the purpose of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular full-time employees due to sickness, accident, compensation or temporary lay-off, shall be counted as time worked to a maximum of three (3) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks vacation and to a maximum of six (6) months for employees entitled to more than two (2) weeks vacation.
Section 10 Vacation pay shall be paid not later than one day before the last day of employment before vacations commence.
Section 11 The successful applicant on an in-store posting carries his/her vacation entitlement with them but the scheduling and taking of such vacation leave entitlement shall be based on the operational requirements at the new store location, for the first vacation period.
ARTICLE XVI: SENIORITY
Section 1 Promotions, lay-offs, re-hiring and preferences of transfers to shifts (in the event a vacancy occurs on any shift) shall be based on length of service and ability, where ability between employees is reasonably equal, length of service w i 1 1 determine.
Section 2 For the purpose of this Article, a job vacancy occurs:
<i) when an employee transfers from one job to another;
(ii) when the Company requests a replacement for a regular full-time employee whose employment has been terminated;
(iii)	when the Company creates a new job for which a regular full-time employee is required;
(iv)	a job vacancy in an in-store bakery does not occur where the Employer changes an employee's shift by one (1) hour or less, nor does a vacancy occur where the employee and the Union mutually agree to change shift hours.
« » ♦
15
“1
section 3 The original vacancy shall first be posted and when transfers result and create addit onal vacancies, it is understood
there shall be no more than thre original.
Section 4	(a) The Company ag
eight (48) hours but may fill sue until applications have been pro made. Regular appointments shall week. This time may be extended for a posted vacancy may only app available by the Company posted ting shall state the job and the successful applicant for a po within seven (7) days, unless it Company and the Union to extend t
(b) The second and filled within one (1) month of vacancy. In the event of more t than one successful applicant is the Company may delay the final a
(3) postings, including the
ees to post vacancies for forty-vacancies on a temporary basis essed and regular appointment is normally be made within one (1) by mutual agreement. Applicants y on forms which shall be made n a conspicuous place. The pos-tarting time of the shift. The ted job shall be put on the job s mutually agreed between the e time.
hird posting shall be posted and the filling of the original an one original posting and more rom the same in-store bakery, pointments up to one month.
Section 5	Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to
qualify shall revert back to their original job.
Section 6 It is agreed that senior employees absent on vacation or because of sickness or accident, shall have the opportunity to apply for a job posting provided application is received within thirty (30) days of posting and the Union accepts responsibility for notifying such employees. Any such employee accepted to fill the vacancy shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy provided he returns to work within three (3) months of posting or such longer period as may be agreed upon.
Section 7	Non-Union jobbers in the employ of the Company or
those referred by the Union shall be eligible to apply for a job vacancy, however, he shall not be given the job unless:
(i) no Union member in the employ of the Company qualifies: and
(ii) the Union is unable to supply, within seven (7) days, a qualified person to fill the vacancy.
In the event such employee is given the job, he shall immediately become a member of the Union. However, in no case may an employee who is not a member of the Union hold seniority over one who is a member of the Union.
. . . 16
-16-
Section 8	In the event of a reduction of the work force, or
where a department of the Company is temporarily closed or one or more jobs are eliminated and senior employees may be subject to lay-off, such senior employees shall be given an opportunity to qualify for the job of a junior employee. He or she shall have the right to choose the junior job for which he or she wishes to qualify. The period of qualification shall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties after the employee is assigned to the new position.
Section 9	Where a doctor has indicated that it is likely an
employee will be absent due to illness or accident, for at least four (4) weeks, senior qualified employees will be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy created by the illness, or accident, it being understood there will only be one (1) move for each accident or illness.
Section 10 Not withstanding the foregoing provision of this Article, Janitors may only make application for a job vacancy in the production department after one or more years of service and, further, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Janitors may only be replaced by a regular full-time employee.
Janitors shall not be moved out of that department on a temporary basis but an employee in other classifications may do janitorial work.
ARTICLE XVII: LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1 The Company agrees to grant necessary time off without pay and without discrimination, to not more than two (2) employees, each of whcm shall be from different departments of the Company's business, who shall be designated by the Union for a maximum of three (3) months on Union business, provided notification is given the Company in sufficient time to secure a satisfactory relief person acceptable to the Company for the job involved.
An indefinite leave of absence, without pay, shall be granted to any one employee as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer conditional upon his ability to perform his normal job, provided that he re-applied within thirty (30) days of his no longer serving as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer-
Section 2 Regular full-time employees with one (l)or more years of service shall be granted leave of absence, without pay, for a minimum of one (1) week up to a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks on the understanding that:
. . .17
-1
(a)	Only one (1) eligible employee up to ten (10) employees and one (l) eligible employee for each additional ten (10) employees or any part thereo , shall be absent at one time. In any event, no more than one 1) employee shall be absent from any department at one time.
(b)	Twenty-one (21) d ys written notice is given to the employer.
(c)	A qualified person is available as a replacement. The competency of the employee sh 11 be mutually agreed an.
(d)	Such leave of absence shall be taken between September 15th and May 15th, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
(e)	The employee shall not be permitted to work during
such leave.
(f)	It is agreed should an employee fail to return to work at the completion of the leave of absence, or is found to have worked while on leave, he or she shall be terminated in employment.
(g)	Leave of absence will be granted on a seniority
basis.
(h)	This section will not nullify leave of absence granted on compassionate grounds.
Section 3 In the event of death in an employee's immediate family (employees' parents, sisters or brothers, spouse or children, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, or any other relative living in the household of the employee) the employee shall be entitled to be absent from work with pay, a period of three working days, when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for, or to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE XVIII: REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1 An employee who performs one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period shall be classified as a regular part-time employee.
An employee desirous of becoming a regular part-time employee shall indicate same by notifying the Company on a company form, to commence accruing his’/her vacation pay. Twelve (12) months later the Company will assess the number of days worked by such employee.
... 18
-18-
If the employee has accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in this twelve (12) month period, then the seniority anniversary date shall be the day he/she signed the form.
If the employee has not accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days in the initial twelve (12) month period, then one (1) month later his/her number of days will be assessed again, and each subsequent month thereafter until the employee qualifies. It being understood that only the previous twelve (12) months will be used when assessing the one hundred and fifty (150) day qualifying period.
January 1, 1975, shall be the date set to determine the first twelve (12) month period of qualification.
An employee qualifying as of January 1, 1975, shall be covered by all conditions of Article XVIII.
An employee taking longer than twelve (12) months to qualify as a regular part-time employee shall receive his/her vacation allowance on his/her qualifying date, however, should this period exceed fifteen (15) months, then the employee may request part of his/her vacation pay without jeopardizing his/her part-time status.
An employee hired previous to January 1, 1975, shall not lose seniority rights already established with the Company.
Section 2 Such regular part-time employees on temporary lay-off shall maintain M.S.P. coverage during such lay-off. The employee may prepay the necessary full premium or have the Company make the payment which shall be reimbursed to the Company by that employee upon his/her return to work.
Section 3 Regular part-time employees after one (1) year of service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation, with pay. Vacation pay will be prorated according to time worked.
After three (3) years of consecutive service, regular-part-time employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation, with pay, an6 after eight (8) years of consecutive service, four (4) weeks vacation, with pay. After thirteen (13) years consecutive service, five (5) weeks vacation, with pay. After eighteen (18) years consecutive service, six (6) weeks vacation, with pay. After twenty-three (23) years consecutive service, seven (7) weeks vacation, with pay.
The basic two (2) weeks vacation and the third and/or fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh' weeks vacation shall be taken at the same time as set out in Article XV, Section 4 .	... 19
-19-
After having qualified for three (3) or four (4) or five (5) or six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation as above and such employee fails to perform one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in any one (l)year, such employee shall not qualify for that year only. However, if such employee fails to qualify for two (2) successive years except for approved absence due to sickness, accident or compensation, then such employee must requalify for vacation, as provided above.
Section 4 The foregoing benefits for a regular part-time employee will terminate in the event the employee does not return to work within seven (7) days of recall after lay-off.
Section 5 For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular part-time employees, due to sickness or accident or compensation, shall count as time worked to a maximum of two (2) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks, and to a maximum of four (4) months for employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks.
ARTICLE XIX: JURY DUTY
Employees called upon to perform jury duty or witness duty, where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions :
(a)	Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report to work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
(b)	Such employees shall furnish the Company with such statements of earnings as the Courts may supply.
ARTICLE XX: SEVERANCE PAY
In the event of amalgamation, closure of the plant or a department thereof, or reduction in work force due to automation or technological advances causing a regular full-time employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full-time	Severance pay
Consecutive service
up to 2 years.. One ( 1 ) week
over 2 years. . .One ( 1 ) week's pay for every year of full time service t o *d maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
. . .20
-20-
The foregoing shall be in addition to the regular week's notice or week's pay in lieu thereof, to which such employees may be entitled. This clause does not apply to a temporary lay-off.
ARTICLE XXI: SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
section 1 Regular full-time employees, after three (3) months consecutive employment, shall be entitled to sick leave benefits at a rate of one-half ($) day's pay per month of full-time employment, up to a maximum of thirty-seven (3 7) days pay.
Sick leave benefits shall apply to the first day for the	first	three illnesses of	each calendar year, after which such
sick	leave	pay shall only apply to the second (2nd)	and third
(3rd) regularly scheduled working days of illness.
The employee shall provide a doctor's certificate verifying the illness if requested by the Company, however, certificates will only be requested if abuse is suspected.
The Company will reimburse the employee for charges incurred in certificate preparation to a maximum of twenty dollars (S20.00) per request.
Sick leave accumulation may be used to supplement weekly indemnity to normal daily earnings.
The Employer will	ensure that an employee	injured at
work	will	have his/her full	wages maintained for the	first three
(3) working days. If payment for the first three (3) days is also mads by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Employer will deduct the equivalent amount of such Workers' Compensation Board payment.
Section 2 An employee, if found abusing this privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer-. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee or terminate his employment.
Section 3 Employees who voluntarily terminate their employment with the Employer, or who are permanently laid-off from their employment with the Employer, shall be paid any sick leave accumulation they nay have to their credit.
Accumulated Sick Leave Pavout In-store bakery employees who have a sick leave credit balance, in excess of twelve (12) days (eighty-four (84) hours) as of December 31st, 1983, and on each December 31st thereafter shall receive a cash payout to a maximum of six (6) unused sick leave days (forty-two (42) hours), provided, no m-store bakery employee's sick leave bank shall fall below twelve (12) days (eighty-four (84) hours)'; as a result of a cash payout. Eligible in-store bakery employees shall receive a cash payout prior to January 31st each year.	...21
-21-
ARTICLE XXII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1 The Employer shall make its Welfare Plan available to eligible employees, on the following contributory basis:
-	ninety percent (90%)by the Employer
-	ten percent (10%)by the employee
The Employer shall provide a letter to the Union defining eligible employees for the purposes of this Article. The Welfare Plan will provide continued coverage to all bakers regardless of changes of employment from one Company to another which are under the same Collective Agreement.
Section 2 Weekly indemnity benefits payable up to twenty-six (26) weeks shall be increased to five hundred twenty-five dollars ($525.00) per week effective March 29, 1990. Effective March 31, 1991 level of benefit to be increased to five hundred forty-eight dollars ($548.00) and to five hundred seventy dollars ($570.00) effective March 31, 1992.
It is understood these weekly indemnity benefits shall be applied according to the regulations of the Employer's insurance plan.
Life insurance to be a minimum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) .
Effective October 1st, 1979, establish a noncontributing prepaid drug, eye-glass and hearing aid Plan, providing the following benefits to full- time employees:
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible.
(b)	Eye-glass, lenses and frames, to a maximum $100.00 per year, per person.
i c' Hearing aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person once every four years.
id) It is understood all employees' dependents shall be covered by the above Welfare Plan. Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband.
(e? A covered employee's unmarried children under the age of 21, or under the age of 25 while attending an educational institution, provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
. . .22
-22-
Effective March 31st/	1980 establish a Long Term
Disability Plan.
Effective March 28th, 1982, increase Long Term Disability Plan from 50% to 60% for claims commencing on or after March 28th, 1982.
Effective July 1st, 1985 (for those qualified) the Employer shall also make available:
-M.S.P. (including Extended Health Plan)
-H.E.P. Plan (hearing aid, eyeglass and prescription),
to regular part-time employees who work an average of twenty-one (21) hours per week for a period of three (3) consecutive months. Such employees shall receive these benefits as described for full-time employees in this section of the Agreement. The employee must fail to meet the above hour requirement for a period of three (3) consecutive months from the time he or she first fails to meet it, before they are disqualified.
Effective June 1st, 1985, all full-time employees are covered for Major Medical benefits offered by the Employer under this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1	Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary
throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. All those engaged in handling of bakery products, until they have been wrapped, shall wear white, other employees to be supplied with suitable uniforms. The cost of supplying ana laundering of all uniforms to be borne by the Company except iob-bers who work less than two (2) weeks, provided that jobber requests his uniform by the end ofi his second week in which event the Company agrees to provide his uniform by Tuesday of the third week.
Section 2 The Company shall provide and maintain for the convenience of employees, toilets, washrooms and lockers. The lunch room shall be separate and apart from dressing rooms and toilets, and shall provide facilities for boiling water.
Section 3	Employees shall at all times leave benches and
machinery cleaned and (except in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiner's repairs) in condition for the immediate resumption of work. The Company Shall keep all equipment in good safe working order.
. . . 23
-23-
Section 4 Employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant, in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
Section 5 Both parties to this Agreement endorse the City of Vancouver By-Law No. 2148, with particular respect to health certificates .
Section 6 The use of tobacco in any form in any part of the bakery where bakery products are produced or handled, is prohibited and any breach of this rule on the part of the employee shall be cause for instant dismissal.
Section 7 In the event of technological changes that have a significant affect on production, the Company agrees to discuss the matter with the Union six (6) ,weeks prior to institution of same.
Section 8 Due to the retail environment in the in-store bakeries, the Union recognizes that bakers may be required to serve on the counter during relief periods, and that when Union members are not available to slice bread, the counter employee may slice and wrap bread to facilitate customer service within the bakery department.
ARTICLE XXIV: UNION LABEL
The Union label will be furnished to the Company at cost as long as this Agreement is upheld, provided no other Union has a grievance with the Company. The Union agrees at all times to advance the sale of Union products by label campaign or otherwise,
ARTICLE XXV: UNION REPRESENTATIVE
Section 1 The Company and the Union undertake mutually to foster the spirit of co-operation in the interpretation of this Agreement. The management of this Company will at all times, whenever reasonably possible, extend to the accredited representative of the Union, upon his request, evidence and facilities for confirming that the terms and condil ions of this Agreement are being maintained. He shall also be granted permission to inspect pay cheques of any employee should he so desire.
Section 2 The Business Agent shall be permitted to enter any and all departments of the shop during working hours, to attend to the business of the Union. He shall, as a matter q£ courtesy, state the purpose of his visit to the person in charge4 of the department, and shall be given every opportunity to personally examine
. . .24
-24-
complaints of workers on the job, but at no time w i 11 he interfere with plant operation.
ARTICLE XXVI : GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1 In the event an employee feels he has been improperly dismissed, such grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
Section 2 Any employee who alleges that the Company has unreasonably increased the work load of his job, thereby causing injury to the health of such employee or reasonable apprehension of such injury, may present the matter as a grievance under this Article.
Section 3 Any complaint, disagreement., Qt di££<eS.<cftee of opinion between the Company and the JJnion, or the — covered by this Agreement which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, shal. be considered a grievance. Any employee, the iin-inn or- fho Pnnmam may present a grievance.
Section 4 The procedure for Adjustment of disputes and griev-antes shall be:
(a) Should a shall report the matter
of the Union.
grievance occur, to the Shop St~"
the member ^c 1 ajming such eward or tne Business Agent
mitted to finish the balance of the grievance steps or the grievance is dropped. An extension cap be mutually agreed to.
(c)	Should the grievance not be settled between the Superintendent and Shop Steward or Business Agent, the matter shall then be taken up between the Business Agent and the Manager of labour representative of the qompany.
(d)	Except by mutual agreement of the parties, Section 96(1) of the labour Relations Act is hereby excluded.
ARTICLE XXVII: BOARD OF ARBITRATION
Section 1 If the Union and the Company labour representative cannot reach an adjustment, qpon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration composed of three (3-) members .
. . .25
-25-
If mutually agreed between the Company and the Union, a single arbitrator shall preside.
The parties shall each select one (1) member, within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice by either party that a grievance is to be submitted to arbitration, and the third member shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two members first selected. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board. If agreement can not be reached within seven (7) days in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Labour Relations Board of the Province of British Columbia, which shall appoint a Chairman.
section 2 The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider such material evidence as the parties may offer, and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issue involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 3 The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitration issue under this Agreement. Where the Board of Arbitration finds that an employee was dismissed or suspended for other than proper cause, the Board of Arbitration may direct the Employer to reinstate the employee and pay to the employee, a sum equal to his wages lost by reason of his discharge or suspension, or such lesser sum as in the opinion of the Board is fair and reasonable.
Section 4 The finding and decision of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on ail parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed a decision of the Board.
Section 5 It is the intention of the parties that this Article shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 6 Each party shall pay its own arbitrator, but all expenses incurred by the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration.
.. .26
-26-
ARTICLE XXVIII; PENSION PLAN
It is agreed that th$ Approved Standard Collective Bargaining Clause (Canada) whifh follows, will provide the following benefits:
Effective April 1,	1990, the Employer contribution
will provide for nine hundred twenty-five dollars ($925.00) for Plans A, B, C and D at 2% level benefits.
Effective April I, 1991, the benefit level for the above plans will increase to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month-
Effective March 31, 1990 implement Plan CC.
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE (CANADA-)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer, is as follows:
1.	(a) Commencing the First day of April 1990 and for the
duration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer, and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a colitribution of __________ to the
abovenamed Pension Fund, but not more than ________per week for any
one employee, for the purpose of 'this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid holidays, and other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee, in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
(b)	The Employer hereby agrees to become party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated September 11, 1955,
.. . 27
-27-
establishing the said Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of said Agreement, a copy of which is annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund, such Trustees as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement and agrees to be bound by all the action taken by the said Employer Trustees, pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
(c)	It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval for the appropriate Canadian Government Department, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
(d)	It is agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require, and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit the payroll and wages records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
(e)	If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law, to secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable for all costs incurred in collecting the payment due hereunder, together with attorney's fees and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.
2.	The parties agree and represent that there is no other-agreement between them regarding pension, other than this Article, presently in effect. The parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees .
3,	The expiration date of the present Collective Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer, is March 31, 1993. Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation by the Employer.
. . . 28
-28-
4.	This Article shall be binding upon the parties hereto,
their successors, administrators, executors an assigns. The Employer shall give prior notice, in writing, of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than four (4) days after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligation under this Article.
ARTICLE XXIX: DENTAL PLAN
The Employer agrees to ensure the following dental
benefits:
-	90% co-insurance present plan
-	80% co-insurance for crowns, bridges and dentures
-	50% co-insurance for orthodontics, $1,750.00 maximum
If a government plan is instituted at any time with the same or equivalent benefits, it is understood that if necessary, the Company will pay the difference between any such plan and the maximum of thirteen cents (13$) per hour.
ARTICLE XXX: DURATION
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in force and effc-C-t from APRIL _1	1990 until MARCH 31, 1993 and thereafter from year to year
ui til a new Agreement, the terms of which shall be retroactive to April 1, of each year, has been consummated. The parties agree to specifically exclude the operation of Section 96(1) of the Labour Code of British Columbia, and do agree that there shall be no reopening of this Agreement, until proper notice is served prior to the expiration date of March 31, 1993. Should either party desire to make any changes in this Agreement, the party desiring the change shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement, m any year. In the event of a failure to reach an amicable settlement, mediation may be applied for under existing provincial legislation.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING to be renewed, as acreed.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
Oteu 15
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	CANADA SAFEWAY LTD.
AND:	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 46 8
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
The Company agrees that where it operates a retail store, all future in-store bakeries on the lower mainland and Victoria shall become and remain the jurisdiction of Local 468 of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, for the remainder of this Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
Consecutive Days Off
The Parties agree that no employees shall be compelled to work more than six (6) consecutive days and will be scheduled a three (3) day weekend every second weekend. A three (3) day weekend shall be one of the following:
-	Thursday, Friday, Saturday
-	Friday, Saturday, Sunday
-	Saturday, Sunday, Monday
-	Sunday, Monday, Tuesday
The parties have reviewed this matter in general terms during negotiations and specifically reserve the right to amend the above to properly staff the In-store Bakery.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING £3
Long Term Disability
Any employee receiving Long Term Disability shall be
covered for :
-	M.S.P.
-	Group Life Insurance
-	H.E.P.
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Employees with 4 years of continuous service with the employer shall be entitled to an Educational Leave of Absence for up to one year without gain or loss of seniority as of the time the employee leaves.
The following terms and conditions shall apply to such leaves:
1.	One employee per store at any one time shall be eligible for Educational Leave. In stores with more than 40 employees, 2 people per store will be entitled to Educational Leave.
2.	Written application for the Leave shall be coordinated through the Human Resources Department. Notification of the person going on leave shall be provided to the Store, Union and Employee involved.
3.	Seniority shall be the determining factor in scheduling the Leave.
4.	Such Leave will be granted on a one time only basis per employees.
5.	The Employee must be attending an accredited educational institution. The Parties reserve the right to discuss and resolve the application of this in any particular case.
6.	While on leave the Employee shall not take employment with any competitor in the food business. (Violation of this provision may result in termination.)
7.	It is understood a person on leave of absence could be offered minimal part time work with the Employer without seniority or rights to such work, for the duration of the leave.
8.	The period of time off will not count towards time worked for vacation entitlement.
9.	One months notice of return to work must be given to the Employer unless a return date has been established prior to leaving.
10.	During the period of such leave, the employee will be allowed to self pay their pre leave benefit status for M.S.P., E.H.B., H.E.P. and Life Insurance in advance by quarterly installments.
The Parties desire to have this new provision complied with in spirit and intent. Any abuse, violations, or conflicts arising from it will be discussed between the Parties before any action is taken.
YOUR CONVERSION PRIVILEGE. - LIFE INSURANCE
If your coverage ceases because your employment or your membership within the eligible classes ends, you may convert your insurance to some form of individual life policy offered by the Company's carrier without having to pass a physical examination.
If you qualify for the Retiree Death Benefit, the amount of it will be deducted from the amount of life insurance you are otherwise entitled to convert.
You have 31 days to make application for conversion and to pay the required premium following termination of your insurance. However, if you are given written notice of your right to convert, you have no more than 31 days from the date of termination of insurance, or until 25 days after you are given notice, whichever is the later date.
If you should die within the 31 day period after your coverage ends, your amount of insurance will be paid to your beneficiary. If your life insurance is payable under the group policy, payment will not be made under the converted policy; and premiums paid for the converted policy will be refunded.
LETTER OF t
STANDING
RENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Pursuant to Article VI, Section 2 (d) the following represents the understanding reached between the Parties on the implementation of an indentured apprenticeship program for In-Store Bakeries.
1. Current Section 2	(a)
(i)	The Apprenticeship Program shall be of three years
duration for the purpose of achieving All-Around Journeyperson Baker qualifications.
The training modules shall consist of six (6) modules. Each module shall be of six (6) months duration and be as follows:
Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6
Benchwork
Oven
Mixing
Decorating
Skills development
Skills development
Apprentices shall work with a qualified Journeyperson Baker at all times during the first four training modules.
Persons entering this Apprenticeship program after having completed the Provincial Trade Training course at VCC or other recognized vocational training school shall receive credit for six (6) months equivalent experience but shall also complete the first four basic training modules! on the job.
(ii)
(iii)
Candidates for the Program will be selected by mutual agreement between the Parties.
Wages: - the following wage scale shall amend the current 2 (a) .
Start rate Second six months Third six months Fourth six months
Fifth six months Sixth six months
-	65 % 70 %
-	75 % ~-80 %
-	85 %
-	90 %
of the Journeyperson rate
ll	n	II	fl
It	"
U	n
II
ll
ft
II
II
II
Upon the successful completion of the three year program, the apprentice shall receive the journeyman bench hand rate.
New Apprentices hired after ratification shall not be entitled to Sunday or shift premium until completion of Apprenticeship Program.
Wage increases throughout the above scale is dependent on successful completion of the schooling part of the program.
The apprentice shall be entitled to all raises as negotiated during the period of his apprenticeship.
While attending an approved Vocational School, an apprentice will receive from the Company an allowance comprised of the difference between his regular straight time rate, based on a thirty-five hour week, and any allowance received from the Apprenticeship Branch or any other grants.
The apprentice shall accumulate seniority commencing with his date of hire, and shall be subject to layoff according to his seniority.
2 . Section 2 (b)
During the first year after implementation, the number of apprentices will be mutually agreed upon.
3.	Section 2 (c) All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
4.	Trial Period
The apprentice shall have a trial period of his first sixty (60) working days during which time his performance, attitude and suitability will be assessed.
5.	There shall be no reduction in the work force due to the apprenticeship training.
Signed on this 1st day of April, 1990.
For the Company	For the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The following memorandum of understanding is effective from April 1, 1990 to March 31, 1993.
between: Canada Safeway Limited
and: Bakery and Confectionery Workers' International Union of America, Local 468
The Company agrees it will not permit Food Clerks to slice bread, package, carton, or bag merchandise manufactured in the In-store Bakery in the same store in which the Clerks are employed, when such merchandise is to be sold by self-service in other sections of that store.
The foregoing in no way applies to the handling or selling of the bakery products as described above when they are sold at Bakery sales counters, or handled at the checkstands by food clerks.
Dated this __________ day of ___________________19___.
For the Company
For the Union
LETTER OF UN)ERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITE >
1885 West Broadway, V incouver, B. C.
(hereinafter called " :he Company")
AND :	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, ,OCAL 468 of the City of Vancouver, Province of British Columbia
(hereinafter called "the Union")
It is mutually understood between the Company and the Union that only persons covered by the current Agreement between Local 468 of the Bakery, Confectionery & Tobacco Workers International Union and the Company will be allowed to do any work covered by any of the classification of the Agreement except with the consent of the Union.
For the Company
Date
For the Union
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	CANADA SAFEWAY LIMITED
Supply Division (Bakery Department)
AND :	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
The Employer agrees that regular full time employees laid off during June, July and August 1969 (due to the retail store strike-lockout situation) shall not suffer any loss of service with the Company for vacation and seniority entitlement purposes.
For the Employer
For the Union
NEW ETTE 0F| JNDERSTA
(1)	NOTICE:
A list of jobbers working for Canada Safeway, will be sent out to-each store, on a weekly basis.
This list will constitute weekly notice as covered by Article VII.
Shop Stewards will be given a copy of this list.
(2)	POSTINGS:
New employees, accepting their first posting with Canada Safeway In-store bakeries, must stay on the posting for three months.
(3)	POSTINGS:
Effective Sunday after ratification, New Postings will be posted for consecutive days off that may not include a Saturday or a Sunday off. There will only be one such posting in each store.
All existing postings shall not be changed, except as covered in the Collective Agreement unless the Company and the Union agree to changes. If abuse is suspected under this provision, the Company and the Union shall meet to resolve the matter.
Within 45 days of ratification, the Employer will provide the Union with a list of all existing postings in each store. It will include days off, starting times and classifications.
All future postings will be "faxed" to the Union Office prior to being posted in the In-store Bakeries.
Signed on this 1st day of April, 1990.
Signed on behalf of the Company Signed on behalf of the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Within six (6) weeks of ratification of this Agreement, the
Employer, the Union and the Tn-S't e Bakery Managers shall meet to
resolve the issue of an adequate v adjustment for In-store Managers .
The Company agrees that the following people shall be present:
Dai Balletto, Jean Michaels and Pac Grover Signed on this first day of April 1990.
For the Company	For the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is agreed that, within three (3) months after ratification of this Agreement, the Employer and the Union will meet to attempt to
reconcile the provisions of the Collective Agreement with the needs and practices of the In-store Bakery operations.
Signed this 1st day of April, 1990.
For the Company
For the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
In the absence of the Bakery Manager, the Relief Bakery Manager (2nd person) shall assume the duties and responsibilities of the Bakery Manager.
Relief Bakery Managers shall be compensated at the rate of twenty dollars ($20.00) per week in addition to regular wages earned.
Signed on this 1st day of April, 1990.
For the Company	For the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
To ensure adequate staffing of the In-store Bakery on a week in which a Statutory holiday or holidays occur, the following provisions shall apply by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Employee:
1.	One third (1/3) of the Bakery staff	may	elect	to take the
Statutory holiday(s) in the week prior to the week in which it actually occurs.
2.	One third (1/3) of the Bakery staff	may	elect	to take the
Statutory holiday(s) in the week after the week in which it actually occurs.
3.	Employees electing to take option 1 or 2 above, shall be eligible to work 35 hours at straight time rates in the week of the Statutory holiday provided that the total hours of work and Statutory holiday credit in the three week period do not exceed a total of 105 hours.
4.	Any paid or credited hours over the	105	hour	maximum in 3
above shall be considered to be overtime hours.
Signed this 1st day of April, 1990.
For the Company	For- the Union
oteu 15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
THIRD PARTY LIABILITY
Should a Safeway employee receive weekly indemnity, as a result of an accident, and he or she subsequently receives a wage loss settlement from I.C.B.C., covering the same period, the amount by which weekly indemnity benefits and sick leave benefits causes the actual replacement income to exceed the employees regular earning shall be reimbursed to the Company.
Any banked sick days which may have been used, shall be returned to the employees banked sick days accumulation.
Signed on behalf of the Company Signed on behalf of the Union
oteu 15