i HIS AGREEMENT made this 27th day of March, 2010 BETWEEN:
METRO ONTARIO INC.
(herein called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
- and-
CAW LOCAL 414 OF THE NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE. AEROSPACE-TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS' UNION OF CANADA (CAW 4141
OF THE SECOND PART
PREAMBLE
The purpose and the intent of this Agreement is to promote cooperation and harmony, to recognize mutual interests, to provide a channel through which information and problems may be transmitted from one to the other, to formulate rules to govern the relationship between the Union and the Company, to promote efficiency and service, as well as to cover wages, hours and working conditions,
It is further agreed that the development of the proper relationship can only be achieved and maintained by a reasonable and sensible approach to the problem, at the same time recognizingthat the best possible working conditions are the objective of both parties but also realizingthat the thinking in the matter must in an overall way, be properly related to competitors and to local conditions.

ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
The Qompany recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees
by the Company in its Grocery, Perishable Products and Frozen Food Distribution Centres in the province of Ontario save and except foremen, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreman and supervisor, salaried office staff, persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-eight (28Jhours per week and students employed during the school vacation period (the first full week in May to the third full week in September).
1.02	The term "employee" or "employees" as used in this Agreement, unless dearly specified
otherwise, shall mean only those employees who are included in the bargaining unit as described in Section 1.01 above.
00506 (11)
-2-
ARTICLEII ..MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
2.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	generally to manage the enterprises in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to plan, direct and control operations, direct the work forces, determine the number of personnel required from time to time, the standards of performance, the number and location of Distribution Centres and facilities, services to be performed and the methods, procedures and equipment in connection therewith, determine the goods to be handled and produced and the methods, processes and means of production and the control of material to be incorporated in the products produced, the products to be handled, the schedules of work, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations;
(c)	hire, discharge, direct, transfer, classify, promote, demote, lay-off, recall and suspend or otherwise discipline employees subject to the right of an employee to lodge a grievance in the manner provided in Article VII,
ARTICLE ill - SENIORITY
3.01	An employee will be considered on probation and will not be subject to the seniority provisions cf this Agreement, nor shall his name be placed on the seniority list until after he has completed four hundred and fifty (450) hours worked as a full-time employee in the Distribution Centre(s),
Upon completion <f such probationary period the employee's name shall be placed on the appropriate seniority list. The dismissal of a probationary employee shall be in writing and a copy given to the Chairperson. Such dismissal shall not be subject to a grievance.
3.02	The Company agrees to post in each Distribution Centre quarterly the revised seniority list, with copies to the Union Office and the members of the Grievance Committee. The order of seniority of all existing employees shall be in accordance with the order of names shown on the seniority list dated Septembers, 1984. The order of seniority of employees hired afterthat date, who have successfully completed the probationary period, shall be determined in accordancewith the following:
(a)	full time start date;
(b)	full time start time, to be staggered.
Employees of the G. A. Love Distribution Centre who were full-time as of the date of acquisition shall be credited with a permanentsenioritydate of January 15, 2000, and their full service date with G.A. Love shall be utilized for the purpose of vacation and benefits.
-3-
Should an employee disagree with his assigned seniority date, he must do so within thirty (30) days of the posting in the employee's DistributionCentre of the first seniority list that includes the employee's name.
3.03	Lay-offs, transfers, recalls or the filling ofj ob openings by posting within the bargaining unit will be dealt with on the basis of seniority, provided that the qualifications of the employees concerned are relatively equal with respectto physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work, and in the case of recalls, those concerned are available to do t he work.
One (Imonth prior to the normal or early retirement of an employee in the receiver, shipper, or checker classification, should the Company determine that such retirement creates a job opening, the Company shall post notice of such retirement, and respond to indications of interest in the job by allowing the most senior applicant to familiarize himself with the position for a period not exceeding two (2) weeks, priorto the application of Section 3.03.
It is further agreed that for €ie purpose of the lay-off and recall provisions of this section an employee's entitlement shall not apply to the Maintenance Departmentclassificationsas set out in Appendix 'A", such employees having lay-off, recall, and job posting rights solely within their own classifications.
In the case of lay-off, probationary employees will be laid-off first.
A person on lay-off, who has completed the probationary period, shall be given the first opportunity for available part time hours, up to eight (8) hours per day, by seniority provided such person is available and has the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. Such laid off employee must submit each week a completed availability form supplied by the Company no later than the Wednesday of the prior week. Payment for such work shall be at the employee's rate of pay at the time of the lay-off, for the period of time that the employee has recall rights.
In the event of a lay-off from full-time hours of full-time employees, existing part-time employees wiil not exceed twenty-eight (28) worked hours perweek during such lay-offweeks.
3.04	A person shall lose all seniority and shall be deemed to have terminated employmentwith the Company if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits;
(b)	is discharged for cause and the discharge is not reversed through the Grievance Procedure;
(c)	is laid cff for a period of twenty-four (24) months;
-4-
(d)	fails to report for work within seven (7) days after being notified by registered mail (with a copy to the Union Office) by the Company following the lay-off or fails to advise the Distribution Centre Director, or appointee within five (5) days of his intention to report to work pursuant to the notification. Proof of illness (authentic Doctor's Certificate), or proof of inability to communicate shall constitute a satisfactory reason;
(e)	fails to return to work at the expiration of a leave of absence without a reason satisfactory to the Company. Proof of illness (authentic Doctor's Certificate), or proof of inability to communicate shall constitute a satisfactory reason; or
(f)	has a continuous unreported absence for two (2) days without permission or without a reason satisfactory to the Company. Proof of i l lness (authentic Doctor's Certificate), or proof of inability to communicate shall constitute a satisfactory reason; or
(g)	completes an LMR (labour market re-entry) through the WSIB.
3.05	It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company promptly on forms supplied by the Company, of any change in address, telephone number (maximum of two (2)), marital status, number of dependents, or other related information that may be required from time to time, and the employee shall retain a signed copy of such form. The employee must provide at least twenty-four (24) hours notice when advising of a change in telephone number. If an employee fails to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure to comply with any part of this Agreement where such information is necessary in order to comply. The Companywill supply to the Local Unit Secretary and Local Union Office a list of the names and addresses of the employees as well as a list of telephone numbers not less than twice yearly. Should the Company be provided with two (2)telephone numbers by an employee, the Company shall, when it does not reach the employee at the first number, call the second number,
3.06	(a) A job opening within the bargaining unit, excluding the replacementof employees on
vacation, leave ofabsence or illness, will be immediately posted by 1:30 p.m. Friday, and remain posted on the Distribution Centre bulletin boards until 12:00 noon of the following Wednesday (Thursday where there is a holiday on Monday). Such postings will include the department, job classification, the work week and the shifts involved. Priortothejob posting being removed, applicants will complete and submit a three-copy application form to the member of supervision in each distribution centre who is assigned the responsibility of acknowledging receipt. Should an applicant apply for multiple postings in the same week, he shall prioritize his preference. The applicant shall retain a copy, and the third copy will be forwarded to the Chairperson. Interested candidates must make their wishes known by 12:00 noon Wednesday of the same week (Thursday when there is a holiday on Monday). The Company in making its selection will considerall of the applicants who have submitted a timely application before considering other candidates. Applicants shall be considered having regard to the terms and factors as contained in Section 3.03 hereof. However, if none of the applicants is qualified to perform the job satisfactorily, the Company shall have the right to fill the position from other sources, provided that unawarded vacancies in all classifications other than selector have been reposted until filled to a maximum of two (2) times. The successfulapplicantwill be placed on the job in accordance with his shift preference as sef out in Section 3.10, within twenty-one (21) days from the date of such posting. The Companywill confirm with employees who have letters on file for the purpose of making their wishes known, which full time positions are to be posted, except with regard to employees who are absent from work, in which case the Company will endeavour with a steward present to contact such employees.
-5-
by noon on Thursday. Those employees who cannot be contacted as above will be bypassed. The posted award will include the successful applicant’s name and seniority date.
All new bargaining unit positions which may be created by the Company during the life of this Agreement shall be posted in accordance with the above, except that the foregoing shall in no way limit the Company’s right to experiment or innovate up to a maximum of three (3) months. The Company will discuss such experiment or innovation with the Grievance Committee at its inception.
(b)	The replacement of employees absent due to leave cf absence, Workers‘ Compensation, or illness shall be dealt with in the following manner and sequence:
(i)	By temporary assignment as per22.01 but not to exceed twenty-two (22) days, or
(ii)	By a posting within a Distribution Centre for a temporary opening, having regard to the terms and factors as contained in Section 3.03 hereof, as soon as the employee to be replaced has providedthe Company with a reasonable estimate of the length cf the absence, or the absence exceeds sixteen (16) worked days. The job will be posted every six (6) weeks thereafter until the employee returns to work. Prior to making such temporary posting, an employee within such classificationand distribution centre, who makes his wishes known, shall be moved to the temporary opening and in such case his job shall be temporarily posted. Such employee shall make his wishes known in writing on a form supplied by the Company, which shall be valid and shall apply for the balance of the calendaryear in which the request is submitted, unless the employee advises the Company cf any exceptions. By 7:00 a.m. Wednesday of each week, the Company will confirm with employees who have letters on file which jobs are to be posted, exceptwith regard to employees with a letter on file who are absent from work, in which case the Company will endeavourwith a steward presentto contact such employees by noon on Thursday. Those employees who cannot be contacted as above will be bypassed. If an employee is eligible for more than one (1) temporary posting in a week, either as a result of a job award or a letter on file, he will be canvassed by the Company for his preference. An employee who receives a posting to a temporary opening either as a result of a job award or a letter on file shall remain in such position until the absent employee returns or the posting has expired,
Employees returning from such leave of absence or illness shall be returnedto their former position provided there has been no loss of their skill and ability, and the employee filling the opening shall be returnedto his former position. However, should the job cf an employee be posted by the Company during a lengthy absence, and should such employee subsequently return to work, he shall return to a position in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03.
(c)	In the event that the Company determines that it requires vacation relief in the positions cf porter, checker, receiver, shipper, fork lift, and general warehouse, the Company shall make such determination on a weekly basis. Prior to making such temporary posting, an employee within such classification who makes his wishes known in writing and who is available for the duration of such vacation relief, shall be movedto the vacated position, and in such case his job shall be temporarily posted. Such written notification shall be on a form supplied by the Company, which shall be valid and shall apply for the balance of the calendaryear in which the form is submitted, unless the employee advises the Company of any exceptions. By 7:00 a.m. Wednesday of each week, the Company will confirm with employees who have letters on file which jobs are to be posted, except with regard to employees with a letter on file who are absent from work, in which case the Company will endeavour with a steward present to contact such employees by noon on Thursday.
Those employees who cannot be contacted as above will be bypassed. The Company shall temporarily post such assignment by 1:30 p.m. on Friday priorto such assignment,
-6-
Interested candidates must make their wishes known by 12:00 nocn Wednesday (Thursday where there is a statutory holiday cn the Monday), cf the week prior to the assignment, and the Company shall make its selection on the basis of seniority providing that the physical fitness, skill and ability of the employees concerned are relatively equal.
The successful candidate shall be available and shall be so assigned to the posted shift and classification for the duration of the individual's vacation period in each case.
(d)	A posting to a temporary opening as definedin 3,06 (b) (ii) and 3.06 (c) above shall be interrupted and the temporary opening reposted, when arty employee associated with the temporary posting is affected by a permanent job award, a shift change, a declared redundancy, or such employee's subsequent extended absence.
3.07	Employees wishing to exercise their seniority to post for lateral or downward job classifications will be limited to two (2) such postings in a twelve (12)mcnth period, effective from the date cf such successful posting. This provision shall not apply to higher or temporary postings,
3.08	The Company shall have the right to train new employees on any shift, for whatever period f time s deemed necessary, but not to exceed twenty-one (21)days and provided no full time employees are displaced.
Where the Company deems it to be practicable, first class mechanics shall be trained to repair unfamiliar or new equipment.
3.09	An employee f long service who has become unable to handle his job, may be reclassified and given such other work as s available and which he is capable of performing Employees may elect to have a steward present during the discussion of such reclassification,
3.10	Seniority in eachjob classification within the individual Distribution Centres may be exercised for preference <f hours as such hours may be scheduled by the Company, provided, however, that the qualifications of the employees concerned are relatively equal with respect to physical fitness and skill and ability to do the work, and further provided that once an employee has exercised his preference, he may not exercise his preference for a period of twelve (12) months dating from his last shift preference in that or any other classification. Such request for preference cf hours shall be submitted by the employee in writing on a form supplied by the Company with a copy to the employee, and if successful, shall be acted upon by the time of the employee's next posted work schedule if the request was submitted on or before the Monday of that week.
When a permanent opening occurs, which for the purpose of this Section, would also include a situation where an employee's days off are to be changed, the senior employee of the classification concerned who makes his wishes known as per Article 3,06 (a),and who at the time is on a differentshift in the Distribution Centre concerned, will be placed on the shift without having to exercise his shift preference.
-7-
lf within six (6) months cf having exercised his preference for hours as provided by this clause, an employee is assigned to work different hours as the result <f a shift change instituted by the Company, or as the result of a senior employee exercising his shift preference, such employee in this instance will move to any shift that his seniority will allow, and will have his shift preference restored.
3.11	Persons employed by the Company in its Grocery, Perishable Products and Frozen Food Distribution Centres who have been or will be transferredout of the bargaining unit will be credited with seniority equal to their total length of service with the Company, except that their seniority shall be reduced by the period cf time they were out of the bargaining unit. Such seniority credit during the twelve (12) months following the date of return to the bargaining unit shall only apply with respect to layoffs. A person who transfers out of the bargaining unit after February 9,1991 will not, if he subsequently returns to the bargaining unit, be credited with seniority, if such return is more than one (1) year after his departure,
Such persons will be returnedto the Selector classification, and shall not be eligible for an appointment by the Company as a lead hand for a period cf twelve (12) months following their return to the bargaining unit. No person will be transferred into the bargaining unit when there is an employee covered by this Agreement on lay-off with recall rights.
3.12	In the case of lay-off for employees with more than three (3) months seniority, an employee will be given at least one (1) week's notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof. Employees will be laid-off in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE IV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
4.01	All requests for personal leave of absence in excess of one (1) week shall be made to the Director of Operations or his appointee in writing by the employee concerned and the letter should indicate in full the reason for requesting the leave of absence. The granting or refusal of all such leaves of absence shall be at the discretion of the Company and shall be made in writing to the employee concerned with a copy to the Union Office, within fourteen (14) days cf the receipt cf the written request, except that in the case of an emergency, the Director, Human Resources or his appointee undertakes to reply to the written request as soon as possible. Any leave cf absence in excess of one (1) day granted h conjunction with the employee's vacation will be deemed to follow his vacation period.
-8-
4.02	If an employee is elected to an offi ce in the Union and the performance of such office requires leave of absence, such leave cf absence (up to a maximum cf thirty-six (36) months) without pay, shall be arranged between the Union, the employee and the Company. Leave of absence shall state the length of time the employee may be absent (up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) months). Such employee shall be restoredwithout loss of seniority to his former position or to a similar position as soon as it is available, at the then prevailing wage rate at the expiration of his leave of absence. This provisions becomes void, however, if the absence exceeds the period granted. A medical certificate shall provide a satisfactory reason for extending a leave of absence.
4.03	Leave of absence to attend Union conventions, courses and conferences will be granted without pay, and without loss of seniority providedthat notice of one (1) month in the case of union conventions, and one (1) month where possible but no less than two (2) weeks in the case of courses or conferences is given to the Company and provided that not more than twelve (12) employees (thirty (30) employees in the case cf a Stewards’ Convention, or a Stewards’ meeting as convened by the National Representativeof the Union) are absent for such purpose at any one time.
ARTICLE V - STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
5.01	In view of the arrangements provided by this Agreement for the disposition of any grievance as herein provided, the Company agrees that there will be no lock-out of employees and the Union agrees there will be no strike, slow-down, sit-down, or other action which interferes with work or operations, or picketing cf any kind or form whatsoever, however peaceful.
ARTICLE VI - UNION COMMITTEES
6.01	The Company agrees to recognize a Negotiating Committee of not more than nine (9) employees for the purpose cf negotiating with the Company with respect to any renewal of this Agreement as provided herein.
6.02	It is also agreed that prior to and during negotiations, the Negotiating Committee will be allowed a reasonable number of days off, without pay, to hold meetings relativeto such negotiations.
The Company will reimbursethe Union for 50% of the wages cf the Union Negotiating Committee for regular time spent in negotiations.
-9-
6.03	The Company agrees to recognize a health and wellness committee of not more than three (3) employees, all of whom shall be appointed by the Union National Staff Representative.
6.04	The Company agrees to recognize a Grievance Committee of not more than seven (7) employees for the purpose of meeting with the Company in accordance with Steps No. 1 and No. 2 cf the Grievance Procedure.
It e agreed that such Committeemen, Stewards, and other Local Union officials have their regular duties to perform on behalf cf the Company and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without receiving permission from their immediate supervisor, which permission will notbeunreasonablywithheld. In accordance with this understanding,the Companywill compensate such Committeemen at their regular straight time hourly rate for time spent at such meetings during their regularworking hours. An off-duty Stewardwill be paid for time spentat such meeting at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay, except that the foregoing does not apply to a Steward who attends such a meeting while on vacation. An employee who is a member of the Grievance Committee or the Health and Wellness Committee, who works in excess of the regular work day or the regularwork week on Union business that has been preapproved by the Company, will be paid by the Company at the applicable rate cf pay, except that a Committeeman who attends such a meeting while on vacation will not be paid.
6.05	The Company agrees to recognize a methods and standards representative, who shall be appointed by the Union National Staff Representative, for the purpose cf meeting with management to review employee concerns related to individual standards performance. Such representative shall receive appropriate training (MOST and Time Studies) from the Company’s Engineering firm.
ARTICLE VII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints or grievances cf employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible. A grievance concerning the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement may be processedwithin seven (7) days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance originate or occur in the following manner and sequence:
The employee concerned and the Steward must discuss the complaint or grievance with the immediate Supervisor. Such discussion of a grievance will be held in an office; failing settlement:
-10-
Step No. 1
Within the above time limits, the written grievance shall be submitted by the Steward to the DistributionCentre Director or his appointee. The grievance shall be signed by the employee and shall set out the nature of the grievance, the contract sections violated, and the remedy sought. The Distribution Centre Director, or his appointee, shall hold a meeting of Company representativeswith the Grievor, the Steward, the Grievance Committee and the National Staff Representative at a time mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Grievance Committee within seven (7) consecutive days following receipt by him of the written grievance, exceptwhere a grievance can be settled, in writing where requested, without a meeting being held. Grievance meetings will normally be held on Wednesday and/or Friday each week by mutual consent.
The Distribution Centre Director, or his appointee, shall deliver his decision to the grievor within seven (7) consecutive days after such meeting; failing settlement:
(If the reply at Step. No, 1 is unsatisfactory the grievance shall be turned over to the Union Grievance Committee and the National Staff Representativewho shall determine if the grievance should be carried to Step No. 2).
Step No. 2
Within seven (7) consecutive days afterthe decision is given under Step No. 1 the grievance may be submitted in writing by the National Staff Representative to the Director, Labour Relations. A meeting may be held within a further period of seven (TJconsecutive days between the Director, Labour Relations and/or his appointee, the Grievance Committee and the National Staff Representative. The grievor, upon request, will attend the meetingwhere his grievance pertains to his suspension or discharge. The Director, Labour Relations, or his appointee's decision shall be delivered in writing to the National Staff Representative,the Chairperson, and the grievor (representativegrievor if a group grievance) within seven (7) consecutive days following the date of such meeting.
7.02	Failing settlement under the foregoing procedure of any grievance between the parties arising from the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a grievance is arbitrable, such grievance may be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided, and if no written request for arbitration is received within fourteen (14) days afterthe decision under Step No. 2 is given, it shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
-11 -
7.03	A policy grievance arising directly between the Company and the Union involving
the interpretation, application or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be submitted in writing by the National Staff Representative^ in his absence, the Chairperson. The parties agree that such a grievance shall not be submitted solely to circumvent the normal Grievance Procedure provided in Section 7.01. In the case of the Union, such a grievance shall be submitted in writing, commencing at StepNo. 2 of the Grievance Procedure, within twenty-one (21) days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance originate or occur. In the case of the Company, such a grievance shall first be presented in writing to the Union within twenty-one (21) days after the circumstances giving rise to the grievance originate or occur and a meeting will be held within seven (7) days thereafter between representatives of the parties. Failing settlement, then within seven (7) days thereafter, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
7.04	Should any employee grievance not be submitted within the time limits specified in this Article, it shall be considered to have been settled on the basis of the Company's reply to the grievance. If no written decision has been given to an employee at Step No. 1 within the time limits specified above, the grievance will be settled in favourof the grievor provided that such settlement shall not prejudice any future such complaint or grievance, or the employee shall be entitled to submit the grievance to the next stage including arbitration.
7.05	A claim by an employee who has completed his probationary period that he has been suspended or discharged without just cause shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Distribution Centre Directorwithin seven (7) days after the employee is suspended or discharged. Such suspension or discharge grievance may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure by:
(a)	confirming the Company's action in suspending or dismissing the employee; or
(b)	reinstating the employee with or without compensationfor time lost; or
(c)	by any other arrangementwhich is just in the opinion of the parties or the Arbitration Board, if appointed.
The time limits as prescribed above may be modified by mutual agreement in writing of the parties.
-12-
Should an employee hired after October 12,1976 give false or misleading information in the completion of his Application for Employment Form or about his medical history, it will be considered just cause for discharge.
In the event that a grievance is filed regarding the dismissal of an employee for cause, the Supervisor or the Managerwill attend the Step#1 grievance meeting,
7.06	A Steward of the employee’s choice, or in his absence, a Steward, or in his absence, another employee will be present when an employee is disciplined, suspended or discharged. The employee may request that the Steward leave the meeting. Any reprimand, warning or disciplinary measurethat becomes part of an employee’s record regarding his work or conduct, other than a verbal warning, will be confirmed in writing, and the Company will forward to the employee and the Chairperson, or in his absence, a Committee Member, a copy within fourteen (14) calendar days of when the alleged infraction becomes known, with the proviso that an extension of time limits will be granted by the Chairperson, or in his absence, another member of the grievance committee, where extenuating circumstances can be demonstrated. Failureto comply will result in the reprimand, warning, or disciplinary measure being deemed null and void.
In the event an employee’s employment is to be terminated by registered mail, -the Chairperson, or in his absence, the National Staff Representative, shall be notified in advance of such letter being sent.
7.07	The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of all Stewards and the area for which they are responsible. No employee will be recognized by the Company as a Union Steward unless the Company has been properly notified as set out above. A Union Steward who transfers out of his area of responsibility will be considered to have resigned as a Steward unless the Company is advised differently by the Union.
If a Union Steward is absent from work due to illness, injury, vacation, or other similar circumstances, his Steward’s duties may be undertaken by another employee in the area affected who will be known as the substitute Steward. It is understoodthat the substitute Steward will function only in the absence of the regular Steward. Substitute Stewards will be appointed by the Union and the Company will be notified in writing by the Chairperson of the name and area of responsibility of any substitute Steward prior to his appointment.
-13-
It is understood and agreed that Union Stewards and substitute Stewards will function only in their area of responsibility, in the manner prescribed in 6.04, and that the employees in each area will be represented at all times by their area Steward.
7.08	All forms of discipline which predate a disciplinary action by more than eighteen (18) months shall not be adduced in evidence in any subsequent disciplinary proceeding in which the employee is involved.
7.09	Where allegations are made under the Company policies on Harassment, Sexual Harassment, Non-Discrimination In the Workplace, and Employee Threats and Violence, against a bargaining-unit employee, the Company and the Union will endeavour to jointly investigate the allegations as quickly as possible.
Where such allegation is made by a bargaining unit employee against a member of management, the employee shall have union representationduring any discussion between the Company and the employee on this matter, unless the employee requests that the Union representative not participate.
ARTICLE VIII - ARBITRATION
8.01	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration as hereinbefore provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within seven (7) days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein required, the Minister of Labourforthe Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such appointment upon application thereto by the party invoking arbitration. The two arbitrators so nominated shall confer within seven (7) days and shall attempt to select by agreement a Chairman cf the Arbitration Board. IF they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such period, they shall then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint an impartial Chairman.
8.02	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance or in processing the grievance.
8.03	The Arbitration Board shall not make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement nor alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement but shall only consider the
-14
question in dispute. No matter shall be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly lodged and carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
8.04	The unanimous or majority decision in writing of the Arbitration Board with respect to the matter coming within the jurisdiction cf the Board, shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the employee.
8.05	Each of the parties hereto shall bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by or for it and the parties shall jointly and equally bear the fees and expenses, if any, of the Chairman of such Boardof Arbitration.
ARTICLE IX - APPENDIX '■A"
9.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept for the term of this Agreement, the classifications and hourly rates applicable thereto as set forth in Appendix “A“, which has been amended to reflect the following negotiated increases:
•	an increaseof thirty-five (.^^cents per hour, retroactiveto and including October18,2009 on all hours worked.
-	effective October 17,	2010, a n	increase of thirty-five (35C)	cents per hour.
'	effective October 16,2011, an	increaseofthirty five (35C)	cents per hour.
•	effective Octoberl4,	2012, an	increase of thirty-five (35C)	cents per hour.
9.02	An employee shall receive a premium of sixty-five (.650) cents per hour for those hours worked between 7:00 P.M. and 7:00 AM.; alternatively, an employee, who is scheduled to work a shift starting between three (3:00) P.M. and seven (7:00) A.M., shall receive a premium of sixty-five (.650) cents per hourfor those hours worked betweenthree (3:00) P.M. and seven (7:00) A.M. Also, an employee scheduled to work in the freezer plant shall receive a sixty (.600) cents per hour premium for all such hours worked. An employee scheduled to work a regular shift between midnight Friday and midnight Saturday shall receivea premium of twenty-five (.250) cents per hour for all such hours worked. An employee scheduled to work a regular shift between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday shall receive a sixty (.600) cents per hour premium for all such hours worked. An employee (excluding probationary employees) who is regularly scheduled to work a full weekend shift consisting of both Saturday and Sunday, shall, instead of the Saturday or Sunday premiums referredto above, receive a premium of three ($3.00) dollars per hour for all hours worked on a Saturday and a Sunday. It is agreed that such premiums will not become part of an employee’s regular straight time hourly rate, except that the freezer premium shall be included in the vacation pay of those employees regularly scheduled to work at the Frozen Food Distribution Centre, and those employees who are
-15'
assigned to work at the Frozen Food Distribution Centre no less than the full four (4) weeks
immediately prior to the vacation.
9.03	(a) In the event that the Company determines that it requires a lead hand checker(s), such
lead hand checker will be selected by the General Manager cf Distribution Operations.
The General Manager of Distribution Operations will post an announcement in all Distribution Centres advising employees that he is contemplating a lead hand checker assignment, stating areas of responsibility and duties, and requesting that interested candidates submit written resumes. The General Manager of Distribution Operations or his appointee shall interview such candidateswithin six (6)weeks where possible and make a selection, where an applicant qualifies for the assignment. Prior to finalizing such appointment, the Company will discuss its selection with the Union Grievance Committee. Should an employee accept such an appointment, he shall receive a premium of fifty (.500) cents per hour for all hours worked while serving in the capacity of lead hand checker. The successful candidate shall assume the job classification as set out in the announcement, A lead hand checker may be exempt from the provisions of Article 3.10 with referenceto shifts if he is only performing the duties of lead hand checker. Should the employee either request that he be released from the assignment or be replaced at the Company’s discretion by another employee, or should the assignment be discontinued by the Company, the employee will be given two (2) months’ notice of such, and after two (2) months, will be placed in the selector classification within the Distribution Centre concerned.
(b)	In the event that the Company determines that it requires employees to perform other lead hand functions, the Company will discuss such functions with the Union Grievance Committee. The lead handfunctions will be offered to an employee in the respective classification of the shift and Distribution Centre concerned by seniority, providing such employee hasthe necessary skill and ability. Employees performing such functions shall receive a premium of fifty (500) cents per hour for all hours worked while performing lead handfunctions. In the event there is no eligible employee availablefor such functions, the position may be filled by temporary assignment as per Article 22.01.
9.04	Every employee with twelve (12) months’ service, and in the service of the Company as of December 1 st of each year shall receive a bonus of one week's pay calculated on the basis of the employee’s regular hourly rate cf pay as of such December 1 st.
The bonus will be paid on or before December 15th of each year. An employee absent from work for reasons other than lay-off, in excess of six months in any qualifying calendar year shall have his bonus pro-rated based upon his actual time at work. The bonus will be pro-rated for any employee on lay-off who has been on lay-off for thirty (30) calendar days or more as of December 1st and pay will be based upon the number of months worked in the qualifying year.
9.05	Any error resulting in a shortage in an employee’s pay in excess of fifty ($50.00) dollars will be adjusted no later than the end of the day following the day that the employee brings the shortage to the Company’s attention. Any error resulting in a shortage of fifty ($50.00) dollars or less which is brought to the Company’s attention by Friday will be adjusted in the pay for the following week.
-16-
Employees will be paid by means of mandatory direct pay deposit. Each employee's direct deposit stub shall be placed in an individual envelope.
ARTICLE X - UNION SECURITY
10.01	All employees hired on or after the date of certification must become a member of the Union upon completion of their probationary period and remain a member in good standing during the term of this Agreement. New employees shall make application for membership in the Union as of date of hire. Such application will be forwarded to the Local Union Office.
10.02	All employees must pay an amount equivalent to Union dues upon completion of their probationary period. The Company will check-off Union dues for all employees and also initiation fees of all employees hired after the ratification date of this Agreement upon receipt of an authorization form signed by the employee at the completion of the probationary period. The amount deducted will be forwarded each month to a designated officer cf the Union at the current address of the Local Union. The Company will also supply a statement showing the name cf each employee from whose pay deductions have been made, as well as a list of the names of employees hired and terminated each month and the starting salaries of the newly hired employees. On commencing employment, a new employee's immediate Supervisor shall introduce the employee to his respective Union Steward.
10.03	It is agreed that the Union will indemnify and save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against it by an employee or employees for amounts deducted from pay as provided by this Article.
ARTICLE XI - BEREAVEMENT PAY
11.01	An employee shall be allowed three (3) consecutive days off, one of which shall be the day of the funeral, in the event of the death of his spouse as defined by law, father; mother, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, step-children, grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or great-grandparents, and shall be paid eight fSJhours pay for each straight time day lost (up to three (3)) from his regular schedule of work. Suitable evidence of the death may be required by the Company before payment is authorized.
-17-
ARTICLE X» - VISITS BY UNION REPRESENTATIVES
12.01	In accordance with the commitment of the Union that Union duties and activities will not be carriedout on the Company's premises, except as otherwise specifically provided under this Agreement, the NationalStaff Representativecf the Union after receiving prior permission from the Distribution Centre Director, his appointee, or a Supervisor, which permission will not be unreasonably withheld, may enter the Distribution Centre during hours cf employment to observe the performance cf this Agreement and for the purpose of processing grievances arising under the terms of this Agreement. It is understood that such visits shall not unreasonably interfere with efficiency of operations. It is further understood that such Union National Staff Representative will comply with Company regulations and restrictions.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Company will arrange for a total of ten (IO) bulletin boards, which may be used by the Union for posting notices. Any such notice must be approved and signed by the Distribution Centre Director, his appointee, or a Supervisor before being posted on the bulletin boards.
(a)	Each bulletin board will be encased behind glass doors with a lock and key for the Unit Chairperson and/or the Unit Secretary.
ARTICLE XIV - JURY DUTY
14.01	An employee with seniority rights who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as Crown witness in a criminal proceeding will receive for each day of absence from work therefore, the difference between pay computed at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate of pay for the number cf regular hours the employee would otherwise have worked and the amount of jury fee or conduct money received, provided:
(i)	he furnishes the Company with a certificate cf service, signed by the Clerk of the Court showingthe amount cf jury fee or conduct money received;
(ii)	the Company is given at leastforty-eight (48) hours notice priorto the time he is to report for jury duty or attendance at trial; and
(iii)	he reports for work during the hours he is not required to serve on the jury or testify as such Crown witness except that he will not be requiredto report for work if less than four (4) hours of his regular shift remain to be worked.
(iv)	An employee who is scheduled to work an afternoon or a night shift, having spent the whole day on jury duty, shall qualify for jury duty pay for the afternoon or night shift.
-18-
ARTICLE XV ■ RELATIONSHIP
15.01	(a) The Company and the Union agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination,
interference, restraint or coercion exercised cr practised by either of them or their representatives or members because of an employee's activity or lack f activity in the Union.
(b)	The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination on account cf race, colour, creed, age, sex or marital status.
(c)	Employees who are not members of the bargaining unit shall not perform routine manual work namally performed by the bargaining unit, except that the foregoing shall not apply m the case of:
(i)	emergencies
(ii)	training
(iii)	inventory
(iv)	part time employees and students
(d)	Persons not employed by the Compary shall not operate power equipment m the Distnbution Centres that is normally operated by members of the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XVI - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
16.01	(a) The regular work week will be composed of forty (40) hours per week, on the basis of
live (5)consecutive days of eight (8) hour shifts (exceptthat this provision shall not apply where an employee requests in whatever form to be rescheduled from one shift to another which results in two (2)consecutive days ofi not being available). An employee shall have either Saturday or Sunday as one of the two (2) consecutive days off. Such references are intended to provide a basis for calculating time worked and shall not be a guarantee as to hours a work per day nor as to the days of work per week, nor as a guarantee of working schedules. In the application of the foregoing,the posted work schedule shall coincide with the pay week (Sunday through Saturday).
(b)	In scheduling such regular work week the Company agrees there shall be no split shifts.
(c)	When a shift overlaps two (2)calendar days, the scheduled work day is considered to be the calendar day on which the majority tf the regular hours are to be worked.
(d)	Once established, the Company shall endeavor to limit alterations to the established start times.
-19-
16.02	(a) It being agreed that the Company is entitled to schedule overtimework, authorized work
performed in excess of the regularwork week or eight (8) hours in a day as scheduled by the Company from time to time will be paid at the rate of time and one half his regular straight-time hourly rate. Itis understood with regard to daily overtime that the payment of the time and one-half rate shall not apply to an employee who reports late for any part of a shift, or who requests and receives personal time off from part of a shift, until such employee has worked a full shift of eight (8) regular hours. An employeewill be paid at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times his regular straight-time hourly rate for any hours worked on a day which should have been a day off pursuantto Article 16.01, except that all work performed starting at the end of an employee's last regular shift of the week, shall for its duration be paidatthe rate of one and one-halftimes his regular straight time hourly rate. If an employee is called in, such call-in to be made, firstly by seniority within classification of the Distribution Centre Concerned and secondly, by seniority within Distribution Centre provided such employee has the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work, and reports to work priorto and in conjunction with the scheduled starting time of his regular daily shift, he shall be paid at one and one-half (114) times his regular straight time hourly rate for such hours worked priorto his scheduled starting time. Employees interested in such call-in will make their wishes known on a form supplied by the Company indicating the classification(s) cf interest. Such letter shall be valid for the balance of the calendaryear in which the request is submitted. Call-in priorto the first shift of the week shall not exceed two (2) hours in duration, on the understandingthat if more than two (2) hours of work is required priorto the first shift of the week, it shall be addressed with an EDOL schedule. There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of any premium payment provided for under the terms of this Agreement, nor shall the same hours worked be counted as part of the regularwork week and also as hours for which an overtime premium is payable. An employeewill be notified of overtimework notlaterthan (2) hours before completion of the shift where possible.
(b)	Daily Overtime List 1DOL1
(i)	Authorized work performed in excess of eight (8)hours in a day will be scheduled on a seniority basis to employees in the respectivejob classifications cf the Distribution Centre concerned cf the shift on duty, provided such employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. Should such scheduling not meet the Company's overtime requirements, then employees of the shift on duty shall be scheduled to perform authorized work in excess of eight (8) hours in a day ahead of employees of any other shift provided such employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. An employee who is scheduled to work such overtime will not displace from hisjob classification or from a full shift temporary assignment an employee who is working regular hours, but will work in the classification where the overtime assistance is required.
(ii)	Each Distributioncentrewill atthe beginning of each shift posta Daily Overtime List (D.O.L.), which shall take the form of a preprinted list of employees within a Distribution Centre arranged by job classification and in order of seniority.
Every employee who is willing to work overtime in his Distribution Centre must indicate this by signing the D.O.L. opposite his name as soon as possible each day would be willing to work. Employees who do not indicate the length of their availability will be considered available for the full overtime requirement.
20
Daily overtime requirements will be distributed as evenly as possible among as many of those employees as possible in accordance with Article 16.02 (b) (i). However, those employees who fiul to sign the D.O.L. by the end of their lunch period will not under normal circumstances be considered for the distribution of overtime.
When, for various reasons such as absenteeism, weather conditions, machine breakdowns, business fluctuations etc. the number of employees who have signed the D.O.L is not sufficient to meet a Distribution Centre’s requirements, or in situations where the response to the D.O.L. is greaterthan the overtime requirement, the Company will post the D.O.L. Greensheet at least two (2) hours before the end ofthe shift concemedwhere possible, indicating the reason for the overtime and including an estimate of the number of hours of overtime, additional or otherwise, requiredto finish the day’s work.
Those employees who intend to sign the D.O.L. Greensheet must do so at least one (1) hour before the end of the shift.
Those employees, who did not sign the D.O.L. prior to the end cf their lunch period, who in view of the circumstances reconsidertheir position, should so signify by signing the D.O.L. Greensheet. Inthe event that there are still insufficient numbers of volunteers to meet the overtime requirements, then employees may have to be scheduled in accordance with 16.02 (b) (i) in reverse order of seniority. The Company will endeavour to utilize in a Distribution Centre those employees listed on the Daily Overtime Lists of the other Distribution Centres, firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly, by overall seniority, provided such employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work, before scheduling employees to work overtime.
The Company will advise those employees who sign the D.O.L. whether or not they will be needed to work overtime not later than two (2) hours before the completion cf the shift concerned where possible. An employee having indicated his willingness to work overtime but who subsequently reconsiders, must, one (1) hour in advance of the end of his regular shift where possible, notify his immediate supervisor before leaving the Distribution Centre.
(b) (iii) It is further agreed that for the purpose of the daily overtime provisions cf this Article, an employee’s entitlement shall not apply to the classifications of the Maintenance Department, such employees having overtime rights solely within their own classifications, except as set out below, Such maintenance department overtime will be scheduled to employees cf the shift on duty who have signed the D.O.L. in accordance with 16.02 (b) (ii); firstly on the basis of seniority to maintenance department employees inthe respectivejob classifications of the Distribution Centre concerned; secondly on the basis of seniority to maintenance department employees of the Distribution Centre concerned; thirdly on the basis cf seniority to maintenance department employees outside the Distribution Centre; fourthly within the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; fifthly outside the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; all of which is subject to employees having the physical fitness, and ability to do the work. On the same basis, maintenace department employees shall not be scheduled for overtime outside the maintenance department, until all volunteers outside the maintenance department in all Distribution Centres have been utilized, and shall then be scheduled in the same order as above.
-21 -
(c)	Extra Dav Overtime List fEDOLI
(j) When work is to be performed on a day in excess of the regular work week, it will be scheduled: firstly, on the basis of seniority to employees in the respective job classifications of the Distribution Centre concerned; secondly, within the Distribution Centre by overall seniority: thirdly, outside the Distribution Centre by seniority within classification; and fourthly, outside the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; all of which is subject to such employees having the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. It is further agreed that in the event of overtime for inventory, employees will be scheduled on the basis of seniority providedsuch employees have the skill and ability to do the job, except that work in the fork lift classification at the Grocery, Perishable Product, and Frozen Food Distribution Centres shall be scheduled by seniority within that classification. Except in the case of inventory, no employee shall be scheduled for two (2) shifts on an extra day in circumstances where the Company has sufficient qualified and eligible volunteers within a Distribution Centre to do the work.
(ii)	An extra day overtime list (E.D.O.L.) will be posted in each Distribution Centre by 1:30 p.m. Friday, and removed by 12 noon on the following Wednesday. Employees’ names will be listed by classification in order of seniority. Once the Company determines its EDOL needs, the EDOL hours that are scheduled will be guaranteed by the Company, and each employee, who has indicated his willinigness to work the posted EDOL hours by signing the EDOL in the appropriate space opposite his name in any or all of the columns, and who b scheduled to work, will be requiredto work the full EDOL shift as posted. The foregoing guarantee will not be applicable to employees who do not fulfill their EDOL obligations, or to employees who are called in to work on the extra day. If an employee is called in for EDOL, it is understood that by coming in, the employee is agreeing to work the full shift. An employee who is absent from work when the E.D.O.L. is posted may authorize another employee to co-sign the E.D.O.L. on his behalf, andwill be consideredfor such extra day overtime, if the co-signer signs his own name as well to verify his authorization. To qualify to be scheduled for the Extra Day Overtime, an employee must have worked his regular scheduled shift immediately prior to the Extra Day. The extra day overtime schedule will be posted by 1 P.M. on Friday for Saturday/Sunday, by 1:00 p.m. on Saturday for Monday, and by 1:00 p.m. on the previous day for all other scheduled extra days, where possible. The Company shall endeavourto notify, in the presence cf a steward or in his absence another employee, by telephone any employee who signed the E.D.O.L. in accordance with the above, and whose shift is noton duty at the time of and following the posting cr the extra day overtime schedule, if such employee is required to work. It shall be the responsibility of an absent employee to determine whether he is scheduledto work on such extra day by calling the Operations Manager, or his appointee between 1 P.M. and 3 P.M. on Friday for Saturday/Sunday, or between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on Saturday for Monday, or between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on the previousdayforall other scheduled extra days. Should an employee remove his name from the EDOL at a time that is no later than the conclusion cf the employee’s last regular shift priorto his EDOL shift, the Company will replace such employee with the next available employee from the Distribution Centre’s EDOL.
(iii)	On any day when both an EDOL shift and a regular shift are scheduled, there shall be no temporary assignments on the shift (this article shall be applied to the classifications of the maintenance department separately from all other classifications). This provision shall not apply in the case of:
-22-
a)	A regular shift employee replacing an absence for the time it takes to secure replacement.
b)	Completing work at the end of a shift with employees from the shift, but not to exceed two (2) hours' duration.
c)	In urgent situations due to
(i)	unforeseen emergencies (physical plant or system failures, damage, or threats to the safety or security of a workplace),
(ii)	a circumstance preventing employees from performing their duties;
(Hi) the requirementto satisfy regulatory compliance with the Technical
Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA), the appropriate EDOL call-ins and/or temporary assignments may be made to address such urgent situations without any resulting implications on EDOL or temporary assignments used within the general operating and/or maintenance classifications. This provision shall apply only to the classifications of Building Maintenance, Stationary Engineer, and Senior Stationary Engineer. If such EDOL call-ins are required, the approximate duration of the shift shall be advised, and overtime may be extended beyond the approximate duration indicated, though not to exceed a total of eight (8) hours per shift.
(iv)	When a vacancy needs to be filled and an employee of the vacant classification is working on EDOL outside <f his classification, such EDOL employee shall be returned to his classification to fill such vacancy. Any resultingvacancy shall be filled, firstly by seniority from among unscheduled employees still available on the EDOL, and secondly, by overall seniority within the Distribution Centre with in the excess classification.
(v)	It is further agreed that for the purpose of the extra day overtime provisions of this Article, an employee's entitlement shall not apply to the classifications of the Maintenance Department, such employees having overtime rights solely within their own classifications, except as set out below. Such maintenance departmentovertime will be scheduled to employees who have signed the E.D.O.L. in accordance with 16.02 (c) (ii); firstly on the basis of seniority to maintenace department employees in the respective job classifications of the Distribution Centre concerned; secondly on the basis of seniority to maintenancedepartment employees of the Distribution Centre concerned; thirdly on the basis of seniority to maintenance department employees outside the Distribution centre; fourthly within the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; fifthly outside the Distribution Centre by overall seniority: all of which is subject to employees having the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. On the same basis, maintenance department employees shall not be scheduled for overtime outside the maintenance department, until all volunteers outside the maintenancedepartment in all Distribution Centres have been utilized, and shall then be scheduled in the same order as above.
16.03	The weekly work schedule will be posted each Wednesday no later than 1:30 P.M. showing the scheduled working hours and classificationsfor each employee in the succeeding week and no change shall be made in such schedule except for reasons beyond the Company's control.
16.04	(a) Employees will be granted a fifteen (15) minute rest period as close to the mid-point of the
first four (4) hours and the second four (4) hours of the shift as is practicable.
16.05
16.06
16.07
-23-
(b)	If an employee is required to work ten (IO) hours or more he shall:
0) be granted a fifteen (15) minute rest period, as soon as possible after the ninth hour of work.
(jj) be paid a meal allowance of $3.75, to be included in the following week's payroll.
(c)	Notwithstandingthe foregoing, 16.04 (b) shall not apply in the eventthat an employee is called back to work in accordance with Article 16.07. Such employee shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute rest period as soon as possible after two (2) hours ct work.
Employees will be granted a half (1/2) hour meal period, without pay, as nearthe mid-point of a shift as is practicable.
(a)	In the event of a change in scheduled shifts for a group of employees, such changes will be discussed with the National Staff Representative and the Grievance Committee two (2) weeks in advance, excluding shift changes arising from reasons beyond the control of the Company.
(b)	In the event of a change in the work schedule of an individual employee for a period of one (1) week or longer, such employee will be notified two (2) days in advance of the posting of that week's schedule, except in the case where such change in the schedule is due to conditions beyond the control cf the Company, or due to the application of 3.10.
(c)	Inthe eventthat a new shift is created in a Distribution Centre, the Companywili poll by seniority for preference of shift within the affected classification of the Distribution Centre concerned.
In the event that an existing shift for a group of employees of a Distribution Centre is fully or partially eliminated, the Companywili poll such employees by seniority within classification of the Distriblution Centre concemedfor preference of shift inthe presence of a Union Steward.
(a)	If an employee is called back to work after he has left his Distribution Centre following the completion of his regular daily shift, (but not in conjunction with the start of his next regular daily shift), he shall, if he reports to work in accordance with the Company's requirements, be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at his regular rate, or the appropriate premium rate for the numberof hours worked, whichever is greater. The appropriate premium rate shall mean one and one-half (1 Vt) times the regular straight time hourly rate. Each Distribution Centre shall make any call-back calls priorto the posting of the D.O.L. Greensheet. An employee, who has advised the Company by initialingthe appropriate column on the initial posting of the D.O.L. in accordance with the time frame set out in Article 16.02 (b) (ii), that he will be available for call-back will be so called priorto the Company assigning a parttime employee to work in excess of eight (8) hours in a day. An employee will be expected to indicate his availability for call-back on a daily basis. An employee, who refuses overtime at the end of a shift, or who does not fulfill his overtime commitmentas indicated on the D.O.L., or who has worked sixteen (16) continuous hours, will notbe eligible for callback. If call-back runs into a regular shift, an employee will only be paidfor call-back hours worked up to the start of the regular shift at the appropriate premium rate in accordance with Article 16.02 (a).
-24
(b)	An employee called into work overtime on days otherthan those shown on his weekly work schedule shall be guaranteed not less than four (4) hours of work time, except that this shall not apply in the case df maintenanceor banana checks. An employee called in as above for the purpose <£ a maintenanceor banana check shall be guaranteed not less than two and one-half (2 V2) hours of work time. If a call originates from the Distribution Centre at a time when other employees are working, a steward, or in his absence, another employee shall be present when the call is made.
16.08	An employee is expected to attend work regularly in accordance with the work schedule. When
unable to report as scheduled, the employee must advise the Distribution Centre Director or his appointee as far in advance as possible but no later than his scheduled starting time, giving the reason why he is unable to report, and when he expects to return to work. If the employee ds unable to fulfill this obligation, he may assign it to another individual. An employee who reports back to work having not advised the Company cf his expected return to work may be assigned to such work that may be available on that day, where the Company has made prior arrangements to fill his position. An employee absent for an extended period due to illness or disability must advise the Company as frequently as requested regarding his progress, and should advise the Company cf the date <f his return to work, as far in advance as possible, but no later than the Thursday prior to the date of his return, in order that the Company may make any schedule adjustments that it deems necessary.
ARTICLE XVII - SPECIFIED HOLIDAYS
17.01	An employee who has completed his probationary period shall receive the following specified holidays with pay, or, if the day falls on a regularly scheduled day off, or on a Monday for a Sunday to Wednesday shift, or on a Friday for a Wednesday to Saturday shift or a Thursday to Sunday shift, the day declared by the Company (either the preceding or the following scheduled work day so as to provide extended consecutive days off) as the specified holiday for such shift and Distribution Centre, provided that the same day will be observed as the holiday by all employees of such shift and Distribution Centre.
Employeeswill be advised of the day declared by the Company as the specified holiday twenty-one (21) days in advance of the actual holiday.
New Year's Day Family Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
25
The ten (10) specified holidays listed above will be observed in the same pay week in which they fall.
The last half of his regular shift immediately prior to Christmas Day and New Year's Day respectively, upto a maximum of four(4) hours, orfour(4) hours payin lieu thereof and payment for hours worked beyond four (4) hours on the days in question at two (2) times the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay.
The employees shall receivethe benefitof any additional official holiday that may be proclaimed by the Government during the life of this Agreement
An employee who has completed three (3) months of service will be granted a personal holiday once during each calendar year to be taken in the month in which his birthday falls, as arranged no later than two (2) weeks in advance of the requested day, at a time mutually agreed upon by the Distribution Centre Director and the employee concerned. Failure on the part of an employee to take the personal holiday within the month in which it is earned will result in non-payment for such day.
In order to qualify for specified holiday pay, the employee must work his full regular shift on each of the work days immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday concerned, unless he has a reason satisfactory to the Company. Proof of illness (authentic Doctor's Certificate) shall constitute a satisfactory reason. Holiday pay will not be paid to an employee who, having agreed to work the scheduled shift of up to eight (8) hours within the scheduled classification on a specified holiday, does not report for and perform the scheduled work without a satisfactory reason.
17.02	Specified holiday pay will be computed on the basis cf eight (8) hours at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay.
17.03	An employee who works on a specified holiday, or on the day as declared by the Company as the specified holiday, will be paid for authorized work performed on such day at two (2) times his regular straight-time hourly rate of pay in addition to any holiday pay to which he may be entitled, providing the shift commences within the hours of the specified holiday.
-26-
Each Distribution Centre will, fourteen (14) days in advance of a specified holiday announce whether work will be performedon the specified holiday, by posting a Specified Holiday Overtime List (S.H.O.L.), showing the job classification(s) involved.
Every employee of the Distribution Centre who is willing to work on a specified holiday whether such day be a holiday or a day in excess cf the regular work week must indicate this by signing the S.H.O.L. as soon as possible, but no laterthan five (5) days after the posting. The employees will be notified of such work by means cf a schedule to be posted at the same time that the regular schedule for the week in which the holiday falls is posted, where possible. Once the Company determines itsSHOL needs, the SHOL hours that are scheduled will be guaranteed by the Company, and each employee who is scheduled to work will be required to work the full SHOL shift as posted. The foregoing guarantee will not be applicable to employees who do not fulfill their SHOL obligations, or to employees who are called in to work on the specified holiday.
Such specified holiday work will be allocated by the Company, firstly, among those employees who have signed the S.H.O.L., on a seniority basis in the respectivejob classificationscf the Distribution Centre concerned provided such employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work, and secondly, among those employees who have signed the S.H.O.L., on a seniority basis within the Distribution Centre concerned provided such employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work.
In the event that there are insufficient numbers cf volunteers at a Distribution Centre to meet the holiday requirements, then employees may have to be scheduled. Before scheduling employees to work on the holiday, however, the Company will utilize in a Distribution Centre those employees listed on the S.H.O.L. of other Distribution Centres providedsuch employees have the physical fitness, skill and ability to do the work. Such utilization will be on, firstly, on the basis of seniority within classification, and secondly, by overall seniority.
When employees are scheduled by the Company to work on a specified holiday, such scheduling shall be in reverse order of seniority, firstly within the respective classifications of the Distribution Centre concerned, and secondly within the Distribution Centre concerned.
It is further agreed that for the purpose of the specified holiday overtime provisions of this Article, an employee's entitlement shall not apply to the classifications cf the Maintenance Department, such employees having overtime rights solely within their own classifications, except as set out below. Such maintenance department overtime will be scheduled to
-27-
employees who have signed the S.H.O.L. as set out above; firstly on the basis af seniority to maintenance department employees in the respectivejob classifications of the Distribution Centre concerned; secondly on the basis of seniority to maintenance department employees of the Distribution Centre concerned; thirdly on the basis of seniority to maintenance department employees outside the Distribution Centre; fourthly within the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; fifthly outside the Distribution Centre by overall seniority; all of which is subject to employees having the physicalfitness, skill and ability to do the work. On the same basis, maintenance department employees shall not be scheduled for overtime outside the maintenance department, until all volunteers outside the maintenance department in all Distribution Centres have been utilized, and shall then be scheduled in the same order as above.
17.03	(a) On any daywhen both an SHOL shift anda regular shift are scheduled, there shall be no
temporary assignments on the shift (this article shall be applied to the classifications of the maintenance department separately from all other classifications). This provision shall not apply in the case of:
a)	A regular shift employee replacing an absence for the time it takes to secure such replacement.
b)	Completing work at the end cf a shift with employees from the shift, but not to exceed two (2) hours' duration.
c)	In urgent situations due to
(i)	unforeseen emergencies (physical plant or system failures, damage, or threats to the safety or security of a workplace),
(ii)	a circumstance preventing employees from performing their duties;
(iii)	the requirement to satisfy regulatory compliance with the Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA), the appropriate SHOL call-ins and/or temporary assignments may be made to address such urgent situations without any resulting implications on EDOL or temporary assignments used within the general operating and/or maintenance classifications. This provision shall apply only to the classifications of Building Maintenance, Stationary Engineer, and Senior Stationary Engineer. If such EDOL call-ins are required, the approximate duration of the shift shall be advised, and overtime may be extended beyondthe approximate duration indicated, though not to exceed a total of eight (8) hours per shift.
(b)	When a vacancy needs to be filled and an employee of the vacant classification is working on SHOL outside of his classification,such SHOL employee shall be returnedto his classificationto fill such vacancy. Any resulting vacancy shall be filled, firstly by seniority from among unscheduled employees still available on the SHOL, and secondly, by overall seniority within the Distribution Centre within the excess classification.
17.04	If a specified holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, he will be entitled to holiday pay in addition to his vacation pay, or the day may be taken by mutual agreement in conjunction with his vacation or at a later date. Notwithstanding, should an employee be on vacation during the period priorto Christmas and/or NewYears Day, the last half of the regular shift priorto such holiday will be paid to the employee in addition to his vacation pay.
17.05
17.06
18.01
18.02
18.03
-28In the event a specified holiday falls during an employee's leave cf absence or extended illness such employee will not be entitled to pay for any such holiday.
When a specified holiday is observed in a week during which an employee is replacing another as a result of a posting for a temporary opening as set out in Article 3.06 (b) (ii), or cf a temporary assignment as per Article 22.01, providing in both cases that the employee works both the day before and the day after the holiday on the higher rated job, such employee shall have included in his holiday pay the differencebetween his regular straight time hourly rate of pay and the rate for the higher ratedjob. It is further agreed that should absences covered by the Company's sick benefit plan or due to vacation occur during a period in which an employee is replacing another as a result of a posting for a temporary opening or of temporary assignment, such employee shall receive sick benefits (for which he qualifies) or vacation pay at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay prior to the posting or temporary assignment.
ARTICLE XVIII-VACATIONS
An employee on the active payroll of the Company who has completed continuous service of one year, five years, nine years, sixteen years, or twenty-three years as of an employee's anniversary date of employment shall receive vacation with pay as follows:
Vacation pay at employee's regular straight time hourly rate as of pay period immediately prior to vacation.
two weeks	Eighty hours
three weeks	One hundred and twenty hours
fourweeks	One	hundred and sixty hours
five weeks	Two	hundred hours
six weeks	Two	hundred and forty hours
The regular vacation period shall extend from March 1st to the end cf February.
Employees hired in January or February will earn their vacation entitlement between January 1 and December31. Their first year vacation entitlement shall be taken in the vacation period from March 1** of the year after they were hiredto the end of February of the following year.
This language will not apply to subsequent vacation entitlement improvements set out in Article 18:01 for employees whose anniversary date falls between January 1“ and the end of February.
After one year After five years After nine years After sixteen years After twenty-three years
(a)	The Company will post a general announcement in December requesting employees to determine their vacation preference if any for the following year.
(b)	During the first two full weeks of January, commencing with the first Sunday in January, employees will be canvassed by seniority within a Distribution Centre regarding their prime vacation preference consisting of up to two (2) weeks. Those employees who have a preference must so state at the time that they are canvassed by the Company.
(c)	The preliminary vacation schedules will be finalized and posted by February 1st.
-29-
(d)	During the first two (2) full weeks of February, employees will be canvassed by seniority within a Distribution Centre regarding their vacation preference for the balance of their vacation entitlement. Those employees who have a preference for the balance must so state at the time that they are canvassed by the Company.
(e)	Those employees who are going to be absent at the time of either canvassing must ensure that their preference if any is submitted in writing to the Company prior to the weeks of canvassing.
(f)	Those employees who have not made their preference known at the time of the second canvassing shall be assigned vacation dates at the Company's discretion.
(g)	The Company shall finalize and post vacation schedules by March 1st.
(h)	Seniority in each job classification within the Distribution Centre concerned will be the determining factor in preference on the vacation schedule, except that any classification in a Distribution Centre which has more than eight (8) employees shall be canvassed by shift, which for the purpose of this Article shall be determined by where an employee's shift start time falls, between4:00 A.M. and 11:59A.M., or 12:00 Noon and7:59 P.M., or8:00 P.M. and3:59 A.M.
18.04	Vacations shall not be cumulative from year to year. Pay for vacation shall be granted to the employee at the beginning cf his vacation on the regular pay day prior to the beginning of his vacation.
18.05	Vacation pay shall be computed at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate of pay immediately priorto vacation. An employee entitled under Article 18.01 to two (2) weeks' vacation shall receive vacation pay in accordance with Article 18.01, or with the EmploymentStandardsAct of Ontario, whichever produces the greater amount.
18.06	An employee whose employment is terminated or who is laid off will be entitled to vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, unless he has six (6)months service or more, in which case he will receive vacation pay in accordance with the applicable provisionsof Section 18.01 above. The Distribution Centre Director cr his appointee will advise the Chairperson of the retirement of any employee.
ARTICLE XIX - PROTECTIVE CLOTHING
19.01	The Company agrees to continueto provide protective clothing upon the same basis as in effect . immediately priorto the execution date of this Agreement. Gloves shall be available upon request when deemed necessary, providing the old pair is, where applicable, returned at the time of the request. A smock shall be provided by the Company upon request, and shall be replaced when necessary providing the old smock is returned at the time of the request, to permanent receivers, selectors and checkers, handling produce, and to general warehousemen
30
who regularly load at the Grocery Distribution Centre. On the same basis, coveralls shall be provided to permanent porters. A protective jacket shall be provided by the Company upon request once during the term of the Collective Agreement to employees at the Perishable Products Distribution Centre.
(a)	Employees shall receive a protective footwear allowance up to a maximum of one hundred and sixty ($160.00) dollars over two (2) consecutive calendaryears upon proof of Company approved footwear except that there shall be no reimbursement of a new employee until he has completed three (3) months of active service. Should such purchasecost less than one hundred and sixy ($160.00) dollars, the difference shall be available for the purchase of additional protective footwear during the same time frame on the same basis as above.
(b)	The Company shall replace required tools broken or worn out by Maintenance Department employees while performing their regular maintenance duties at the Distribution Centres. However, all broken or worn tools must be returned to the Maintenance Supervisor before any replacementwill be made.
(c)	The Company shall provide required workplace safety prescription eyeglasses to maintenance department employees through a Company specified eyeglass supplier.
ARTICLE XX - EMPLOYEE INJURIES
20.01	If an employee is injured while at work and is required to leave the Distribution Centre for medical
attention, he will be paid his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for the balance of his shift during which the accident occurred, or for the portion of that shift that he is absent seeking medical attention.
ARTICLE XXI - PART TIME EMPLOYEES
21.01	The Union recognizesthat the Company will continue to requirethe use of part-time employees from time to time. In accordancewith this understanding the Company agrees that part-time employees shall not be used to the extent they displace employees within the bargaining unit and shall not be used to prevent the hiring of full-time employees except for reasons beyond the control of the Company. It being agreed that the Company will not be required to strip less preferred shifts cf full-time employees, the Company will however make every reasonable effort to give full-time employees preference for more desirable shifts prior to scheduling pati-time employees cn a regular basis to such preferred shifts. Furthermore, in the event of the Company’s requirement for part-time employees to perform selecting or loading duties, no part-time employee shall start work one (1) hour or less in advance of a scheduled full-time employee cf the applicable classification except for reasons beyond the control of the Company. Part-time employees will be scheduled to work within the time frame of the full-time selectors’ scheduled shifts. The posted work schedule of a part-timeor student employee will list each employee’s start and
-31 -
finish times on a daily basis. The Company will ensure that the individual's hours do not exceed the provisions in Article 21.03. No part-time or student employee will work over eight (8) hours in any one shift, or beyond his scheduled shift, unless his regularshift ends at the same time as a regular full-time selecting shift in the Distribution Centre concerned, and further assistance is indicated on the DOL Greensheet, or unless his regularshift ends at the same time as a SHOL/EDOL shift on a full-time specified holiday, and extended overtime is offered to the SHOL/EDOL shift. If a part-time employee works overtime on a day when his regular shift ends before the end of the regular full-time selecting shift, this wilt constitute a violation cf the Collective Agreement, with recourse for lost overtime to a seniorfull-time selector(s) in the building at the time of the violation.
Any part-time employee who reports late for his scheduled shift will not be allowed to work past his scheduled finish time to make up the hours.
Part-time employees may be utilized within a Distribution Centre to cover for vacation and absenteeism of any kind; also, for business fluctuations which may occur from time to time; except on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday in a Distribution Centre with a full weekend shift for full time employees when part-time employees will only be utilized on those days to replace full time employeeswho haveTuesday, Wednesday or Thursday as part of their regularschedule cf work and who are absent for all or part cf those days for vacation or for absenteeismof any kind.
21.02	Each Distribution Centre Directorwill supply the Chairperson with a summation of the absenteeism of any kind within a Distribution Centre, as well as a total of the part-time hours used, on a weekly basis. Each DistributionCentre will provide a weekly report to the Grievance Committee for the previous week worked, that shows the names and the hours worked by each part-time employee each day.
21.03	Part-time employees (persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-eight (28) hours per week) may, during the period from the first full week of May to the third full week of September, and during the weeks of Good Friday, Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Years, during the weeks before Good Friday and Thanksgiving, and during Decemberl to January 15, and the first week of each calendar quarter, be regularly employed in excess cf twenty-eight hours per week for the purpose of vacation relief, in the same manner as students. If utilized for the purpose of vacation relief during this period, such part-time employees shall not be entitled to reclassificationto full-time status, and shall not be recognized under Section 1.01 of the Collective Agreement covering full-time employees, but shall be subject to the provisions of the Collective Agreement covering part-time and student employees.
The foregoing is not intended to restrict part-time employees from applying for a permanent full-time job if the Company determines that it requires additional full-time employees during this period.
-32-
ARTICLE XXII - TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
22.01	An employee temporarily assigned to anotherjob classification for a period of two (2) hours or more, excepting a temporary assignment resulting from shortage cf work or disciplinary demotion, will receive the regular straight time hourly rate of the job classification to which he is assigned, or the regular straight time hourly rate cf the job classification he previously held, whichever is the higher, except that this provision shall not apply to an employee receiving a Progression rate of pay, who shall, while performing such temporary assignment, continue to receive his Progression rate of pay, and not the rate for the job which might be greater, until such time that he has completed thirty-six (36) months of active service.
For the purpose of daily overtime, an employee temporarily assigned to a classification for more than four (4) hours in a day will qualify for available overtime in the assigned classification as the most junior employee in the classification. Having so qualified, he shall then carry his seniority to the assigned classification. However if the temporarily assigned employee does not qualify for such overtime, he shall then revert to his own classification for the purpose cf daily overtime.
An employee temporarily assigned to another job classification will be assigned for a period not exceeding twenty-two (22) days. Providingthe employees of the shift from which the assignment is made within the Distribution Centre concerned are relatively equal with respect to physical fitness, skill and ability, seniority within the classification from which the assignment is made, shall be the determining factor in such temporary assignment which shall be assigned on a daily basis. Once temporarily assigned, an employee may not use his seniority to claim subsequent temporary assignments during that day. Should a senior employee decline a temporary assignment, he may not subsequently claim the same assignment,
In the event that there are no volunteers from the classification, shift and DistributionCentre from which the assignment is to be made, the most junior employee cf the same classification, shift, and Distribution Centre having relatively equal physical fitness, skill, and ability shall be temporarily assigned to the job classification in question,
ARTICLE XXIII ■ TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
23.01	An employee temporarily transferred to another Distribution Centre will be transferredfor a period not exceeding twenty-two (22) days. Providingthe employees cf the shift from which the transfer is made within the Distribution Centre concerned are relatively equal with respect to physical fitness, skill and ability, seniority within the classification from which the transfer is made, shall be the determining factor in such temporary transfer. Once temporarily transferred,
33
an employee may not use his seniority to claim subsequent temporary transfers until the second day of his temporary transfer. Should a senior employee decline a temporary transfer, he may not subsequently claim the same transfer.
Should the Company determinethat the temporary transfer of an employee to a Distribution Centre is required beyond twenty-two (22) consecutive worked days, it shall be dealt with first by posting within the DistributionCentre concerned for a temporary opening, and secondly by a posting within the other Distribution Centres for a temporary transfer, having regard to the factors as contained in Section 3.03. In the event that no employee posts for such temporary opening or temporary transfer, then the most Junior employee from the other Distribution Centres shall be transferred on a temporary basis providing he has relatively equal physical fitness, skill and ability.
An employee who is temporarily transferred in accordance with the above shall carry with him his seniority for all applications other than subsequent temporary transfers.
Inthe case of a temporary transfer, an employee will be paid thirty-five (35p) cents per kilometer for all additional kilometers travelled in reporting for work, where such additional travelling exceeds four (4) kilometers beyond that which the employee normally travels.
If there is an EDOL in a Distribution Centre, there will be no transfers from that Distribution Centre.
ARTICLE XXIV - BENEFITS
24.01	Subject to the terms and conditions cf the Master Plans and Policies relating thereto, the
Company agrees to continue in effect the Group Insurance Plans on t he basis that the payment of the applicable premiums therefore shall continue to be made on the same basis as in effect immediately prior to the execution date cf this Agreement.
For eligible employees who have completed three (3) months of continuous service and while such employees remain in the active employ of the Company,
-34-
(a)	Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan.
(b)	Supplementary Hospital Insurance Plan which provides Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance and supplementary hospital expense benefits over and above O.H.I.P., such as ambulance expense, semi-private accommodation, extended health care including major medical and prescription drug plan. The major medical plan shall provide that upto $2,000 in each calendaryearcan be applied towards reinstating the lifetime maximum cf $20,000.
(c)	Such Supplementary Hospital Insurance Plan to include an optical plan on the basis of a twenty-five ($25.00) dollar single and family deductible. The Plan shall provide a benefit of up to two hundred ($200.00) dollars over two (2) consecutive years for frames, lens, and prescription glass, and up to two hundred ($200.00) dollars over two (2) consecutive years for artificial eyes, services of visual training, and non-cosmetic corrective prescription contact lens, resulting from visual acuity cf less than 20/40 or corneal disease (special cases only).
(d)	On the same basis as above, after six (6)months, the Group Life Insurance Plan.
(e)	On the same basis as above, after two (2) years, the Long Term Disability Insurance Plan, providing a monthly income cf 65% cf the employee's basic monthly earnings; effective March 2,1981, providing a monthly income of 70% cf the employee's basic monthly earnings, upto a maximum of $1500.00 per month (effective March 1,1983 of $1700.00 per month; effective January 1,1987 of $1900.00 per month; effective February26,1989 of $2,000.00 per month; the benefit maximum to be increasedto $2,100.00 per month to apply to employees who go off and first become eligible for benefits on or after March 1, 1991 ;on the same basis, the benefit maximumto be increasedto $2,150.00 per month effective January 1, 1992; the benefit maximum to be increasedto $2,170.00 per month to apply to employees who go off and first become eligible for benefits on or after May 1,
1993; on the same basis, the benefit maximum to be increasedto $2,210.00 per month effective January 1, 1994; the benefit maximumto be increased to $2500.00 per month, to apply to employees who go off and first become eligible for benefits on or after February 17,2007).
In cases where there is a dispute between the Group Insurance doctor and an employee's doctor as to the extent of an employee's disability, the Company and the Union will select a doctor (a specialist who has not previously examined the employee) who will examine the employee and render a decision as to whether or not the employee is totally disabled at the time of the examination as defined in the Insurance Policy. The Doctor's decision will be binding upon the Company, the Union, and the employee. Should the Company and the Union be unable to agree upon a doctor, the Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons will be asked to select a specialist to conduct the examination. To qualify for such examination, an employee must request such examination in writing to the Company within thirty (30) days of the event causing the dispute, or his rights under this Clause are forfeited. The cost of the examination will be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
24.02	Dental Plan
The Company will pay thirty-three (33(5) cents per hour (thirty-four (340) cents per hour effective May1,2011, thirty-five (35c) cents per hour effective May1, 2012, and thirty-six (360) cents per hour effective May 1,2013) for all straighttime hoursworkedinthe Distribution Centres, into the Retail Wholesale Canada MultiemployerDentalBenefitTrust Fund, during the term of this Agreement. Such contributions will not be paid for overtime hours.
-35-
24.03	The Company agrees to provide at no cost to the employees, post-retirement life insurance in the amount of $2000.00 for each such employee who elects retirement, payable to the employee's designated beneficiary.
24.04	By agreement of the parties, a separate retirement plan will be set up within the A & P Canadian Employees' Retirement Plan Trust, to become effective April 1st, 1979.
Normal Retirement Age Period of Eligibility Vesting
Spouse's Allowance Past and Future Service Benefit Levels
65 Years
1 Year
Age 45 and 10 years' service
40% (50% effective March 1,1991)
a)	Pension priorto April 1,2001:
(1)	$41.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective March 1,2008.
(2)	increaseto $43.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective May1,2010.
(3)	increaseto $45.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective May1, 2011.
(4)	increaseto $47.00 per month peryear, cf service, not including the qualifying year, effective May 1,2012.
b)	Pension after April 1,2001:
(1)	$71.00 per month peryear cf service, effective March 1,2009.
Plan benefitsto be in addition to benefits provided by C.P.P. and O.A.S.
Creditedyears under the Retirement Plan to have no cap.
Five (5%) percent per year actuarial reduction for early retirement after age 55: effective January 1,1987, early retirement at age fifty-five (55) and thirty (30) years' creditable service with no actuarial reduction.
Up to six (6Jweeks of vacation entitlement can be observed after the retirement date.
'(a) Notwithstandingthe foregoing, for employees of the G.A. Love Distribution Centre who were full-time as of September27,1999, the following amendments shall apply:
Past and Future
Service Benefit Levels a) Pension priorto April 1,2001:
(1)	Priorto September27,1999 - not applicable
(2)	from September 27,1999 to March 31, 2001, $41.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective March 1,2008.
-36
(3)	increase to $43.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective May 1,2010.
(4)	increase to $45.00 per month peryear of service, not including the qualifying year, effective May 1,2011.
(5)	Increase to $47.00 per month peryear, of service, not includingthe qualifying year, effective May 1, 2012.
b) Pension after April 1,2001:
(1) $71.00 per month peryear of service, effective March 1,2009.
ARTICLE XXV - DURATION AND TERMINATION
25.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect until the 19th day of October, 2013 and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods ofo ne year each, unless either party notifies the other in writing during the period of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date that it desires to amend or terminate the Agreement.
25.02	Any proposed amendments will be exchangedwithin two (2) weeks of such notice and negotiationswill commence within three (3) weeks following the exchange of the proposed amendments, or at such time as is mutually agreed upon by the parties following the exchange of the proposed amendments.
ARTICLE XXVI - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
26.01	This Agreement shall be binding on the Company and its successors and assigns and will continue to be binding on the Union and the employees covered by this Agreement.
]N WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representativesthis23.,2/’day of _ C.ll. 7 '	,2010.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE RATES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
General Progression Rates
Effective	Effective
March, 28	Oct. 17,
?nm	9n m
Effective Oct. 16, 2011
Effective Oct. 14, 2012
Start	$15.75
6 Months	16.25
12 Months	16.75
18 Months	17.25
24 Months	17.75
30 Months	18.25
$16.10	$16.45	$16.80
16.60	16.95	17.30
17.10	17.45	17.80
17.60	17.95	18.30
18.10	18.45	18.80
18.60	18.95	19.30
General Warehouseman
Porter
Selector
Fork Lift Operator Shipper Checker Receiver
24.11	24.46
24.11	24.46
24.26	24.61
24.36	24.71
24.37	24.72
24.37	24.72
24.44	24.79
24.81	25.16
24.81	25.16
24.96	25.31
25.06	25.41
25.07	25.42
25.07	25.42
25.14	25.49
Maintenance Department	
Building Maintenance	
Start	18.26
6 Months	23.31
12 Months	24.61
Maintenance Mechanic	
Start	18.26
6 Months	23.31
12 Months	24.61
18.61	18.96	19.31
23.66	24.01	24.36
24.96	25.31	25.66
18.61	18.96	19.31
23.66	24.01	24.36
24.96	25.31	25.66
Stationary Engineer Start 6 Months 12 Months
18.26	18.61
23.31	23.66
24.61	24.96
18.96	19.31
24.01	24.36
25.31	25.66
Mechanic, First Class	24.81
Senior Stationary Engineer	24.81
25.16	25.51
25.16	25.51
25.86
25.86
Note: All new employees, excluding Maintenance Department employees, will follow the General Progression Rates until they have completed thirty-six (36)months df active service, at which time they will receive the rate for the appropriate classification.
APPENDIX "B
Sick Benefit flan
Sick Benefit entitlement shall continue to be determined on the same basis as in effect immediately prior to the execution date of this Agreement, with payments to commence cn the third consecutive day of illness
or disability.
Service	Full Pav	1/2 Pav
3 months to 1 year	1 week	2 weeks
1 year to 2 years	2 weeks	3 weeks
2 years to 5 years	3 weeks	5 weeks
5 years to 10 years	5 weeks	7 weeks
10 years to 15 years	8 weeks	5 weeks
15 years to 20 years	10 weeks	3 weeks
over 20 years	13 weeks	
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1 MILTON, Ontario. L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
TEMPORARY MODIFIEDWORK PROGRAM
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respectto the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the temporary modified work program.
An employee temporarily unable to perform his previous duties due to an injury received in the employ of the Company or due to an illness or injury for which he is in receipt of benefits under the LongTerm Disability Insurance Plan, who has been authorized to return to work undertemporary medical restriction, and once he has provided the Company with twenty-four (24) hours' advance notification of his pending return to work, may be assigned to a temporary modified work program and given such otherwork as is available and which he is capable of performing. To be eligible for such modifiedwork the employee must produce appropriate authorization in the form c£ an authentic Doctor's Certificate from the attending physician. If sufficient medical statement is not provided, the Company may request, initially and at intervals during the program, further reports from the attending physician or through a Company arranged medical examination.
Assignments under the Temporary Modified Work Program may be of the following nature, provided they do not exceed sixteen (16) worked days and provided no full time employees are displaced from their regular job:
(a)	Temporary assignment, as per22:01, to a lighteror more suitable class of work for rehabilitative . purposes.
(b)	Temporary shift change, as per3:10, where €hemodified work assignmentfor rehabilitative purposes requires the shift change. In such instance the employee will not be considered to have exercised his shift preference, and will not bump any employee presently on that shift.
(c)	Temporarily reducedwork schedule, with reference to 16:01 (a) for rehabilitative purposes.
Such modified schedule may require co-ordination with the Workers' Compensation Board and therefore must be co-ordinated by a representative of the Human Resources Department and the Health and Wellness Committee.
2
Since the intent of the program is to provide for the needs of employees who, as a result of injury, are not fully qualified on a temporary basis with respect to physicalfitness, in each of the above applications the seniority provision of the relevant articles of the Collective Agreement will not normally prevail. Therefore the Distribution Centre Directors (ortheir appointees) will reviewthe non-medicalwork related aspects of each case or assignment with the representative cf the Health and Wellness Committee from the Distribution Centre concerned and the Chairperson or his appointee, and will waive related seniority provisions, or extend the above time frames, only with the consent cf these representatives.
In administering a Modified Work Program, both Company and Union will strive to curb or correct any potential abuse cf the program. Should it appear that the best interest of the Company or itfs employees are not being served, either party may at any time, with written notice, temporarily or permanentlywithdraw from the aforementioned program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the program is subjectto review and evaluation by the parties listed inthe preceding paragraph twice annually.
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf oftte CAW, Local 414.
Sincerely,
T.A. Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1 MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
SICK BENEFIT PLAN
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day cf March, 2010, relating to the following issues:
(a)	The parties agree that the first two (2) days of an employee's absence shall remain unpaid in
accordance with the Sick Benefit Plan, with the following exceptions:
(i)	In the event that an employee is hospitalized or is admitted to the hospital, and he advises the Company accordingly, his application for sick pay shall be reviewed and he shall be paid from the first day providing such absence meets the terms cf the Sick Benefit Plan.
(H) An employee shall be allowed payment for one (1) day cf sickness in each three (3) month period during which an employee works, up to a maximum cf four (4) days in a calendar year, with such daysto be applied towards the first two (2)days cf an employee's absence for which there otherwise is no provision forpayment. Should such day not be used in the first of subsequent periods, it may be carried over for useage in other periods, but may not be carried over beyond the end of the calendar year. In order to qualify forthe above provisions, the employee must:
d) be eligible for and have outstanding entitlement to siqk benefits in accordance with Appendix “Bu, from which schedule the above provisions flow.
(2) notify the Company of his sickness no later than his scheduled starting time.
Any such quarter day which remains unused at the end f a calendar year shall be paid to an employee by January 30th cf the following year on the basis of eight fSJhours regular pay for each such day, providing that this provision does not apply to an employee who is absent for the entire calendar year. In this case, such cash-out payment shall not reduce an employee's sick benefit entitlement.
2
In the event an employee, upon returning to work following an absence covered by the sick benefit plan, provides the Human Resources Manager with satisfactory medical documentation that he will require further treatment or further examination involving further absence from work for this purpose, the Human Resources Manager will consider a request for payment under the sick benefit plan from the first day of said absence, with approval to be based on the merits of each case.
(b)	The parties agree that should an employee, having taken sick during a leave of absence, advise the Company in writing while at his permanent residence or from an Ontario hospital that he will be unable to return to work at the conclusion of his leave of absence, such employee shall receive sick benefits in accordance with the Sick Benefit Plan dating from the conclusion of his leave of absence, and on the condition that he provides the Company with suitable medical documentation.
(c)	Any absence in excess of one (1) day will requirea Doctor's certificate for benefit entitlement.
(d)	A day for the purpose of the application (f the Sick Benefit Plan shall mean eight (8) hours.
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
T.A. Zakrzewski
Vice President,
Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1 MILTON, Ontario. L9T2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr RETIREMENT PLAN FEATURE
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency cf the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
The parties agree that the retirement plan feature, whereby an employee my elect early retirement at age 63 and 10 years' creditable service with no actuarial reduction, shall remain in effect until October 19, 2013, for those employees who have or will attain 63 years of age and 10 years of creditable service prior to October 19, 2013.
Sincerely,
TAZrez	T.A. Zakrzewski
Vice President, Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf cf the CAW, Local 414.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
TOOLS
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respectto the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day cf March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
The Company will, on an ongoing basis, assess its equipment requirements with respect to the need for metric tools and those of a specialized nature.
Where such assessment deems it necessary that specifictools be purchased, the Company will purchase and make such tools available to the maintenanceemployees of the distribution centres concerned.
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreedto on behalf ofthe CAW, Local414.
Sincerely,
Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario. L9T2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the matter of job redundancies:
(a) Unit:	• Consists of all employees covered by the Collective Agreement referredto above.
(b) Transfer:	- Process whereby an employee, surplus at one Distribution Centre, is absorbed
elsewhere in the Unit.
(c)	Lay-off:	- Process whereby an employee surplus at one Distribution Centre results in the lay-
off from full time hours of a full time employee, in most cases of the mostjunior full time employee in the Unit.
(d)	Plant Closure: - In the event a Distribution Centre closes, employees of that Distribution Centre
shall be entitled to displace junior employees elsewhere in the Unit, subject to the requirements of Article 3.03. Any employee so displaced shall be subject to either the transfer procedure or the lay-off procedure as defined above. The foregoing shall not apply in the case cf the re-location of a Distribution Centre.
General Procedure:
The first step is to determine if a surplus of employees exists, and if so, in what job classification. The second step is to identify and to reverse any surplus temporary postings in the job classification in question. The third step is to determine whether employees can be absorbed elsewhere in the Unit, If they can, then the Transfer procedure should be used; ifthey cannot, then the Lay-off procedure should be used. Depending on the circumstances, it may be possible and necessary to use both procedures at the same time.
Transfer Procedure:
To be employed when a surplus exists in a job classification in a Distribution Centre which as an end result will not cause the lay-ofFof an employee, such employee being absorbed elsewhere in the Unit.
-2-
Examole:	A Receiver is surplus at Distribution Centre "A1. A General Warehouseman is
required at DistributionCentre ”B".
Objective:	To reclassify employees, possibly across the Unit, commencing with the surplus
Receiver and culminating with the filling of the General Warehouseman vacancy.
Most junior Receiver at Distribution Centre " Ad ecides whether he wants to bump junior Receivers at other locations if such exist.
If #1 is not possible, or if the Receiver in #1 wishes to remain in Distribution Centre "A,d e will determine what other classifications in Distribution Centre "A" have employeesjunior to himself, and providing he has the requisite qualifications as set out in Article 3.03, will displace the mostjunior employee in the desired classification.
The procedure as described in (1) and (2) above will continue for such displaced employee until the employee who has no bumping privileges in his own classification throughout the Unit or other classifications within his Distribution Centre is determined. Such employee shall be placed in the vacancy cf General Warehouseman as provided in the above example.
Should, within three (3) months following the transfer of an employee under this procedure, the position from which the employee was transferred be reintroduced, all affected employees will be returnedto their former positions.
To be employed when a surplus exists in a job classification in a Distribution Centre which as an end result will cause the lay-off cf an employee(s) in the Unit.
Procedure:	Employees will be laid off in accordance with Article 3.03, and once laid off, surplus
employees in classification will be transferred in accordance with the transfer procedure.
Procedure:	(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Lav-off Procedure:
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf pLthe Local 414.
T.A. Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario. L9T2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr EDUCATION TRUST FUND
Dear Sirs:
This will confirmthe understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
The Company shall contribute to an Education Trust Fund for the life of this Collective Agreement an amount of five (.5$) cents per regular hour worked by employees covered by this Collective Agreement.
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and
agreed to on behalf of the CAW, Local 414.

T.A. Zakrzewski
Vice President,
Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
PERSONALDAY
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the Z7th day cf March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
Notwithstanding Article 17.05, if an employee is off sick cn the day that he e scheduled to have his personal day as set out in Article 17.01, an alternate day during that month will be arranged, except that if the employee is off sick for the entire month, he will not have a day off, but will have a day of sickness considered as the personal day, and therefore save a day of sick benefit, if any remains, for future use.
TAZ:ez
The foregoingis hereby acknowledged, and
agreed to on behalf cf the CAW, Local 414.
Sincerely,
T.A. Zakrzewski
Vice President,
Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario,
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
SELECTOR TRAINING
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respectto the currency cf the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day c£ March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
Where the Company requires an employee to engage in selector training, the Company shall offer such assignment by seniority within the selector classification on duty at the Distribution Centre concerned, providing such selector has the training ability to perform the training.
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf of the^C^W, Local 414.
Sincerely,
Vice President, Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario:
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
WS1B
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
I a)	In the eventthe Company requests the WSIB to investigate an employee's accident claim, the
Company will provide the employee with a copy of the WSIB Form #7 as well as any attached correspondence.
In addition, a memberof the safety committee, or in his absence, a memberof the bargaining unit, will be present at the time cf the investigation of any on-the-job accident being challenged by the Company. Any correspondence regardingthe claim will be considered a challenge by the Company. The Company's rightto contest or suggestthat the WSIB investigatea claim will be based on the actual facts revealed in the investigation.
b) An employee, who has sought immediate medical attention as required by the WSIB, shall be provided with available temporary modifiedwork upon receipt by the Company of proper medical documentation outlining the employee's medical restrictions.
c) The Accident Investigation Form wilt be filled out by the attending Supervisor. A Union member of the Health and Safety Committee, or in his absence a Union Steward, or in his absence another Union member will be present when this form is being completed. A copy of the Accident Investigation Form will be given to the employee in question upon completion.
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf of ije CAW, Local 414.
Vice President, Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
SELECTOR CLASSIFICATION
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
Seniority within the selector classification on a shift within a Distribution Centre will be recognized in the assignment of so-called lighter class work, provided that tasks of an immediate a* emergency nature or of a short duration not to exceed one (1) hourmay be excluded, and further that the present cage area incumbents shall not be adversely affected by the implementation of this provision,
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
T.A. Zakrzewski
Vice President,
Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and
agreed to on beh£ ” ^	...... >cal414.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local414,
274 Alliance Road, #1,
MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D.Orr
CAW SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respecttothe currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day cf March, 2010, relatingto the following issue:
The Company will contribute one (1(5) cent perhour worked to the CAWSocial Justice Fund, and such contribution will be made for straight time hours worked only and will not be made for overtime hours or premium hours. Hours not worked, even though compensated in accordance with a specific provision of the Agreement and deemed to be hours worked for other purposes, shall not be considered to be hours worked for purposes cf this Fund. Contributionsto the fund will be made quarterly, in the middle of the month immediately following completion of each calendarquarteryear, and such contributions remitted to theC.A.W. National Office.
TAZ'.ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on
Sincerely,
T.A. Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
POLAND EDOL/SHOL OVERTIME PROCESS WHEN A REGULAR SHIFT IS ON DUTY
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency cf the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the followingissue:
A.	Extra day overtime is used to complement a regular shift, by pre-scheduling cr
calling in from the EDOL/SHOL cf the Distribution Centre concerned. Such EDOL/SHOL employees may only work to the completion of the regular shift as scheduled by classification,except as provided in item 6 below. Scheduling from the EDOL/SHOL will be done firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly by overall seniority, provided such employees have the required physical fitness, skill and ability.
Daily overtime is used at the completion of a regular shift. DOL employees may only work up to the completion time indicated cn the DOL Greensheet, except as provided in item A (ii) below.
A. (i) Listed below are the procedures fcr overtime entitlement, when a regular shift is cn duty and EDOL/SHOL is required to complement the shift.
1.	Pre-schedule extra day overtime from the EDOL/SHOL of the Distribution Centre concerned, advising the duration cf the shift and stating start and finish time(s) by classification
2.	Replace scheduled EDOL/SHOL employees who cancel before the conclusion of their last regular shiftprior to such EDOL/SHOL shift.
3.	Supplement excess workload, additional absence, cr other business requirements, if deemed necessary by the'Company, by calling from the EDOL/SHOL. Such calls will declare the shift and such employee(s} may only vrcak to the completion of the corresponding pre-scheduled EDOL/SHOL shift and are not to work beyond the corresponding regular shift as scheduled by classification.
2
4.	DOL at the completion ofthe regular shift as scheduled on the DOL Greensheet.
5.	Eligible call-back prior to scheduling part-time employees as per Article 16.07
6.	If further assistance has been indicated on the DOL Greensheet, and provided that all eligible employees who had signed the EDOL/SHOL have been offered available overtime by pre-scheduling (asper item 1 and 2 above) for a full 8-hour shift, the Company may canvas, as required, EDOL/SHOL employees on shift for extended overtime, firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly by overall seniority, provided such employees have the required physical fitness, skill and ability.
A (ii) When the above scheduling measures do not meet the Company’s needs due to:
a.	unforeseen emergencies (physical plant or system failures, damage or threats to the safety or security cf a workplace).
b.	a circumstance preventing employees from performing their duties.
c.	lost hours resulting from DOLemployees not fulfilling their scheduled obligations.
the Company may extend scheduled DOL overtime, as required, by canvassing employees on shift, firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly by overall seniority, provided such employees have the required physical fitness, skill and ability.
(a)
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
T.A. Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and
agreed to on behalf cf the CAW, Local 414.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario. L9T2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
OVERTIME PROCESS WHEN NO REGULAR SHIFT IB ON DUTY
Dear Sirs:
This will confirmthe understanding reached by the parties with respecttothe currency cf the CollectiveAgreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relatingto the following issue:
A. Extra day overtime is used in situations where there is no regular shift on duty, by pre-scheduling or calling in from the EDOL/SHOL cf the Distribution Centre concerned. Scheduling from the EDOL/SHOL will be done firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly by overall seniority, providedsuch employees have the required physical fitness, skill and ability.
A. (i) Listed below are the proceduresfor overtime entitlement, when no regular shift is on duty or scheduled.
1.	Pre-schedule extra day overtime from the EDOL/SHOL of the Distribution Centre concerned, advising the duration cf the shift and stating start and finish time(s) by classification.
2.	Replace scheduled EDOL/SHOL employees who cancel before the conclusion of their last regular shift priorto such EDOL/SHOL shift.
3.	Supplement excess workload, additional absence, or other business requirements, ifdeemed necessary by the Company, by calling from the EDOL/SHOL. Such calls will declare the shift and such employee(s) may only work to the completion of the EDOL/SHOL shift as scheduled by classification.
4.	Providedthat all eligible employees who had signed the EDOL/SHOL have been offered available overtime by pre-scheduling (as per item 1 and 2 above) for the full scheduled shift, the Company may canvas, as required, EDOL/SHOL employees on shift for extendedovertime, firstly by seniority within classification, and secondly by overall seniority, provided such employees have the required physical fitness, skill and ability.
2
5,	When no EDOL/SHQL has been pre-scheduled, employees called in from the EDOL/SHOL shall be availablefor a minimum offour (4) hours of work.
A. (ii) In the case of pre-scheduied extra day overtime for inventory when no regular shift is on duty, the conditions of items A (i) 1 and 4 shall not apply. Instead, the start time and approximate duration of the shift shall be advised and overtime may be extended beyond the approximate duration indicated. Employees will be guaranteed the hours as advised.
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
T.A. Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on behalf of the CAW, Local 414.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road,#1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
Dear Sirs:
This will confirmthe understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency cf the Collective Agreement dated the 27th day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
The Parties agree that any Distribution Centres in the Province cf Ontario operated by Metro Ontario Inc. Metro Inc., or any other of their subsidiaries servicing their Ontario retail food stores, will recognize this Collective Agreement, excluding any Distribution Centre operated within the scope of an existing collective agreement with another union.
Sincerely,
TAZ:ez
T.A, Zakrzewski Vice President, Labour Relations
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to cn behalfpf the CAW, Local 414.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CAW, Local 414,
274 Alliance Road, #1, MILTON, Ontario.
L9T 2V2.
Attention: Mr. D. Orr
Dear Sirs:
This will confirmthe understanding reached by the parties with respect to the currency of the Collective Agreement dated the 27'h day of March, 2010, relating to the following issue:
WORK STANDARDS
In accordance with Article 2.01, it is the exclusive function of the Company to determine the standards of performance in the workplace. In doing so, the Company will continue to follow the recognizedpractices of Industrial Engineering that pertain to work measurement and engineered labour standards.
If the Company is considering changing the methods or system it uses to establish work standards, it will notify the Union at the earliest possible time in its decision process.
Where a dispute arises regarding a work standard, the Methods and Standards Representative (as set out in Article 6.05) may raise the complaint with the Distribution Centre Director. If the complaint remains, the Methods and Standards Representative may requesta Uniontime study representative. At this stage the Company and the Union shall identify the reason(s) for the dispute, and endeavor to address the issue(s).
The Union may from time to time have a Time Study Representative attend at a Distribution Centre to inquire about the particulars of the work standard, provided that such attendance is co-ordinated with the Company to allow sufficient time for the Company's Time Study expert to be available and present.
TAZ:ez
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged, and agreed to on Dehalf of the CAW, Local 414.
Sincerely,
Vice President, Labour Relations