AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MCGAVINS FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
APRIL 1, 1990 TO MARCH 31, 1993
oteu 15
INDEX
Page
Article 1 Bargaining Agency.................
Article 2	Union Security..................
Article 3	check Off, Assignment of Wages.
Article 4	Management's Rights.............
Article 5 Hiring Procedure..................
Article 6	Wages...........................
Article 7	N otice.........................
Article 8	Free Transportation.............
Article 9	Hours of Work...................
Article 10	Overtime........................
Article 11 Scheduling of Shifts.............
Article 12 Rest Periods.....................
Article 13 Lunch Periods....................
Article 14 Public Holidays....................
Article 15	Vacations.......................
Article 16	Seniority.......................
Article 17 Leave of Absence.................
Article 18	Regular Part - Time Employees. . . .
Article 19 Jury Duty........................
Article 20	Technological Change &
Severance Pay.......................... 20
Article 21 Sick Leave Benefits..............
Article 22 Health & Welfare.................
Article 23 General Provisions..............
Article 24	Union Label.....................
Article 25	Union Representative............
Article 26	Grievance Procedure.............
Article 2 7	Board of Arbitration............
Article 28 Pension Plan.....................
Article 29 Dental Plan......................
Article 30	Duration........................
Letters of Understanding...............
1
2
3
3
5
8
9
9
9
10
12
12
12
'13
15
17
18 20
21
22
23
24 24
24
25
26
1.01
1.02
THIS AGREEMENT entered into the 1st day of April, 1990 BETWEEN:
McGavin Foods Ltd.
20410 Langley By-pass Langley, B. C.
(hereinafter called "the Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND :
The Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, Local 468, of the City of Burnaby, in the Province of British Columbia (hereinafter called "The Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
In consideration of the maintenance of harmonious relations and settled conditions of employment, and recognizing the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to working conditions, hours of work and rates of pay, the parties to this Agreement do hereby enter into, ordain, establish and agree to the following terms:
ARTICLE 1 Bargaining Agency
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement and working at the bakery of the Company located at Langley, British Columbia.
Personnel performing the functions of management and who have the right to hire and discharge shall be excluded from the bargaining unit. They shall not perform any of the work covered by the Collective Agreement except in the case of emergency. Such persons, if eligible, shall receive retiring cards from the Union.
The Superintendent shall not give direct work orders to employees but shall do so through a foreperson except where an on-shift foreperson is temporarily unavailable. The Company will write its Superintendents outlining the Superintendent's status under the terms of the Collective Agreement, Section 2 and 3 of Article 1, with a copy to the Union.
1.03
2.01
3.01
4.01
-2-
For the purposes of the Agreement, an emergency is when:
i)	major machinery break down, or
ii)	a power failure occurs, or
iii)	an employee fails to report for work on time, or
iv)	an employee is unable to complete his shift due to sickness or accident and a replacement is required.
and exists until the cause of the emergency is rectified.
ARTICLE 2 Union Security
All bakery employees, as set out hereinafter under Article 6, Section 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing while employed by the Company.
ARTICLE 3
Check Off, Assignment of Wages
All said employees shall receive from the Union and sign for a copy of the Agreement, and at the same time shall authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages and pay over to the Secretary of the Union any dues, fines, or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-Laws, owing by them to the said Union. Upon receipt of said written authorization, the Company agrees to make these deductions and pay same to the Union Secretary on or before the third Saturday in each month.
Employees may authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages contributions to either- the Bakovan Credit Union or Employer sponsored in-house credit union.
ARTICLE 4
Management's Rights
(a)	The Union agrees that the management of the Company, including the right to plan, direct and control operations and the direction of the work is vested exclusively in the Company.
(b)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of Management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of Management not specifically covered in this Agreement.
(c)	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
. . .3
3-
4.02	The Company shall have full right to employ or discharge employees, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, but no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against foi- any lawful Union activity or for serving
’	on a Union committee or for reporting the violation of any
provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be required to go through any lawfully established picket line.
4.03	The Company has the right to operate its plant for as many hours and on a six (6) or seven (7) day plant basis as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels there w i 1 1 be a demand.
To make possible such operation of the Company's plant, the Union hereby undertakes to supply to the company sufficient extra employees to work part-time at prevailing jobbers' rate.
The Company agrees to give the Union not less than three (3) days notice when requiring three (3) or more extra part-time employees for this purpose. This three (3) days notice does not apply to requests for regular jobbers and other employees which the Union will furnish as soon as possible.
ARTICLE 5 Hiring Procedure
5.01	(a) The Union will be given the first opportunity of supply-
ing staff except Janitors per Article 5, Section 2 and regular full-time employees eligible for rehire under Article 16 , S ection 1.
The Company need not accept any worker named by the Union who is unable to perform his job competently. Any disagreement arising in respect to the competency of such employee shall be determined under procedure laid down herein for the adjustment of grievances.
(b)	In the event of the Union's being unable to supply a suitable person to fill a full-time vacancy within seven (7) days after a request by the Company, the Company shall be free to fill the vacancy with anyone of its own choosing. The Union agrees to accept such employee into its membership providing the Company has given such seven (7) days notice requesting a regular full-time employee and providing he is able to pass the eligibility requirements for membership in the Union.
... 4
5.02
5.03
5.04
-4In the event that he cannot pass the eligibility requirements or the Company has failed to give the seven (7) days notice, he shall be dismissed by the Company forthwith. When an applicant for membership is rejected, the Union will, if requested to do so by the Company, set out in writing the reason membership was rejected.
In the case of jobbers:
i)	required within twenty-four (24) hours - the Union will advise the Company of its ability to supply as soon as possible.
ii)	required after more than twenty-four (24) hours - the Union will advise the Company twelve (12) hours before such person is scheduled to work if it is unable to supply a suitable person.
(c)	The Company shall be free to fill any vacancy for jobers with persons of its own choosing in the event the Union is unable provide suitable jobbers when required.
The Union agrees that jobbers supplied to the Company will be f ully qualified for the work for which they are required.
The Union also agrees not to send as a jobber to the Company any past employee who has been previously employed and released for cause unless agreed to by the Company.
In the event the Company is unable to find suitable janitors among existing long-service employees, the Union shall be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy. It is understood all janitors shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing within thirty (3 0) days of hiring.
The Union may replace any non-union jobbers or any non-union regular part-time employee whenever qualified Union replacements are available with the following exceptions:
i)	during a scheduled work week, or
ii)	when one week's notice must be given under Article 7, Section 1 ( a ) .
Regular full-time Union employees, who are laid off by the Company, shall be eligible for recall for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks, subject to the following:
(1)	If an employee on lay-off (whether eligible or not for Severance Pay) refuses recall to a regular full-time position, they will have relinquished all recall rights.
5
6.01
(2)	If an employee who is laid off and is eligible for Severance Pay elects to take said Severance Pay, he/she forfeits all re call rights and shall then be considered as a terminated employee.
(3)	An employee who is recalled to a regular full-time position within the recall period shall be reinstated with all rights and benefits they enjoyed prior to lay-off.
(4)	If an employee who is eligible for Severance Pay has not been recalled by the expiration of the recall period, then they shall receive Severance Pay in accordance with Article 20 .
(5)	The foregoing benefits for regular full-time employees will terminate in the event the employees do not return to work within seven (7) days (except for proper and sufficient reason) of recall after lay-off.
ARTICLE 6
Wages
(a)	The following shall be the minimum weekly wage:
Effective April 1, 1990
Doughman ........................................   $
Cake Hand Decorator ............................... S
Ovenman ........................................... S
Machine Operator, Feeding	and	Taking Away....... $
Receiver/Shipper .................................. $
Checker and Bread Machine	Wrapper- ................ £
Janitor ........................................... S
shift Foreperson .................................  3
Foreperson ........................................ $
Cake Machine Wrapper .............................. $
Effective April 1, 1991
Doughman .......................................... $
cake Hand Decorator ............................... s
Ovenman ........................................... s
Machine Operator, Feeding	and	Taking Away....... $
Receiver/Shipper .................................. 3
Checker and Bread Machine	Wrapper ................. S
Janitor ........................................... $
Shift Foreperson .................................  $
Foreperson ........................................ s
Cake Machine Wrapper .............................. $
708.02
708.02
706.52
702.51
705.79
702.51
694.45
760.27
725.27
702.51
738.02
738.02 736.52
732.51 735.79
732.51 724.45
790.27
755.27
732.51
-6-
Effective April 1, 1992
Doughman .................................
Cake Hand Decorator ......................
Ovenman ..................................
Machine Operator, Feeding and Taking Away
Receiver/shipper .........................
Checker and Bread Machine Wrapper ........
Janitor ..................................
shift Foreperson .........................
Foreperson ........:.......................
Cake Machine Wrapper .....................
S 768.02 $ 768.02 $ 766.52 $ 762.51 $ 765.79 $ 762.51 S 754.45 $ 820.27 $ 785.27 $ 762.51
No existing Foreperson shall suffer a reduction in wages by reason of implementation of this contract.
Retroactivity is to be calculated on the basis of straight time rates for all hours worked. Employees who have left the employ of a company between the expiry date of the last Agreement and the date of ratification of this Agreement will be entitled to retroactive pay if they apply to the Employer in writing within one hundred and twenty (120) days after retroactive pay is paid by the Employer to the other employees. Each employer will notify their Union of overall retroactive payment,
(b)	Extra compensation of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be allowed for all work or any part thereof performed between the hours of 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m.
6.02
(a) Apprentices:	Period of apprenticeship shall be three (3)
years with apprentices being mutually acceptable to both p artie s.
Effective 1st half
$617.05
632.57
648.09
04/01/90 2nd half
$625.13
640.65
656.17
Effective 1st half
$647.05
662.57
678.09
04/01/91 2nd half
$655.13
670.65
686.17
Effective 1st half
$677.05
692.57
708.09
04/01/92 2nd half
$685.13
700.65
716.17
(b) One (1) apprentice shall be allowed up to ten (10) journeymen and one (l)for every ten ( 1 0) journeymen thereafter. Where a shop has a separate cake and bread department, the same ratio will apply in each department.
(c)	All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
7
(d)	The Union agrees to work with the Company with a view to indenturing apprentices under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualifications Act. (R.S. 1960, Chap. 13 and Amendments ) .
(a)	A jobber is a worker employed on a daily basis under the wages and conditions listed below.
(b)	Wage rates for the first three (3) days:
Effective April 1/90
$141.65
Effective April 1/91
$147.65
Effective April 1/92
$153.65
After three (3) consecutive days daily rate shall revert to one-fifth (l/5th) of the weekly rate.
The Company will not be required to pay an employee while absent from employment due to sickness or otherwise except as provided for in this Agreement.
Wages of regular employees shall be paid weekly, those of jobbers on termination of employment or before the expiration of the working day next succeeding termination of employment. Weekly wages shall be paid in one cheque.
An employee working in a higher rated classification shall receive the rate of the higher classification for the entire shift. However, this provision is not intended to prevent customary flexibility in scheduling relief for rest periods and lunch periods up to one (l)hour per shift. In no case shall a higher classified employee temporarily assigned to a lower classification receive any reduction in pay for the performance of work in the lower classification.
All employees upon the completion of three (3) consecutive months of full-time service shall be placed on the payroll of the Company as a regular full-time employee and shall be covered for all benefits under this contract as soon as possible and in any event not later than one (1) month and one (1) day after first qualifying. The employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
If an employee becomes absent from work due to sickness, compensation or jury duty while normally working to qualify for full-time status, such employee will be credited with the time he had earned prior to absence.
6.08
7.01
When the employee returns to he lias been credited with wi (3) consecutive months.
-8-
work from the absence, the time il count towards the above three
An employee will not lose his seniority sickness, accident or jury duty.
date because of
Employees other than full time who average twenty-eight (2 8) hours or four (4) days per week in any consecutive thirteen (13) week period shall be covered for the following benefits :
-	100% M.S.P.
-	Proportionate benefits for weekly indemnity.
-	Proportionate benefits for group life insurance.
If the employee receiving the benefits does not meet the hour requirements for a period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, the Employer may discontinue the benefits.
Benefits shall apply as soon as possible, but in any event not later than one (1) month and one (1) day after an employee first qualifies.
The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
ARTICLE 7
Notice
a) Before laying off or discharging a regular full-time employee, the Company will give such employee one (1) week's notice or one (l)week's pay in lieu thereof except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
Jobbers who work four (4) consecutive full weeks shall be entitled to one ( 1) week ' s notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof before being laid off or discharged except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
In the event such notice is cancelled by the employee continuing to work for an additional five (5) days, then the employee is entitled to another notice.
The Shop Steward of the department shall be supplied with a copy of such notice within forty-eight (4 8) hours.
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
9
Where the Employer is required to give notice because of the return of a sick or injured employee, the returning employee shall also give one (1) week's notice of his intention to return to work.
(b) Employees will give the Company one (1) week's notice when desiring to terminate their employment, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
ARTICLE 8
Free Transportation
Free transportation will be provided for all female employees whose shift finishes after 11.30 p.m. provided such shift ends before 6 a.m.
ARTICLE 9 Hours of Work
The regular work week shall consist of five (5) seven (7) hour days. During a regular work week, employees are entitled to two (2) consecutive days off as follows:	either
Friday and Saturday, or Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday.
Where the plant or department operates on a five (5) day week, the regular days off shall be Saturday and Sunday with the exception of Christmas Cake production when the finishing crew would work on a Tuesday to Saturday basis with Sunday and Monday off.
All Saturday shifts shall be completed by 6:00 p.m. and where Sunday is worked, the following premiums shall be paid:
Employees working shall be paid $1.00 per hour premium.
In a week in which one (l)or more holidays fall, the work week that week shall be reduced by seven (7) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hours limited by this sub-section shall be classed as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate.
A jobber's hours of work shall be seven (7) hours per- shift or any part thereof.
Jobbers working a full week in which one or more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
... 10
-10-
ARTICLE 10 overtime
10.01
10.02
(a)	Overtime shall be calculated on a daily basis and shall consist of the number of hours in excess of those scheduled for each employee.
(b)	The overtime rate shall be time and one-half (1|) and shall be paid weekly.
(a) The Company agrees that in arranging shifts and in employing extra personnel as jobbers on a part-time basis, it will endeavour to eliminate as much overtime as possible. The Union agrees, on request, to furnish enough extra parttime personnel to operate the Company's plant for a sufficient number of hours to produce the required quantity of bakery products. In the event of the Union being unable to supply sufficient jobbers, the Company shall be free to hire jobbers of its own choosing. Nevertheless, the parties agree that an emergency may be created by a power shortage or major breakdown in the plant or by the failure of employees to report for work due to sickness or otherwise. In such event the regular employees agree to work such overtime as is necessary and is allowed under permit of the Provincial Department of Labour until such time as the Union is able to supply the said extra personnel or the cause of the emergency has been rectified.
All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception of 3 ma j or h?r'0 3]cd.owri.
A maior	a.c ti!i0
•down for 35 minutes or more, or the Over minutes or more.
Proof Bex being
If a major time until
breakdown occurs, employees agree to the loss of production is replaced.
work
over-
Other than overtime due to a major breakdown, the Company may request an employee to work overtime. However, such refusal to work the overtime will not result in disciplinary action.
Other than a major breakdown, the pal-ties agree that other equipment failures can result in a loss of production and in the event this occurs, the parties agree to meet to attempt to rectify the situation.
(b) Except as provided foi- in Article 10, Section 2 (a) above, it is mutually agreed that m no event shall an employee be compelled to work overtime.
... 11
11.01
11
ARTICLE 11 Scheduling of Shifts
(a) The Company shall determine the schedule of working hours for each employee and may change such schedule at its own discretion according to the provisions of this Agreement. Wherever possible, the Company shall give consideration to senior employees
Each employee shall have a twelve and one-half (123) hour break between the end of one regular shift and the beginning of the next. In the case of a day off, twenty-four (24) hours shall be added to the twelve and one-half (12j) hour break for all employees.
(b) It is agreed that the first shift shall not start earlier than 6:00 a.m. nor later than 7:00 a.m., with the exception of doughmen. Other shifts to follow continuously subject to the following exceptions.
(i)	On two (2) days per week when the Dividerman may be required to start work one (1) hour earlier. This 5:00 a.m. exception shall also apply to public holidays and the two days preceding and two days following public holidays.
(ii)	Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may start not later than 9:00 a.m. nor earlier than 6:00 a.m. The Company may use the provisions of (i) above in scheduling single shifts.
The first day back may be a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.
(c)	It is not the intent of the Company to unnecessarily change shifts which have been established but the Company is free to do so should the requirements of the operation make certain changes necessary.
Employees on posted jobs will not be taken off the posted jobs as long as the job remains available exce pt:
i)	When there is another job posted and the employee wishes to exercise his or her seniority.
ii)	Whai the job is eliminated.
iii)	When there is a reduction in the work force.
iv)	Employees may be moved out of seniority for a period not to exceed ten (10) working days unless it is mutually agreed to extend this period. Should a competent replacement become available in the interim, the employee will immediately revert back to his former position.
v)	When the employee does not perform competently.
12
-12-
11.02	It is agreed that the Company lias the right to rear-
range the working hours of regular employees so that the work of part-time employees or jobbers may be spread amongst that of the regular employees to the best advantage.
11.03	The Company agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours notice in advance of any change in shift. Employees not on a posting but scheduled for five days in a work week may only be entitled to twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift. This twenty-four (24) hour notice does not apply to the elimination of a shift.
The Shop Steward of the department shall be advised at the time or on the Shop Steward's next shift.
11.04	It shall be the duty of employees to advise the Company as far as possible in advance of the shift in cases when, due to illness or other cause, they are unable to report for work.
11.05	So far as is possible, consistent with the operation of the plant in producing the required volume of bakery products, the Company agrees to work towards the reduction of night work.
ARTICLE 12 Rest Periods
All employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period approximately midway in each half shift at a time to be designated by the Management in accordance with the requirements of the Company's operation.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to locate time clocks in such a manner to ensure full rest periods.
ARTICLE 13 Lunch Periods
Lunch periods shall be granted of one-half (2) hour duration commencing not earlier than the third (3rd) hour nor later than the fourth (4th) hour of each shift.
O
14.01
14.02
13
ARTICLE 14 Public Holidays
The following public holidays shall be recognized by the Company as outlined in Section 2 of this Article, and the regular full-time employees shall not suffer any reduction in pay thereof:
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Empire Day	Remembrance Day
Dominion Day	Christmas Day
B . C. Day	Boxing Day
and all other holidays proclaimed by the Provincial or Federal Governments as a public holiday or in substitution for any such public holiday.
(a) During a week in which a public holiday falls, the employee's day off in lieu of the public holiday may be changed to another day in that week.
(b) All employees shall be granted New Year's Day off on January 1st when it falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Employees on production of handmade bread shall not observe New Year's Day on January 1st.
(c)	Any part-time employee who has worked an average of at least twenty-eight (28) hours per week in the thirteen (13) weeks immediately preceding the week in which a statutory holiday occurs shall be paid for the statutory holiday.
(d)	All shifts must be completed by 7:00 p.m. on December 24th and December 31st.
(e)	Regular full-time employees who work on public holidays shall be paid a premium of one dollar (SI. 00) per hour.
(f)	Each regular full-time employee, and employees covered under Article 14, Section 2 (c) of the Collective Agreement, shall be granted an additional day to be taken at management's discretion within one (1) week before or within one
(1) week after- the employee's birthday.
(g)	Empire Day, Dominion Day (July 1), B.C. Day and Labour
Day may be taken	at some other	time	of the year	if mutually
agreed between	the Employer	and	Employee.	These banked
Statutory Holidays must be taken before the end of the year by the Employee	at his option.	The	Employee must notify the
Company by May 15th of each year if	he wishes	to exercise
this option.
14
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
15.05
14-
ARTICLE 15
vacations
After one (1) full year of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive two (2) week's vacation with pay.
Vacations must be taken by the employees entitled to same. Wages shall not be paid in lieu of vacation.
Employees are to receive vacations between May 15th and September 15th. Preference for vacations will be according to seniority, however, the Company will determine how many within each job classification may be on vacation at any one time subject to requirements of the operation.
Employees are to receive summer vacations between May 15th and September 15th, however, the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th weeks of vacation or any part thereof may be taken at any time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) outside of the summer vacation period if the employee so desires subject to Section 3 of this Article.
After three (3) full years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. After eight (8) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. After thirteen (13) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive five
(5)	weeks vacation with pay.
After eighteen (18) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive six
(6)	weeks vacation with pay, and seven (7) weeks vacation with pay after twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service with the Company.
Vacations shall be taken as follows:
i)	Those entitled to three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) weeks between May 15th and September 15th and the extra weeks between January 1st and March 31st-
ii)	Those entitled to five (5), six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) or three (3) weeks at their option between May 15th and September 15th; two (2) weeks between January 1st and March 31st and any additional week or weeks between September 15th and December 31st.
15
15.06
15.07
15.08
15.09
15.10
16.01
16.02
-15-
Employees who first qualify for extra vacations by March 31st may take the vacation commencing not later than April 1st of the same year.
In the event of one public holiday falling during an employee's annual vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to the first day off with pay he would normally return to work. In the event of two public holidays falling during his annual holidays with pay, he shall be entitled to the first two days off with pay he would normally return to work and for three public holidays to the first three (3) days off with pay.
Vacation allowances on termination of employment -four percent (4%) for those entitled to two (2) weeks. Additional two percent (2%) for each additional weeks vacation.
The Company agrees that an employee's annual vacation with pay shall not be broken because of the intervention of any public holiday.
(a) Winter holiday schedule must be posted and completed by December 1st. Summer- holiday schedule must be posted and completed by April 15th and include any fifth (5th), sixth (6th), or seventh (7th) week's vacation scheduled between September 15th and December 31st.
(b) For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular full-time employees due to sickness, accident or temporary lay-off shall be counted as time worked to a maximum of three (3) months for- employees entitled to two (2) week's vacation and to a maximum of six months for employees entitled to more than two (2) week's vacation.
Vacation pay shall be paid not later than one (l)day before the last day of employment before vacations commence.
ARTICLE 16 S eniority
Promotions, lay-offs, re-hiring and preferences of transfers to shifts (in the event a vacancy occurs on any shift) shall be based on length of service and ability where ability between employees is reasonably equal, length of service shall determine.
For
i)
the purposes of this Article, a job vacancy When an employee transfers from one job to
occurs:
another. . . . 16
16.03
16.04
16.05
16.06
16.07
-16
ii)	When the Company requests a replacement for a regular full-time employee whose employment has been terminated.
iii)	When the Company creates a new job for which a regular full-time employee is required.
The original vacancy shall first be posted and when transfers result and create additional vacancies, it is understood there shall be no more than three (3) postings including the original.
(a)	The Company agrees to post vacancies for forty-eight (4 8) hours but may fill such vacancies on a temporary basis until applications have been processed and a regular appointment is made. Regular appointments shall normally be made within one (l)week. This time may be extended by mutual agreement. Applicants for a posted vacancy may only apply on forms which shall be made available by the Company posted in a conspicuous place. The posting shall state the job and the starting time of the shift. The successful applicant for a posted job shall be put on the job within seven (7) days unless it is mutually agreed between the Company and the Union to extend the time.
(b)	The second (2nd) and third (3rd) posting shall be posted and filled within one (1) month of the filling of the original vacancy.
Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to qualify shall revert back to their original job.
It is agreed that senior employees absent on vacation or because of sickness or accident, shall have the opportunity to apply for a job posting provided application is received within thirty (30) days of posting and the Union accepts responsibility for notifying such employees. Any such employee accepted to fill the vacancy shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy provided he returns to work within three (3) months of posting or such longer period as may be agreed upon.
Non-union jobbers in the employ of the Company or those referred by the Union shall be eligible to apply for a job vacancy. However, he shall not be given the job unless:
i)	No Union member in the employ of the Company qualifies; and
ii)	The Union is unable to supply within seven (7) days a qualified person to fill the vacancy.
In the event such employee is given the job, he shall immediately become a member of the Union. However, in no case may an employee who is not a member of the Union hold seniority over one who is a member of the Union.
. . .17
16.08
16-. O9
16.10
17.01
17.02
17
In the event of a reduction of the work force or where a department of the Company is temporarily closed or one or more jobs are eliminated and senior employees may be subject to lay-off, such senior employee shall be given an opportunity to qualify for the job of a junior employee. He or she shall have the right to choose the junior job for which he or she wishes to qualify. The period of qualification shall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties after the employee is assigned to the new position.
Where a Doctor has indicated that it is likely an employee will be absent due to illness or accident for at least four (4) weeks, senior qualified employees will be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy created by the illness or accident, it being understood there will be only one (1) move for- each accident or illness.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, Janitors may only make application for a job vacancy in the production department after one or more years of service and further, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Janitors may only be replaced by a regular full-time employee.
Janitors shall not be moved out. of that department on a temporary basis but an employee in other classifications may do Janitorial work.
ARTICLE 17
Leave of Absence
The Company agrees to grant necessary time off without pay and without discrimination to not more than two .2) employees, each of whom shall be from different departments of the Company's business, who shall be designated by the Union for a maximum of three (3) months on Union business provided notification be given the Company m sufficient time to secure a satisfactory relief person acceptable to the Company for the job involved.
An indefinite leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any one (1) employee as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer conditional upon his ability to perform his normal Dob provided that he re-applied within thirty (30) days of his no longer serving as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer .
Regular full-time employees with One (1) or more years of service shall be granted leave of absence without pay foi a
IS
-18
minimum period of one (l)week up to a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks on the understanding that:
(a)	Only one (1) eligible employee up to ten (10) employees and one (1) eligible employee for each additional ten (10) employees or any part thereof shall be absent at one time. In any event, no more than one (1) employee shall be absent from any department at any one time.
(b)	Twenty-one (2 1) days written notice is given to the employer.
(c)	A qualified person is available as a replacement.
The competency of the employee shall be mutually agreed on.
(d)	Such leave of absence shall be taken between September 15th
and	15th except where otherwise mutually agreed.
(e)	The employee shall not be permitted to work during such leave.
(f)	It is agreed should an employee fail to return to work at the completion of the leave of absence or is found to have worked while on leave, he or she shall be terminated from employment.
(g)	Leave of absence will be granted on a seniority basis.
(h)	This section will not nullify leave of absence granted on compassionate grounds.
17.03	In the event of death in an employee's immediate family
(employee's parents, sisters or brothers, spouse or children, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any other relative living in the household of the employee) the employee shall be entitled to be absent from work with pay, a period of three (3) working days when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for or to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 18
Regular Part-Time Employees
18.01	An employee who performs one hundred and fifty (150) days of
actual work in a twelve (12) month period shall be classified as a regular part-time employee.
On the first day of employment, a new employee will sign a form provided by the Employer to commence accruing vacation pay.
After twelve months the Company will assess the number of days worked by sucl-I employee.
When the employee has accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period, his/her anniversary date for vacations will be the first day of the twelve month qualifying period.
19
19-
18.02
18.03
The above language will not conflict with an employee's plant seniority date which will be his first day of employment, unless otherwise covered in this Collective Agreement.
Employees hired as of January 1,	1988 shall fall under
Article 18, as a basis for establishing their vacation date. Employees hired prior to January 1, 1988 shall receive vacation entitlement they have previously established. For those employees who still do not have a vacation date established the Company will research their records back to 1980 in order to establish a vacation date.
If the employee has not accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days in the initial twelve (12) month period, then one (1) month later his/her number of days will be assessed again and each subsequent month thereafter until the employee qualifies. It being understood that only the previous twelve (12) months will be used when assessing the one hundred and fifty (150) days qualifying period.
January 1 , 1975, shall be the date set to determine the first twelve (12) month period of qualification.
An employee qualifying as of January 1, 1975, shall be covered by all conditions of Article 18.
An employee taking longer that twelve (12) months to qualify as a regular part-time employee shall receive his/her vacation allowance on his/her qualifying date, however, should this period exceed fifteen (15) months then the employee may request part of his/her vacation pay without jeopardizing his/her part-time status.
An employee, hired previous to January 1, 1975, shall not lose seniority rights already established with the Company.
Such regular part-time employees on temporary lay-off shall maintain M.S.P. coverage during such lay-off- The employee may prepay the necessary full premium or have the Company make the payment which shall be reimbursed to the Company by that employee upon his or her return to work.
Regular part-time employees after one (1) year of service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be pro-rated according to time worked.
After three (3) years of consecutive service, regular parttime employees shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay and after eight (8) years of consecutive service shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
... 20
18.04
18.05
20.01
20
After thirteen years consecutive service, five (5) weeks vacation with pay. After eighteen (18) years consecutive service, six (6) weeks vacation with pay. After twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service, seven (7) weeks vacation with pay.
The basic two (2) week's vacation and the third and/or fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh weeks vacation shall be taken at the times as set out in Article 15, Section 4 .
After having qualified for three (3) or four (4) or five (5) or six (6) or seven (7) weeks vacation as above and such employee fails to perform one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in any one (1)year, such employee shall not qualify for that year only. However, if such employee fails to qualify for two (2) consecutive years, except for approved absence due to sickness, accident or compensation, then such employee must re-qualify for vacation as provided above.
The foregoing benefits for a regular part-time employee will terminate in the event the employee does not return to work within seven (7) days of recall after a lay-off.
For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular part-time employees due to sickness, accident or compensation shall count as time worked to a maximum of two (2) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks, and to a maximum of four (4) months for employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks.
ARTICLE 19 Jury Duty
Employees called upon to perform jury duty or witness duty where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby subject to the following conditions :
(a)	Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
(b)	Such employees shall furnish the Company with such statements of earnings as the Courts may supply.
ARTICLE 20
Technological Change and Severance Pay
It is the purpose of this Article to provide for technological change in accordance with Section 74 of the B.C. Labour Code.	... 21
21
20.02
20.03
20.04
20.05
Technological change is defined as:
(a)	The introduction by the Company of a change in its work, undertaking or business, or a change in its equipment or materia? from the equipment or material previously used in its work, undertaking or business, or
(b)	a change in the manner the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
The Company agrees to notify the Union in writing and meet to discuss any technological change thirty (30) days prior to implementation of same. Any regular full-time employee who loses his position as a result of the technological change shall have the option of:
(a)	exercising seniority rights to qualify for the job of a junior employee, in accordance with Article 16, Section 8 (qualifying time to be up to thirty (3 0) days unless Company and Union agree to an extension): or
(b)	retraining to operate the new equipment or learn new methods introduced by the Company. Retraining will be provided by the Company. All costs incurred in retraining will be borne by the Company. Employees will have up to thirty (30) days to qualify on new equipment or learn new methods unless Union and Company agree to an extension.
Where the above options are not applicable or the employee does not qualify to bump or retrain, he shall select one of
the following options:
(a)	severance pay according to Section 5; or
(b)	Seing placed on the recall list subject to Article 5. sec
tier 4.
In the event of amalgamation, closure of the plant or a department thereof, or reduction in work force due to automation or technological advances causing a regular full-time employee to lose his or lier employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full-Time	Severance Pay
Consecutive service	One (1) week
up to 2 years
Over 2 years	One (1) week's pay for every
year of full time service to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
20.06
21.01
21*02
21.03
22.01
22
It is understood that employees laid off due to loss of markets, market shifts or depressed business conditions are not eligible for benefits under this article.
ARTICLE 21 Sick Leave Benefits
Regular full-time employees, after three (3) months consecutive employment shall be entitled to sick leave benefits at a rate of one-half (§) days pay per month of full-time employment up to a maximum of thirty-seven (3 7) days pay.
Sick leave benefits shall apply to the first day for the first three illnesses of each calendar year, after which such sick leave pay shall only apply to the second (2nd) and third (3rd) regularly scheduled working day of illness.
The employee shall provide a doctor's certificate verifying the illness if requested by the Company, however, certificates will only be requested if abuse is suspected.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of doctors certificates requested by the Company.
Sick leave accumulation may be used to supplement weekly indemnity to normal daily earnings.
The employer will ensure that an employee injured at work will have his/her full wages maintained for the first three (3) working days. If payment for the first three (3) days is also made by the Workers' Compensation Board, the employer will deduct the equivalent amount of such Workers' Compensation Board payment.
An employee, if found abusing this privilege, shall be disciplined by the employer. The employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee or terminate his employment.
Employees who voluntarily terminate their employment with the employer, or who are permanently laid-off from their employment with the employer, shall be paid any sick leave accumulation they may have to their credit.
ARTICLE 22 Health & Welfare
The employer shall make its welfare plan available to eligible employees on the following contributory basis:
Ninety per-cent (90%) by the employer and ten per-cent (10T) by the employee.
. I23
22.02
-2
O —
The employer shall provide a letter to the Union defining eligible employees foi- the purposes of this Article. The welfare plan will provide continued coverage to all bakers regardless of changes of employment from one Company to another which are under the same Collective Agreement.
Weekly Indemnity benefits payable up to twenty-six (2 6) weeks shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per week.
Weekly Indemnity benefits shall be increased to five hundred and twenty five dollars ($525.00) per week commencing June 1,	1990. Effective April 1, 1991 increases to five hundred
and forty-eight dollars ($548.00) per week and effective April 1, 1992 increases to five hundred and seventy dollars ($570.00) per week.
It is understood these Weekly Indemnity benefits shall be applied according to the regulations of the employer's insurance plan.
Life Insurance to be a minimum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000-00)- Effective June 1,	1990 increases to
twenty-seven thousand ($27,000.00) and effective April 1, 1991 increases to twenty-eight thousand dollars ($28,000.00) and effective April 1,	1992 increases to thirty thousand
dollars ($3 0,000.00).
A non-contributing prepaid Drug, Eyeglass and Hearing Aid Plan will provide the following benefits to full-time employees :
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible.
(b)	Eyeglass, lenses and frames to a maximum of $100.00 per year per person.
(c)	Hearing Aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person once every four (4) years.
Effective April 1, 1986, an Extended Health Benefits Plan will be implemented.
It is understood all employees' dependents shall be covered by the above welfare plans. Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband.
A covered employee's unmarried children under the age of 21, or under the age of 25 while attending an educational institution provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
... 24
-24-
A Long-Term Disability Plan for claims commencing on or before March 28,	1982 shall be paid at the 60% benefit
level.
23.01
23.02
23.03
23.04
23.05
23.06
ARTICLE 23 General Provisions
Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. All those engaged in handling of bakery products, until they have been wrapped, shall wear white. Other employees to be supplied with suitable uniforms. The cost of supplying and laundering of all uniforms to be borne by the Company except jobbers who work less than two (2) weeks, provided that jobbers request his uniform by the end of his second week in which event the Company agrees to provide his uniform by Tuesday of the third week.
The Company shall provide and maintain for the convenience of employees, toilets, washrooms aiid lockers. The lunchroom shall be separate and apart from dressing rooms and toilets aiid shall provide facilities for boiling water.
Employees shall, at all times, leave benches and machinery cleaned and (except in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiner's repairs) in condition for the immediate resumption of work. The Company shall keep all equipment in good, safe working order.
Employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant in good order aiid to refrain from misusing or defacing them and to refrain fi-cm any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or convenience.
Both parties to this Agreement endorse the City of Vancouver By-Law No. 2148 with particular respect to health certificates .
The use of tobacco in any form in any part of the bakery where bakery products are produced or handled is prohibited and any breach of this rule on the part of any employee shall be cause for instant dismissal.
ARTICLE 24 Union Label
The Union Label will be furnished to the Company at cost as lone as this Agreement is upheld provided no other Union has a grievance with the Company. The Union agrees at all times to advance the sale of Union products by label, campaign ci-otherwise.	...25
25
25.01
25.02
26.01
26.02
26.03
26.04
ARTICLE 25
Union Representative
The Company and the Union undertake mutually to foster the spirit of co-operation in the interpretation of this Agreement. The Management of this Company will at all times, whenever reasonably possible, extend to the accredited representative of the Union, upon his request, evidence and facilities for confirming that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are being maintained. He shall also be granted permission to inspect the pay cheque of any employee should he so desire.
The Business Agent shall be permitted to enter any and all departments of the shop during working hours to attend to the business of the Union. He shall, as a matter of courtesy, state the purpose of his visit to the person in charge of the department and shall be given every opportunity to personally examine complaints of workers on the job, but at no time will he interfere with plant operation.
ARTICLE 26 Grievance Procedure
In the event an employee feels he has been improperly dismissed, such grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
Any employee who alleges that the Company has unreasonably increased the work load of his job, thereby causing injury to the health of such employee or reasonable apprehension of such injury, may present the matter as a grievance under this Article.
Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion between the Company and the Union, or the employee covered by this Agreement which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a grievance. Any employee, the Union or the Company may present a grievance.
The procedure for adjustment of disputes and grievances shall be:
a) Should a grievance occur, the member claiming such shall report the matter to the Shop Steward or the Business Agent of the Union.
b) The Shop Steward or Business Agent of the Union shall take the matter up with the Superintendent.
... 26
26-
c)	Should the grievance not be settled between the Superintendent and Shop steward or Business Agent, the matter shall then be taken up between the Business Agent and the Manager of Labour Representative of the Company.
d)	Except by mutual agreement of the parties, Section 96(1) of the Labour Relations Act is hereby excluded.
ARTICLE 27
Board of Arbitration
27.01	If the Union and the Company Labour Representative cannot reach an adjustment, upon request of either party, the. grievance shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members.
If mutually agreed between the company and the Union, a single arbitrator shall preside.
The parties shall each select one (1) member within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice by either party that a grievance is to be submitted to arbitration and the third member shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two members first selected. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board. If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall Se referred to the Labour Relations Board of the Province of British Columbia which shall appoint a Chairman.
27.02	The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider such material evidence as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issue involved.
In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
27.03	The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify, or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present, an arbitration issue under this Agreement. Where the Board of Arbitration finds that an employee was dismissed or suspended for other than proper cause the Board of Arbitration may direct the employer to reinstate: the employee and pay to the employee a sum equal to his wages lost by reason of his discharge or suspension, or such lesser- sum as in the opinion of the Board is fair and reasonable.
27.04
27.05
27.06
-27-
The finding and decisions of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed a decision of the Board.
It is the intention of the parties that this Article shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Each party shall pay its own arbitrator, but all expenses incurred by the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration.
ARTICLE 28 Pension Plan
It is agreed that the Approved Standard Collective Bargaining Clause (Canada) which follows, will be amended where necessary to provide the following benefits:
The Employer contribution will provide for nine hundred twenty-five dollars ($925.00) foi- Plans A,B,C and D at 2% level benefits effective April 1, 1990.
Effective April 1, 1991, the benefit level for the above plans will increase to one thousand dollars (Sl,000.00) per month.
Effective June 1, 1990 Plan CC will be implemented with the Company contribution not to exceed forty cents (40c) per day per employee.
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE (CANADA)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local union and the Employer is as follows:
1.	(a) Commencing with the ...................... day of
.......................................19... . and for the
duration of the current Collective Baryaining Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees ro make payments to the Bakery and Confectionery Union and industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:	...28
28
For each day or portion thereof for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution	of
................... to the above named Pension Fund but not
more than ........... per week for any one. employee. For
the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union.
It is further understood that each day or hour paid holidays and other days or hours for which, pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
(b) The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated September 11,	1955
establishing the said Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund and agrees to be bound
by
11 terms and provisions of said Agreement, a copy
of
Tie
which is annexed thereto and made a part hereof. Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund such Trustees as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement and agrees to be bound by all the action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
(c) It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval for the appropriate Canadian Government Department sc as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for Income Tax purposes.
(d) It. is agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit the payroll and wage records of the employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
(e)	If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pen-
sion Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law to secure compliance with this Article, The Employer shall be liable foi- all costs incurred in collecting the payments dus hereunder together with attorneys' fees and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.	..29
-29-
2.	The parties agree and represent that there is no other agreement between them regarding pension, other than this Article, presently in effect. The Parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3.	The E xpiration date of the present Collective Agreement between the Local Union and the employer is March 31,	1993.
Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation of the Employer.
This Article shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors and assigns. The Employer shall give prior notice, in writing, of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than four (4) days after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligation under this Article.
ARTICLE 29 Dental Plan
The Employer agrees to ensure the following Dental benefits:
-	90% co-insurance present plan
-	80% co-insurance for Crowns, Bridges & Dentures
-	50% co-insurance foi- Orthodontics, $1,750.00 maximum
If a Government Plan is instituted at any time with the same or equivalent benefits, it is understood that if necessary the Company will pay the difference between any such Plan and the maximum of thirteen cents (13<t) per hour.
ARTICLE 30 Duration
This Agreement shall be m force and effect from April 1, 199 0 until March 31, 1993, and thereafter from year to year until a nevTAgreement“tTre“l:eras of which shall be retroactive to April 1 of each year, has been consummated, the parties agree to specifically exclude the operation of Section 96 (1) of the Labour Code of E.C. and do agree that there shall be no re-opeiung of this Agreement until the proper notice is served prior to this expiration date of
... 30
-30-
March 31, 1993. Should either party desire to make any changes in this Agreement, the party desiring the change shall notify the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement in any year. In the event of a failure to reach an amicable settlement, mediation may be applied for under existing Provincial Legislation .
Letters of Understanding to be renewed as agreed, signed on this ____day of ________________, 1991.
For the Company
For the Union
oteu 15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HOURS OF WORK
Article 9, Section 1
It is mutually agreed as follows:
1)	Bread products plants may, upon giving seven (7)
days notice in writing to the Union, institute a change in shifts from the provisions of Article 9, Section 1, whereby:
a) Employees may be required to work one six (6) hour shift and one eight (8) hour shift within the regular work week with the balance of the shifts being seven (7) hours each.
b)	Unless otherwise agreed between the Employer and the Union at the time of notifying the Union, the six (6) hour shift shall occur on Tuesday and the eight (8) hour shift on Thursday.
c)	The shifts shall be paid at the straight time rate but employees actually working those shifts shall receive thirty-six and one-half (361) hours of pay for the thirty-five (3 5) hour week. That is a bonus of one and one-half (1|) hours pay for the flexible shifts.
d)	Jobbers may only be required to work six (6) hours when a six (6) hour shift is scheduled and when required to work an eight (8) hour shift shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for the eighth (8th) hour but jobbers shall not receive the bonus referred to in sub-section (c) hereof.
2.	This letter shall remain in full force and effect from
the date hereof until the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement to replace the 1990 - 93 Agreement.
SIGNED this ..... day of ............. ,19	......
For the Union
For the Company
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING WEEKLY INDEMNITY PAYMENTS
It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that Weekly Indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the Employer. If payment of valid claims is not made by the Insurance Company within two (2) week from the time the Employer receives the completed application, the Employer shall then pay to the claiming employee an amount equal to his entitlement. Similarly, when payments are stopped by the Carrier, while the employee's entitlement continues, the employee shall be able to claim the amount of his entitlement from the Employer.
Payments made by the Employer for claims later found to be invalid or payments made by the Employer which are later paid by the Carrier, shall be returnable to the Employer.
SIGNED this ..... day of ............... ,19
For the Company	For the Union
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SCHEDULING - Article 11, Section 1 (b) (ii)
The parties agree to amend this section to read:
"Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may not start later than 12:00 p.m. (noon), nor earlier than 6:00 a.m.
The Company may use the provision of (i) above in scheduling single s h i ft s . "
SIGNED this ..... day of ............... ,19
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME
The parties agreed to add to Article 10, Section 2	(b) the
following:
"The Union also recognizes that occasionally a situation may occur where, to facilitate a late customer order, overtime may be required. The Union and the employees agree to cooperate in filling the late customer orders."
SIGNED this ...... day of ............ ,19 .......
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF
The parties agree that the application of Article 9, Section 1 will not apply to the third shift of bread employees.
This also includes support employees such as sanitation, distribution, etc.
SIGNED this ...... day of............,19 .......
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The parties agree that Article 1, Section 2, second paragraph shall be replaced with the following:
"Superintendents can give direct work orders to employees if the foreperson is not readily available."
This clause will not be cause to displace any present foreperson.
SIGNED this ....... day of .......... ,19
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION