AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
CANADA BREAD COMPANY, LIMITED AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ and GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
APRIL 1, 1997 TO MARCH 31, 2003
INDEX
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT CANADA BREAD COMPANY LIMITED
PAGE 1	ARTICLE 1	BARGAINING AGENCY
PAGE 2	ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4	UNION SECURITY CHECK OFF, ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
PAGE 3	ARTICLE 5	HIRING PROCEDURE
PAGE 5	ARTICLE 6	WAGES
PAGE 8	ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8	NOTICE FREE TRANSPORTATION
PAGE 9	ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10	HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME
PAGE 10	ARTICLE 11	SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS
PAGE 12	ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14	REST PERIODS LUNCH PERIODS PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
PAGE 13	ARTICLE 15	VACATIONS
PAGE 15	ARTICLE 16	SENIORITY
PAGE 16	ARTICLE 17	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
PAGE 17	ARTICLE 18	REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
PAGE 19	ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20	JURY DUTY TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
PAGE 20	ARTICLE 21	SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
PAGE 21	ARTICLE 22	HEALTH & WELFARE
PAGE 22	ARTICLE 23	GENERAL PROVISIONS
PAGE 23	ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26	UNION LABEL UNION REPRESENTATIVE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
PAGE 24	ARTICLE 27	BOARD OF ARBITRATION
PAGE 25	ARTICLE 28	PENSION PLAN
PAGE 28	ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30	DENTAL PLAN DURATION
PAGE 29		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING HOURS OF WORK -- ARTICLE 9, SECTION 1
PAGE 30		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING WEEKLY INDEMNITY PAYMENTS
PAGE 31		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SCHEDULING - ARTICLE 11, SECTION 1 (b) (ii)
PAGE 32		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OVERTIME
PAGE 33		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF
PAGE 34		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 1.2
PAGE 35		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING WEEKLY INDEMNITY/U.I.C. BENEFITS
PAGE 36		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SCHEDULING - Appendix A
PAGE 37		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SECURITY CAMERAS - Appendix B
PAGE 38		LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING THIRTY-SEVEN AND ONE HALF (37.5) HOUR WORK WEEK - Appendix C
THIS AGREEMENT entered into the 1st day of April, 1997.
BETWEEN:	CANADA BREAD COMPANY LIMITED of the Province of British Columbia (hereinafter
called "The Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:	THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS' AND GRAIN MILLERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 468, of the City of Burnaby, in the Province of British Columbia (hereinafter called "The Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
In consideration of the maintenance of harmonious relations and settled conditions of employment, and recognizing the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations on all matters pertaining to working conditions, hours of work and rates of pay, the parties to this Agreement do hereby enter into, ordain, establish and agree to the following terms:
ARTICLE 1 - BARGAINING AGENCY
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement and working at the bakery of the Company located at Langley, British Columbia.
1.02	Personnel performing the functions of management and who have the right to hire and discharge shall be excluded from the bargaining unit. They shall not perform any of the work covered by the Collective Agreement except in the case of emergency. Such persons, if eligible, shall receive retiring cards from the Union.
The Superintendent shall not give direct work orders to employees but shall do so through a foreperson except where an onshift foreperson is temporarily unavailable. The Company will write its Superintendents outlining the Superintendent's status under the terms of the Collective Agreement, Section 2 and 3 of Article 1, with a copy to the Union.
1.03	For the purpose of the Agreement, an emergency is when:
(i)	major machinery breakdown, or
(ii)	a power failure occurs, or
(iii)	an employee fails to report for work on time, or
(iv)	an employee is unable to complete his shift due to sickness or accident and a replacement is required and exists until the cause of the emergency is rectified.
1
ARTICLE 2 - UNION SECURITY
2.01	All bakery employees, as set out hereinafter under Article 6, Section, 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing while employed by the Company.
ARTICLE 3 - CHECK OFF, ASSIGNMENT OF WAGES
3.01	All said employees shall receive from the Union and sign for a copy of the Agreement, and at the same time shall authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages and pay over to the Secretary of the Union any dues, fines, or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-Laws, owing by them to the said Union. Upon receipt of said written authorization, the Company agrees to make these deductions and pay same to the Union Secretary on or before the third Saturday in each month.
Employees may authorize the Company, in writing, to deduct from their wages contributions to either the Bakovan Credit Union or Employer sponsored in-house credit union.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
4.01	(a)	The Union agrees that the management of the Company, including the right to plan, direct and control operations and the direction of the work is vested exclusively in the Company.
	(b)	The parties agree that the foregoing enumeration of Management's rights shall not be deemed to exclude other recognized functions of Management not specifically covered in this Agreement.
	(c)	The exercise of the foregoing rights shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
4.02	The Company shall have full right to employ or discharge employees, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, but no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful Union activity or for serving on a Union committee or for reporting the violation of any provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be required to go through any lawfully established picket line.
4.03	The Company has the right to operate its plant for as many hours and on a six (6) or seven (7) day plant basis as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels there will be a demand.
To make possible such operation of the Company's plant, the Union hereby undertakes to supply to the Company sufficient extra employees to work part-time at prevailing jobbers' rates.
The Company agrees to give the Union not less than three (3) days notice when
2
requiring three (3) or more extra part-time employees for this purpose. This three (3) days notice does not apply to requests for regular jobbers and other employees which the union will furnish as soon as possible.
ARTICLE 5
5.01
HIRING PROCEDURE
(a)	The Union will be given the first opportunity of supplying staff except Janitors as per Article 5, Section 2 and regular full-time employees eligible for rehire under Article 16, Section 1.
The Company need not accept any worker named by the Union who is unable to perform his job competently. Any disagreement arising in respect to the competency of such employee shall be determined under procedure laid down herein for the adjustment of grievances.
(b)	In the event of the Union's being unable to supply a suitable person to fill a fulltime vacancy within seven (7) days after a request by the Company, the Company shall be free to fill the vacancy with anyone of its own choosing. The Union agrees to accept such employee into its membership providing the Company has given such seven (7) days notice requesting a regular full-time employee and providing he is able to pass the eligibility requirements for membership in the Union.
In the event that he cannot pass the eligibility requirements or the Company has failed to give the seven (7) days notice, he shall be dismissed by the Company forthwith. When an applicant for membership is rejected, the Union will, if requested to do so by the Company, set out in writing the reason membership was rejected.
In the case of jobbers:
(i)	required within twenty-four (24) hours -- the Union will advise the Company of its ability to supply as soon as possible.
(ii)	required after more than twenty-four (24) hours -- the Union will advise the Company twelve (12) hours before such person is scheduled for work if it is unable to supply a suitable person.
(c)	The Company shall be free to fill any vacancy for jobbers with persons of its own choosing in the event the Union is unable to provide suitable jobbers when required.
The Union agrees that jobbers supplied to the Company will be fully qualified for the work for which they are required.
The Union also agrees not to send as a jobber to the Company any past employee who has been previously employed and released for cause unless agreed to by the Company.
3
5.02	In the event the Company is unable to find suitable janitors among existing long-service employees, the Union shall be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy. It is understood all janitors shall become and remain members of the Union in good standing within thirty (30) days of hiring.
5.03	The Union may replace any non-union jobber or any non-union regular part-time employee whenever qualified Union replacements are available with the following exceptions:
(i)	during a scheduled work week, or
(ii)	when one week's notice must be given under Article 7, Section 1(a).
5.04	Regular full-time union employees, who are laid off by the Company, shall be eligible for recall for a period of fifty-two (52) weeks, subject to the following:
(1)	If an employee on lay off (whether eligible or not for Severance Pay) refuses recall to a regular full-time position, they will have relinquished all recall rights.
(2)	If an employee who is laid off and is eligible for Severance Pay elects to take said Severance Pay, he/she forfeits all recall rights and shall then be considered as a terminated employee.
(3)	An employee who is recalled to a regular full-time position within the recall period shall be reinstated with all rights and benefits they enjoyed prior to lay off.
(4)	If an employee who is eligible for Severance Pay has not been recalled by the expiration of the recall period, then they shall receive Severance Pay in accordance with Article 20.
(5)	The foregoing benefits for regular full-time employees will terminate in the event the employees do not return to work within seven (7) days (except for proper and sufficient reason) of recall after lay off.
4
ARTICLE 6 - WAGES
6.01	(a) The following shall be the minimum weekly wage based on a 35 hour work
week:
April 1/1997 Doughman
Cake Hand Decorator Cake Hand Decorator Ovenman Ovenman
Machine Operator -Feeding & Taking Away Receiver/Shipper Checker & Bread Machine Wrapper Janitor
Shift Foreperson Foreperson
Cake Machine Wrapper
Effective April 1/1997 April 1, 2000
$808.02
808.02
808.02
806.52
806.52
802.51
805.79
802.51 794.45
860.27
825.27
802.51
Effective April 1, 2000
$823.02
823.02
823.02
821.52
821.52
817.51
820.79
817.51 809.45
875.27
840.27
817.51
The following lump sum payments will be made on the dates specified, prorated for employees who averaged less than 21 hours per week from April 1, 1997 to April 1, 1998;
Effective April 1, 2001 $	500.00 (prorated for employees under 21 hrs/wk, minimum
$100)
Effective April 1, 2002 $1,000.00 (prorated for employees under 21 hrs/wk, minimum $200)
No existing Foreperson shall suffer a reduction in wages by reason of implementation of this contract.
Retroactivity is to be calculated on the basis of straight time rates for all hours worked. Employees who have left the employ of a company between the expiry date of the last Agreement and the date of ratification of this Agreement will be entitled to retroactive pay if they apply to the Employer, in writing, within one hundred twenty (120) days after retroactive pay is paid by the Employer to other employees. Each employer will notify their Union of overall retroactive payment.
(b) Extra compensation of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be allowed for all work or any part thereof performed between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
5
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
(a) Apprentices: Period of apprenticeship shall be three (3) years with apprentices being mutually acceptable to both parties.
Apprentices - Minimum Weekly Wage:
Effective April 1/96
1st Half	2nd Half
$ 717.05	$ 725.13
732.57	740.65
748.09	756.17
(b)	One (1) apprentice shall be allowed up to ten (10) journeymen and one (1) tor every ten (10) journeymen thereafter. Where a shop has a separate cake and bread department, the same ratio will apply in each department.
(c)	All apprentices are to have the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed in all operations in the bake shop.
(d)	The Union agrees to work with the Company with a view to indenturing apprentices under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualifications Act. (R.S. 1960, Chap. 13 and Amendment).
(a)	A jobber is a worker employed on a daily basis under the wages and conditions listed below.
(b)	Wage rates for the first three (3) days:
Effective April1, 1997	Effective April 1, 2000
$ 161.65	$164.65
After three (3) consecutive days daily rate shall revert to one-fifth (1/5th) of the weekly rate.
The Company will not be required to pay an employee while absent from employment due to sickness or otherwise except as provided for in this Agreement.
Wages of regular employees shall be paid weekly, those of jobbers on termination of employment or before the expiration of the working day next succeeding termination of employment. Weekly wages shall be paid by Direct Deposit.
Effective no later than January 1, 1999 the Company shall record employee’s accumulated sick time on the employee’s pay stub.
An employee working in a higher rated classification shall receive the rate of the higher classification for the entire shift. However, this provision is not intended to prevent
6
customary flexibility in scheduling relief for rest periods and lunch periods up to one (1) hour per shift. In no case shall a higher classified employee temporarily assigned to a lower classification receive any reduction in pay for the performance of work in the lower classification.
6.07	All employees upon the completion of three (3) consecutive months of full-time service shall be placed on the payroll of the Company as a regular full-time employee and shall be covered for all benefits under this contract as soon as possible and in any event not later than one (1) month and one (1) day after first qualifying. The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
If an employee becomes absent from work due to sickness, compensation or jury duty while normally working to qualify for full-time status, such employee will be credited with the time he had earned prior to absence.
When the employee returns to work from the absence, the time he has been credited with will count toward the above three (3) consecutive months.
An employee will not lose his seniority date because of sickness, accident or jury duty.
6.08	Employees other than full-time who average twenty-eight (28) hours or four (4) days per week in any consecutive thirteen (13) week period shall be covered for the following benefits:
-	100% M.S.P.
-	Proportionate benefits for weekly indemnity
-	Proportionate benefits for group life insurance
If the employee receiving the benefits does not meet the hour requirements for a period of thirteen (13) consecutive weeks, the Employer may discontinue the benefits.
Benefits shall apply as soon as possible, but in any event not later than one (1) month and one (1) day after an employee first qualifies.
The Employer will supply the appropriate forms at the time of eligibility and the onus shall be on the employee to complete and return these forms.
6.09	New Hires
Employees hired after April 9, 1998 and those whose names do not appear on the seniority list dated April 9, 1998 will be employed in accordance with the following Probation, Wage Progression and Health and Welfare benefit contribution provisions.
New hires will be on Probation for 60 days actually worked and while on probation will have no recourse to the grievance procedure.
New hires will be paid in accordance with the following wage progression schedule based on a percentage of the wage provided for in clause 6.01(a);
7
ARTICLE 7
7.01
ARTICLE 8
8.01
0 to 150 shifts worked 151 to 300 shifts worked 301 to 450 shifts worked 451 to 600 shifts worked 601 to 750 shifts worked 751 to 900 shifts worked 901 to 1050 shifts worked 1051 to 1200 shifts worked over 1200 shifts worked
60% of wage
65% of wage 70% of wage 75% of wage 80% of wage 85% of wage 90% of wage 95% of wage 100% of wage
Health and Welfare benefits for new hires will be cost shared on the basis of 70% paid by the Company and 30% paid by the employee. The cost share of Dental will remain in accordance with Article 29.
NOTICE
(a)	Before laying off or discharging a regular full-time employee, the Company will give such employee one (1) week's notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
Jobbers who work four (4) consecutive full weeks shall be entitled to one (1) week's notice or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof before being laid off or discharged except that no notice or pay will be given if the discharge is for sufficient cause.
In the event such notice is cancelled by the employee continuing to work for an additional five (5) days, then the employee is entitled to another notice.
The Shop Steward of the department shall be supplied with a copy of such notice within forty-eight (48) hours.
Where the Employer is required to give notice because of the return of a sick or injured employee, the returning employee shall also give one (1) week's notice of his intention to return to work.
(b)	Employees will give the Company one (1) week's notice when desiring to terminate their employment, except where otherwise mutually agreed.
FREE TRANSPORTATION
Free transportation will be provided for all female employees whose shift finishes after 11:30 p.m. provided such shift ends before 6:00 a.m.
8
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK
9.01	The regular work week shall consist of five (5) seven (7) hour days. During a regular work week, employees are entitled to two (2) consecutive days off as follows: either Friday and Saturday, or Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday.
Where the plant or department operates on a five (5) day week, the regular days off shall be Saturday and Sunday with the exception of Christmas Cake production when the finishing crew would work on a Tuesday to Saturday basis with Sunday and Monday off.
All Saturday shifts shall be completed by 9:00 p.m. and where Sunday is worked, the following premium shall be paid:
Employees working shall be paid $1.00 per hour premium.
9.02	In a week in which one (1) or more holidays fall, the work week that week shall be reduced by seven (7) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hours limited by this sub-section shall be classified as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate.
9.3	A jobber's hours of work shall be seven (7) hours per shift or any part thereof.
9.04	Jobbers working a full week in which one or more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
ARTICLE 10 - OVERTIME
10.01	(a)	Overtime shall be calculated on a daily basis and shall consist of the number of
hours in excess of those scheduled for each employee.
(b)	The overtime rate shall be time and one-half (1-1/2) and shall be paid weekly.
10.02	(a)	The Company agrees that in arranging shifts and in employing extra personnel
as jobbers on a part-time basis, it will endeavour to eliminate as much overtime as possible. The Union agrees, on request, to furnish enough extra part-time personnel b operate the Company's plant for a sufficient number of hours to produce the required quantity of bakery products. In the event of the Union being unable to supply sufficient jobbers, the Company shall be free to hire jobbers of its own choosing. Nevertheless, the parties agree that an emergency may be created by a power shortage or major breakdown in the plant or by the failure of employees to report for work due to sickness or otherwise. In such event, the regular employees agree to work such overtime as is necessary and is allowed under permit of the Provincial Department of Labour until such time as the Union is able to supply the said extra personnel or the cause of the emergency has been rectified.
9
All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis with the exception of a major breakdown.
10.02
ARTICLE 11
11.01
A major breakdown shall be defined as the Proof Box being down for 35 minutes or more, or the Oven being down for 15 minutes or more.
If a major breakdown occurs, employees agree to work overtime until the loss of production is replaced.
Other than overtime due to a major breakdown, the Company may request an employee to work overtime. However, such refusal to work the overtime will not result in disciplinary action.
Other than a major breakdown, the parties agree that other equipment failures can result in a loss of production and in the event this occurs, the parties agree to meet to attempt to rectify the situation.
(b) Except as provided for in Article 10, Section 2(a) above, it is mutually agreed that in no event shall an employee be compelled to work overtime.
SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS
(a)	The Company shall determine the schedule of working hours for each employee and may change such schedule at its own discretion according to the provisions of this Agreement. Wherever possible, the Company shall give consideration to senior employees. Each employee shall have a twelve and one-half (12-1/2) hour break between the end of one regular shift and the beginning of the next. In the case of a day off, twenty-four (24) hours shall be added to the twelve and one-half (12-1/2) hour break for all employees.
(b)	It is agreed that the first shift shall not start earlier than 6:00 a.m. nor later than 7:00 a.m., with the exception of doughmen. Other shifts to follow continuously subject to the following exceptions:
(i)	On two (2) days per week when the Dividerman may be required to start work one (1) hour earlier. This 5:00 a.m. exception shall also apply to public holidays and the two days preceding and two days following public holidays.
(ii)	Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may start not later than 9:00 a.m. nor earlier than 6:00 a.m. The Company may use the provisions of (i) above in scheduling single shifts.
The first day back may be a Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday.
10
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
(c)	It is not the intent of the Company to unnecessarily change shifts which have been established but the Company is free to do so should the requirements of the operation make certain changes necessary.
Employees on posted jobs will not be taken off the posted jobs as long as the job remains available except:
(i)	When there is another job posted and the employee wishes to exercise his or her seniority.
(ii)	When the job is eliminated.
(iii)	When there is a reduction in	the	work	force.
(iv)	Employees may be moved	out	of	seniority for a period not to exceed
ten (10) working days unless it is mutually agreed to extend this period. Should a competent replacement become available in the interim, the employee will immediately revert back to his former position.
(v)	When the employee does not perform competently.
It is agreed that the Company has the right to rearrange the working hours of regular employees so that the work of part-time employees or jobbers may be spread amongst that of the regular employees to the best advantage.
The Company agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours notice in advance of any change in shift. Employees not on a posting but scheduled for five days in a work week may only be entitled to twenty-four (24) hours notice of change of shift. This twenty-four (24) hour notice does not apply to the elimination of a shift. The Shop Steward of the department shall be advised at the time or on the Shop Steward's next shift.
It shall be the duty of employees to advise the Company as far as possible in advance of the shift in cases when, due to illness or other cause, they are unable to report for work.
So far as possible, consistent with the operation of the plant in producing the required volume of bakery products, the Company agrees to work towards the reduction of night work.
11
ARTICLE 12 - REST PERIODS
12.01	All employees shall be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period approximately midway in
each half shift at a time to be designated by the Management in accordance with the requirements of the Company's operation.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to locate time clocks in such a manner to ensure full rest periods.
ARTICLE 13 - LUNCH PERIODS
13.01	Lunch periods shall be granted of one-half (1/2) hour duration commencing not earlier
than three (3) hours following the commencement of the shift nor later than four and one-half (4 1/2) hours following the commencement of the shift.
ARTICLE 14 - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
14.01	The following public holidays shall be recognized by the Company as outlined in
Section 2 of this Article, and the regular full-time employees shall not suffer any reduction in pay thereof:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	B.C. Day	Remembrance Day
Empire Day	Labour Day	Christmas Day
(May 24)	Boxing Day
and all other holidays proclaimed by the Provincial or Federal Governments as a public holiday or in substitution for any such public holiday.
12
14.02
ARTICLE 15
15.01
15.02
15.03
(a)	During a week in which a public holiday falls, the employee's day off in lieu of the public holiday may be changed to another day in that week. By mutual agreement of the Employer and employee the employee's day off in lieu may be taken in the week before or week after the public holiday at the front or back end of the employee's work week.
(b)	All employees shall be granted New Year's Day off on January 1st when it falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Employees on production of handmade bread shall not observe New Year's Day on January 1st.
(c)	Any part-time employee who has worked an average of at least twenty-eight (28) hours per week in the thirteen (13) weeks immediately preceding the week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs shall be paid for the Statutory Holiday.
(d)	All shifts must be completed by 7:00 p.m. on December 24th and December 31st.
(e)	Regular full-time employees who work on Statutory Holidays shall be paid one and one half (1.5X) for hours worked.
(f)	Each regular full-time employee, and employees covered under Article 14, Section 2 (c) of the Collective Agreement, shall be granted an additional day to be taken at management's discretion within one (1) week before or within one (1) week after the employee's birthday.
(g)	Empire Day, Canada Day, B.C. Day and Labour Day may be taken at some other time of the year if mutually agreed between the employer and the employee. These banked Statutory Holidays must be taken before the end of the year by the employee, at his option. The employee must notify the Company by May 15 of each year if he wishes to exercise this option.
VACATIONS
After one (1) full year of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive two (2) week's vacation with pay.
Vacations must be taken by the employees entitled to same. Wages shall not be paid in lieu of vacation.
Employees are to receive vacations between May 15th and September 30th. Preference for vacations will be according to seniority, however, the Company will determine how many within each job classification may be on vacation at any one time subject to requirements of the operation.
13
15.04
15.05
15.06
15.07
15.08
15.09
Employees are to receive summer vacations between May 15th and September 30th, however, the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th weeks of vacation or any part thereof may be taken at any time during the year (January 1st to December 31st) outside of the summer vacation period if the employee so desires subject to Section 3 of this Article.
After three (3) full years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive three (3) week's vacation with pay. After eight (8) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive four (4) week's vacation with pay. After thirteen (13) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive five (5) week's vacation with pay.
After eighteen (18) years of consecutive service with the Company, each regular full-time employee shall receive six (6) week's vacation pay, and seven (7) week's vacation with pay after twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service with the Company.
Vacations shall be taken as follows:
(i)	Those entitled to three (3) or four (4) week's vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) weeks between May 15th and September 30th and the extra weeks between January 1st and March 31st.
(ii)	Those entitled to five (5), six (6) or seven (7) week's vacation shall take such vacation either two (2) or three (3) weeks at their option between May 15th and September 30th; two (2) weeks between January 1st and March 31st and any additional week or weeks between September 30th and December 31st. Employees who first qualify for extra vacations by March 31st may take the vacation commencing not later than April 1st of the same year.
In the event of one public holiday falling during an employee's annual vacation with pay, such employee shall be entitled to the first day off with pay he would normally return to work. In the event of two public holidays falling during his annual holidays with pay, he shall be entitled to the first two days off with pay he would normally return to work, and for three public holidays to the first three (3) days off with pay.
Vacation allowances on termination of employment - four percent (4%) for those entitled to two (2) weeks. Additional two percent (2%) for each additional week's vacation.
The Company agrees that an employee's annual vacation with pay shall not be broken because of the intervention of any public holiday.
(a) Winter holiday schedule must be posted and completed by December 1st. Summer holiday schedule must be posted and completed by April 15th and include any fifth (5th), sixth (6th), or seventh (7th) week's vacation scheduled between September 30th and December 31st.
14
(b) For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular fulltime employees due to sickness, accident or temporary lay-off shall be counted as time worked to a maximum of three (3) months for employees entitled to two (2) week's vacation and to a maximum of six months for employees entitled to more than two (2) week's vacation.
15.10	Vacation pay shall be paid not later than one (1) day before the last day of employment
before the commencement of vacation.
ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY
16.01
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
16.06
Promotions, lay-offs, re-hiring and preferences of transfers to shifts (in the event a vacancy occurs on any shift) shall be based on length of service and ability. Where ability between employees is reasonably equal, length of service shall determine.
For the purposes of this Article, a job vacancy occurs:
(i)	When an employee transfers from one job to another.
(ii)	When the Company requests a replacement for a regular full-time employee whose employment has been terminated.
(iii)	When the Company creates a new job for which a regular full-time employee is required.
The original vacancy shall first be posted and when transfers result and create additional vacancies, it is understood there shall be no more than three (3) postings including the original.
(a)	The Company agrees to post vacancies for forty-eight (48) hours but may fill such vacancies on a temporary basis until applications have been processed and a regular appointment is made. Regular appointments shall normally be made within one (1) week. This time may be extended by mutual agreement. Applicants for a posted vacancy may only apply on forms which shall be made available by the Company posted in a conspicuous place. The posting shall state the job and the starting time of the shift. The successful applicant for a posted job shall be put on the job within seven (7) days unless it is mutually agreed between the Company and the Union to extend the time.
(b)	The second (2nd) and third (3rd) posting shall be posted and filled within one (1) month of the filling of the original vacancy.
Successful applicants for a job posting who fail to qualify shall revert back to their original job.
It is agreed that senior employees absent on vacation or because of sickness or accident, shall have the opportunity to apply for a job posting provided application is
15
16.07
16.08
16.09
16.10
ARTICLE 17
17.01
received within thirty (30) days of posting and the Union accepts responsibility for notifying such employees. Any such employee accepted to fill the vacancy shall be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy provided he returns to work within three (3) months of posting or such longer period as may be agreed upon.
Non-union jobbers in the employ of the Company or those referred by the Union shall be eligible to apply for a job vacancy. However, he shall not be given the job unless:
(i)	No Union member in the employ of the Company qualifies; and
(ii)	The Union is unable to supply within seven (7) days a qualified person to fill the vacancy.
In the event such employee is given the job, he shall immediately become a member of the Union. However, in no case may an employee who is not a member of the Union hold seniority over one who is a member of the Union.
In the event of a reduction of the work force or where a department of the Company is temporarily closed or one or more jobs are eliminated and senior employees may be subject to lay-off, such senior employee shall be given an opportunity to qualify for the job of a junior employee. He or she shall have the right to choose the junior job for which he or she wishes to qualify. The period of qualification shall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties after the employee is assigned to the new position.
Where a Doctor has indicated that it is likely an employee will be absent due to illness or accident for at least four (4) weeks, senior qualified employees will be given the opportunity of filling the vacancy created by the illness or accident, it being understood there will be only one (1) move for each accident or illness.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, Janitors may only make application for a job vacancy in the production department after one or more years of service and further, in the event of a reduction in the work force, Janitors may only be replaced by a regular full-time employee.
Janitors shall not be moved out of that department on a temporary basis but an employee in other classifications may do Janitorial work.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The Company agrees to grant necessary time off without pay and without discrimination to not more than two (2) employees, each of whom shall be from different departments of the Company's business, who shall be designated by the Union for a maximum of three (3) months on Union business provided notification be given the Company in sufficient time to secure a satisfactory relief person acceptable to the Company for the job involved.
An indefinite leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any one (1) employee as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer conditional upon his ability to perform his
16
normal job provided that he re-applied within thirty (30) days of his no longer serving as the full-time Financial Secretary-Treasurer.
17.02
17.03
ARTICLE 18
18.01
Regular full-time employees with one (1) or more years of service shall be granted leave of absence without pay for a minimum period of one (1) week up to a maximum of thirteen (13) weeks on the understanding that:
(a)	Only one (1) eligible employee up to ten (10) employees and one (1) eligible employee for each additional ten (10) employees or any part thereof shall be absent at one time. In any event, no more than one (1) employee shall be absent from any department at any one time.
(b)	Twenty-one (21) days written notice is given to the Employer.
(c)	A qualified person is available as a replacement. The competency of the employee shall be mutually agreed on.
(d)	Such leave of absence shall be taken between September 30th and May 15th except where otherwise mutually agreed.
(e)	The employee shall not be permitted to work during such leave.
(f)	It is agreed should an employee fail to return to work at the completion of the leave of absence or is found to have worked while on leave, he or she shall be terminated from employment.
(g)	Leave of absence will be granted on a seniority basis.
(h)	This section will not nullify leave of absence granted on compassionate grounds.
In the event of death in an employee's immediate family (employee's parents, sisters or brothers, spouse or children, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any other relative living in the household of the employee) the employee shall be entitled to be absent from work with pay, a period of three (3) working days when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for or to attend the funeral.
REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
An employee who performs one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period shall be classified as a regular part-time employee.
On the first day of employment, a new employee will sign a form, provided by the employer, to commence accruing vacation pay.
After twelve (12) months the Company will assess the number of days worked by such employee.
17
18.02
18.03
When the employee has accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in a twelve (12) month period, his anniversary date for vacation will be the first day of the twelve month qualifying period.
The above language will not conflict with an employee's plant seniority date, which will be his first day of employment, unless otherwise covered in this Collective Agreement.
If the employee has not accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days in the initial twelve (12) month period, then one (1) month later his/her number of days will be assessed again and each subsequent month thereafter until the employee qualifies. It being understood that only the previous twelve (12) months will be used when assessing the one hundred and fifty (150) day qualifying period.
January 1, 1975, shall be the date set to determine the first twelve (12) month period of qualification.
An employee qualifying as of January 1, 1975, shall be covered by al conditions of Article 18.
An employee taking longer than twelve (12) months to qualify as a regular part-time employee shall receive his/her vacation allowance on his/her qualifying date, however, should this period exceed fifteen (15) months then the employee may request part of his/her vacation pay without jeopardizing his/her part-time status.
An employee hired previous to January 1, 1975, shall not lose seniority rights already established with the Company.
Such regular part-time employees on temporary lay-off shall maintain M.S.P. coverage during such lay-off. The employee may prepay the necessary full premium or have the Company make the payment which shall be reimbursed to the Company by that employee upon his or her return to work.
Regular part-time employees after one (1) year of service shall be entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay. Vacation pay will be prorated according to time worked.
After three (3) years of consecutive service, regular part-time employees shall be entitled to three (3) week's vacation with pay and after eight (8) years of consecutive service shall be entitled to four (4) week's vacation with pay. After thirteen (13) years consecutive service, five (5) week's vacation with pay. After eighteen (18) years consecutive service, six (6) week's vacation with pay. After twenty-three (23) years of consecutive service, seven (7) week's vacation with pay.
18
The basic two (2) week's vacation and the third and/or fourth and/or fifth and/or sixth and/or seventh week's vacation shall be taken at the times set out in Article 15, Section 4.
After having qualified for three (3) or four (4) or five (5) or six (6) or seven (7) week's vacation as above and such employee fails to perform one hundred and fifty (150) days of actual work in any one (1) year, such employee shall not qualify for that year only. However, if such employee fails to qualify for two (2) consecutive years, except for approved absence due to sickness, accident or compensation, then such employee must requalify for vacation as provided above.
18.04	The foregoing benefits for a regular part-time employee will terminate in the event the employee does not return to work within seven (7) days of recall after a lay-off.
18.05	For the purposes of vacation, regularly scheduled work days lost by regular part-time employees due to sickness, accident or compensation shall count as time worked to a maximum of two (2) months for employees entitled to two (2) weeks, and to a maximum of four (4) months for employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks.
ARTICLE 19 - JURY DUTY
19.01	Employees called upon to perform jury duty or witness duty where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Employees shall return to work within a reasonable period of time after jury duty is finished. They shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
(b)	Such employees shall furnish the Company with such statements of earnings as the Courts may supply.
ARTICLE 20 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND SEVERANCE PAY
20.01	It is the purpose of this Article to provide for technological change in accordance with Section 74 of the B.C. Labour Code.
20.02	Technological change is defined as:
(a)	The introduction by the Company of a change in its work, undertaking or business, or a change in its equipment or materials from the equipment or material previously used in its work, undertaking or business, or
(b)	A change in the manner the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
19
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
ARTICLE 21
21.01
The Company agrees to notify the Union in writing and meet to discuss any technological change thirty (30) days prior to implementation of same. Any regular full-time employee who loses his position as a result of the technological change shall have the option of:
(a)	exercising seniority rights to qualify for the job of a junior employee, in accordance with Article 16, Section 8 (qualifying time to be up to thirty (30) days unless Company and Union agree to an extension); or
(b)	retraining to operate the new equipment or learn new methods introduced by the Company. Retraining will be provided by the Company. All costs incurred in retraining will be borne by the Company. Employees will have up to thirty (30) days to qualify on new equipment or learn new methods unless Union and Company agree to an extension.
Where the above options are not applicable or the employee does not qualify to bump or retrain, he shall select one of the following options:
(a)	severance pay according to Section 5; or
(b)	being placed on the recall list subject to Article 5, Section 4.
In the event of amalgamation, closure of the plant or a department thereof, or reduction in work force due to automation or technological advances causing a regular full-time employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such an employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay according to the following schedule:
Full Time	Severance Pay
Consecutive service up to 2 years	One (1) week
Over 2 years	One (1) week's pay for every year of
full-time service to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
It is understood that employees laid off due to loss of markets, market shifts or depressed business conditions are not eligible for benefits under this article.
SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Regular full-time employees, after three (3) months consecutive employment shall be entitled to sick leave benefits at a rate of one-half (1/2) day's pay per month of full-time employment up to a maximum of thirty-seven (37) days pay.
Sick leave benefits shall apply to the first day for the first three illnesses of each calendar year, after which such sick leave pay shall only apply to the second (2nd) and third (3rd) regularly scheduled working day of illness.
20
21.02
21.03
ARTICLE 22
22.01
22.02
The employee shall provide a doctor's certificate verifying the illness if requested by the Company, however, certificates will only be requested if abuse is suspected.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of doctor's certificates requested by the Company.
Sick leave accumulation may be used to supplement weekly indemnity to normal daily earnings.
The Employer will ensure that an employee injured at work will have his/her full wages maintained for the first three (3) working days. If payment for the first three (3) days is also made by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Employer will deduct the equivalent amount of such Workers' Compensation Board payment.
An employee, if found abusing this privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee or terminate his employment.
Employees who voluntarily terminate their employment with the Employer, or who are permanently laid-off from their employment with the Employer, shall be paid any sick leave accumulation they may have to their credit.
HEALTH & WELFARE
The Employer shall make its welfare plan available to eligible employees on the following contributory basis:
Ninety percent (90%) by the Employer and ten percent (10%) by the employee.
The Employer shall provide a letter to the Union defining eligible employees for the purposes of this Article. The welfare plan will provide continued coverage to all bakers regardless of changes of employment for one Company to another which are under the same Collective Agreement.
Weekly Indemnity benefits payable up to twenty-six (26) weeks shall be six hundred and five dollars ($605)
It is understood these Weekly Indemnity benefits shall be applied according to the regulations of the Employer's insurance plan.
Life Insurance to be a minimum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
A non-contributing prepaid Drug, Eyeglass and Hearing Aid Plan will provide the following benefits to full-time employees:
(a)	Prepaid Drug Plan with no deductible.
(b)	Eyeglass, lenses and frames to a maximum of $125.00 per year per person.
21
ARTICLE 23
23.01
23.02
23.03
23.04
23.05
23.06
(c)	Hearing Aids to a maximum of $350.00 per person once every
four (4) years.
Effective April 1, 1986, an Extended Health Benefits Plan will be implemented.
It is understood all employee's dependents shall be covered by the above welfare plans. Eligible dependents shall be wife or husband.
A covered employee's unmarried children under the age of 21, or under the age of 25 while attending an educational institution provided such person is still dependent on the employee.
A Long Term Disability Plan for claims commencing on or before March 28, 1982 shall be paid at the 60% benefit level.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. All those engaged in handling of bakery products, until they have been wrapped, shall wear white. Other employees to be supplied with suitable uniforms. The cost of supplying and laundering of all uniforms to be borne by the Company except jobbers who work less than two (2) weeks, provided that jobber requests his uniform by the end of his second week in which event the Company agrees to provide his uniform by Tuesday of the third week.
The Company shall provide and maintain for the convenience of employees, toilets, washrooms and lockers. The lunchroom shall be separate and apart from dressing rooms and toilets and shall provide facilities for boiling water.
Employees shall, at all times, leave benches and machinery cleaned and (except in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiner's repairs) in condition for the immediate resumption of work. The Company shall keep all equipment in good, safe working order.
Employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant in good order and to refrain from misusing or defacing them and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or convenience.
Both parties to this Agreement endorse the City of Vancouver By-Law No. 2148 with particular respect to health certificates.
The use of tobacco in any form in any part of the bakery where bakery products are produced or handled is prohibited and any breach of this rule on the part of any employee shall be cause for instant dismissal.
22
ARTICLE 24 - UNION LABEL
24.01	The Union Label will be furnished to the Company at cost as long as this Agreement is upheld provided no other union has a grievance with the Company. The Union agrees at all times to advance the sale of Union products by label campaign or otherwise.
ARTICLE 25 - UNION REPRESENTATIVE
25.01	The Company and the Union undertake mutually to foster the spirit of co-operation in the interpretation of this Agreement. The Management of this Company will at all times, whenever reasonably possible, extend to the accredited representative of the Union, upon his request, evidence and facilities for confirming that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are being maintained. He shall also be granted permission to inspect the pay cheque of any employee should he so desire.
25.02	The Business Agent shall be permitted to enter any and all departments of the shop during working hours to attend to the business of the Union. He shall, as a matter of courtesy, state the purpose of his visit to the person in charge of the department and shall be given every opportunity to personally examine complaints cf workers on the job, but at no time will he interfere with plant operation.
ARTICLE 26 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
26.01	In the event an employee feels he has been improperly dismissed, such grievance shall be taken up under the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
26.02	Any employee who alleges that the Company has unreasonably increased the work load of his job, thereby causing injury to the health of such employee or reasonable apprehension of such injury, may present the matter as a grievance under this Article.
26.03	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion between the Company and the Union, or the employee covered by this Agreement which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a grievance. Any employee, the Union or the Company may present a grievance.
26.04	The procedure for adjustment of disputes and grievances shall be:
(a)	Should a grievance occur, the member claiming such shall report the matter to the Shop Steward or the Business Agent of the Union.
(b)	The Shop Steward or Business Agent of the Union shall take the matter up with the Superintendent.
(c)	Should the grievance not be settled between the Superintendent and Shop Steward or Business Agent, the Union or the Company will submit the grievance in writing and it shall then be taken up between the Business Agent and the Manager of Human Resources of the Company. The Union or the Company agree to respond in writing.
23
26.05
ARTICLE 27
27.01
27.02
27.03
27.04
27.05
27.06
(d)	Except by mutual agreement of the parties, Section 96 (1) of the Labour Relations Act is hereby excluded.
Letters of discipline shall be removed from an employee’s file if there has not been an occurrence of any kind resulting in written discipline for a period of 24 consecutive months from the last incident.
BOARD OF ARBITRATION
If the Union and the Company Labour Representative cannot reach an adjustment, upon request of either party, the grievance shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) members.
If mutually agreed between the Company and the Union, a single arbitrator shall preside.
The parties shall select one (1) member within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice by either party that a grievance is to be submitted to arbitration and the third member shall be selected by mutual agreement of the two members first selected. The third member shall act as Chairman of the Board. If agreement cannot be reached within seven (7) days in respect to the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Arbitration, the matter shall be referred to the Labour Relations Board of the Province of British Columbia which shall appoint a Chairman.
The Board of Arbitration shall receive and consider such material evidence as the parties may offer and shall make such independent investigation as it deems essential to a full understanding and determination of the issue involved. In reaching its decision, the Arbitration Board shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
The Board of Arbitration shall not be vested with the power to change, modify, or alter any of the terms of this Agreement. All grievances submitted shall present an arbitration issue under this Agreement. Where the Board of Arbitration finds that an employee was dismissed or suspended for other than proper cause, the Board of Arbitration may direct the Employer to reinstate the employee and pay to the employee a sum equal to his wages lost by reason of his discharge or suspension, or such lesser sum as in the opinion of the Board is fair and reasonable.
The finding and decisions of the Board of Arbitration on all arbitrable questions shall be binding and enforceable on all parties. A decision of a majority of the Board of Arbitration shall be deemed a decision of the Board.
It is the intention of the parties that this Article shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall be no suspension or interruption of normal operations as a result of any grievance. The parties shall act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Each party shall pay its own arbitrator, but all expenses incurred by the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration.
24
ARTICLE 28 - PENSION PLAN
28.01
28.02
It is agreed that the Approved Standard Collective Bargaining Clause (Canada) which follows will be amended where necessary to provide for the following contributions:
The employer will contribute $17.6355 per day to provide for Plans A, C, D at 4% level & G effective April 1, 1998.
Effective April 1, 1999 the employer will contribute $18.4828 per day to provide for Plans A, C, D at 4% level & G.
Effective April 1, 2000 the employer will contribute $19.3301 per day to provide for Plans A, C, D at 4% level & G.
Effective April 1, 2001 the employer will contribute $20.1774 per day to provide for Plans A, C, D at 4% level & G.
Effective June 1, 1990 Plan CC will be implemented with the Company contribution not to exceed forty (40) cents per day per employee.
BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY UNION AND INDUSTRY CANADIAN PENSION FUND, STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE (CANADA)
It is hereby agreed to provide pension and retirement benefits as follows:
a)	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound as a party by all the terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated September 13, 1993, as amended (hereinafter called the “Agreement”) continuing the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Canadian Pension Fund (hereinafter called the “Fund “) and the Agreement is made a part hereof by reference.
b)	The Employer agrees to make payments to the Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the attached Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
i.	Commencing with the 1st day of April, 1998, for each day or portion thereof for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $17.6355 to the Fund, but not more than $88.1775 per week for any one employee.
The contributions shall be allocated as follows;
$10.2926 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (PLAN A).
$1.6318 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 90 Pension (PLAN C).
25
$2.4476 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 80 Pension (PLAN G).
$3.2635 per day to provide coverage for a Supplemental Pension (PLAN D ) at 4%.
ii.	Commencing with the 1st day of April, 1999, for each day or portion thereof for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $18.4828 to the Fund, but not more than $92.4140 per week for any one employee.
The contributions shall be allocated as follows;
$10.8575 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (PLAN A).
$1.6945 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 90 Pension (PLAN C).
$2.5418 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 80 Pension (PLAN G).
$3.3890 per day to provide coverage for a Supplemental Pension (PLAN D) at 4%.
iii.	Commencing with the 1st day of April, 2000, for each day or portion thereof for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $19.3301 to the Fund, but not more than $96.6505 per week for any one employee.
The contributions shall be allocated as follows;
$11.4223 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (PLAN A).
$1.7573 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 90 Pension (PLAN C).
$2.6359 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 80 Pension (PLAN G).
$3.5146 per day to provide coverage for a Supplemental Pension (PLAN D ) at 4%.
iv.	Commencing with the 1st day of April, 2001, for each day or portion thereof for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $20.1774 to the Fund, but not more than $100.8870 per week for any one employee.
The contributions shall be allocated as follows;
$11.9872 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement
26
and Disability Pension (PLAN A).
$1.8200 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 90 Pension (PLAN C).
$2.7301 per day to provide coverage for a Golden 80 Pension (PLAN G).
$3.6401 per day to provide coverage for a Supplemental Pension (PLAN D ) at 4%.
For the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. The term “employee” does not include a self-employed person, a corporate officer, owner, or partner of the Employer.
a)	Contributions provided for herein shall be paid monthly and shall be accompanied by a completed remittance report. Both payment and report are due on the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month covered by the report. In the event the Employer fails promptly to pay amounts owed, the Employer, in accordance with the Agreement, shall pay such collection and other costs incurred by the Trustees, furnish security for future payments if requested by the Trustees, and pay interest at such rate as the trustees may determine from time to time.
b)	No amendment shall be made to the rates set out in this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause without the written consent of both parties.
c)	It is agreed that the Rules and Regulations of the fund adopted by the Trustees of the Fund shall be such as will continue to qualify for approval by Revenue Canada Taxation, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pesion Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
d)	Contributions made to the Fund shall be used to provide retirement benefits for eligible employees in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Fund.
e)	This Standard Collective Bargaining Clause encompasses the sole and total agreement between the Employer and the Union with respect to pensions and retirement benefits.
27
ARTICLE 29 - DENTAL PLAN
29.01
ARTICLE 30
30.01
The Employer agrees to ensure the following Dental benefits:
-	90% co-insurance present plan
-	80% co-insurance for Crowns, Bridges and Dentures
-	50% co-insurance for Orthodontics, $1,750.00 maximum
If a Government Plan is instituted at any time with the same or equivalent benefits, it is understood that if necessary the Company will pay the difference between any such Plan and the maximum of thirteen (13) cents per hour.
DURATION
This Agreement shall be in force and effect from April 1, 1997 to March 31, 2003, and thereafter from year to year until a new Agreement, the terms of which shall be retroactive to April 1 of each year has been consummated. The parties agree to specifically exclude the operation of Section 96 (1) of the Labour Code of B.C. and do agree that there shall be no re-opening of this Agreement until the proper notice is served prior to this expiration date of March 31, 2003. Should either party desire to make any changes in this Agreement, the party desiring the change shall notify the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement in any year. In the event of a failure to reach an amicable settlement, mediation may be applied for under existing Provincial Legislation.
Letters of Understanding to be renewed as agreed.
SIGNED this__day of____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
28
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HOURS OF WORK - ARTICLE 9, SECTION 1
It is mutually agreed as follows:
1)	Bread products plants may, upon giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the Union, institute a change of shifts from the provisions of Article 9, Section 1, whereby:
(a)	Employees may be required to work one six (6) hour shift and one eight (8) hour shift within the regular work week with the balance of the shifts being seven (7) hours each.
(b)	Unless otherwise agreed between the Employer and the Union at the time of notifying the Union, the six (6) hour shift shall occur on Tuesday and the eight (8) hour shift on Thursday.
(c)	The shifts shall be paid at the straight time rate but employees actually working those shifts shall receive thirty-six and one-half (36-1/2) hours of pay for the thirty-five (35) hour week. That is a bonus of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours pay for the flexible shifts.
(d)	Jobbers may only be required to work six (6) hours when a six (6) hour shift is scheduled and when required to work an eight (8) hour shift shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for the eighth (8th) hour but jobbers shall not receive the bonus referred to in sub-section (c) hereof.
2)	This letter shall remain in full force and effect when the bakery is operating on the basis of a thirty-five (35) hour work week from the date hereof until the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement to replace the 1997 - 2003 Agreement.
SIGNED this____day of_________________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
WEEKLY INDEMNITY PAYMENTS
It is understood and agreed between the Employer and the Union that Weekly Indemnity payments to entitled employees shall be the responsibility of the Employer. If payment of valid claims is not made by the Insurance Company within two (2) weeks from the time the Employer receives the completed application, the Employer shall then pay to the claiming employee an amount equal to his entitlement. Similarly, when payments are stopped by the carrier, while the employee's entitlement continues, the employee shall be able to claim the amount of his entitlement from the Employer.
Payments made by the Employer for claims later found to be invalid or payments made by the Employer which are later paid by the Carrier, shall be returnable to the Employer.
SIGNED this_day of____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
30
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SCHEDULING - ARTICLE 11, SECTION 1 (b) ii
The parties agree to amend this section to read:
“Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty four (24) hour period, it may not start later than 12:00 p.m. (noon), nor earlier than 6:00 a.m.
The Company may use the provisions of (I) above in scheduling single shifts.”
SIGNED this_day of____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
OVERTIME
The parties agreed to add to Article 10, Section 2 (b) the following:
"The Union also recognizes that occasionally a situation may occur where, to facilitate a late customer order, overtime may be required.
The Union and the employees agree to co-operate in filling the late customer orders." SIGNED this_____day of__________________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
32
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF
The parties agree that the application of Article 9 Section 1 will not apply to the third shift of bread employees.
This also includes support employees such as sanitation, distribution, etc.
SIGNED this______day of__________________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The parties agree that Article 1, Section 2, second paragraph shall be replaced with the following:
"Superintendents can give direct work orders to employees if the foreperson is not readily available."
This clause will not cause to displace any present foreperson.
SIGNED this____day of_________________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING WEEKLY INDEMNITY/EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFITS
It is agreed that, during the term of this Agreement, the Company will implement a revised income replacement schedule that integrates EI, Weekly Indemnity, Sick Leave and L.T.D. benefits.
It is further agreed that employees will not suffer a loss of benefits as a result of such schedule. SIGNED this_day of_____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
35
Letter of Understanding Scheduling - Appendix A
The parties agree to amend Article 11 to provide for consecutive shift scheduling as follows;
It is agreed that shifting shall be consecutive providing for shifting before and/or after the day shift provided that where shifts are scheduled consecutively that one of the shifts will start not earlier than 5:00 AM and not later than 7:00 AM as long as there are twenty-six (26) (twenty-five (25) from date of ratification to March 31, 1999) seven and one half (7.5) hour shifts worked on a weekly basis comprised of four (4) posted shifts and an additional six (6) single make up shifts.
It is agreed that the shift immediately preceding the day shift shall be split 50/50 Saturday to Wednesday and Sunday to Thursday. The 50/50 split will be evenly distributed throughout the line. Employees will be paid an additional premium of $1.00 per hour for all hours worked between 9:00 PM Saturday and 5:00 AM Sunday.
The regularly scheduled day shift will be Monday to Friday.
Where a single shift is to be scheduled in any twenty-four (24) hour period, it may not start later than 12:00 PM (noon), nor earlier than 6:00 AM.
It is agreed that the purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to provide for scheduling of consecutive shifting before and/or after the day shift. It is further understood that should the Company at any time not schedule in accordance with the terms of this letter then that particular schedule shall be in accordance with the terms of the current Collective Agreement.
Delete current Letter of Understanding - Scheduling - Article 11, Section 1 (b) (ii)
SIGNED this___day of_______________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
Letter of Understanding
36
Security Cameras - Appendix B
Security cameras will not be used as a means of evaluating employee performance. However, in the event that work performance issues are observed through use of the security cameras disciplinary measures will not be taken except where observed or substantiated through direct observation.
Notwithstanding paragraph one it is understood that individuals observed engaging in mischief, or deliberate acts that compromise the safety and security of employees and authorized visitors, or cause damage, loss or depreciation to the facility, equipment, products or raw materials or violating rules and regulations in the bakery will be subject to discipline or where appropriate prosecution under the law.
SIGNED this_day of____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
37
Letter of Understanding
Thirty-seven and one half (37.5) hour work week - Appendix C
The parties agree that the bakery and employees will be scheduled on the basis of a thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hour work week provided the employer maintains twenty-six (26) shifts (twenty-five (25) from date of ratification to March 31, 1999) in addition to Sanitors which are scheduled separately.
When the bakery is operating on the basis of a thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hour work week Article 9 Hours of Work shall not apply and will be substituted with the following;
9.01	The regular work week shall consist of thirty-seven and one half (37.5) hours divided into
five (5) seven and one-half (7.5) hour days. During a regular work week, employees are entitled to two (2) consecutive days off as follows: either Friday and Saturday, or Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday except as provided for in Letter of Understanding - Scheduling, Appendix A.
9.02	Employees shall be paid a premium of $1.00 per hour for all hours worked on a Sunday.
9.03	In a week in which one (1) or more holidays fall, the work week that week shall be
reduced by seven and one-half (7.5) hours for each such holiday. All time worked in excess of the weekly hours limited by this sub-section shall be classified as overtime and paid for at the overtime rate.
9.04	A jobber’s hours of work shall be seven and one-half (7.5)hours per shift or any part thereof.
9.05	Jobbers working a full week in which one or more public holidays fall shall be paid for each such public holiday.
It is agreed that when the bakery is operating on the basis of a thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hour week employee’s weekly wages will be increased in accordance with the increased hours of work in a week. The increased wages will be increased by dividing the then current weekly wage by thirty-five (35) and multiplying the result by thirty-seven and one-half (37.5).
38
Example:
The current weekly wage for Doughman is $808.02. The weekly wage for Doughman would be $865.73 (808.02 / 35 x 37.5).
Effective April 1, 2000 the weekly wage for Doughman will be increased to 823.02. The weekly wage for Dougman on a 37.5 hour week would be 881.81 (823.02 / 35 x 37.5).
SIGNED this_day of____________, 2001.
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE BAKERY,
CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 468
39