TORONTOBISCUIT PRODUCTION Mavl. 1993 ~ April 39.1995
BETWEEN:	CHRISTIE BROWN AND CO.
(Division of Nabisco Brands Canada Ltd) 21 SO Lakeshore Boulevard Vfest,
TORONTO, Ontario M8V 1A3
{hereinafter catted the "Company")
-AND-
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY & TOBACCO WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION,
Local 426
1945 Dundas Street, East Suite 218
MISSISSAUGA, Ontario L4X2T8 (hereinafter called the "Union”)
Whereas the Company and the Union are desirous of continuing the mutually harmonious relations, it is agreed as follows:
1.01
1.02
ARTICLE.!:!

RECOCMULQH
The employer recognizes the union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees as outlined in Schedule "A" attached, except persons
The parties agree that this Agreement shall cover all working conditions, wages and hours and classifications i outlined in Schedule "A". This includes all supplements that are negotiated and signed by both parties during the life of the current Agreement.
2.01
ARTICLE I. UNION SECURITY
All present employees governed by this Agreement shal, within sixty (60) worked days, become and remain merbers in goad standing o f the Union as a condition of employment.
2-
2.02	When new employees are required, any so employed shall, upon completion of their probationary period become and remain members in good standing of the Union as a condition of employment.
2.03	New probationary employee's shall not be covered under this collective agreement.
2.04	The parties agree that the above Class will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
7 ARTICLE 3 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
v
3.01	/ y The Company agrees to deduct fern the pay of the employee who has
completed the probationary period, the Union initiat±n fee, and thereafter the monthly dues, upon receipt of an authorized form duly signed by the
employee making the request and witnessed by a representative of management.
3.02	If the total amount earned in excess of all other authorized deductions by the employee for the pay period in vhidi the dues are to be deducted, is less than the regular monthly dues, no deduction will be made for that month by the Company. The Caipany agrees to deduct delinquent dues upon receipt by the Personnel Manscpr of a list from the Union Cffioe.
3.03	The amount deducted w i 11 be forward ed each month to a designated rfFinpr of the local mien.
ARTICLE 4 - PLANT VISITATION
4.01	The Business Representative of the thdai shall be granted adrdssicnfo ail properties covered by this Agreement diring working hours to interview matters of the Union, after first receiving petrrisskn from the Personnel Department, and with the understanding that there will not be any interruption in production.
ARTICLE 3 ■ STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
5.01	The Company shall not require its employees to perform any wade vhidi will enable any other competitive bakery, whose employees are on strike, to fill its orders or otherwise conduct its business.
5.02	There shall be no strikes, slowdowns, or any other interference with production by the linen, or any of its maibers, and no look-outs of its employees by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
3
5.03	During the life of this Agreement, it will not be considered a violation of this contract if a member of this Bargaining Unit refuses to pass through an officially established picket line made up of employees of this Bakery.
RTICL 6 -	ANLE PROCEDURE
6.01	The Urim agrees to elect Stewards of their own choosing who wIL assist in the handling of grievances in STEP I as provided below. The Union further agrees to select two (2) employees who, with the Shop Chairperson and the Steward of the Department concerned, will handle grievances in STEPS2 and 3,
6.02	Step I The matter will first be taken up by the employees with the Shift Supervisor or Superintendent, accompanied by the Steward if the employee so desires within three (3) working days of its occurrence.
6.03	Step 2:	If the grievance is not settled by the Shift Supervisor or
Superintendentwithin three (3) working days, it will then be vritim out on forms to be provided for that purpose and returned to the Superintendent within two (2) working days. The grievance will then be referred to the Personnel Manager, or his designate, who, with the Shop Chairperson and Grievance Committee, (a total of three (3) from the Union) if necessary, will meet and discuss the grievance with the employee.
6.04	Step 2: If the grievance is not settled at Step 2 within three (3) working days, it will then be referred to the Business Manager and the Grievance Committee (a total c£four (4) from the Union), who will nest and discuss the grievance with Management Representatives. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement within five (5) days, the matter may then be referred to arbitration.
6.05	The time limits referred to in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement, and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 7-ARBITRATION
7.01 In the event that either party request arbitration, they will notify the other party, in writing, within the ten (10) working days following, outlining in detail the issue to be arbitrated. It is understood that no other matters shall be brought up for discussion before the Arbitrator unless it is specifically outlined, in writing, by the party requesting arbitration.
4
7.02	In such an event, the Board of Arbitration shall be corposed of one (!) representative selected by the Company and one (1) by the tlhcn, and a third iruhaUy agreed upon by the two (2) representatives, who shall be Chairperson of the Board. If the parties are unable to agree on a third member of the Board, they shalljointly apply' to the Minister cf Labour for the province of Gitario to appoint a third rndcer (Chairperson d the Board).
As an alternative if both parties agree, then within ten (10) days a single Arbitrator may be appointed. The Arbitrator shall have all the powers cf the Board of Arbitration as stated above, and If the parties M to agree on the appointment of an Arbitrator, they diall apply to the Minister of Labour to have one appointed for them.
7.03	The expenses of the third member of the Board shall be paid jointly by the Company and the Union.
7.04	It is understood that the Board of Arbitration shall have no authority to render any decision which in any way modifies, changes or amends this Agreement.
7.05	The majority decision of the Sard of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon both parties, if there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall govern.
ARTICLE 8 . DISCHARGE & SUSPENSION
8.01	An employee having attained seniority, will be discharged for:
1.	Use or possession of alcohol or hallucinogens (excluding
Physicians Prescription) during working hours.
2.	Dishonesty.
8.02	An employee, having attained seniority, may be discharged for violation of Company rules and/or other just causes.
8.03	If the employee feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, such discharge vflL constitute a case coming up under the method for acfustment of grievance commencing at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure: An
employee found to be unjustly discharged shall be reinstated to their former position in accordance with the terms of the settlement of the grievance.
5
8.04	All cases of discharge nust be considered and disposed of within five (5) working days fronthe date of discharge. The matter wi 11 be handled at the STEP 3 Level under the Grievance Procedure, and if the parties are unable to reach an agreement within five (5) working days, the natter may then be referred to Arbitration. The Supervisor shall inform the Department Steward and/or one of the Union Officers when any employee is to be discharged. The time limit above may be extended with written agreement of the parties.
8.05	When an employee is discharged or suspended and if so desired, the employee will ase a Steward before leaving. The Steward will be given reasonable time off when a replacement is available.
8.06	A written disciplinary record wi 11 be disregarded after 18 months, provided there has been no other written disciplinary measure against the employee from the date of issuance of such written warning.
ARTICLE 9 - SENIOR!!
9.01 New employees shall be considered on probation and shall not be entitled to seniority rights until they have been employed by the Company for a period of sixty (60) worked days, l^pcn completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be dated from the first date of employment, During an employee's probationary period, he or she shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off at the discretion of the Company.
9.02
Seniority shall be on a departmental basis and the Company will prepare a seniority list, copy of vtaidi will be available to the Union. In the event of a lay-off, recall, promotion, shift change or classification change of an employee, seniority together with proven ability, job knowledge, efficiency and general physical fitness of an employee shall be the determining factors,
9.03 An employee transferred tanporarily to another shift, classification or department, due to Company requirements, must upon completion of the transfer, return to their former position, with the following provisions:
a)	If a shift change on the same classification exceeds sixty (60) worked days (within seventy-jive (75) working dttys), the employee may exercise seniority.
b)	An employee on a department change may exercise seniority, after one(1) week.
6
9.04	An employee transferred permanently to another department or classification within the bargaining unit shall be on probation for a maximum period of four (4) weeks. Upon conpflstion of this period, the employee shall receive the rate of pay for the new classification. The employee's seniority will be transferred and the arpkyea will have no further claim on the former department.
9.05	The Supervisor shall inform the departmental Steward of any proposed layoffs or transfers,
9.06	Employees husd for the sole purpose of "Vacation Relief and "Temporary Status", shall not be entitled to the provisions of this Article. However, if later reclassified to permanent status by the Gaipany, the employee will be entitled to seniority from date of hiring, effective from the date of change.
"Temporary Status" employees are employees who are employed for the purpose of covering regular employees who are unable to attend work.
9.07	Granting of leave of absence by the Company shall not in any way affect the employee's seniority, unless the employee foils to return to work upon
the expiration of an authorized leave of absence,
9.08	An employee shall lose seniority lights:
1.
2.
3.
4
If the employee is discharged and not reinstated under the Grievance or Arbitration Procedure provided by this Agreement.
If the employee quits.
When the employee has been laid off continuously for a period of:
12 months * employees with service of less thanfive (5) years 18 months - aipLqyeas with service of more than live (5) years to ten (10) years.
24 months • employees with service of more than ten (10) years.
(a)	within three (3) days after receipt by registered mail of
notice to return fo work following a lay-off the siployee fails eitherto:
i. return to work, or
ii notify the Company' of their intention to return to work and does not return within eight (8) days after receipt of notice to return.
9.09
9.10
10.01
7
(b)	In any case where notification by registered letter has been returned undelivered, enquiry shall be made to the Union in an effort to locate the employee. If an employee cannot be located by these two attempts, then the employee shall be considered as having given up arty seniority rights, even though the period referred to in sub-paragraph 3 above has not elapsed.
(c)	Extenuating circumstances may be taken into consideration by the Company and extended time limits may be granted.
Employees who may be re-hired tty the Company after any of the above breaks in continuous service, wi 11 be re-hired as new employees.
The choice of shift within a classification will be based on bargaining unit seniority. Once assKped, that shift becomes the employee's home drift, and the employee shall work the assigned drift unless transferred due to Company requirements. M employees will have the opportunity to change their drift preference an May 1st each year. Theyrrust decide tty this date and be prepared to moveto their new shift withinthirty (30) calendar days.
Shift preference will be offered to regular employees on a seniority basis, based on classification for any positions created by authorized absence. Temporary and Vacati.cn Relief will be assigned to the junior positions
created by the above.
ARTICLE 10-JOB POSTING
Job postings, up to and including the classification of lead Hand, occurring in the various departments Within the plant, will be posted on the bulletin boards for two (2) woridng days. Duringthat period of time, employees of the bargaining unit, who have completed the probationary period of employment, may make application in writing for such jcbs. The Company will award the position to the applicants based on plant-wide seniority, cfaility, efficiency and general physical fitness of those applying to do the job.
Plant-wide seniority is applied with the exception of the following positions which must have the experience described.
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06 10.07
8
Position
lead I&ri - Mixing lead I&rl - Bakeshop Lead Hand - Ship^ng Lead Hand - Receiving
Lead Hand -E.H.& S.
Emricncf
Mixer
Baker or Machine Captain Skylift andVferdrcLEe Skylift, Warehouse or Receiving Service Helper
In the event of a job posting not being filled by a regular classified employee in accordance with the above, the Senior Temporary employee with a minimum of one (1) year will be assigned to the posting.
The successful applicant will be advised of acceptance within five (5) days from the end of the interview process of all applicants.
In the event an eligible employee is absent due to illness, job related injuiy cr vacation fa* a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, at the time of the job posting, the employee shall be considered with the other eligible employees, and if selected, the job will not be permanently filled until the employee returns to work. Exceptional cases can be agreed to between the parties.
An employee promoted ±all be on probation for a maxrnum period of four (4) weeks, excepting tbe classification of Lead I&ri vdien probation shall be for a maximum oftwelve (12) weeks. The employee wil, in either case, receive the classification rate when management feels the employee is qualified. But no later than at the end of a four (4) week period.
During the probationary period f an siployee elects to return to their timer position, the employee will have no seniority for job posting for the same classification for a period oftwelve (12) months, and will be limited to two (2) classification changes in a twalve (12) month period.
Job vacancies caused because of leave of absence, illness or vacations will not be considered vacant for posting.
Job applications may be completed at any time, in the fim of a written request to the Personnel Department,with a copy to the Union.
Temporary employees shall not be entitled to the provisions of this Article.
11,01
11,02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
9
ARTICLE II-LAY OFF
In the event of lay-off' or recall, the terms of Article 9,02 will apply. "Temporary" and "Vacation Relief employees are laid cff before regular employees.
If an employee is temporarily transferred to another department, the employee will retain their regular classification rate until completion of twenty (20) worked days Within three (3) calendar months in the new classification, at which time the employee will receive the rate of the new classification if a higher rate prevails. Upon completion of the transfer, the employee will return to their former position, An employee who through a subsequent temporary transfer is placed back into the same department and same classification, having attained the higher rate of pay, if applicable during an earlier transfer shall not have to re-qualify for the higher rate, but shall receive the rate for the first full day of work in the transfer classification.
If an employee to be affected has three (3) years or more of service, the following procedure shall then apply to lay-offs which exceed one (1) week.
The employee with the least seniority in the Company will be laid off
The employee, in the Department as per Schedule "A" having the reduction, will be transferred to the available opening created by the application of 11,04 above, and be governed by the conditions of Article 9.03.
Employees are laid off by classification within the department, then by seniority within their department. The employee using their seniority within the department can displace employees in other classifications only if they have previous experience in the classification or are able to perform thejob. (e.g, Floor Helper, Packer, etc.)
In all of the above procedures, it is understood the employee nust be qualified and willing to do the wade available. Once the employee accepts transfer, refusal to willingly do the work will result in their lay-off, If it is proven that a employee is not physically fit, it will not be considered as a refusal.
-10
11.07	The foregoing procedure can be superseded as follows:
The Company reserves the right, when they so desire in a lay-off situation, to designate a number of employees to be allowed to volunteer for a period of one (1) wedc. In this event, volunteers will be accepted from within the department classification on the basis of highest sanodty first on a rotation basis, provided in the Company's opinion the remaining employees are capable of performing the vcric required.
11.08	feall will be handled in the reverse order of lay-off.
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.01	Requests for leaves of absence must be made to the Canpany in writing at
\)/ least thirty (30) days prior to effective date (emergencies excluded). y ' Wherever good and sufficient reason exists, a leave of absence may be /	granted of not more than thirty (30) days.
12.02	Such leave of absence may be extended for an additional period of not
more than thirty (30) days under the same conditions.
12.03	Any employee engaging in other employment during a leave of absence or extension thereof shall be subject to immediate dismissal.
12.04	The Company will not grant a leave of absence during the period of June 15th to September 15th, except in situations that will not interfere with any vacations scheduled, or extenuating circumstances, as authorized by the Bakey Manager.
ARTICLE 13-OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
13.01	It is the desire of the Company and the Union to maintain high standards for Occupational Health and Safety in order to eliminate insofar as posable, irrbstrial injuries and illnesses.
13.02	Accordingly, six (6) union members along with an equal number of members of management shall constitute the Joint Ratth and Safety Committee. Of the six (6) unicnmatters, five (5) shallbe members of this bargaining unit and the other matter from Maintenance. Names, departments and shifts of the Joint Health and Safety Committee members wi 11 be posted on all bulletin boards.
13.03	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall meet the last Wednesday of
each month, unless otherwise decided by the Committee.
11-
13.04	On the second week of each month, or as otherwise agreed, the Loss Control Manager and an alternating Joint Health and Safety Committee worker representative will conduct an inspection of the plant. Their report wll be presented at the next Joint Health and Safety Committee meeting.
13.05	The selection of worker representatives shall be decided by the Union. [Plant total not to exceed a maximum of 8 members]. Meetings of Departmental Committees will be held monthly and Departmental Representatives will be responsible for making an inspection of their department and preparing a report prior to such meetings taking place.
The Company agrees to pay the cost of training to certify two (2) Union safety members from the Joint Health and Safety Committee who will hold this position for a minimum of two (2) years.
13.06	A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee and to carry out his/her duties under Section 8(8), 8(9), 9(34) and 9(35) of the Act
,	(O.H.S.A., 1990). The time spent shall be deemed to be work time for
which he/she shall be paid by the Company at his/her regular or premium I rate as may be proper.
13.07	In a situation involving a refusal to work, a worker member of the Joint Health and Safety Committee or the Safety Representative of the Department concerned will represent the worker.
13.08	The Company agrees that it will make every reasonable effort to eliminate insofar as possible any condition which would result in injury or illness to employees. Employees will make every reasonable effort to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the established safety policies, procedures and practices to avoid industrial injuries and illnsssss.
13.09	Both the Gcnpany and the Union agree to be Consistent in the administration of the Health and Safety Charter jointly established and currently in effect.
_______,E1 -NON_________ATIONAL BENEFIT PLAN
14.01 The Carpany agrees that when any change is made in the EhpLqyee Benefit Plan with the Insurance Company, it will be discussed with the Union.
12
14.02	If at any time there should be enacted any laws or regulations whereby the benefits, or any part thereof, of the above plan are duplicated, the employee shall be entitled to retain that portion of the benefits that are in excess of legislation, provided that the cost to the Ccnpany of all Plans shal not
exceed the cost prior to the effective date of legislation.
14.03	The Company Group Life Insurance EOai as rnaxfed shall continue in effect for the term of tins Agreement.
16.01
ARTICLE 15-WELFARE
The Company agrees that if the Provincial Government resurrects O.H.I.P.
on the basis of an employee premium, then the Company vctild be bound to the coverage.
ARTICLE 16- DENTAL PLAN
The Company will provide a Dental Plan fir all regular full-time employees
actively at work upon completion of one (1) year of service.
16.02	An employee covered by seme other plan will not be insured in th is plan.
16.03 If at any time, there should be enacted any laws, or regulations, whereby the cost is eliminated as such, or reduced, the contribution of the parties will be affected in a similar manner.
\
i 17-
ERANCEPAY
Any full-time employee with six (6) months of service a* more, whose employment is terminated by the Company as a direct result of the closing of the plant or department shall receive severance pay providing the employee:
(a)
(b)
(c)
does not retire pursuant to the provisions of the Company Pension Plan;	—--------——-
continues to w±k for the Company up to and including the date of termination of employment as specified in his/her notice from the Company;
is not offered employment elsewhere in the Company in the city in which the closing took place.
13-
17.02	The employee shall receive severance pay as fellows:
(a) with continuous service of six (G) months to two (2) years • one (1) week's pay.
^ an additional one (1) week for every year thereafter to a maximum -of 26 weeks.
17.03	A week's pay consists of forty (40) hours at the employee's applicable straight time hourly rate.
17.04	Employees till not qualify for payment of severance pay if the closing results from Acts of God such as fire, flood, power interruption, etc.
17.05	Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit all seniority rights.
ARTICLE 18 - BULLETIN BOARDS
18.01	The Union shall have the privilege to post on the bulletin boards provided
by the Company, notices, etc., after first Secuiig Management's approval. Included in the above will be a locked, and enclosed board for Union notices.	*.
srf
ARTICLE 19-PAID DAYS
19.01	The following proclaimed days shall be observed as Paid D^s:
flfew Year's Day VictoriaDay Good Friday Civic Holiday
Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
BoxingDay Year's Eve
In addition to the above eleven (11) Paid Days, one (1) additional Paid Day will be given at a time to be decidedly the Company.	;
19.02	The maximum number that can be paid is twelve (12) Paid Days in a calendar year.
19.03	The Company agrees to pay all employees who are subject to this Agreement, who are paid on an hourly basis, one (1) full day's pay for each of the above listed days, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The employee must have completed thirty (30) calendar days of employment with the Company,
-14
19.04
19.05
19.06
19.07
19.08
19.09
19.10
19.11
(b) Employees mast work a full shift on their work day preceding and their work day following ^ paid day in order to be eligible for pay, New employees hired after the paid day and those who left the Gaipary's employ before the Paid Day, shall not be paid for the day.
All work performed on the day designated by the Company as the Paid Day for the employee, will be compensated at the rate of two (2) times the regular straight time hourly rate, plus pay for the Paid Day, providing the siplcyee qualifies, 19.03,
Where a paid day occurs in the period in which an employee is on their scheduled vacation, then the employee will receive pay for the day in addition to the scheduled vacation pay.
Where an employee is side or injured and has to be sent home by bfenagansit on the day preceding a paid day or on the day following a paid day, or where there is a death in the employee's immediate family, such absence wi 11 not affect in any way the granting of the day's pay.
If an employee is absent on one of the days referred to in Section (b) and the employee submits m Attending Physician's Certificate d Verification, such absence shall not affect the payment of pay fir the paid day affected, providing said employee is not receiving compensation from any other source for that day.
Part-time workers who regularly work a minimum of twaity-four (24) hours per week and less than firty (40) and who conform to the caditicns set out above, will be paid on a pro-rata basis of hours regularly worked at the time cf the Paid Day.
On any day not listed, above, and on which the Bakery is closed, no pay w i 11 be paid.
In the event any of the above Ebdd D^s fall on a nan-scheduled working day(s) the Company wi 11 designate another day to be observed as the Paid Day. Coveragewill be as outlined in Article 29.02.
If a paid day(s) fells within the three (3) day waiting period of Indemnity, the employee will be paid for the paid day(s), providing the employee qualifies for Weekly Indsmity.
-15-
ARTICLE 20-VACATIONS
20.01	The Company will grant two (2) week's vacation, with pay, to all employees covered by this Agreement who have been continuously in the ■service of the Company for a period of one (I) year to five (5) years.
20.02	ML employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for five (5) years to ten (10) years shall be granted three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
20.03	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Company for ten (10) years to eighteen (18) years shall be granted four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
20.04	Ail employees who have been Continuously in the service of the Company for eighteen (18) years to twenty-five (25) years shall be granted five (5)
weeks vacation with pay.
20.05	All employees who have been continuously in the service of the Caipany for twenty-five (25) years or more shall be granted six (6) weeks vacation
with pay.
20.06	Any employee hired after August 31st and before Decanter 31 st shall be entitled to receive a vacation in the following year. However, the vacation pay shall not be paid to the employee until after the anniversary date of the employee's employment.
20.07	Vacation schedules will be prepared on the basis of Company seniority and each department's schedule shall be by classification or some other method as suitable to the Company, as may be authorized by the Bakery Manager.
20.08	Vacations must be taken during the calendar year in which the vacation is earned.
20.09	The Company will grant the right of employees to schedule their full vacation period together, provided it is completed before the end of April each year. Eicst preference dell be given to employees with twenty-five (25) years of sendee or more and must be scheduled by Eeceiter 31st of the previous year.
Employees with more than two (2) years of service on March 1st of the current year shall select two (2) weeks vacation.
Employees with twenty (20) years of service or more on March 1st of the current year may select three (3) ws&s together, limited each year to a minimum of 50% of eligible employees, oil a rotation basis.
20.10
20.11
20.12
20.13
20.14
21.01
-16
Errployees entitled to a third (3rd), fourth (4th), fifth (5th), or sixth (6th) week, shall make their selection on the basis of seniority following completion of the above.
M. other employees entitled to vacation in the current year shall make their selection.
All vacation schedules will be handled in such a manner as not to interfere with the normal and proper operation of the business.
Vacation pay for the first year of employment shall be computed on the basis of 4% of earnings for the first twelve (12) months of employment.
Vacation pay shall be cnipubed on the basis of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%, whichever is applicable, of the previous calendar year's earnings, or, pay for the vacation period shall be entputed on the eipLqyae's straight time hourly rate for the normal schedule of hours for the department in which the employee is employed at the time of vacation, whichever is greater. In no event will the employee receive less than forty (40) hours pay for a week's vacation. To receive the guarantee of forty (40) hours pay per week, the employee must have worked a maiimum of 200 hours in the previous year.
An employee leaving the service of the Company and having not taken earned vacation for that year, shall receive 4%, 6%, 8%, 10% or 12%, whichever is applicable, from their anniversaiy date in accordance with the Employment Standards Act
NOTE;
Earnings represent the total received in hourly rates and shift premium.
If an employee is receiving TCrddy Indemnity prior to their scheduled vacation, and the employee wishes to take his/her vacation then Weekly Indemnity will cease during the vacation period.
ARTICLE 21 -__________IS
The Company will provide each employee covered by this Agreement with a uniform. The uniforms will be paid for and maintained by the Ccnpany. deal uniforms will be supplied when required, and a daily change will be provided if requested. Uifibrnswill remain the property of the Company.
22.01
22.02
22.03
22.04
22.05
23.01
23.02
23.03
23.04
-17-
ART1CLE 22 - SAFETY SHOES
The Company agrees to pay up to a maximum allowance of sixty dollars ($60.00) per calendar year to employees with seniority, for the purchase of safety shoes which are to be worn only at vrak. Effective January 1, 1994 - sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per calendar year.
The employees will be required to submit original receipts or to purchase same through the Company to be entitled to the allowance outlined above.
All employees must wear safety shoes. This is not mandatory for the classifications in the Production Department, unless so designated by the Ccnpany.
Employees excused in 22.03 must vest a designated non-skid shoe and shall be eligible for an allowance on the same basis as above in the amount of forty-five dollars ($45.00).
If shoes are not purchased in any given calendar year, the allowancemay be carried over into the following year only if no purchase is made. The rraxirrum allowance of two (2) years should be used in its entirety in the second year with the allowance reverting to the amounts specified in 22,01 and 22.04 in the succeeding year.
ARTICLE 23 - REST AND LUNCH PERIODS
All employees shall be granted fifty (50) mnies off with pay for eight (8) hour shift. The fifty (50) minutes includes lunch and rest periods.
Any employee working two (2) hours or more overtime on any regular scheduled day (ten (10) consecutive hours or more daily), without having been advised of such overtime the previous day, shall be entitled to a meal ticket. However, any employee working twelve (12) consecutive hours or more on any day shall be entitled to a meal ticket.
Any employee working two (2) hours overtime beyond their normal work day shall be allowed a paid lunch period not to exceed twenty (20) minutes. For each adiLtknal two (2) hours of overtime worked, they shall be allowed a paid relief period of fifteen (15) minutes.
Employees working an eight (8) hour shift on overtime rates ±all be granted the allowance of 23,01.
18
AJfflCLE li - CALLBACK PAY
24.01
Any employee who is called at home, after completing their daily drift, to report to work prior to Iheir shift starting time the following day, will be paid at the rate of time aid one half (1 Vi) the regular straight time hourly rate for all hours voted prior to their drift starting time. Mmirrun guarantee of three (3) hours' pay at their straight time hourly rate.

25.01
The Company agrees to pay a full cfy's pay at Ihe straight time hourly rate for each day an employee is required to serve and does serve on any jury, or is subpoenaed as a Witness, provided his or her department is scheduled to work on the above day or days. The siplcyee, however, will be required to turn into the Carpany the fees received in carter to be eligible for the compensation.
ARTICLE 26 - WAGE AND HOUR SCHEDULE
26.01 The scheduleof classifications and rates itetifiedas Schedule "A" are the rates for the classifications,
Where any rsu classifications are created during the He of this Agreement, such classifications shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Uhcn and a supplementary Agreement covering such classifications shall be executed.
ARTICLE 27 - NIGHT WORK COMPENSATION
27.01
y y
All employees subject to this Agreement shall receive, in additiai to the regular classification rate shown herein, the night work compensation of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour for each hour worked dining the normal and regular afternoon and/or night shift, and including Saturday and Sunday. (The shift as defined by ihe Department labour schedule).
ARTICLE 28 - TEMPOR_____________;________________
28.01	Any employee working on a higher rate of classification shall, after working for a period of five (5) successive days, receive the classification rate of pay for that classification from commencement of the job. Hawser, when Management feels the employee has qualified for the higher classification, the employee will receive the rate for the higher classification for each full day of work on the classification,
29.01
29.02
30.01
30.02
31.01
-19
ARTICLE 29-OVERTIME
All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis and Department Stewards will be responsible for the solicitation of such volunteers from the employees in the respective departments to work overtime.
In conjunction with the Procedure outlined in Article 19.10 should the necessary coverage not be provided by the above procedure, the Company reserves the right to select employees to provide the required coverage, subject to Grievance Procedure. The principle for selection wi I I be on the basis of an employees) having the least seniority, providing the etnployee(s) can perform the work to be done.
_______1 39-______________]______________ <
In the event an employee is sent home by the Management because of injury, he or she shall receive a full day's pay for the day he or she vas sent home.
The Company agrees to pay an employee, who reports to the health centre (sick) and is found to be unable to continue work, a maximum of four (4) hours pay at the straight time hourly rate, if sent home in the first (1st) half QA) of a complete shift and a maximum of eight (8) hours pay, at the straight time hourly rate if it occurs in the second (2nd) half ('/a) of a complete shift,
ARTICLE 31 - BEREAVEMENT I LAVE:	—y—'
In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family (employee's parents, sister or brother, children or mother-in-law and father-in-law), the employee shall be entitled to be absent from vndc for a period up to but not more than three (3) regular working days, five (5) regular working days for death of a spouse, child (to be taken between the date of death and three (3) calendar days following the funeral) when such absence is necessary for the purpose of attending the funeral and other arrangements, In the case of brother-in-law a: sister-in-law, grandmother or grandfather, grandchild, sen or daughter-in-law, one (1) working day to attend the funeral, Tiring such absence, the employee dell be compensated for his or her straight time hourly classification rate for such regular working time lost. Such absentee compensation shall not include pay for lost overtime, or premium pay. It shall include paid holiday pay.
32.01
33.01
33.02
The Management of the business of the Company and the direction of its working forces, including the right to hire, discharge, or discipline for just cause, to retire for age or health reasons, and to maintain discipline and efficiency among employees, is the responsibility of the Company, except that Uikn members shall not be discriminated against as such. The type of products to be manufactured, the schedules and quantities of production and the methods, processes and means of manufacturing are prerogatives of the Management.
ARTICLE 33 - PERIOD OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from May 1.1993 until and including April 30, 1995 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing of termination or of amendhiert of not more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration (the terms c£which shall be retroactive to the above expiration date).
During the period of negotiations resulting from any of the provisions above, this Agreement shall remain in foil force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
1
2
3
4.
-21-
SCHEDULE "A"
Eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week, Monday to Friday, shall constitute a week's work, except as provided hereunder:
(a)
(b)
Preparatory employees who normally work from Sunday to Thursday;
Environmental Health & Service employees who normally work Monday to Saturday;
Any other exceptions which might arise during the term of this Agreement viL be discussed with the thiol.
All work performed over daily eight (8) hours or weekly forty (40) scheduled hours, whichever is greater, but not both, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1%) the regular straight time hourly rate.
Any employees who work their two (2) normal 'off days in a seven (7) consecutive day period, shall receive time and one-half (1%) for hours worked on the first (1st) 'off day, and double (2)time for hours worked on the second (2nd) 'cff day. (Excludes change of work week)
The Company agrees that preparatory workers (mixers and mixers' helpers) shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour in addition to their straight time hourly rate for each hotr worked at their straight time hourly rate on Sundays, and the days observed by the Company as Statutory Holidays as per Article 18.
It is understood that the additional rate will only be paid for hours worked at the straighttime hourly rates between 12:01 a,m, and 11:59 p.m. on the days noted above.
STARTING RATES
5.	New, inexperienced employees will start at $1,50 per hour below the
classification rate for which they are hired and be advanced fifty cents (50p) every twenty (20) days worked until they reach the maximum of their classification. It is understood that all employees shall reach the maximum of their classification not later than sixty (60) days worked from date of employment. Employees may be advanced more rapidly than outlined above, providing he or she demonstrates more than average ability to the full satisfaction of the Department Supervisor and the Department thkxi Steward.
-22
Any employee when called for work and reporting for wot on their regularly scheduled shift shall receive eight (8) hours weak or eight (8) hours pay at their regular straight time hourly rate, except when production is curtailed in the first four (4) hour period for any of the following just causes, when it will be permissible to lay off the employees affected for the second (2nd) four (4) hour period. Just causes for lay-off shall include: machinery breakdowns, power shortages, material shortages not attributable to the Company, an Act of God (fire, earthqudfce, flood, etc.) or any other reason beyond the control of the Company.
7.	Any? employee now receiving a rate in excess of the rate listed for his or her
classification shall not suffer any reduction in rates due to this Agreement.
Seasonal employees hired temporarily for the purpose of “VacationRelief1, and "Temporary Status" employees doll not have seniority. For their term of employment, they shal receive a rate of two dollars ($2.00) per hour less than employees with seniority.
-23-
SCHEDULE■A"	----—
DEPARTMENT
\ PRODUCTION		EH.A &		SHiPPtm	!		WAREHOUSE	 	1	
			<; j 'LH i kJj dUHk		' J J 'N i Vi		pjffpcnvE
CLASSIFICATION	May 1/93	CLAMVKATION	M«rl/»	CLASSIFICATION	tin 1/H	CLASSIFICATION	Mar 1/95 		“	
group i							
LH. Bakathop	16.46			leal Head	16.46	Lesd Head	1 16.46
Mixer	16.36						1 			
GROUP 2							
Bate	16.36	Lead Hand	1UI	MnCM	16.30	Plum Clark	16.36
L.H lina/Pock	16.24	Clerk	16.67				
LR Sleek	16.24						
Maefcinr Captain	16.26						
Madura Teckmcun	16.46						
LH Quality	16.20						
I..H. Tnincr	16.46						
Prim Clerk	16.36						
Sewtr/Baker	16.26						
GROUP 3					*		
Aumibicr ■	15.97	Sauiull^ONnlnr	15.87	Skydill	15.94	JtlCOfWf	16.06
Mitm/iiwoba	13.94	LH. Laady	ISJT			Skylit	13.94
Mixar Helper	13.91						
PalMar ■	13.99						
Oak-Sine	15.87						
iMwkHIjt	13.94						
Madvra Operator	13.87						
GROUP 4							
Dwtfi toiler	13.91	Benieo liripcr					
Fkwr Help - Fade ■	13.94	Steam Raem Operator					
FkwrHilp-Balu	13.83	OmenlHelp	130				
AaanNer-Stock	15.88						
AawnMtr* Glue	UR						
Ikbr	13.0						