1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
INDEX
DESCRIPTION
PAGE
Purpose..................................................... 2
Recognition................................................. 3
Reservations of Management Functions........................ 3
Union Security and Check-off................................ 4
Negotiating Committee....................................... 4
Stewards.................................................... 5
Grievance Procedure......................................... 6
Arbitration................................................. 8
Discharge Cases............................................. 9
Labour Relations & Safety Committee......................... 9
Hours of Work and Overtime.......................................... 10
Holidays with Pay................................................... 17
Vacations........................................................... 18
Rest and Lunch Periods.............................................. 20
Seniority................................................... 21
Transfers and Job Vacancies......................................... 24
Leave of Absence............................................ 28
Bereavement Leave & Jury Act........................................ 29
Union Activities............................................ 30
Lock-Outs, Strikes, Work Stoppage and
slowdowns................................................... 30
Wages....................................................... 30
Minimum Recompense.......................................... 32
Bulletin Boards............................................. 32
Uniforms & Miscellaneous.................................... 33
Work Assignment............................................. 34
Life Insurance and Welfare Coverage......................... 34
Severance Pay............................................... 35
Plant Visitation............................................ 36
Terminology................................................. 36
Duration of Agreement............................................... 37
Schedule "A" ....................................................... 38
Appendix "A"........................................................ 42
Letters of Understanding............................................ 45
ARTICLE 1
1.1
1.2
AGREEMENT made in duplicate this 14th day of June
2002
BY and BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED 2481 Kingsway Drive Kitchener, Ontario
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
PURPOSE
The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees; to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees; and to provide orderly collective bargaining relations as hereinafter provided.
RELATIONSHIP
The Union recognizes the responsibilities imposed upon it as the bargaining agent of the unit and realizes that in order to provide maximum opportunities for continuing employment, good working conditions, and good wages, the Employer must be in a strong market position which means it must produce at the lowest possible cost consistent with fair labour standards. The Union, through the Committee herein provided for by reason of its bargaining position, assumes a joint responsibility in the attainment of these goals. The Union therefore agrees that it will co-operate with the Employer and support its efforts to assure a full day's work on the part of its members; that it will actively combat absenteeism and any other practices which restrict production.
It further agrees that it will support the Employer in its efforts to eliminate waste production; conserve materials and supplies; improve the quality of workmanship; prevent accidents and strengthen good will between the Employer, and the employees, the customer and the public.
2
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.1
2.2
2.3
The Company recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent of all employees of Dare Foods Limited, Kitchener, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, persons regularly employed in the warehouse for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and students employed during the periods May 1 through September 15 and the Christmas vacation. Students will not be used while full-time employees are on lay-off.
Supervisors and other management excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work which is normally done by the bargaining unit employees. Exceptions to this would include: training, product development, experimentation, emergencies, or when qualified employees are not available.
The Company prefers to have the work done by its own employees, although, at times, it is preferable to have work done by outside contractors. The relevant factors that the Company will consider prior to reaching any decision to subcontract work currently performed by bargaining unit members will include: cost, availability of equipment, availability of required skills, duration and frequency of the work, urgency of the work and customer service requirements, subject to seniority.
Regarding the use of contractors providing mechanical and electrical services the Company will form a committee that will meet bi-weekly to present and discuss any plans to utilize contractors. The committee will include two union members (as selected by the union), two management members and an Engineering department member.
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATIONS OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
3.1	Subject to the terms of this Agreement, as hereinafter provided, it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, lay-off, retire, promote, demote and suspend or otherwise discipline employees for just cause;
(c)	determine the extent to which the Company's plant shall operate;
(d)	introduce new or improved facilities or methods of operation;
3
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATIONS OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS (continued)
(e)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the products to be manufactured, assembled or distributed, methods of manufacture, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used, process of manufacturing, the control of materials to be incorporated in the products produced, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company's business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement.
The Company agrees that these functions will not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF
4.1	The parties agree that all employees must join the Union.
4.2	Employees shall maintain their membership in the Union and shall authorize the Company in writing to
deduct from their wages Union dues as prescribed by the Constitution of the Union. Moneys so deducted shall be submitted to an officer designated in writing by the Union.
4.3	All new employees hired after July 6, 1980, as a condition of employment, will payUnion dues and an
amount equivalent to the Union initiation fee, upon completion of their probationary period.
4.4	A cheque in favour of Local 264, Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, for all dues so deducted, shall be forwarded to the Local within 10 to 15 days following the deduction.
ARTICLE 5 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
5.1	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to elect a Negotiating Committee of not more than
eight (8) employees [nine (9) when a week-end shift is in operation], and will deal with the said Committee on such matters as are properly the subject of negotiation during the term of this Agreement including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
4
ARTICLE 5 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE(continued)
	The Negotiating Committee to be paid normal wages for up to six (6) days of negotiations at straight time, provided: (a)	not more than nine (9) employees will be so paid, and (b)	no member of the Negotiating Committee will visit the plant on a day on which negotiations take place unless mutually agreed to by the parties. Meeting times will be mutually agreed to by the parties hereto. The Company shall be notified in writing of the names of the members of the Negotiating Committee.
ARTICLE 6 -	STEWARDS
6.1	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to elect not more than ten (10) [twelve (12) when a week-end shift is in operation] Shop Stewards to assist the employees in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company. These representatives must have completed their probationary period, and must be regular employees of the Company during their term of office.
6.2	The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of the Union Stewards and its officers and any change in the personnel of the Union officers and stewards before the Company shall be required to recognize them. Identification will be provided by the Union for all stewards while in the plant.
6.3	There shall be stewards selected from and designated to represent the following groups of employees within the Bargaining Unit provided that there shall not be a total of more ten (10)[twelve (12) when a week-end shift is in operation]. Baking & C Shift Sanitation 3 Packaging 3 Maintenance 1 Warehouse & Receiving 2 Weekend Shift (when operating) 2
5
1
Chief Steward
Stewards may act as alternates for one another in case of absence.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.1	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to elect or otherwise appoint a Grievance Committee to be composed of the Chief Steward and not more than two (2) stewards and the grievor shall have the right to attend if he so wishes and/or either party so requests.
7.2	Should any difference arise as to the interpretation, application or non-application of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort will be made to settle same in the following manner:
7.3	If any employee has any complaint or grievance which he wishes to take up with the Company, it shall be heard in the following manner:
7.4	Step No. 1
The employee shall confer with his supervisor not later than five (5) working days after the grievance arose. The relevant steward may accompany the employee if he requests his assistance. Any matter not settled at this stage may become the subject of a written grievance and dealt with as follows:
The grievance of the employee shall be stated in writing on a standard form supplied by the Union and signed by the employee and the relevant steward. The form must be presented to the supervisor not later than five (5) working days after the grievance arose.
7.5	Step No. 2
The form must be presented to the relevant manager within two (2) working days after the meeting with the supervisor pursuant to Article 7:04. The manager shall meet with the Union Grievance Committee not later than five (5) working days from receipt of the written grievance for the purpose of discussing the grievance.
7.6	The manager shall have two (2) working days from the conclusion of the meeting to state his decision in writing and a copy shall be given to the Union Grievance Committee.
7.7	Failing settlement, the grievance may, within five (5) working days following the written decision of the manager, be referred to Step No. 3.
6
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (continued)
7.8	Step No. 3
The matter will be referred in writing to the Operations or Plant Manager of the Company and the Union Grievance Committee. A meeting between these parties shall take place not later than five (5) working days following receipt of a written request for a meeting arising from the written decision on Step No. 2. At this meeting an officer of the Union may be present if either party requests his presence. The Plant Manager shall have two (2) working days following the meeting to state in writing his disposition of the matter.
7.9	If the Company's decision at this step is unsatisfactory to the Committee, then the grievance may be referred in writing to arbitration as hereinafter provided within five (5) working days from the Operations or Plant Manager's written decision.
7.10	The Company shall pay members of the Grievance Committee and stewards at their regular rates of pay for time necessarily lost from work in servicing grievances. Before leaving his regular company duties, a steward must obtain the permission of his supervisor to do so (such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld), and when resuming his regular duties he will report back to his supervisor.
7.11	Any of the times mentioned in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
Any grievance not processed from one step to the next step (including arbitration) within five (5) working days from any written decision shall be resolved according to the last written decision.
Any potential grievance not commenced within any time limits in this Agreement shall not be considered.
7.12	Policy Grievances
The Union may file a “Policy Grievance” at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. A “Policy Grievance” may not be used to by pass the regular grievance procedure. A policy grievance is defined as one which alleges a misrepresentation or violation of a provision of this Agreement and which, because of the nature or scope of the subject matter, could not otherwise be instituted as an employee grievance. All policy grievances shall be signed by the Chief Steward or Business Manager
7
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (continued)
7.13
Management Grievances
It is understood that the Company may file a grievance at the third stage of the grievance procedure. The grievance shall be directed to the Business Manager or Chief Steward and signed by a senior manager of the Company. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the Company it may be referred to arbitration.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION
8.1	When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within five (5) full working days from receipt of the request the other party will nominate an arbitrator.
The nominees shall, within five (5) working days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be the chairman. If the party receiving the notice fails to agree upon a chairman within the time limit, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the request of either party.
8.2	Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph 8:01, the Company and the Union may agree upon a single arbitrator who shall have full powers as if he were a board of three arbitrators. The Company and the Union shall share the expense of the one-man Arbitration Board equally.
8.3	The Arbitration Board shall hear and determine the grievance and shall issue a decision, and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and any employee affected by it. The decision of a majority shall be the decision of the Arbitration Board, but if there is no majority the decision of the chairman shall govern.
8.4	The Arbitration Board shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
8.5	Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph 8:04, in matters of suspension and discharge the
8
Arbitration Board can make decisions that can include re-instatement with full compensation for all lost wages sustained or lessening of penalty or any other similar decision that it regards as just and equitable.
ARTICLE 8 - ARBITRATION (continued)
8.6	No person shall be selected as an arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.7	Each of the parties of this Agreement will bear the expenses of the nominee appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the chairman.
8.8	No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through the required steps of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE CASES
9.1	In the event of an employee who has completed his/her probationary period being discharged from employment, and the employee considers an injustice has been done, the case may be taken up as a grievance provided written notice is received by the Company within three (3) working days of discharge. Such grievance will be taken up as Step No. 3.
In such cases where the discharge is grieved within the terms of the Contract, the Company will retain the employee's benefits through the grievance procedure so long as the Union provides a cheque to cover the cost of the premiums prior to the first day of each month. In the event that the employee is reinstated by the arbitrator’s decision, these monies will be refunded to the Union.
9.2	When an employee has been discharged without notice, he shall have the right to interview the relevant
steward or, in his absence, another steward at a place designated by Management for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
ARTICLE 10 - LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEE
10.1	A committee consisting of union stewards and management shall be known as the Labour Relations
Committee. The Company agrees to convene meetings at the request of the union and within ten (10) working days of the receipt of a request and proposed agenda from the union. The union agrees that matters that could be dealt with between an individual steward and management will not be raised.
9
Meetings may be held eight (8) times per year, as required.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.1	The Company will endeavour to schedule ovens and other equipment so as to permit the employees to leave their job stations at the times agreed upon within this Agreement. However, when minor scheduling difficulties make this impossible employees may be called upon and obligated to work up to fifteen (15) minutes at overtime rates and shall, when required above, be paid a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes at overtime rates.
11.2	Employees will be at their respective job stations and ready to work at their scheduled starting time.
11.3
HOURS OF WORK
(a)	The regular day shift Number 1 shall commence between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m (4:00am for the Baking Department). Any shift commencing at or after 9:00 a.m. and before 6:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift, Number 2; and any shift commencing at or after 6:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m. shall be considered the night shift, Number 3.
(b)	Changes made to starting times shall be done with a minimum of two (2) days' notice. No notice shall be required for changes caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
(c)	Production employees required to work between the hours of six (6:00) p.m. and twelve (12:00) midnight on Sundays as part of their regular third shift, will be paid at their regular rate of pay.
(d)	Warehouse employees scheduled to work the evening shift will commence work on Sunday evenings at six (6:00) p.m. at no premium rate of pay.
11.4
REGULAR WORK WEEK
The regular work week shall consist of five (5) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Friday. The
temporary weekend shift will be in accordance with appendix A.
In the event of a cut-back in production which is expected to be three (3) weeks or more, the Company will agree to lay-off in order of seniority rather than shorten the working hours of senior employees, subject to the provisions of 15:05.
10
	In the event of a cut-back in production which is expected to be immediate and up to a maximum of three (3) weeks in any three (3) month period, the Company will meet with Union representatives to explain the circumstances, and to discuss the action to be taken.
ARTICLE 11	■ HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
11.5	SHIFT CHANGES An employee may be required to change from one shift to another in order to meet unexpected changes in production schedules. However, such a change may not be made oftener than once weekly, and in such cases a break of fifteen (15) hours will be allowed between shifts unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Production workers' shift shall be scheduled and there shall be no changes except upon forty-eight (48) hours' notice.
11.6	SHIFT PREMIUM Where an employee is scheduled to work an afternoon or night shift and in addition is required to work prior to his regular shift, he shall receive the afternoon or night shift premium for normal hours of work on the afternoon or night shift. Shift premium shall not be used as a basis for the calculation of overtime. A shift premium of forty (40) cents per hour will be paid for the second shift. A shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour will be paid for the third shift.
11.7	OVERTIME REGULATIONS Overtime will be offered to qualified employees who have completed their probationary period in the following manner. It is understood that any employee may refuse to work provided another qualified employee is available to perform the necessary work. In the Maintenance Department a mechanic may elect to finish the job started during the normal shift. All overtime worked shall be recorded. The opportunity for overtime work shall be distributed as equitably as possible among qualified employees in their classification and shift. This article does not apply to straight and tractor trailer drivers. Once the overtime has been awarded in accordance with this Article it shall be final. An employee will not
11
be allowed to select a date or a time change that has been assigned to another employee.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
(a)	Such overtime shall be offered first to the employees in the classification where the requirement exists.
(b)	Should a requirement still exist overtime shall then be offered to qualified employees in the department. When an employee is training as a result ofjob posting in a new classification, their overtime eligibility shall be in their previous classification until having successfully completed the training in their new classification.
(c)	Should overtime still be available it shall be offered to qualified employees plant wide.
(d)	If overtime is still available it will be assigned to the employees in the classification on a rotating basis starting with the junior employee.
(e)	The Company shall post an overtime sheet advising overtime may be available, but not guaranteed. Any employee wishing to work overtime must print their name on the posted sheet. Overtime hours worked that have been offered on this overtime sheet shall be considered giving equal opportunity for overtime to all employees not signing the sheet.
Separate sheets per classification shall be posted in a central area. An employee must sign for his own classification and may sign for any other classification provided the employee is qualified. An employee must work where signed. Warehouse classifications shall show an overtime starting time.
(f)	Employees who have been awarded an overtime assignment must work the entire shift immediately preceding the overtime assignment. If the employee is absent on the shift preceding the overtime assignment and he fails to provide his supervisor with reasonable proof of his ability to attend the scheduled overtime then management will reschedule the overtime in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(g)	Overtime shall be awarded to qualified employees as described above with the least amount of overtime hours.
(h)	Employees with restrictions shall not be eligible to work overtime if their restrictions prevent them from performing all aspects of the overtime assignment.
(h) An employee will be charged as if he had worked awarded scheduled overtime if no cancellation has been received at least twenty-four hours before the overtime work
12
commences, or in the case of week-end overtime by Friday morning at 9:00.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
(i)	By signing the overtime sheet, an employee indicates willingness and ability to work the required overtime.
(j)	For the purposes cf overtime distribution only, the Processing Department shall have both a Packaging and Baking area. The classifications that fall under Baking area are:
Oven Captain "A", Dough Mixer "A", Marshmallow Depositor Operator, Oven Captain "B", Grinder Operator, Dough Mixer "B", Sheeter Machine Operator, Votator Operator, Dough Feeder, Small Ingredients, Icing Mixer, Processing Utility, Crew Leader - Baking.
(j)	Classifications that fall under the Packaging area are:
Creamer Operator, packaging Machine Operator "A", Service (Display Functions) and General Labour, Finished Goods Movement, Sample Room, Carton Stacker, Packaging Machine Operator"B", Case Packer Operator, Tower Operator, Langen Operator Pop Tart Line, Packer, Crew Leader - Packaging, , Icer Operator.
(k)	In the warehouse, if a part time employee who has already worked twenty-four hours in the week is allowed to work where a qualified full time employee has signed the sheet confirming availability for overtime then the full time employee will be reimbursed the amount that would have been paid had he worked.
(l)	Where a supervisor is notified of an error in allocation of scheduled overtime four (4) hours in advance; or in the case of unscheduled overtime, prior to the completion of the employees regular shift; and fails to take corrective action, the Company agrees to pay the first qualified person passed over, the amount that would have been paid for such overtime.
Also, in the event that posted overtime indicates that an employee has been scheduled for overtime and the Company fails to telephone the employee as per the current practice then the Company will pay the employee passed over the amount that would have been paid for such overtime.
(m)	If an employee changes classifications as the result of a job posting or bumping he will be charged with the highest hours of the new classification. Should the employee return to his former
classification during the twelve (12) month period he will be charged with the average hours of	the
classification.
13
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
(m) continued
If an employee changes classifications as the result of a reassignment by the Company during a lay-off he will be charged with the average hours in the classification.
If an employee is temporarily transferred to another classification their overtime will continue within the classification of the job that they own.
An employee absent for two (2) weeks or more, or in the case of medical absence of four (4) weeks or more and excluding vacation, shall be charged with the average hours in their classification unless their actual hours worked are higher.
Any new hire will be charged with the highest hours in their classification throughout all shifts.
(n)	All overtime hours to be recorded as hours paid.
Overtime to be zeroed every four (4) months, September 1st, January 1st and May 1st.
(o)	Clause 11.05 (a) outlining limitations in shift changes would be void in cases of Saturday or Sunday overtime.
(p)	The Company shall endeavour, wherever possible, to give twenty-four (24) hours notice of opportunity for overtime work.
(q)	This procedure is subject to change by the Company at any time after consultation and written agreement with the Union.
11.8	CALL-IN PAY
(a)	When an employee has completed his regular shift and left the Company premises and is called back for further work, he shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours call-in pay at overtime rates.
If emergency call-in occurs more than two (2) hours before the regular starting time and forms a continuous period with regular scheduled working hours, the first four (4) hours shall be paid at time and one-half and the balance of hours worked paid at regular time.
14
If emergency call-in occurs two (2) hours or less before the regular starting time, no call-in pay will apply.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
11.8	(continued)
(b)	The Company agrees to pay a minimum of two (2) hours pay at straight time if an employee is asked to work after he has punched out, having completed his full normal shift, and before he has left the plant. This will not apply where the employee has been notified of the overtime prior to the end of the shift.
(c)	The Company agrees to pay two (2) hours at straight time if management telephones an employee for advice or assistance where such call did not result from an employees error. This does not apply where the telephone contact results in a call-in.
11.9
OVERTIME RATES
(a) Employees who work in excess of eight hours per day (a 24 hour period commencing at 12:01 am; except for “C” Shift employees which is 11:01 p.m.) shall be paid a premium for those hours consisting of time and one half for all hours beyond eight. Employees who work 2 consecutive shifts shall be paid at the rate of time and one half for the first 4 hours of overtime and double time for the balance of the overtime period.
As the result of the varied shift times in the warehouse an employee who works both shifts will be deemed to have worked two continuous shifts and will be paid in accordance with Article 11.09(a).
(b) Unless part of a scheduled work week employees will receive overtime premiums in the following manner:
Day Shift (A)
Time and one-half for any work performed between 12:00 midnight Friday and 11:59 p.m. Saturday.
Double time for any work performed between 12:00 midnight Saturday and 11:59 p.m. Sunday or on Statutory Holidays.
Afternoon Shift (B)
Time and one-half for any work performed between 12:00 midnight Friday and 11:59 p.m. Saturday. Double time for any work performed between 12:00 midnight Saturday and 11:59 p.m. Sunday or on
15
Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME (continued)
11.9(b) (continued)
Night Shift (C) - Non-janitorial
Time and one-half for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Friday and 6:59 a.m. Saturday.
Double time for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Saturday and 6:59 a.m. Sunday or on Statutory Holidays.
Night Shift (C) - Janitors - Sunday Start
Double time for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Friday and 6:59 a.m. Saturday or on Statutory Holidays.
Time and one-half for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Saturday and 6:59 a.m. Sunday.
Night Shift (C) - Janitors - Monday Start
Time and one-half for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Saturday and 6:59 a.m. Sunday.
Double time for any work performed between 7:00 a.m. Sunday and 6:59 a.m. Monday or on Statutory Holidays.
Sanitation employees will be advised of their work schedule by Friday for the following week. Any subsequent changes to the schedule will be made in accordance with the collective agreement. When they have not been advised of their work schedule by Friday and are required to start Sunday, their work week will be deemed to be Monday to Friday.
Weekend Shift
Time and one-half for the first two (2) complete overtime shifts and double time for any complete shifts in excess of two (2) in the same week or on Statutory Holidays.
11.10	PAYMENT FOR MEETINGS
Employees requested by the Company to attend meetings scheduled at the request of the Company will be paid for their time at the appropriate rate, consistent with the Collective Agreement. However, the minimum recompense shall not apply.
16
ARTICLE 12	HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
12.1	Employees will be paid for the following twelve (12) holidays: New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Thanksgiving Day Labour Day Civic Holiday Christmas Day December 24th Boxing Day Easter Monday *2nd Monday in February * Should the federal government introduce an additional national holiday, it will supersede the 2nd Monday in February. In addition to the designated statutory holidays all employees, subject to qualification under Article 12.02, shall receive an additional eight (8) hours regular pay to be paid during the Christmas holiday period. Distribution employees with seniority as of the second Monday in February of each year will be required to work on that day but shall be provided with an alternate day in lieu of the second Monday in February. The scheduling of the alternate day shall be conducted immediately following the scheduling of vacation. Any difficulties which may arise in the scheduling of the alternate day off will be resolved as a grievance, commencing at the third stage. Payment for the lieu day shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article.
12.2	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.01 of this Article, no employee shall be entitled to holiday pay who:
(a)	without being excused by the Company fails to work both the last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift after the holiday in question. The Company, however, shall not refuse to excuse an employee from work if he is absent because of a death in his immediate family or tenders a certificate from a duly qualified medical practitioner that he was unable to work because of sickness or injury; is on authorized leave of absence providing the leave of absence does not exceed two (2) weeks, but works the last scheduled shift before the leave of absence and the first scheduled shift after the leave of absence shall be paid for the statutory holiday. A maximum of one (1) statutory holiday shall be paid
17
during any two (2) week leave of absence period;
ARTICLE 12 - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY (continued)
12.2 (continued) (b)	in the case of an employee who, for reasons satisfactory to management, is late starting on the shift prior to or immediately after the statutory holiday will be paid;
(c)	is on authorized leave of absence;
(d)	fails to report for work when requested to do so by the Company and performs the work to which he/she is assigned;
(e)	is on lay-off, provided that where an employee has been on lay-off not more than five (5) working days preceding the statutory holiday and is recalled to work and works within five (5) working days after the statutory holiday, or who works on the working day actually preceding the statutory holiday and is laid off on the working day actually succeeding it, then he is entitled to holiday pay for the holiday.
(g)	If a recognized holiday(s) is observed during the vacation period of an employee, the employee will be paid for the recognized holiday(s).
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS
13.1 (a)	The Company may close the plant or any part of the plant for vacation purposes at any time convenient to the Company, during the month of July and the first ten (10) days of August. In the event of a scheduled plant shut-down, employees will take vacation entitlement during that period. This shall not necessarily apply to the Maintenance, Distribution and Janitorial classifications. Employees with more vacation entitlement than plant shut-down will be interviewed for their extra vacation preference.
(b)	Notice of plant shut-down and/or slow-down shall be posted on the bulletin board no later than March 1st.
(c)	Beginning March 1st all employees will be interviewed to select their vacation period preference. Vacation periods will be selected by order of employee seniority.
(d)	After all full week vacations have been scheduled employees will be allowed, at their option, to schedule up to five (5) single days of vacation subject to the availability of qualified employees that would negate the need for overtime coverage.
18
(e)	As soon as any period is filled by seniority based on the limitations set out in 13:06 the next most senior employees will be required to reselect their holiday preferences outside any filled week. This procedure will not go beyond April 30th.
ARTICLE 13	■ VACATIONS (continued)
13.1 (f)	The only exception to the above being in the case of sickness or accident and such exceptions must select vacation period in remaining available slots.
13.2 (a)	The vacation list shall be posted on April 1st of each year.
(b)	Changes to scheduled vacations shall be permitted after April 1st so long as openings remain. If an employee chooses to transfer to a new position, through the job posting procedure, they will forfeit their scheduled vacation and reschedule around the already scheduled vacation in their new classification.
13.3	Vacations must be taken between April 1st and March 31st, and no more than three weeks annual vacation may be taken during July and August, subject to the limitations set out in 13.06. The balance of any vacation is to be scheduled by mutual agreement.
13.4	No leave of absence for vacation purposes will be permitted during June, July, August and September, if it interferes with other employees' selected vacation. Such leave of absence cannot be confirmed until after April 30th.
13.5	Any employee who arranges his vacation outside any slow-down period may be required to work during the slow-down period.
13.6	No more than twenty (20) per cent of any job classification can be absent for vacation at any time. (In the case of the weekend shift it is agreed that notwithstanding the calculation two (2) packers or one (1) packer and one (1) Crew Leader, On-Line Packer per line will be allowed to schedule vacation at the same time.)
13.7	Employees may take their full vacation during any period other than July and August subject to the limitations in 13.06.
13.8	Vacation period and earnings will be as follows: It is understood that completed years means continuous service on October 31st of the year in which the vacation is being taken, and percentages of earnings means the percentages of earnings in the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the last day of the Third Accounting Period which date will regularly fall in the latter half of the month of March. Vacation benefits will be calculated to the end of the Third Accounting Period, and a pro-rata adjustment
19
will be made in the event of termination - see 13.10. All vacation pay cheques will show the earnings for the vacation year together with the percentage of earnings paid. Earnings per weeks off means the average weekly rate earned in the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the last day of the Third Accounting Period.
ARTICLE 13 - VACATIONS (continued)
13.9	It is understood that vacation pay will be calculated on the basis of weeks off or percentage, whichever is
the greater. However, this shall not apply when employees have been laid off or granted unpaid leave of absence (excepting Maternity/Parental leaves), in which case percentage payment only will apply.
Completed Years	Annual	Percentage
of Service	Vacation	of Earnings
6 months	1 week	4%
1 year	2 weeks	4%
5 years	3 weeks	6%
10 years	4 weeks	8%
18 years	5 weeks	10%
28 years	6 weeks	12%
13.10	Vacation pay will be paid on the last pay prior to the commencement of the vacation being taken as long as the vacation was scheduled in advance and the vacation pay was requested using
the appropriate form.
13.11	Pro-rata payment for employees on termination: Employees who quit or who are discharged shall receive pro-rata vacation benefits for the period from the end of the Third Accounting Period to the date of termination.
ARTICLE 14 - REST AND LUNCH PERIODS
14.1	(a) Break Periods per Shift
Each employee shall be allowed two (2) ten (10) minute breaks during the course of their shift at times determined by the Company.
Lunch Break
Each employee shall receive a twenty (20) minute lunch period, at a time determined by the Company and as near to mid shift as possible. Rest periods are to be included in the regular scheduled hours.
20
(b)
If the services of a maintenance employee should be required during their lunch break, they will be provided with a lunch later on in their shift.
(c)	The scheduling of breaks for warehouse and delivery employees will be as determined by Distribution management.
ARTICLE 14	REST AND LUNCH PERIODS (continued)
14.2	An employee required to work overtime in excess of two (2) hours continuously after completion
of his regular shift shall be provided with a paid ten (10) minute break to be scheduled at a time mutually agreed upon.
	Note: Any employee who leaves the Company premises without permission will forfeit this paid supper break, but this will not apply if the overtime work has been completed. Any employee who leaves the Company premises must punch out and in on his punch card.
ARTICLE 15	SENIORITY
15.1	During the first ninety (90) days worked, an employee shall be on probation and during such probationary period, shall not be entitled to any seniority rights. Upon completion of this probationary period, seniority shall be credited from the date of first employment. Any employee who starts his probation and is laid-off and recalled within twenty (20) working days of the lay-off date will have the previous worked period deducted from ninety (90) days of work.
15.2 (a)	In the event of a lay-off of more than one (1) day employees with sufficient seniority to remain at work will be assigned to an alternate position for which they are qualified. If an individual is not qualified to perform any position being performed by a junior employee they shall be given up to fifteen (15) days to qualify on a position that they may be capable of becoming qualified to perform within that period, based on the experience gained in working in related classifications. Employees subject to reassignment should be retained on their own shift if possible. Employees who have been reassigned shall possess recall rights to their former position for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of their reassignment.
(b)	In the event of any lay-off in any shift, probationary employees plant-wide shall be the first to be laid off. A list of employees on lay-off shall be given to the Chief Steward.
(c)	In the event of a lay-off employees affected who are fully qualified to perform the warehouse functions will be allowed to displace part-time warehouse employees and will receive the Group “O” wage rate for any hours worked.
21
15.3	In the event that the Company serves notice of job elimination(s) employees will be allowed to exercise their seniority rights in order to secure job ownership by bumping on the shift of their choice, provided that they possess sufficient seniority to do so and in accordance with the provisions of Article 15.02(a). Employees who lose job ownership as the result of bumping under this article will secure an alternate job through this procedure.
ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY (continued)
15.3 (continued)	An employee who has had previous qualifications in a higher paid classification and would require no training may exercise his seniority in that classification. Employees who have transferred under the application of this article shall possess recall rights (should the position be reinstated or a vacancy occur) to their former position, on their former shift, for a period of twelve (12) calendar month from the date of the notice of job elimination conditional on their ability to perform the position without training or assistance. Recall rights are forfeited if an employee is awarded a new position through the job posting procedure.
15.4	A seniority list shall be established and posted. The seniority list so posted shall be revised by the Company at least every six (6) months. A legal name change will not change the order of an employee's seniority. No grievance as to position on any seniority list shall be commenced more than thirty (30) days from the date of posting of the original or of any revised seniority list. Grievances as to position on any revised seniority list may only be taken as to relevant changes in position brought about by revision. A copy of each seniority list is to be forwarded to the Union.
15.5 (a)	Seniority shall be plant-wide in the case of lay-off, recall after lay-off, promotion, demotion, transfer and opportunity for advancement, other than appointments to supervisory positions.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off of one (1) day employees will not be permitted to displace another employee unless they are qualified on the job and would require no assistance or training to perform the available work.
(c)	The Company will give three (3) days notice, or three days pay in lieu thereof, for a lay-off of from one (1) day and up to four (4) days. The Company will give one (1) work week of notice in writing, or one week's pay in lieu thereof, for lay-off of more than four (4) days. Notice obligations apply to permanent workforce employees only.
22
No notice shall be required for lay-offs caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY (continued)
15.6	(a) An employee exercising his seniority rights to avoid a lay-off who takes work in a lower job classification
shall receive the rate of the lower job classification to which he/she is assigned.
(b)	An employee who is temporarily assigned to a higher job classification for the convenience of the Company will receive the rate of the job or his regular job rate, whichever is the higher.
(c)	In the event on that shift that the full complement in a classification is not required then the junior person on that shift will be required to move. This shall not apply in the Baking Department if other work is allocated in that Department.
15.7
Regardless of length of service, complete loss of seniority and employment will be lost by an employee if he:
(a)	voluntarily quits the employ of the Company;
(b)	is discharged by the Company and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
(c)	following a lay-off fails to return to work without reasonable excuse within seven (7) days of the mailing of a registered letter containing a request to return to work on a specific date, addressed to the employee at his address as shown on the Company's records;
(d)	has been laid off for more than twelve (12) months consecutively, or a period of time equal to length of service, which ever is shorter;
(e)	fails to return to work without reasonable excuse at the expiration of leave of absence or fails to return after being medically approved fit for work by Workplace Safety & Insurance Board.
(f)	Extenuating circumstances may be taken into consideration by the Company, and extended time limits may be granted.
23
(g)
(h)
ARTICLE 15
15.8
15.9
15.10
15.11
ARTICLE 16
16.1	(a)
After being contacted by the Company by registered mail and failing to return within seven (7) days, an employee who has been absent due to disability for a period of twelve (12) months or if employee has more than one (1) year's worked service and is absent due to disability for a consecutive period of twenty-four (24) months.
has been absent for three (3) days or more without contacting the employer with an acceptable excuse. SENIORITY (continued)
It shall be the duty of employees to notify the Company and the Union of any change of their address. If any should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for failure of notice to reach such employee.
If an employee is assigned to a position outside of the bargaining unit and later returns to the bargaining unit, this employee shall be given seniority equivalent to his overall service with the Company, and upon his return shall be given the position of the most junior employee in the lowest paid classification. He may apply for job postings as they occur, and such applications will be considered based on qualifications and overall seniority.
Should an employee return to the bargaining unit within three (3) months of promotion, he will return to the last classification held.
If an employee is outside of the bargaining unit for twelve months or more they will
have complete loss of seniority within the bargaining unit. This must be done in accordance with article
16.4	(b) and shall only apply to employees assigned outside of the bargaining unit after the date of
ratification.
New entrants to the Maintenance Department will attain Maintenance Department seniority effective on the date of entry to the Maintenance Department. For all other purposes, original date of hire will be the seniority date. Their Maintenance department seniority shall be used for all senior related issues within the maintenance Department.
An employee who has been confirmed as having a permanent disability which prevents him from performing the essential duties of his job will be allowed, once only, to exercise his seniority rights under Article 15.03 in order to secure a position consistent with the documented disability.
This will be allowed only after consultation and agreement between the Union and the Company.
TRANSFERS AND JOB VACANCIES
Where new positions or a permanent opening occurs, other than when positions of a supervisory nature are created, or a vacancy occurs, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancy where all
24
employees may see same.
Such notice shall contain the shift, wage rate and job title with a brief description, and shall remain posted for a minimum of three (3) working days. All applications shall be made in writing and a copy sent to the Chief Steward. When the position is awarded, the Chief Steward shall be notified of the successful applicant.
Employees may make written application prior to going on vacation or within three (3) working days of start of a sickness. Must be capable of performing the essential duties of the posted position within thirty (30) working days.
ARTICLE 16 - TRANSFERS AND JOB VACANCIES (continued)
16.01(a) (continued)
Positions for classifications requiring back-up shall be posted as training vacancies. A training vacancy posting will be awarded on the shift where the vacancy exists. When postings are awarded, it will be posted on the main bulletin board.
Job Postings will not be utilised while there is a lay-off in effect and qualified employees have been reassigned from the classification on the shift where the vacancy occurs as the result of the lay-off. The position will be filled by the senior qualified employee who had been reassigned.
In the event of an announced lay-off employees who have transferred under a job posting to a classification and shift affected by the lay-off will return to their original position unless they have been in the new position for a minimum of ten (10) shifts worked prior to the lay-off announcement.
(b)	Temporary job vacancies of more than forty (40) consecutive working days but less than one (1) year shall result in a temporary position being job posted as speedily as possible.
Advance notification of absence will allow the Company to job post the temporary vacancy prior to the forty (40) day period. Notices shall remain posted for a twenty-four (24) hour period (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays), and the job will be allocated by seniority within the next twenty-four (24) hours following the posting.
Temporary Job Postings will not be utilised while there is a layoff in effect and qualified employees have been reassigned work in the affected classification as the result of the layoff.
Temporary Job Postings will also not be utilised when there are sufficient employees within the classification in which the absence has occurred.
(c)	In other circumstances, an employee who has accepted a transfer to another classification as a result of a
25
job posting, and subsequently during his qualifying period returns to his former classification, will displace the employee with the least amount of seniority among the employees in his former classification who have not completed the qualifying period. However, in the event that all employees in such former classification are qualified, the employee who last transferred to that classification will be displaced.
The latter will also apply in the event that more than one (1) employee in the former classification are still within their first thirty (30) working days of a permanent transfer, even though they may already be qualified from previous training in such classification.
ARTICLE 16 - TRANSFERS AND JOB VACANCIES (continued)
16.01	(continued)
Employees currently holding a temporary position are ineligible to apply to another temporary position. Article 16.4 shall apply to employees currently holding a permanent position wishing to apply to a temporary position. The above shall be waived if the position is for a temporary weekend shift.
Employees currently holding a temporary classification and has been awarded a permanent position shall be moved in accordance with article 16.2 d.
(d)	Where an employee does not complete the qualifying period for any reason on a job to which he has exercised his seniority, the former displaced employee will be reinstated into such job. In other circumstances if another employee has been denied a transfer and it is later reversed through the grievance procedure, then the same would apply.
16.2	(a) A lab assistant posting shall be awarded to the most senior individual who successfully completes a test.
The scope of such test will be provided by the Company and approved by the Union representative. If requested the results of such test shall be made available to the Union.
(b)	The job will be awarded to the most senior person who applied for the posting.
(c)
Truck driving and Maintenance Department classifications shall only be awarded provided the individual has the qualifications required by the Company.
(d)
Applicants who have been awarded job postings shall be physically transferred to them within thirty (30) working days of the award.
16.3	(a) An employee wishing to transfer to a new position through the job posting procedure may receive a one
(1) day trial if the posted job is within the department (or a department the employee has worked in during the previous twenty-four (24) months), and a three (3) day trial if the job is in a different department (and the employee has not worked in that department during the previous twenty-four (24) months).
26
ARTICLE 16
(b)
16.4
(b)
This trial period shall be given within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the selection process. The successful employee will accept or decline the posted job at the completion of the trial period. The job shall be awarded once the employee accepts the position. An employee who declines two (2) positions after a trial and/or withdraws from a posting twice in a twelve (12) month period will not be allowed to sign for a posting for a period of six (6) months, starting at the date of the last decline or withdrawal. Fully qualified employees will not receive a trial period and the job will be automatically awarded.
Once the job has been awarded and during the 30 day training period the employee can no longer withdraw from the position (except for reasonable documented medical reasons).
- TRANSFERS AND JOB VACANCIES (continued)
An employee who transfers due to a job posting shall be given a minimum of ten (10) working days training, and up to a maximum of thirty (30) working days training to qualify.
He shall be paid fifty (50) per cent of the increase between classification rates after completion of fifteen (15) working days on the job and the balance at the end of the trial period. The rate may be applicable when instruction is no longer necessary. The employee can seek an evaluation, but in no case will it cover the initial ten (10) day period.
If during the training period the employee's performance is judged by the supervisor as unacceptable, he will return to his former classification and shift. Such employees will be ineligible to apply for a similar job posting within six (6) months.
(a)Employees who have successfully applied under the permanent job posting procedure will be ineligible to apply for a lateral (different classification but same rate of pay) or lower job posting within a twelve (12) month period from date of award, exception being if it is for Day shift and the applicant is currently on an off shift. Such employees will be eligible, after completing forty-five (45) days worked, to apply for a job posting if the posting is for advancement and for a higher classified job rate. Note “forty-five days worked” means forty-five days in attendance at work, counting from the day of the posting award regardless of assignment. Employees can only utilize the (45) day rule once every six (6) months.
The above would be waived should circumstances result in an outside hiring being the only alternative in order to fill a given position.
Applying for a shift change on a job posting will not be considered a transfer so long as the posting is for the same classification as the one currently held by the employee.
All new employees must have completed the probationary period to apply for a job posting. New
27
employees in Groups A, B, C, D and E will be ineligible to apply for a job posting until six (6) months of employment have been completed, unless the posting is for advancement within the same department and at a higher classified job rate.
RTICLE 17 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
17.1	Applications for leave of absence shall be made 10 working days prior to the last day the employee
works or, in the case of illness, upon expiration of the Company weekly indemnity benefits.
Note: When leave of absence is granted, seniority shall continue to accumulate as though the employee was actually at work. No leave shall be granted to be absent more than six (6) months.
ARTICLE 17 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE (continued)
17. 2	Leave of absence will not normally be granted to employees on probation.
17. 3	Employees who request leave of absence in addition to their regular vacation entitlement may	be
considered subject to the limitations set out in 13.04, 13.06 and 17.04.
17.4	Employees with a minimum of two (2) completed years of service as of October 31st in any year may
request up to two (2) weeks unpaid leave of absence (one (1) two (2) week period or two (2) one	(1)
week periods) subject to the limitations set out below. The vacation entitlement and leave of absence must be requested in the off-season, and must not interfere with the seniority rights of employees as set out in 13.04 and 13.06. The Company must retain the right to determine the off-season, and make any necessary adjustment in future years. For the duration of this Collective Agreement, the off-season for permitting additional leave of absence will be from December 1st to May 31st.
No employees may request or be granted this leave of absence more often than once each three (3) year period. The Company may, however, grant leave of absence with vacation outside this period if it does not interfere with other employees' vacation schedules.
17. 5	An employee engaging in other employment during a leave of absence without permission of Management
shall be subject to immediate dismissal.
17. 6	The Company may grant reasonable leave of absence to all employees, including those on probation, in
writing for any of the following reasons:
(a)	serious illness to any employee;
(b)	injury not covered by WSIB;
(c)	compassionate or personal reasons of the husband, wife, child, father, mother.
28
17. 7
17.8
Employees both male and female who become married while in the employ of the Company and continue in employment will be given leave of absence for not more than two (2) weeks subject to 17:02 of this Agreement. This leave of absence if requested must be taken at the time of marriage.
All employees will be entitled to the Maternity/Parental leave provisions of the Employment Standards Act. Employees must provide the Company, not less than two (2) weeks in advance of the first day of the leave with a medical certificate estimating the expected date of birth. Adoptive parents must provide the Company with legal notification confirming the date of the adoption, not less than two (2) weeks in advance of the first day of leave.
17.9	No employee will return to work earlier than eight (8) weeks after delivery without her doctor's approval.
Upon her return to work, she will be returned to her former classification and while on maternity leave of absence seniority shall accrue.
ARTICLE 17 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE (continued)
17.10	Notwithstanding anything in this Article, an employee on WSIB benefits shall be considered on leave of absence until he is able to return to work, or certified as never being able to resume employment with the Company. An employee on such leave of absence must keep the Company advised of his current address and must remain a resident of the Province of Ontario.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE AND JURY ACT
18.1	(a) In the event of the death of an employee's current legal spouse (i.e. three (3) years together) or child, a
maximum of five (5) working days leave of absence with pay shall be granted, providing the employee would have normally been working during the days of mourning, vacation shall be considered for this article as working days. Bereavement leave must be taken within one week (7 days) of the date of death.
(b) Should a bereavement occur in an employee's immediate family, (parent, sister, brother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law or mother-in-law) a bereavement leave of up to three (3) working days with pay will be granted if the employee so requests. The Company will grant one (1) day with pay bereavement leave for grandparents, grandchildren, sisters-in-law or brothers-in-law if so requested. Bereavement leave will be taken at the time of the death of the member of the family.
(c) Should any employee require an additional two (2) days unpaid leave of absence in respect to any of the above circumstances such unpaid leave would be granted.
18.2	The Company agrees to provide reasonable time away from work with pay, to a maximum of a regular
shift for each day an employee misses work because they have been required to serve and does serve on any jury, or as a Crown Witness.
ARTICLE 19 - UNION ACTIVITIES
29
19.1	No employee shall be discriminated against or discharged for his activity as a union member or for doing committee or other work for the Union provided, however, that permission from the supervisor is obtained if such activities occur during working hours and interfere with the employee's normal duties on behalf of the Company. The permission of the supervisor concerned must be obtained for each and every instance when Union business is to be conducted on Company time. It is agreed that such permission if requested, will not be unreasonably withheld in any instance.
19.2	Provided office space is available in the plant the Company will, within two (2) working days of receipt of a written request from a recognized union steward which sets out the reason for the request, advise the steward when such space can be available for the convenience of the Union for the purpose of dealing with any matter relating to a grievance by an employee covered by this Agreement.
19.3	For the purpose of scheduled Union events such as conventions or seminars, the Company shall grant leave of absence to a maximum of two (2) employees at any one time, provided that five (5) days of notice of such request is given in writing for such leave. The total leave granted by this Company shall not exceed fifteen (15) days in any one Agreement year.
ARTICLE 20 - LOCK-OUTS, STRIKES, WORK STOPPAGE & SLOW-DOWNS
20.1	Both parties to this Agreement undertake to abide by the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario to the effect that no employer who is a party to a collective agreement shall declare or cause a lock-out, and no employee bound hereby shall go on strike during the term of this Collective Agreement over any issue that is subject to the arbitration machinery of this Agreement.
Strikes and lock-outs are to be as defined in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES
21.1	During the lifetime of this Agreement, all payment of wages will be made in accordance with job classification and wage rates set out in Schedule "A" hereto which said Schedule is hereby made part of this Agreement.
21.2	The Company shall pay weekly on Thursday of each week for the weekly period ending at the previous Saturday midnight.
21.3	The Company shall pay such hourly starting rates and such increases as are set out in Schedule "A" attached hereto during the first ninety (90) worked days' of service of any employee. Unless specifically provided, it is the intention of the parties hereto that no other benefit of the Agreement is conferred on any employee prior to he completing ninety (90) worked days' probationary period.
30
21.4	When new jobs are created by the Company or existing jobs are substantially changed, after discussion
with the Union, the Company shall place such jobs into effect and shall determine a wage rate which shall be consistent with existing wage rates for comparable jobs within the plant.
The Union shall be notified when such new rates are placed in effect and may lodge a grievance beginning at Step 3 within ten (10) working days from the date of notification. An arbitrator shall have the right to determine if the rate is proper taking into account the existing wage schedule in the plant.
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES (continued)
21.5	If an employee is discharged his pay allowance shall be calculated as soon as possible and provided to him together with his Record of Employment. If an employee gives not less than two week's written notice of his intention to quit the employment of the Company, his pay allowance shall be calculated up to the time he leaves the employment of the Company and provided to him together with his Record of Employment as he leaves. If an employee leaves the employ of the Company without giving at least two week's notice in writing, he shall receive any pay due him and his Record of Employment on the next regular pay day.
21.6	Crew Leader
A crew leader shall be defined as a person who performs work and directs the work of others. They shall not have the authority to hire, fire, suspend, or otherwise discipline other employees and he shall be a member of the bargaining unit.
They shall assist the supervisor and they shall convey the supervisor's instructions but not give direct orders. They shall not do time cards, assign overtime and shall not replace supervision except for emergency non-attendance of supervisor, and for Services - 3rd shift up to two consecutive working days.
Crew leaders will be expected to relieve for breaks and replace employees in case of absence, to perform the necessary work in their area.
Crew leader positions, as required by the Company, will be posted and awarded as outlined in Article 16.
21.7	Maintenance Department
31
The Company will delegate authority, in the absence of the shift supervisor, when considered necessary, and payment will be made in accordance to Schedule "A".
ARTICLE 22 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
22.1(a)	Any employee who worked the last working day previous and who has not been notified to remain away
from work and who reports for work in the customary manner only to find no work available shall, at the Company's option, either be given four (4) hours of other work at his regular hourly rate or be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours of work, but this shall not apply if a shutdown occurs caused by reasons beyond the control of the Company. It is further understood that an employee who is discharged or suspended for cause shall have no claim under this section.
In the case of a lay-off the anticipated date of return will be shown on the lay-off notice. The employee is to check with the Human Resources Office on the working day preceding this ARTICLE 22 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (Continued)
anticipated date of return. If he is notified to return on the anticipated day and returns only to find no work available, the above four (4) hours' rule will apply. If he is notified that the date of return has been changed he is to call again on the day preceding the new anticipated date of return, and this process is to be repeated as often as necessary.
In the case of an indefinite lay-off, i.e., in excess of five (5) working days, the Company will notify the employees by registered mail at his address shown in the personnel files one (1) day prior to the recall date.
Note: Employees who are called in prior to their anticipated recall date and work less than four (4) hours will be entitled to four (4) hours as defined in the above.
(b)	In the event that the company is not able to provide a full day's work and there is at least two (2) hours
remaining in the shift management will make every effort to retain senior, qualified employees.
This shall not apply where the down time results from the actions of an employee or employees.
ARTICLE 23 - BULLETIN BOARDS
23.1	A notice board shall be supplied by the Company large enough to accommodate Union notices in each
department. Notices relevant to Union activities can be posted if properly signed or countersigned by a full-time salaried representative of the Union.
ARTICLE 24 - UNIFORMS AND MISCELLANEOUS
32
24.1	(a) The Company agrees to supply suitable work clothes for all employees and to pay for cleaning them.
Employees shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) uniforms per week, however, during the months of July and August three (3) uniforms per week will be provided. The Company agrees to supply two (2) shirts and two (2) pairs of pants for Machine Shop employees. Uniforms in excess of the minimum must be requested through the employee's immediate supervisor.
(b) The Company agrees to supply a seasonal work jacket on September 30th every second year, to any fulltime permanent warehouse person, provided they continue to wear them.
24.2	The current Distribution Uniform Policy and procedure will continue for the duration of the collective
agreement providing Drivers with an annual allowance of $560.00 and Warehouse employees with an annual allowance of $200.00 exclusive of tax. These amounts are split into two installments.
24.4	On day trips the Company agrees to pay a meal allowance of $8.00 per day to drivers after ten
ARTICLE 24 - UNIFORMS AND MISCELLANEOUS (Continued)
(10) net hours of work where the driver is on the truck for the latter part of the shift. On overnight trips the Company agrees to pay a meal allowance of $13.50 for supper, $7.00 for breakfast and after five (5) net hours on the truck, $8.00 for lunch.
The Company agrees to pay up to $60.00 for motel accommodation. Over $60.00 for motel accommodation must be approved by the Warehouse Manager.
24.5	All full-time, permanent employees in the Maintenance Department, after completion of one year service
in the department will be provided with a $200 allowance for the purpose of replacing tools. It is the responsibility of the employee to maintain a complete set of tools. This payment will be made no later than January 31 of each year
24.6	Safety Equipment
The Company will contribute up to a maximum of one hundred dollars each calendar year to any fulltime permanent employee who purchases C.S.A. approved safety shoes provided they continue to wear such approved shoes and produce a receipt of purchase for them. All employees must wear shoes suitable to floor conditions and non-slip soles are mandatory.
ARTICLE 25 - WORK ASSIGNMENTS
25.1	The Company will continue to assess all manpower requirements on all operations, and all employees
shall perform a fair day's work. Any employee having a complaint concerning a work assignment shall, nevertheless, perform the same after which such complaint may then be presented through the procedure herein provided.
ARTICLE 26 - LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE COVERAGE
33
Note: the liability of the company (or of the Union in the case of Long Term Disability) is limited to the administration of the plans and the payment of the premium, subject to the appropriate employee contributions where applicable. The approval of claims and adjudication of disputes is the sole responsibility of the insurance carriers, not the union or the company and are not grievable. The parties agree that the benefit plans are not part of the collective agreement.
26.1	Pension Plan
The Company shall continue to provide the Employees' Pension Plan in conjunction with Canada Trust that is in force as of the date of this Agreement for the benefit of the employee.
26.2	Group Insurance
The Company shall provide each employee with $15,000.00 Life Insurance. This will increase to $20,000 April 16, 2006. Dependent life insurance provides a spousal benefit of $5,000.00 and $2,500.00 per dependent child. To be paid for by the Company.
26.3	The Company will contribute eighty (80) per cent towards the cost of Weekly Indemnity for all employees. Benefits of 66-2/3% of wages, up to the EI weekly maximum will be provided.
ARTICLE 26 - LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE COVERAGE (Continued)
26.4	The Company agrees to provide and administer an Extended Health Care Plan and a Weekly Indemnity Plan.
26.5	The Company will contribute one hundred (100) per cent towards the cost of the Extended Health Care plan. The deductible of $25.00 will apply to both single and family subscribers.
There will be an $8.00 dispensing fee cap for all purchased medications.
The Extended Health Care Plan includes an optical coverage benefit of one hundred and forty (140) dollars every twenty-four (24) months, effective April 1, 2004: two hundred (200) dollars. Dependent children are eligible for the reimbursement every twelve (12) months.
26.6	Dental Plan
The Company will contribute one hundred (100) per cent towards the cost of the dental plan. Effective July 1, 2005, the plan will provide the 2004 O.D.A. fee schedule. Effective July 1, 2006, the plan will be amended to provide the 2005 O.D.A. fee schedule. Effective July 1, 2007 the 2006 fee schedule will apply.
26.7	Company contributions under this section will commence after the employee has completed ninety (90) working days.
34
26.8	It is understood that all employees shall keep their marital status and number of dependants up to date with the Company Human Resources Department.
26.9	Benefit Obligations Benefit obligations shall cease: (a)	the first of the month following the month in which lay-off occurs; (b)	six (6) months for Weekly Indemnity; (c)	for leave of absence other than above, the month in which leave commences; Benefits and benefit obligations shall be reinstated when recalled to work and utilized for a minimum of eighty (80) hours in any month. Benefits shall be reinstated effective the first of the month following.
26.10	Benefit obligations for employees receiving WSIB benefits will continue provided that they report their status each month to the Company.
ARTICLE 26	LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE COVERAGE (Continued)
26.11	During the first six (6) months of any extended absence the employee's benefit plan premium obligations will be paid by the Company and the arrears recovered upon the employees return to work. If the absence exceeds six (6) months the employee is required to submit payment for their premiums by the end of each month. Failure to make payment will result in the cancellation of those benefits. Reinstatement for benefit coverage will be subject to the normal policies of the insurance carrier.
ARTICLE 27	SEVERANCE PAY
27.1	Any full-time employee with one (1) year of service or more whose employment is terminated by the Company as a direct result of the closing of the Plant shall receive one (1) weeks pay for each completed year of service.
27.2	A week's pay consists of the regular scheduled hours at straight time hourly rates.
27.3	Employees will not qualify for payment of severance pay if the closing results from: (a)	loss of business; (b)	acts of God, such as fire, flood, power interruption, etc.
35
27.4
In any event no severance pay will be payable if employment is offered elsewhere in the Company in the city in which the closing takes place. Any employee who accepts severance pay shall forfeit any seniority rights.
ARTICLE 28 - PLANT VISITATION
28.1	The Company agrees that permission for the representative of the Union responsible for the membership covered by this Agreement to enter the Company's premises will not be unreasonably withheld, on the understanding that there will be no interference with or interruption of production.
28.2	The Union agrees that neither its officers nor its members will solicit membership or collect dues on Company time, save and except new employees as they complete their probationary period. The Company will provide the Chief Steward of the Union with the names of such employees from time to time.
ARTICLE 29 - TERMINOLOGY
29.1	It is agreed that as the employees represented include both male and female employees that the word “his” shall be taken to mean and include "her" wherever the context requires such a change to be made to carry out the true intent and purpose of this Agreement.
29.2	All correspondence between the Company and the Union shall be between the Company and the Business Representative of the Local Union.
ARTICLE 30 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.1	This Agreement shall become effective on April 10, 2005, and expire on April 13, 2008.
Within not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days from the date this Agreement ceases to operate either party may give notice in writing to the other party of its desire to bargain for a renewal of the Agreement. Negotiations are to start not less than fifteen (15) days from the date of notice or at any other time mutually agreed to by the parties to this Agreement.
DATED this 14th day of June, 2005.
DARE FOODS LIMITED	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO
WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,
36
LOCAL 264
Tyson Firlotte, Labour Relations Manager	R. Piercey, Business Manager
Tim Yorowski, Plant Manager,
Darlene Bradshaw, Chief Steward
Scott Traquair, Manager, Operations Planning and control
Harry Schummer
Colleen Cox, Distribution Manager	Jean Schummer
Manager	Charlie Tucker
Len Flaro
Norm Anderson, Production Supervisor	Belinda Park
Bonnie Campbell
Claudia Graham, Employee Relations	Veronica Zimmer
Bill Hegedus Tim Rock
SCHEDULE 'A'
DARE FOODS LIMITED Employee's Job Classification and Wage Rates
The starting rate for all employees shall be $12.00 per hour. Upon completion of 30 days worked the employee shall be paid $13.00 per hour. Upon completion of 60 days worked the employee shall be paid $14.00 per hour. Upon completion of 90 days worked the employee shall be paid at the effective classification rate.
Classification
PERMANENT 90-DAY RATES
April 10,2005 April 16,2006 April 15, 2007
Group "A"
37
Oven Captain "A"	$17.69	$18.09	$18.49
(Trained to run more
than one oven or
qualified to run Oven
#1 and Oven #4)
Receiver
Group "B"
Dough Mixer "A"	$17.69	$18.09	$18.49
(Mixer with 3 of 5 mixing skills jam, icing, wirecut, rotary & cracker)
Group "C"
Oven Captain "B"	$17.56	$17.76	$18.36
(Trained to run at least one oven)
Creamer Operator "A"
SCHEDULE 'A' (continued)
Group "D"	April 10,2005	April 16,2006	April 15,	2007
Grinder Operator	$17.46	$17.86	$18.26
Icing Mixer
Icing Operator - Pop Tart Line Sheeter Machine Operator Votator Operator
Group "E"
Packaging Machine Operator "A"
(Sig, FMC, Doboy-similar
equipment or replacement	$17.34	$17.74	$18.14
thereof)
38
Group "F
Dough Feeder	$17.28	$17.68
Janitor
Receiving Labour Small Ingredients
Group "G"
Packaging	$17.28	$17.68
Group "H"
Sample Room	$17.69	$18.09
Group "I"
Packaging Machine Operator "B"
(Triangle, Rovema, Triangle/
Langen - similar equipment
or replacement thereof)	$17.28	$17.68
$18.08
$18.09
$18.49
$18.08
39
SCHEDULE 'A' (continued)
There will be no wage progression for Group “N” employees.
PERMANENT 90-DAY RATES
Group "N"	April 10,2005 April 16,2006 April 15, 2007
Maintenance Department
Electrical Technician /	$25.91	$27.06	$28.21
Programmer
Electro Technician Grade I	$23.91	$25.06	$26.21
Mechanic Grade I / HVAC	$23.91	$25.06	$26.21
Technician			
Fitter-Welder/Mechanic	$22.61	$23.76	$24.91
Machinist/Mechanic
Electrician/Mechanic
Mechanic Grade I	$22.44	$23.59	$24.74
Mechanic Grade II	$21.78	$22.93	$24.08
Mechanic Grade III	$21.13	$22.28	$23.43
Dare Apprentice Mechanic			
First Year	$19.28	$20.43	$21.58
Second Year	$20.39	$21.54	$22.69
Maintenance Utility	$18.42	$19.57	$20.72
When work normally performed within a maintenance classification is not available or when work required outside a person's maintenance classification is given a higher priority by the Company, the Company may assign duties as required.
The opportunity for overtime work within the Maintenance Department will be equalized as per 11.07.
A Dare Apprentice Mechanic shall complete a two-year worked training period. After successful completion of this training period, upgrading to Mechanic Grade III will apply. Further progression shall be by the agreed training programme.
SCHEDULE 'A' (continued)
40
Any Maintenance Department employee in the Dare Kitchener Maintenance Department who has or acquires an Ontario Millwright certificate or Ontario Industrial Maintenance Certificate shall receive the trade rate of pay upon production of said certificate. Leave of absence to take such courses and contribution to tuition fees will be agreed between the Company and the Union.
The starting rate for all employees shall be $12.00 per hour (except Group N). Upon completion of 30 days worked the employee shall be paid $13.00 per hour. Upon completion of 60 days worked the employee shall be paid $14.00 per hour. Upon completion of 90 days worked the employee shall be paid at the effective classification rate. The starting rate for the Tractor Driver shall be at the classification rate.
PERMANENT 90-DAY RATES Classification
April 10,2005 April 16,2006 April 15, 2007
Group "O" - Warehouse
Warehouse	$17.51	$17.91	$18.31
Lift Truck	$17.51	$17.91	$18.31
Tractor	$19.21	$19.61	$20.01
Group "P" - Crew Leaders			
Maintenance	$22.97	$24.12	$25.27
Baking	$18.04	$18.44	$18.84
Receiving	$18.04	$18.44	$18.84
Packaging	$18.04	$18.44	$18.84
Warehouse	$17.86	$18.26	$18.66
Services	$17.63	$18.03	$18.43
Processing Utility	$17.63	$18.03	$18.43
On-Line Packer	$17.48	$17.88	$18.28
All classifications and rates subject to Article 15:06 (a).
When work within a classification is not required, other duties will be assigned.
Note: Where new employees have previous experience they can be paid the 30-day rate any time after being hired, for the first ninety (90) days worked.
The 30 day and 60 day rates to be paid no later than upon completion of thirty (30) and sixty (60) days worked.
41
APPENDIX "A"
Special Weekend Shift Conditions
1.	Minimum two weeks notice of starting or ending shift.
2.	(a) Hours of Work 2 x 12 hour shifts Saturday and Sunday
(b)	Breaks - a total of 60 minutes per 12 hour shift
(c)	Shifts to rotate weekly or as agreed to between the employees and management
(d)	Shift would run minimum of 16 weeks
3.	Pay
(a)	18 hours pay per 12 hour shift worked
(b)	i.e. 36 hours per weekend
(c)	Based on each classification base rate
(d)	Shift premium for second 12 hour shift to be as third shift premium in contract and paid on hours paid. First 12 hour shift would have no premium.
4.	Selection & Replacement of Employees
When replacements are required, either permanent or temporary, the opportunity will be posted in Accordance with Article 16.
5.	Vacation & Vacation Pay
(a)	One weekend - 24 hours to equal one weeks' vacation
(b)	Calculation of weeks' pay or percentage as in Article 13.00
42
(c)	Other vacation details to be consistent with Article 13.00.
APPENDIX "A" (continued)
6.	Benefits
(a)	Unless otherwise detailed here, similar to Article 26.00.
(b)	L.T.D. - No change
(c)	W.I. - The waiting period shall be two (2) full shifts.
(d)	Other waiting periods in contract shall be calculated using 1-1/2 days per weekend shift.
7.	Union Representation
(a) While shift is in operation the Union may appoint one steward to represent the total weekend workforce and will advise the Company in writing the steward's name or any change. (one per shift)
8.	Jury Duty
If pay is lost due to Jury Duty the Company will make up lost pay as outlined in the Collective Agreement.
9.	Bereavement
Change 18.01 (a) from five days to "two x 12 hour weekend shifts".
Change 18.01 (b) from three days to "one x 12 hour weekend shifts" and six hour pay at regular rate. Change one day to "eight hours' pay at regular rate".
10.	Overtime
Will be offered to weekend shift employees under similar procedure as all other employees except that no weekend employee may work overtime within an eight hour period before or after his scheduled weekend shift.
43
11.	Minimum Recompense
Article 22.01 - Change five working days to two x 12 hour weekend shifts.
APPENDIX "A" (continued)
12.	Training Periods
For purposes of calculating the above period, a weekend shift of two x 12 hours shall be calculated as three working days.
13.	For the purposes of calculation, probationary period shall be calculated as 45 weekend days worked.
14.	Either party may request a meeting (within a five working day period) to discuss items arising, that are not clarified above.
44
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 1
Plant Shutdowns
Summer Shutdown
2006	- The Company will advise by March 1
2007	- The Company will advise by March 1
Christmas Shutdown
2005	- Will be determined
2006	- Will be determined
2007	- Will be determined
March Shutdown
In the event that the Company plans to schedule a shutdown in the month of march the Union will be asked to specify the week to be scheduled.
The above schedule does not imply any payment for above shutdowns other than an employer's obligation under the contract. The above schedule does not include maintenance, drivers, warehouse, janitorial and receiving departments.
T.FIRLOTTE
R.PIERCEY
45
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 2
Maintenance Department Vacation Schedule
For the purpose of vacation selection for the Maintenance Department only, during plant shutdown or slowdown periods, the Company agrees to allow vacation for three (3) Shop Pool Mechanics, three (3) Line/Production Mechanics, one (1) Trade Classification and one (1) Maintenance Utility Classification (total eight (8)) selected by seniority in these groupings.
For the remainder of the vacation, the	Company will allow the	following to be off for	vacation at	any one time:
A Shift:	1	Shop Pool	Mechanic,	1	Line/Production	Mechanic	and	1	Maintenance	Utility or Trade
Classification.
B Shift:	2	employees
C Shift:	1	employee
Weekend Shift: 1 employee
All apprentices will fall into the grouping of their apprenticeship.
All selections above will be by seniority within the above groupings.
T.FIRLOTTE
R.PIERCEY
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 3
At negotiations the parties reviewed the obligations we share to provide modified work to employees injured as the result of their employment with the Company. The parties agree to establish a joint committee to administer a modified work procedure.
The parties have agreed to the following principles:
1.	Modified work assignments are not subject to the job posting procedure.
2.	Such assignments are temporary and should not, under normal circumstances, exceed three (3) months.
3.	Only employees who have been confirmed by a physician as being rehabilitative will be assigned to a modified work position.
4.	The sole intent of the procedure is to return the employee to their job as quickly as possible.
5.	Employees with seniority and who are capable of performing a vacant job which has been posted will be required to take the vacant position if they have been diagnosed as having a permanent disability or a condition that will prevent them from returning to their own job within a reasonable period of time.
Nothing in this agreement will compromise the responsibilities that the Union and the Company have under the governing applicable legislation.
T.FIRLOTTE
R.PIERCEY
47
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 4
Reference: Article 15 & Qualifications
Reassignment, under the terms of Article 15, will be administered on the basis of the qualifications on file with the Human Resources department.
Qualification forms will be issued by the Human Resources department and will be available upon request in the event that an employee wishes to add to their qualifications on file.
Qualification forms will be confirmed by production management and it is the responsibility of each employee to ensure that their qualifications are accurate.
Once (1) a year (minimum) a report showing a listing of the approved qualifications will be updated and posted.
In the event of a layoff forms will be made available for affected employees to indicate their shift preference and preferred three (3) alternate positions. It may be necessary to assign a position other than the ones indicated in order to keep a fellow employee at work.
T.FIRLOTTE
R. PIERCEY
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 5
Reference: 15.05c
This article requires that notice of layoff be provided to "permanent workforce employees". The term casual shall be deemed to mean those employees who are subject to the annual lay-off related to the seasonality of the business.
1.	While being utilised as a casual during a lay-off employees must report to work when provided eight (8) hours notice. Employees who choose not to have a telephone answering machine or system must advise Timekeeping of that and will be provided with a telephone number to call and must call to determine if they are scheduled to work.
2.	After working a shift casuals will not be required or scheduled to work for the following sixteen (16) hours unless they have indicated their desire to do so.
3.	At the commencement of an extended lay-off employees may opt out of casual work awaiting a recall so long as there remain sufficient qualified employees. Employees working at temporary, seasonal or casual activities will not be eligible for notice of layoff under article 15.05c.
Employees working at temporary, seasonal or casual activities will not be eligible for notice of layoff under article 15.05c.
T.FIRLOTTE
R. PIERCEY
49
Letter No. 6	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN DARE FOODS LIMITED AND BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Reference: Article 11.07	
For the purpose of distributing overtime the following functions will be considered as part of the Packaging Classification: Service, Finished Goods Movement, Carton Stacker, Case Packer, Towers, Langen (Pop Tart) and Packer.
T.FIRLOTTE	R.PIERCEY
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 7
Casual restrictions
1.	The parties affirm that the decision to hire is that of the employer subject to articles 3 and 16.
2.	Employees on lay-off may be utilized as casuals in positions for which they are qualified and provided they have completed their probation.
3.	The company agrees that it does not have the right to replace an employee who has been utilized as a casual to maintain a compliment or for any other reason.
4.	The company agrees that it will only hire full time employees to full time positions on fixed shifts. (Exception being 8 part timers or students as outlined in article 2.1)
T.FIRLOTTE
R.PIERCEY
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
DARE FOODS LIMITED
AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION - LOCAL 264
Letter No. 8
Benefits Taskforce:
The letter is to confirm that the employer will establish a taskforce within 12 months of the ratification with 3 union reps that will make recommendations subject to Management and union approval.
T.FIRLOTTE
R.PIERCEY
52