M BAKERIES LIMITED
COLLECTIVE ABREEMENT
BETWEEN
WE9T0N BAKERIES LIMITED (Kitchener. Ontario)
- and -
RETAIL. WHOLESALE BAKERY fc CONFECTIONERY WORKERS' UNION
LOCAL 461
ICTION EMPLOYEES
Effective! December 12th, 1987 Explryi November 15th, 1989,
..WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
BETWEEN:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Kitchener, Ontario, (hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
THE RETAIL, WHOLESALE BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY WORKER3 UNION LOCAL 461 of the RWDSU-AFL-CIO-CLC
Article 1 - PURPOSE:
1.01	Tho general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the hours of
work, wages and certain working conditions, and to provide a means by which employees can raise any complaints or grievances, and to provide for a harmonious relationship between the Company, and its employees, and the Union.
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:
2j01	-The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining
agent for all employees at Kitchener, Ontario, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman or forelady, office staff and salesmen, students employed for the school vacation period, and employees who irmally work twenty-four (24) hours per week or less.
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP:
3.01	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by either the Company, the Union or any agents of the parties, because of any employee's participation or non-participation in the Union.
3.02	The Union or employees shall not hold meetings on the Company property, except as agreed to by the Company.
Article 4 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUESl
4.01	All employees will be required to authorize the deduction of regular weekly Union dues from their pay. In the case of new employees the
deduction will commence in the week immediately following the week in which they complete thirty (30) days of work for the Company. However, the amount deducted for such new employees will not be paid to the Union until after they complete the probationary period.
4.02	Union due6 deducted from employees will be forwarded to the Union not later than the 20th day of each calendar month.
4.03	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims ^ ich may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 2
t i, c l e 4 - Continued
4.04	Authorization for the deduction of Union dues shall be made on
copies of the following form:
"I, _____________________ hereby direct Weston Bakeries
Limited, Kitchener, Ontario, to deduct from the pay due me (each weekly pay) the amount of dues a5 certified by the Retail, Wholesale Bakery and Confectionery Workers' Union and to pay the amount so deducted to a designated official of the said Union.
Dates _________________ Signed! ___________________________
Article 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:
5.01	During the term of this Agreement, there will be no strikes or lockouts.
5.02	The terms, "strike" and "lockout", as used herein shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Labour Relations Act for the Province of Ontario.
•'•tide 6 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
6.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the
management of the Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
Article 7 - UNION REPRESENTATIONS
7.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of five (5) employees, The Union shall further have the right to appoint or otherwise select one (1> Steward for each twenty—five <25> employees or fraction in excess of multiples of twenty-five (25). The Union may also select up t o three <3) substitute Stewards to act only in the absence of a regular Steward.
7.02	The Union recognizes that Committeemen and Stewards who are appointed from among the employees, have regular duties to perform AS employees of the Company. Therefore, such employees will not leave their regular work for the purpose of conducting business cn behalf of the Union without first obtaining permission from their recognized Supervisors. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. In return for the observance of the terms of this Article, the Company shall pay Stewards and Committeemen for any regular scheduled work missed for servicing grievances or other direct dealings with the Company.
.03	An employee shall not be eligible to act as a Steward until after
he has completed the probationary period of employment.
WESTON SAKERIES LIMITED
Page 3
tide 7 - Continued
7.04	The Company will pay the five <5) members of the Negotiating Committee straight time pay for. time spent during the employee’s regular scheduled working hours, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement up to but excluding any arbitration, conciliation or mediation proceed ngs.
7.05	The Unit Chairman of tho Union shall be informed whenever an employee ha5 completed his probationary period.
7.06	Should an employee be interviewed for disciplinary purposes, he may elect to have a Steward present if he chooses.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
8.01	Step #1:	#
If any employee has a grievance he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, he shall take the matter up with his immediate Foreman or Supervisor. The employee may, if he wishes, be accompanied by his Steward. Ifthe grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee within two (2) working days, i t wi 11 then be stated in writing and be submitted to the Superintendent.
02	Step #2:
Within three <3> working days, the superintendent (and/or such other persons as may be designated by tho Company) will meet with the employee and his Steward, to discuss the grievance. The Superintendent will give his answer to the grievance, in writing, within two (2) working days after the meeting has been held. If his reply to the grievance is not satisfactory, the Union may, within three (3) working days after receiving the written reply of the Superintendent, refer the matter to the General Manager.
8.03	Step #3»
Within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance,
the General Manager (and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company), will meet with the employee and his Steward to discuss the matter.
At this meeting a full-time Business Representative of the Union (Business Agent, etc.) may be present, if requested by either party. The General Manager will give a written reply to the grievance within three (3) working days after the meeting ha5 been held.
8.04	If the meeting referred to in Step #3 does not result in a settlement of the grievance to the satisfaction of both parties, then either party to thio Agreement may, within ten (10) days after the date of the written reply, refer the matter to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
05	Any of the time allowances provided for in this Article may be
vended by mutual agreement.
■WESTON SAKERIE5 LIMITED
Page 4
8.06	The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged
circumstances of which arose more than five (5> working days prior to the complaint being presented to the Foreman or Supervisor.
Article 9 - ARBITRATION:
9.01	Arbitration shall be in accordance with the terms of the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
9.02	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of any arbitrator appointed by it. The parties will share equally the expenses of the Chairman.
Article 10 - DISCHARGE CASES;
10.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment, shall be treated as a grievance, commencing at Step #3 of the Grievance Procedure, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within three <31 working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
10.02	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have 'e right to interview his Steward for a reasonable period of time before
.saving the Company premises. The Company will notify the Steward concerned of the discharge as soon as he can reasonably be contacted.
10.03	Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirming the Company's action, or by reinstating the employee with full pay for time lost, or by any other arrangement which i s just and equitable.
10.04	The Company shall have the right to discharge any employees for just cause and upon any of the following, or similar grounds, without notices
(a)	Theft or dishonesty;
(b)	Drinking alcoholic beverages while on duty, or being under the influence of such alcoholic beverages or drugs (non-medical use) while on duty;
<c) Direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper person unless such orders jeopardize life, health or safety of the employee, or are illegal.
Article 11 - COMPANY GRIEVANCESi
11.01	Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from
“ubmitting any grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union or its ,:ficers or representatives, or any allegation that the Agreement has been violated.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 5
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES:
12.01	A claim by the Union that the Company is in violation of the terms
of this Agreement may be filed as a written grievance by a full-time representative of the Union where the claim is such it affects the entire bargaining unit, or an entire department! of the bargaining unit. Such grievance shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the alleged circumstances giving rise to the grievances, and discussion shall commence at Step #3 of the grievance procedure. The terms hereof shall not detract from, nor replace the regular grievance procedure for employees or groups cf employees as set out in Article S.
Article 13 - MEETINGS:
13.01	Meetings of the Unit Executive and Stewards and the Company will
be held monthly, provided a written request is made by one party to tho other (parties defined as Unit Chairman and Production Manager respectively - or their designates) . Such meetings shall be held as soon as practical, but within seventy-two <72> hours of receipt of the request. Meetings shall not be held in weeks of Paid Holidays.
rticle 14 - SENIORITY:
14.01	(a) An employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed an a seniority list until after he has worked a total of forty—five <45> days for the Company. Employees hired as Maintenance Mechanics will have a 90 days worked probationary period. If removed from maintenance after 45 days worked for reasons of competence, the employee will be eligible to bump a production employee.
<b> Employees hired on a temporary basis, such a0 students hired for the school vacation period, who are, at the end of their temporary employment allowed to continue to work for the Company as regular full-time employees, shall be allowed credit toward seniority for each full day worked immediately prior to full-time status. It io understood, however, that once taken on as full-time employee, such employees will be required to complete the probationary period as described above. Seniority will be calculated as provided for in this section once the probationary period has been completed.
14.02	Seniority lists based upon the date on which employees commenced to work for the Company, shall be established for each department and Plant. These lists shall be revised semi-annually and a copy of each revision will be given to the Unit Chairman.
14.03	In cases of promotion, demotion, up-grading or transfer .of employees, the skill, ability, physical fitness and general aptitiude for the
□ articular job in question shall be guiding factors. When these are relatively >qual between employees, departmental seniority shall be the deciding factor.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 6
article 14 - Continued
14.04	Where it is necessary to reduce the working force of the employees, plant seniority shall be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
14.05	Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company’s seniority list for a period of twelve (12) months, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within three (3) working days after being requested to do so and report to work within ten (10) days thereafter, they wilt forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company. Employees will also retain their seniority rights for a period of eighteen (18) months -from date last worked who have more than ten (10) years of service, employees with less than ten (10) years of service will have twelve (12) months from date last worked in cases of verified personal illness. Employee8 claiming or on Workers’ Compensation who have five (5) years of service will have twenty-four (24) months from date last worked. Thereafter they will cease to be an employee of the Company.
14.06	Any employee promoted from the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority for a period up to twelve (12) consecutive months. If returned to the bargaining unit during the said twelve (12) months the employee will retain full accumulated seniority. If returned after twelve (12) months,
shall only have the seniority he had at the time of promotion plus twelve i2) months.
14.07	Stewards with two <2) years or more of seniority will be granted top seniority amongst employees in the event of layoff, provided they ere qualified to perform the work assigned by the Company. Thio shall also apply to the Unit Chairman and Negotiating Committee during negotiations.
14.08	Seniority previously accumulated shall be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
<a)	quits his/her employment or is discharged for just cause;
<b)	overstays any leave of absence granted by the Company
unless a reason satisfactory to the Company is glvenj
(c) is absent due to layoff for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive manthsf
<d) is absent without notice for two (2) consecutive working days unless a reason satisfactory to tho Company is given.
14.09	Employees of the Ready Bake Division will be a separate body in
the Agreement and have separate seniority. Such Ready Bake employees shall not exercise any seniority rights to displace any other employees covered by this Collective Agreement. Similarly, these other employees shall not exercise any /sniority rights to displace any Ready Bake employees. Ready Bake employees shall be on a separate seniority list.
Present employees shall have the right to bid on Plant vacancies.
VESTDIM BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 7
-cle 14 - Continued
NOTE; Any current Ready Bake employee hired before the introduction of section 14,09 shall be allowed the opportunity of exercising on a once only basis, his seniority to return to his former Department.
All present Ready Bake Employees, as of December 12th, 1987, upon he discontinuation (partial or total) of tho operation in Kitchener will have the right to bump into tho most Junior positions at the Weston Kitchener Plant.
Ready Bake employees without previous bargaining unit bakery service and hired before the introduction of section 14.09 can exercise on a jnce only basis their seniority to enter the bakery in a related department.
rticle 15 - TRANSFERS:
5.01	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a ower rated job far the convenience of the Company in order to meet production squirements, will receive his regular rate of pay during the period of such smporary transfer.
5.02	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated Job any reason shall receive a rate consistent with his ability to perform the
’• to which he is transferred, but in no case shall his rate be less than the um rate for the jab to which he is transferred, as ret out in Schedule
tide 16 - JOB POSTINOi
.01	Jab vacancies above tho rank of General Help (Light) will be
osted on the plant bulletin boards +or three (3) consecutive working days.
;ring that period, employees may make application to the Plant Superintendent
or the pasted job.
.02	Applicants for a pasted job will be considered with respect to
ill, ability and general aptitude end whore these factors ere relatively :ual amongst employees, then departmental seniority will apply. If none <± hose applying has the necessary qualifications required by the Company, than he Company may fill the job from any other source.
.03	Only the original fob and the Job from which transfer was made to
> original job will be posted. Any further vacancies w i 11 bo filled from my
4rce available, but will not bo posted.
.04	A successful applicant for a pasted job shall not be permitted tu
)ly again until six <6> months have elapsed.
03	When a permanent shift vacancy occurs it will bo posted within one
•>ek of the vacancy and it will be filled within a further two (2) weeks the pasting procedure is completed. Maintenance vacancies will' be tided from this provision.
,0h	The Unit Chairman shall be Informed of tho disposition of each
sted Job vacancy.
y/ESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 8
nr tide 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
17.01	The Company may grant written leave of absence to any employee for personal reasons. Any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence. The Company will pay the benefit premiums for leave of absence of one (1) full week or less. Over one (1) full week the employee will pay the said premiums.
17.02	In the event an employes is summoned by proper authorities to serve on a jury, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, the Company will pay the employee the difference between his regular rate of pay and the amount received for jury service or a witness fee, provided the employee reports for work during the hours he is not required to serve on the jury, or remain in the Court House, or provided the employee makes some other arrangements satisfactory to the Company.
17.03	(a) Up to four (4) days leave with pay will be granted an employee who has completed the probationary period in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, child, mother-in-law or father-in-law. Such leave shall be for the purpose of arranging for and attending the funeral. Only that portion of the four (4) days that would otherwise have been worked will be paid. One (1) day off with regular pay will be granted to attend the funeral of an employee's grandparent or grandchild,
~ovided the funeral is on the employee's scheduled day of work.
<b> Where an employee's father, mother, spouse, or child dies in a foreign country and the employee! is unable to attend the funeral, he w i I I be given one <1) working day off with pay on the day following receipt of the notice of the death or on the day the memorial service is held. This will only apply to those who have completed the probationary period and will further only apply where the employee is able to substantiate the relationship and the death.
17.04	The Company will give consideration to leave of absence for travel, provided*
(a)	the leave of absence doeO not encompass the period from June 1st to Labour Day;
(b)	the leave is taken in conjuction with tho employee's vacatlon|
(c)	not more than three <3> employees are absent at a time*
<d) the leave doers not extend beyond three <3> weeks in addition to vacation.
The terms hereof will not apply to employees with lees than three continuous service.
Leave for pregnant females shall be granted in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
(3) years of
t
*7. 05
terms of the
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 9
-tide 17 - Continued
17.06	Employees with more than one (1) year of service who are selected to attend Union conventions or seminars, will be given leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority, provided the Company is notified at least ten < 10> working days in advance of the date the leave i s to commence. Not more than five (5) employees (but not more than one (1> -from any one department) will be granted such leave at a time, nor shall the total accumulation of such leave exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
17.07	An employee with more than one (1) year of service who is selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union, will be given leave of absence without loss or accumulation of seniority for a period not to'exceed on@<l) year. The request for such leave must be made one (1) month in advance of the date it is to commence. During such leave the employee shall receive no payment of wages or other benefits.
17.08	The Company shall pay the appropriate health and welfare coverage premium costs for up to thirty-nine (39) weeks for employees absent on verified personal illness.
Article IB - BULLETIN BOARDS;
18.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory
'ocations throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting utices of Union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union, and be submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
Article 19 - NBA/ JOBSt
19<q1	The Company shall inform the Union Committee of new jobs before
posting.
Article 20 - WORK PERFORMED BY FOREMEN:	_
20.01	Foremen and persons above the rank of foreman shall not be
utilized to perform work normally done by employees in the bargaining unit, except*	"
<a> in cases of emergency!
<b> where it is necessary to instruct or train employees!
(c)	where it is necessary to carry on experimental or
development work, or to insure that en operation is correctly started;
(d> where it is necessary to keep production operating because of the absence of regular employees from their jobs.
20.02	The above does not apply to foremen working in a maintenance or transport capacity.
WCSTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Page 10
Article 21 - SEVERANCE PAY:
21.01	In the event an employee has his employment terminated as a direct
result of the closing of the plant, he will be paid severance pay as follows:
(a)	Twenty years or more of continuous service
(b)	Sixteen to Twenty years	of	"	"
(c)	Twelve to Sixteen years	of	"	"
(d)	Eight to Twelve years of	"	"
(e)	Four to Eight years of	"	«
15 weeks; 12 weeks;
9 weeks;
6 weeks; 3 weeks.
(Weeks pay to be based on existing regular weekly hours multiplied by the employee s regular hourly rate of pay, )
21.02	No employee will qualify for severance pay if he is able to exercise his seniority rights within the plant or if he is offered employment elsewhere in the Company in the Kitchener area, or if the closing results from:
(a) Loss of business;
<b> Fire, flood, strike, or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
21.03	An employee who accepts severance pay shall have no further claim to employment with the Company.
21.04	A terminating employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms of this Article who may also become entitled to severance pry in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance pay provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
Article 22 - SCHEDULES
22.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the
following schedules:
Schedule "A"	- Hours of Work, Paid Holidays and
General Working Conditions, etc.)
Schedule "B"
Schedule "C" Schedule "D"
Classifications and Rates applicable
thereto, and Overtime Provisions!
Vacations with Pay;
Benefits;
Schedule "E"
Transport Drivers;
Schedule "F"
Special Delivery Drivers - Ready Bake.
WESTON EAKERIES LIMITED
Page 11
article 23 - TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION
23.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from and including the 12th day of December, 1987 to and—including the 15th day of November, 1989, and unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating the Agreement, it shall continue in effect until the 15th day of November, 1990 and so on from year to year thereafter.
23.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) and not less than thirty (30) days prior to November 15th, 1989, or
any succeeding anniversary date.
DULY SIGNED BY THE PARTIES HERETO AT KITCHENER, ONTARIO THIS 18th DAY OF DECEMBER, 19B7.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
WESTON EAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURS OF WORK, PAID HOLIDAYS, GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS, ETC.
1.	No Guarantee:
The Company does not guarantee to provide work to any employee for normally assigned hours, or for any other hours.
2.	Work Week:
(a)	Except for transport drivers and special delivery drivers -Ready Bake who are referred to in Schedule "E" S< "F", the regular work week will consist of thirty-eight and three-quarters (383/41 hours, to be worked in five (5) days. The days off each week for any employee or group of employees will be determined by the Company. In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, as set out in section (6) of the Schedule, employees may be required by the Company to work five (S) days. The hours of work for garage employees shall be forty (40) hours, to be worked in five (5) days each work week.
(b) Tho daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time and duration of lunch periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with production requirements. Employees will be notified in advance when
hanges are to be made in their shift schedules. The starting time of any lift will not be altered more than two and one-half (2 1/21 hours i n a week.
3.	Lunch Periods:
Employees will be allowed one-half (1/2) hour for lunch period without pay. When long shifts are necessary, an additional lunch period will be allowed, without pay.
4.	Rest Feriodsi
Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be allowed as close to the middle of each half shift as possible. The time of these rest periods will be arranged by tho Foreman or Superintendent. An employee required to work in excess of ten (10) hours in a shift will be granted an additional paid rest period of ten (10> minutes duration, such rest period to be between the eighth and ninth hours of work. For each two (2) continuous hours of work after ten (10) hours, an additional ten (10) minute paid rest period will be granted.
WESTON SMCERIES LIMITED
Schedule "A" Page 2
5.	Uniforms:
(a) The Company will supply and launder uniforms for the Production, Maintenance and Sanitation Staff. Such uniforms will consist of trousers, shirts, hats and smocks. There shall be a change per shift.
(b> For Maintenance and Garage Department employees, the Company . will supply clean coveralls as required. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering such coveralls.
(c)	Shippers and Receivers regularly working on the dock may purchase a jacket or heavy shirt twice a year and the Campany will pay the cost upon presentation of a receipt up to a maximum of *25.00 per year..
(d> Suitable working apparel shall be provided for employees who are assigned to work in the Freezer.
(e) The Company will provide up to Fifty Dollars (*50.00) per year to each full-time employee towards the purchase of Company approved safety footwear provided satisfactory receipts are given. If a second pair is needed an additional *20.00 will be provided.
<f) Sanitation employees will be provided with adequate rubber
otwear.
6.
Paid Holidays:
(a) Subject to the conditions set out below, the Company will pay employees for the following holidays, or days observed by the Company in lieu thereof, but not both:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Boxing Day,
Civic Hoi day,
Labour Day,
Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Day,
Employee's Birthday (or, if a non-working day, the day before or after, as assigned by the
Company. )
The Company shall make every effort to allow an employee's birthday off. However, in the event either the Federal or Provincial Government declares a National or Provincial holiday which must be observed, in such holiday shall replace the Birthday holiday.
WESTON bakeries limited
II A H
SCHEDULE A Page 3
Paid Holidays - Continued:
(b) In order to be eligible to receive payment for a holiday, an employee shall be required:
(i) to have worked for the Company a total of forty-five (45) days;
(ii> to have worked the full shift immediately preceding
the holiday and the full shifts on and succeeding the paid holiday, unless absence on any of the qualifying shifts was due to:
U> Verified personal illness; or
(2) Death in the employee's immediate family; or
Permission being granted, in writing, by the Production Manager.
(c> Pay for holidays will be at an employee's regular rate of pay, multiplied by seven and three-quarters (7 3/4) except garage employees and transport drivers, where the rate of pay will be multiplied by eight (8) •
(d)	An employee will not be entitled to be paid for a holiday if he does not work during the week in which the holiday occurs.
(e)	When a paid holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be paid for such holiday at his regular rate of pay in accordance with (c> above, or be given another day off as decided by the Company.
VWE5TDN BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "B"
CLASSIFICATION & HATES APPLICABLE THERETO AND OVERTIME PROVISIONS
1.	The Company will classi-fy its employees and pay hourly rates in
accordance with the following:
EFFECTIVE
Classification BREAD DEPT.:
December 12th. 1987	November 16th. 1988
Mixer Utility Eakery Worker Shipper
*13.44
13.07
12.93
12.95
*13.99
13.62
13.50
13.50
SWEET GOODS DEPT.:
Mixer Utility Bakery Worker
13.44 13.99 13.07 13.62 12.95 13.SO
ANT MAINTENANCE DEPT. I
Maintenance Mechanic
Maintenance Mechanic
Lubricator
Building Maintenance
Receiver
Cleaner
15.30
Trainee	13.02
13.02 13. 17 13. 19 12.95
15.85
13.57
13.57 13.72 13.74 13.50
GARAGE DEPT. I
Licensed Mechanic 15.45 Unlicensed Mechanic 13.26 Garage Utility 13.07
16.00
13.81
13.62
General Help (All Dept*.) - Heavy	12.53
General Help (All Depts.) - Light	12.42
13.08
12.97
READY BAKE«
Freezer Worker
12.95
13.SO
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "B"
Page 2
An employee hired as a Maintenance Mechanic (trainee) after the effective date of this Agreement, shall be promoted to the classification of Maintenance Mechanic after twelve (12) months of work, provided he is qualified to perform the work on the Maintenance Mechanic classification.
2. Rate of Progression
(a) Amend to a start rate, 6 month rate and job rate at 12 months. The start rate shall be 10* less than the job rate and the 6 month rate 5* less than the job rate.
<b> Amend to a start rate, 45 days of work rate and job rate after a further 45 days of work for Maintenance Mechanic. The start rate shall be 10* less than the job rate and the 45 days of work rate 5* less than the job rate.
<c) An employee who has completed more than thirty (30) days of work and who is promoted from a lower to a higher rated classification will be paid ten (10) cents per hour below the rate for this classification to which he is transferred. He will progress at the rate of five (5) cents per hour each thirty (30) days of work until the rate for the job is attained.
Lead Hands:
The Company may, at it5 discretion, designate certain employees as lead hands. Any employee so designated will be paid a premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour.
4.	Overtime Regulations!
Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/21 times an employee's regular hourly rate will be paid for all authorized time worked, as fol1owsi
(a) From 12i01 am. Saturday to Ili59 p.m. Sunday for all production, maintenance and garage employees except those employed on a casual
and part-time basis.
<b) For all time worked in excess of seven and three-quarters <7 3/4) hours in a shift and thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours in a regular work week, but not both. In the case of garage employees the overtime will be paid for time worked in excess of eight (I) hours in a shift and forty (40) hours i n a regular work week, but not both.
<c) For all time worked by an employee on hie regular shift off or on the calendar day of a paid holiday.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "B"
Page 3
Overtime Regulations - Continued
(d)	For time worked in excess of thirty-one (31) hours in the weeks in which one (1) holiday occurs and for the time worked in excess of twenty-three and one-quarter (23 1/4) hours in any week in which two (2) paid holidays occur. For garage employees the thirty-one (31) hours shall be thirty-two (32) and the twenty-three and one-quarter <23 1/4) hours shall be twenty-four (24) hours.
(e> Time worked during weekly hours which is due t o be paid at the overtime rate of pay shall not be calculated in the weekly hours for the purpose of computing overtime pay in excess of the said weekly hours in that week. Time worked on the calendar day of a paid holiday shall be calculated in the weekly hours for the purpose of computing overtime pay in excess of the said weekly hours in that week. Futhermare, overtime payment shall not pyramid, nor shall an employee be paid a rate greater than one and one-half (1 1/21 times hi5 regular hourly rate plus any shift premium to which the employee may be entitled.
-(f) Overtime will be divided a5 equitably as practicable amongst the employees regularly performing the work or runs on which the overtime is required. An employee who does not work overtime when requested, shall have no claim regarding equitable distribution. On the last production shift prior to non-production day, the, finishing shift may be ,requiredby the Company to 'k three (3) hours overtime with minimum notice of four (4) hours prior to the start of the overtime.
3.	Night Shift Premium!
A shift premium of forty-five (45) cents per hour will be paid for all shift hours worked between 6;00 p.m. and 6:00 am Effective November 16th, 1988, night shift premium will be fifty (50) cents per hour. This shift premium will be computed without regard to overtime hours. The shift premium shall not apply to Transport Drivers or Special Delivery Drivers - Ready Bake.
6.	Call-In Payi
An--employee (including Transport Drivers) who is called in to work after having left the plant premises, in order to meet emergency conditions, will be paid not leer than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at straight time rates. Where the call-in occurs two (2) hours or less before the employee's regular starting time, payment will be limited to the hours remaining before the said regular starting time,
7.	Reporting For V\fork:
An employee who reports for work without having been told in juvance not to report, will be given work, or pay, for a minimum of four (4) hours. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply where an employee is prevented from working because of fire, flood, strike, lore of power, mechanical breakdown or any circumstance beyond the control of the Company. This provision shall also apply to a full scheduled overtime shift.
WE5TCJN BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "B"
Page 4
8.	Guaranteed Fay:
Each employee (excluding Transport Drivers, Garage Employees and Ready Bake Special Delivery Drivers) who has completed on@(1) year of continuous employment will receive minimum weekly pay of no less than the equivalent of thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours multiplied by his -straight time rate (including holiday pay), provided!
(a)	he reports for work and remains at work for each working hour assigned by the Company} and
(b)	he performs whatever work is available and assigned to him by the Company.
The terms of this section will not apply where the Company ie prevented from providing work to any employee or group of employees because of fire, flood, strike, breakdown of machinery or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
The overtime premium (i.e. half-time) paid far Sunday work shall not be used in computing the weekly guaranteed pay.
NOTE:	For Garage Employees, Transport Drivers end Ready Bake
Special Delivery Drivers, the guaranteed pay shall be the equivalent of forty (40) hours according to the terms set out above.
9.	In regular weeks the employees will be issued their pay cheques on
Wednesday. In weeks containing a paid holiday, the pay cheques may not be issued until Thursday, but an effort will be made to have them available late Wednesday.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "C" VACATIONS WITH PAY
1.	Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with
the following schedule:
(a)	One (1) year of continous service
(b)	Five (5) years of	"	"
(c)	Ten (10) years of	u
(d)	Twenty (20) years	of	"	"
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of "	"
Two (2) weeks}
Three (3) weeks;
four (4) weeks} Five (5) weeks;
Sin (6) weeks
effective i n 1988,
2.	For purposes of computing vacations, continous service will be
calculated as of June 30th.
3.	Payment for vacations will be at the rate of two percent (216) of
employee's earnings for each week of vacation to which he is entitled, based upon the T4 form issued for income tax purposes (excluding taxable benefita) for the year immediately preceding.
4.	Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be entitled to vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
5.	Where practical, vacations will be granted on a seniority basis for each department.
6.	Vacations shall not be cumulative from year to year and employees shall not omit vacations and draw pay in lieu thereof.
7.	The vacation period will extend for the full calendar year.
8.	An employee who leaves the service of the Company will be paid the
vacation pay to which he is entitled in accordance with his service.
cc; D. Banks
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED	q# Ellig
Payrol I Dept.
- Jan. 6/88
January 6, 198B
TOz	Rhonda Bangart -	OWL
FROM:	Maija Valdmanis
COPY:	O. Graf - Kitchener
D. Chen
RE:	Kitchener Plant
Mutual Life Contracts
Policy 90010 - Appendix #34 - Dental Care
Kindly arrange to amend our contracts, affective January If 1988 ta reflect a change in the Dental benefit for the above mentioned group of employees.
Please ask the insurer to use the 1988 procedure codes but reimburse the
employee using the 1987 fee guide.
Please call should you have any questions.
Regards,
Maija Valdmanis
MV/jr
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
cc
G. El Iig D. Banks Payrol I Dept.
- Jan. 6/88
January 6, 198S
TOs	Rhonda Bangart -	SWL
FROM:	Maija Valdmanis
COPY:	0. Graf - Kitchener
D. Chen
RE:	Kitchener Plant
London Life Contracts
Policy 11724 - Account 609 - Life Insurance Policy 25724 - Account 109 - Weekly Indemnity
The following is a request for contract amendments for the above mention* group of employees.
1.	Please amend the life contract to provide for life coverage in thi amount of $12,000 instead of $10,000 effective January 1, 1986.
2.	In addition weekly indemnity’s current plan design should be changed to provide a benefit payment on the first day of accident the 1st day of hospitalization and/or the 4th day of illness to a maximum of 39 weeks’ duration in the amount of 605C of regular earnings (including Q/T and Bonus) up to U.I. maximum <1-1-4-39). This is effective January 1, 1908.
Rhonda, we will hold the current rates on the life coverage, however, please advise me of the new premium rates for the U.I. benefit.
Please forward revised amendment schedules at-your earliest convenience.
Regards,
Maija Valdmanis MV/ jr
I.WESTON E AKERIES LIMITED
•• n it
SCHEDULE D BENEFITS
1,	T.-ie Company will pay the full premium of the following benefits for
full - time employees:
(a> Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan;
(b) Company Group Insurance Plan including Life Insurance,
Major Medical, Weekly Indemnity, and Dental Plan (equivalent to Blue Cross #9 Benefits), effective January 1st, 198B the 19B7 Q.D.A. Schedule shall be used. Effective January 1st,
1989, the 1988 Q.D.A. Schedule will be used,
(c> An optical plan will provide a pair of glasses (to a maximum of $100.00 every two (2) years) for all qualifying employees and dependents.
(d) Effective December 1st, 1986, the Company will introduce a Long
Term Disability Plan at a cost not to exceed five (5) cents per regular hour worked by full-time employees.
<e) Effective January 1st, 1988, Life Insurance coverage for qualified employees will be $12,000.00 and effective November 16th, 1988 upgraded to $15,000.00
2.	The maximum amount payable under the Weekly Indemnity section of the Group Insurance Plan shall be sixty percent (60%) of regular earnings up to the U.I.C. maximum, which will be applied on a 1-1-4-39 basis,
3.	The full premium cost as referred to above shall only apply to those employees with one (1) year or more of service. Those with less than one year shall have fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost paid by the Company.
4.	Decisions regarding payments made to employees under the above-mentioned
welfare plans made by a third party - l.e. the carriers of the said plans, shall not be subject to the grievance procedure, nor shall the Company-in any way be liable for the payment af benefits in connection with such decisions.
5. The following will apply to garage mechanics and plant maintenance mechanics (licensed and unlicensed)!
For an employee to purchase a piece of equipment essential to the employee's performance of the normal requirements of his job, the Company will pay the cost up to a maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per calendar year, payable without receipts February 1st each year. Only employees referred to under this section will be required to bring their own tools into the Plant.
.WESTON EA.KERIE5 LIMITED
SCHEDULE "E"
Transport Drivers
The following conditions shall apply to Transport Drivers.
1.	The normal work week shall be forty (40) hours. Except as
set out under the heading, "Guaranteed Pay" in Schedule "B", this shall not be construed as a guarantee of either hours of work or pay therefor.
2.	All Transport Drivers shall be assigned daily starting times.
If a Driver's load is not ready at the assigned time, the Driver may be assigned to other duties including non-driving duties. It is clearly understood that these duties will be of a reasonable nature. In cases of long delay the Driver may elect to not start work and waive any reporting pay but only with the permission of the Supervisor and availability instructions given.
3.	The work schedule will be posted by 5s00 p.m. Thursday showing
proposed destinations which may be altered. The assigned starting times may be altered one	<1> hour later per day on each	bid	start-time. Onj^ Friday,	the
Company may	alter the start-time up to two	<2)	hours later.<^< Because of	early
shipping on	Mondays, the Company may alter	the	start times one <1> hour	before
or later on each start time.
Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/21 times a Transport Driver's hourly rate of pay will be paid as follows!
(a) For all authorized hours worked from 12.01 a.m. on
Sunday to 11 s 59 p.m. on the same Sunday. In weeks in which paid holidays occur, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each paid holiday i n the work week for the, purpose of calculating overtime.
<b> For a I I authorized hours worked i n excess of the weekly hours set out in section <1) above.
<c> Hours worked by any Transport Driver during the regular
assigned weekly hours which is due to be paid at time and one-half <1 1/21 shall not be calculated in the weekly hours for the purpose of computing pay i n excess of regular weekly hours in that week. Furthermore, overtime payment shall not pyramid, nor shall a Transport Driver be paid a rate greater than one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate of pay.
Cd> For all hours worked on the calendar day of Paid Holiday.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "E" Page 2
5.	The shift premium and payment of overtime for Saturday (except as
set out above)) shall not apply to Transport Drivers.
6.	<a) The hourly rate of pay for Transport Drivers shall be as follows:
-	effective 1st pay period following ratification (14.11
per hour;
-	effective November 16( 1988 $14.66 per hour.
NOTE:	55 cents per hour will be paid retroactive for all
hours paid since expiry date until ratification.
(b) Amend to a start rate, 3 month rate and job rate at
6 months. The start rate shall be 10% less than the job rate and the 3 month rate 5% less than the job rate.
7.	The Company will deduct 30 minutes from each daily time card for
purposes of eating a meal. Two 10 minute paid breaks will also be allowed per day. The timing of all breaks will be in accordance with instructions issued by the Company.
8.	A Transport Driver required to work in excess of ton (10) hours ir
a shift will be given a meal allowance of *5.00. The Company may require presentation of an authentic receipt before such payment i s made.
9.	Subject to the Management Rights Clause of this Agreement,
products which are brought into the Kitchener Plant for trans-shipment to other plants of the Company will be hauled by Kitchener Drivers, provided the Drivers and equipment are available when required.
10.	Transport Drivers who complete the probationary period will
have two —thirds (2/3rds) of the cost of their uniforms paid for by the Company. The Company will pay 100% cost of crests.
11.	The posting of starting times will normally be in the first week
of May and the last week of September of each year. The selection of Transport
Drivers for starting times shall be made on the basis of ability and experience and where these factors are relatively equal between Transport Drivers, then seniority will govern. If the normal starting times need to be changed duo to market conditions the starting times will be posted and rebid.
NOTE:	Normal includes changes occurring in the weeks following and
preceding weeks in which a paid holiday occurs. As a result, there start time changes will not necessitate a rebidding of the runs.
wWE5TQN BAKERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "E"
rage o
12.	Transport Drivers shall have a minimum of eight <8> hours
scheduled rest time off between one scheduled shift and another.
13.	All extra trips shall be offered to full-time Drivers on a
rotation basis in accordance with seniority before spare or part-time Drivers are used. This is providing the full-time Driver is immediately available and has had sufficient rest from his assigned trip schedule.
14.	Loss of Licence
A leave of absence without pay or benefits or loss of seniority will be granted Once during an employee's tenure by the Company for a period of up t o one (1) year without loss of seniority due to loss o-f the required , Province of Ontario Driver's Licence as a result of a non-work related incident. The following provision will apply:
1.	Employees must have a minimum of five (3) years or more Company Service.
2.	The employee is acceptable to insure to the Company's insurer.
WESTON E^XERlES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "F"
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS - READY BAKE
The following conditions will apply to Special Delivery Drivers at the Ready Bake Kitchener facility.
1.	The normal work week shall be forty <40) hours. Except as set out under
the heading "Guaranteed Pay"in Schedule "B"• this shall not be construed as a guarantee of either hours of work or pay thereof.
2.	Reasonable meal and hotel accommodation expenses for overnight trips will be reimbursed by the Company following presentation of authentic r ecei pts.
3.	Special Delivery Drivers may also be assigned other duties such as shipping, receiving, order picking, etc.
4.	The hourly rate of pay for Special Delivery Drivers shall be $14.11 per
hour. Effective November 16th, 198B, the hourly rate will be $14.66.
5.	The start rate of newly hired employees will be 10% less than the job
rate and the 3 month rats 5% less than the job rate.
6.	Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/21 times a Special
Delivery Driver's hourly rate will be paid as follows:
(a) Fur all authorized hours worked from 12:01 a.m. on Sunday to 11:59 p.m. on the same Sunday. in weeks in which paid holidays occur, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each paid holiday in the work week for the purpose o-f calculating overtime.
Cb) For all authorized hours worked in excess of the weekly hours set out in section <11 above.
<c> Hours worked by any Special Delivery Driver during the regular assigned weekly hours which is due to be paid at time and one—half (1 1/21 shall not be calculated in the weekly hour8 for the purpose of computing pay in excess of regular weekly hours in that week. Furthermore, overtime payment shall not pyramid, nor shall a Special Delivery Driver be paid a rate greater than one and one—half (1 1/2) times his regular hourly rate of pay.
(d)	For all hours worked on the calendar day of a paid holiday.
WESTON EACERIES LIMITED
SCHEDULE "F"
SPECIAL DELIVERY DRIVERS - READY BAKE
Page 2
7.	All Store Distribution runs will be posted once per year during the
first week in January. Runs will be awarded in respect to skill, ability, merit and efficiency, where these factors are considered relatively equal, then seniority will be the guiding factor. All new or vacant runs will be posted.
8.	A Special Delivery Driver required to work in excess of ten (10) hours
in a shift will be given a meal allowance of $5.00. The Company may require presentation of an authentic receipt before such payment is made.
9.	Loss of License
A leave of absence without pay or benefits or loss of seniority will be granted once during an employee's tenure by the Company for a period of up to one (1) year without loss of seniority due to loss of the required Province of Ontario Driver's License as a result of a non-work related incident. The following provision will apply:
1.	Employees must have a minimum of five (5) years or more Company Service.
2.	The employee is acceptable to insure to the Company's
insurer.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
December 15th, 1987.
Mr. Richard Woodruff, Area Representative, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, 795 King St. E., 2nd Floor,
Hamilton, Ontario.
L8M 1A8.
Dear Mr. Woodruff :
Ret Kitchener Production Agreement
This letter, which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement, shall can-firm the understandings as listed below which were reached at negotiations and which shall be Company policies:
1.	Employees who are required to work on Saturdays shall be allowed time off to attend the General Union Meeting held every second Saturday
of each month provided the employees return to work as soon am possible after the meeting and finish their scheduled shifts.
(In the case of Sanitation, their assigned task must be finished.)
2.	As a matter of practice, the Steward originally involved in a grievance shall attend the meetings concerning the grievance If at all practically possible.
3.	The Personnel Department shall maintain a transfer register where employees classified as General Help Light may record their preference of work. As vacancies occur in General Help Light jobO by department, the Company will transfer existing employees i n accordance with qualifications and seniority <if qualifications are relatively equal) before new employees are hired or other employees assigned. There will be one (1) transfer every twelve (12) months per employee.
4.	Full-time employees who have been laid off will be contacted in order of seniority to perform any work that they are qualified to perform dn a part-time basis lasting for one (1) full week or more full weeks. These employees shall receive the regular rate of pay of the job being performed and all benefits for the period of part-time work.
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Kitchener Production Agreement Paqe * ’
5.	The paid holiday "Employee's Birthday" shall be observed as follows:
<a> The scheduled starting shift on the day of the employee's birthday shall be observed as the calendar day off for the birthday.
(b) The employee may request another scheduled shift off in lieu thereof, but not both, providing tho request is submitted in writing to the Company two weeks prior to the birthday.
<c) The, day off for the birthday shall be within the week of the birthday.
<d> The Company shall make every effort to fulfill the employee's request.
6.	Employees with the identical seniority starting data will draw lots to identify their ranking on the Seniority Lists. This is to be done after consideration of ths probation period completed and in accordance with Article 14:01 (B).
It is our intention wherever it is reasonable to port -full-'time vacancies and to allow the appropriate Job bidding to taks place.
e.	The Company agreee to hold regular monthly shift meetings for all
employees to discuss safety and other matters.
9.	The Company further agrees where shift changes of an extraordinary
nature occurs, involved employees will be advised personally and all other plant employees will be advised by means of a notice posted on the main plant bulletin board.
S incerely,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED,