C Q \ LE C.T L'LS,_AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
mmmvms limitsp omcntrar, a-
- and-
PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES
Effective:	January 25th, 1992.
Expiry:	November 15th, 1993.
BETWEEN:
COLLECTIVE AllE EH EAT
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Kitchener, Ontario, (hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
THE RETAIL, WHOLESALE BAKERY AND CONFECTIONERY WORKERS UNION LOCAL 461 of the RWDSU-AFL-CIO-CLC (hereinafter called "the Union)
Article 1 - PURPOSE:
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement 1s to set forth the hours of
work, wages and certain working conditions, and to provide a means by which employees can raise any complaints or grievances, and to provide for a harmonious relationship between the Company, and its employees, and the Union.
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:
2:01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining
agent for all employees at Kitchener, Ontario, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman or forelady, office staff and salesmen, students employed for the school vacation period, and employees who normally work twenty-four (24) hours per week or less.
2:02	VMienever the male gender is used 1t shall apply to the female
gender and whenever the singular i s used, it shall also apply to plural and vise versa.
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP;
3.01	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by either the Company, the Union or any agents of the parties, because of any employee's participation or non-participation In the Union.
3.02	The Union or employees shall not hold meetings on the Company property, except as agreed to by the Company.
Article 4 - DEDUCTION QF UNION DUES:
4.01	All employees will be required to authorize the deduction of regular weekly Union dues from their pay. I n the case of new employees the deduction will commence in the week Immediately following the week in which they complete thirty (30) days of work for the Company. However, the amount deducted for such new employees will not be paid to the Union until after they complete the probationary period.
4.02	Union dues deducted fern employees w i 11 be forwarded to the Union not later than the 20th day of each calendar month.
4.03	The Union will save the Company harmless fem any and all claims which rcey be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted Prom pay as herein provided.
Page 2
Article 4 - Continued
04	Authorization for the deduction of Union dues shall be made on
.oples of the following form:
“I, ____________________ hereby direct Weston Bakeries
Limited, Kitchener, Ontario, to deduct from the pay due rre (each weekly pay) the amount of dues as certified by the Retail, Wholesale Bakery and Confectionery Workers' Union and to pay the amount so deducted to a designated official of the said Union.
Date:	________________ Signed: __________________________
Article 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS;
5.01	During the term of this Agreement, there will be no strikes or lockouts.
5.02	The terms, "strike" and "lockout", as used herein shall be defined i n accordance with the definitions set out in the Labour Relations Act for the Province of Ontario.
Article 6 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
6.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the
management of the Company’s operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
Article 7 - UNION REPRESENTATION:
7.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of five (5) employees. The Union shall further have the right to appoint or otherwise select one (1) Steward for each twenty-five (25) employees or fraction in excess of multiples of twenty-five (25). The Union also select up to three (3) substitute Stewards to act only in the absence of a regular Steward.
7.02	The Union recognizes that Committeemen and Stewards who are appointed from among the employees, have regular duties to perform as employees of the company. Therefore, such employees will not leave their regular work for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Union without first obtaining permission from their recognized Supervisors. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. In return for the observance of the terms of this Article, the Company shall pay Stewards and Committeemen for any regular scheduled work missed for servicing grievances or other direct dealings with the Company.
7.03	Ai employee shall not be eligible to act as a Steward until after he has completed the probationary period of employment.
Article 7 _ Continued
04	The Company will pay tho five (5) members of the Negotiating
,omm1ttee straight time pay for time spent during the employee’s regular scheduled working hours, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement up to but excluding any arbitration, conciliation or mediation proceedings.
7.05	The Unit Chairman of the Union shall be informed whenever an employee has completed his probationary period.
7.06	Should an employee be interviewed for disciplinary purposes, he/she w i 11 be advised they may have their Stewart present, if they so choose. Failure to advise will not impact the validity of discipline imposed.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE;
8.01
If any employee has a grievance he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, he shall take the matter up with his Immediate Foreman or Supervisor. The employee may, If he wishes, be accompanied by his Steward. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee within two (2) working days, it will then be stated in writing and be submitted to the Superintendent.
8.02
Within three (3) working days, the Superintendent (and/or such other persons as be designated by the Company) will meet with the employee and his Steward, to discuss the grievance. The Superintendent w i 11 give his answer to the grievance, in writing, within two (2) working days after the meeting has been held. If his reply to the grievance 1s not satisfactory, the Union may, within three (3) working days after receiving the written reply of the Superintendent, refer the matter to the General Manager.
8.03	Step 43:
Within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance, the General Manager (and/or such other parsons as may be designated by the Company), will meet with the employee and his Steward to discuss the matter.
At this meeting a full-time Business Representative of the Union (Business Agent, etc.) be present, if requested by either party. The General Manager will give a written reply to the grievance within three (3) working days after the meeting has been held.
8.04	If the meeting referred to in step 43 does not result in a settlement of the grievance to the satisfaction of both parties, then either party to this Agreement may, within ten (10) days after the date of the written reply, refer the matter to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
\05	Any of the time allowances provided for 1n this Article may be
tended by mutual agreement.
8.06	The Company rca/ refuse to cons der any complaint, the alleged
circumstances of which arose more than five (6) working days prior to the complaint being presented to the Foreman or Supervisor.
Article 9 - ARBITRATION:
9.01	Arbitration shall be 1n accordance with the terms of the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario.
9.02	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of any arbitrator appointed by it. The parties will share equally the expenses of the Chairman.
Article 10 - DISCHARGE CASES:
10.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment, shall be treated as a grievance, commencing at Step #3 of the Grievance Procedure, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company,
10.02	Whi an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Company premises. The Company will notify the Steward concerned of the discharge as soon as he can reasonably be contacted.
10.03	Grievances relating to discharge mjy be settled by confirming the Company's action, or by reinstating the employee with full pay for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable.
10.04	The Gompary shall have the right to discharge any employees for just cause and upon any of the following, or similar grounds, without notice:
(a)	Theft or dishonesty;
(b)	Drinking alcoholic beverages while on duty, or being under the influence of such alcoholic beverages or drugs (non-medical use) while on duty;
(c)	Direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper person unless such orders jeopardize Fife, health or safety of the employee, or are Illegal.
Article 11 - COMPANY GRIEVANCES:
11.01	Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from
submitting any grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union or Its officers or representatives, or any allegation that the Agreement has been violated.
dele 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES;
12.01	A claim by the Union that the Company 1s in violation of the terms
of this Agreement be filed as a written grievance by a full-time representative of the Union, or the Unit Chairperson, where the claim 1s such It affects the entire bargaining unit, or an entire department of the bargaining unit, Such grievance shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the alleged circumstances giving rise to the grievances, and discussion shall commence at Step 113 of the grievance procedure. The terms hereof shall not detract from, nor replace the regular grievance procedure for employees or groups of employees as set out in Article 8.
Article 13 - MEETINGS:
13.01	Meetings of the Unit Executive and Stewards and the Company will
be held monthly, provided a written request is made by one party to the other (parties defined as Unit Chairman and Production Manager respectively - or their designates). Such meetings shall be held as soon as practical, but within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of the request. Meetings shall not be held i n weeks of Paid Holidays.
Article 14 - seniority
14.01	(a) An employee w i 11 be considered an probation and will not be placed on a seniority 11st until after he has worked a total of forty-five (45) days for the Company. Employees hired as Oarage or Maintenance Mechanics will have a 90 days worked probationary period. If removed from maintenance after 45 days worked for reasons of competence, the employee w i 11 be eligible to bump a production employee.
(b) Employees hired on a temporary basis, such as students hired for the school vacation period, v\bo are, at the end of their temporary employment allowed to continua to work for the Company as regular full-time employees, shall be allowed credit toward seniority for each full day worked Immediately prior to full-time status. It 1s understood, however, that once taken on as full-time employee, such employees will be required to complete the probationary period as described above, seniority w i 11 be calculated as provided for in this section once the probationary period has been completed.
14.02	Seniority lists based upon the date on which employees commenced to work for the Company, shall be established for each department and Plant. These lists shall be revised semi-annually and a copy of each revision will be given to the Unit Chairman and Union Office.
14.03	In cases of promotion, demotion, up-grading or transfer of employees, the skill, ability, physical fitness and general aptltlude for the particular job 1n question shall be guiding factors. V\hm these are relatively equal between employees, departmentel seniority shall be the deciding factor.
Eaas-fi
Vrtlcli 14 - continue
14.04	Where it is necessary to reduce the working force of the employees, plant seniority shall be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which i s available.
14.05	Employees who are laid off wi 11 be retained on the Company's seniority list for a period of eighteen (18) months, but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within three (3) working days after being requested to do so and report to work within ten (70) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company. Employees will also retain their seniority rights far a period of eighteen (18) months from date last worked who have more than ten (10) years of service, employees with less than ten (10) years of service will have twelve (12) months from date last worked in cases of verified personal illness. Employees claiming or on Workers' Compensation who have five (5) years of service will have twenty-four (24) months fcm date last worked. Thereafter they will cease to be an employee of the Company.
14.06	Any employee promoted form the bargaining unit shall continue to
accumulate seniority for a period up to twelve (12) consecutive months. If returned to the bargaining unit during the said twelve (12) months the employee will retain full accumulated seniority.
14.07	Stewards with two (2) years or more of seniority will be granted top seniority amongst employees in the event of layoff, provided they are qualified to perform the work assigned by the Company. Thio shall also apply to the Unit Chairman and Negotiating Committee during negotiations.
14.08	seniority previously accumulated shall be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
1(a)	quits his/her employment or is discharged for Justcause;
(b)	overstays any leave of absence granted by the Company
unless a reason satisfactory to the Company 1s given;
(c) is absent due to layoff for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months;
(d)	1s absent without notice for two (2) consecutive working days unless a reason satisfactory to the Company is given.
Pagg-I
\rt1cle 15 - TRANSFERS;
15.01	An employee who 1s temporarily transferred tern a higher to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company in order to meat production requirements, will receive his regular rate of pay during the period of such temporary transfer.
15.02	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher rated job for any reason shall receive a rate consistent with his ability to perform the work to which he 1s transferred, but in no case shall his rate be less than the minimum rate for the job to which he 1s transferred, as set out in Schedule "B", provided the duration of the temporary transfer is two (2) hours or more.
Article 16 - JOB POSTING:
16.01	Job vacancies will be posted on the plant bulletin boards for three (3) consecutive working days. During that period, employees may make application to the Plant Superintendent for the posted job.
16.02	Applicants for a posted job will be considered with respect to skill, ability and general aptitude and where these factors are relatively equal amongst employees, then departmental seniority will apply, i-mone of those applying has the necessary qualifications required by the Company, then the Gorrpany rraj filithe job fom any other source.
16.03	Only the original job and the job fern which transfer was made to
the original job will be posted. Any further vacancies will be filled from any source available, but w i 11 not be posted.
16.04	A successful applicant for a posted job shall not be permitted to apply again until six (6) months have elapsed.
16.05	Whi a permanent shift vacancy occurs 1t will be posted within one (D week of the vacancy and it wi 11 be filled within a further two (2) weeks after the posting procedure io completed. Maintenance and garage mechanic vacancies w i 11 be excluded fcm this provision.
16.06	The Unit Chairman shall be Informed of the disposition of each posted job vacancy.
tide 17 ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE I
17.01	The Company rc&j grant written leave of absence to any employee for personal reasons, Ary person vtfro is absent with such written permission shall not be considered laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence, the Compary will pay the benefit premiums for leave of absence of one (1) full v\eek or less. Over one (1) full week the employee will pay the said premiums.
17.02	In the event an employee i s summoned by proper authorities to serve on a jury, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, the Company win pay the employee the difference between his regular rate of pay and the amount received for jury service or a witness fee, provided the employee reports for work during the hours he is not required to serve on the jury, or remain in the Court House, or provided the employee makes some other arrangements satisfactory to the Company.
17.03	(a) Up to four (4) days leave with pay w i 11 be granted an employee vUto has completed the probationary period i n the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, child, mother-in-law or father-in-law. Such leave shall be for the purpose of arranging for and attending the funeral. Only that portion of the four (4) days that would otherwise have been worked will be paid. One (1) day off with regular pay w i 11 be granted to attend the funeral of an employee’s grandparent or grandchild, provided the funeral is on the employee's scheduled day of work.
(b)	VMrere an employee’s father, mother, spouse, or child dies 1n a foreign country and the employee is unable to attend the funeral, he w i 11 be given one (1) working day off with pay within two days following receipt of the notice of the death or on the day the memorial service i s held. This will only apply to those vtfr> have completed the probationary period and will further only apply where the employee is able to substantiate the relationship and the death.
17.04	The Compary will give consideration to leave of absence for travel, provided:
(a)	the leave of absence does not encompass the period ■fcm June 1st to Labour Day;
(b)	the leave is taken in conjunction with all or part of the employee’s vacation;
(c)	not more than three (3) employees are absent at a time;
(d)	the leave does not extend beyond three (3) weeks in addition to vacation.
The terms hereof will not apply to employees with less than three (3) years of continuous service.
17.05	(a) Leave for pregnant females shall be granted 1n accordance with the terms of the Employment Standards Act.
(b) Parental leave shall be granted in accordance with the terms of the employment standards act.
, tide 17 - Continued
17.06	Employees with more than one (1) year of service v\ho are selected to attend Union conventions or seminars, will be given leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority, provided the Company is notified at least ten (10) working days i n advance of the date the leave i s to commence. Not more than five (6) employees (but not more than one (1) fan any one department) will be granted such leave at a time, nor shall the total accumulation of sucn leave exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
17.07	.An employee with more than one (1) year of service who 1s selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union, will be given leave of absence without loss or accumulation of seniority for a period not to exceed one (1) year. The request for such leave must be made one (1) month i n advance of the date it 1s to commence. During such leave the employee shall receive no payment of wages or other benefits.
17.08	The Company shall pay the appropriate health and welfare coverage premium costs for up to forty-five (45) weeks for employees absent on verified personal illness.
ArtideJS - HEALTH.jftNOAEETY/MQMEIEQ.WORK COMMITTEES
18.01	The Company and the Union agree to establish a plant Health and Safety committee, which will meet once, every two months, or as required. Alternative member to be appointed by their respective party. The committee is to be comprised of three (3) Union members appointed by the Union, and three Management members appointed by the Plant Manager, one of which will be the Safety Officer.
18.02	A modified work committee of three (3) Union members, appointed by the Union and three (3) members of Management, appointed by the Plant Manager. Alternative member to be appointed by their respective party. The committee will meet as required or at the request of either party.
Art.!?1 e 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS’
19.01	The Company w i 11 provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory
locations throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union i n posting notices of Union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union, and be submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
Article 20 - NB/V JOBS:
20.01	The Company shall Inform the Union Committee of re/v jobs before
posting.
4.1cle 21 - WORK PERFORMED BY FOREMEN:
21.01	Foremen and persons above the rank of Foreman shall not be utilized to perform work normally done by employees in the barga n1ng un t, except:
(a)	1n cases of emergency;
(b) where it is necessary to instruct or train employees;
(c) where it is necessary to carry on experimental or development work, or to Insure that an operation 1s correctly started;
(d)	where 1t is necessary to keep production operating because of the absence of regular employees fcm their jobs.
21.02	The above does not apply to Foremen working 1n a maintenance or transport capacity.
Article 22 - SEVERANCE PAY.:
22.01	I n the event an employee has his employment terminated as a direct result of the closing of the plant, he w i 11 be paid severance pay of one week of regular pay for each year of continuous service. Starting with the fourth year to a maximum of twenty-six (26) years.
22.02	Nd employee will qualify for severance pay 1f he 1s able to exercise h 1 s seniority rights within the plant or if he 1s offered employment elsewhere In the Company in the Kitchener area, or 1f the closing results from:
(a)	Loss of business;
(b)	Fire, flood, strike, or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
22.03	Ar\ employee who accepts severance pay shall have no further claim to employment with the Company.
22.04	A terminating employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms of this Article who rcey also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance pay provided by legislation, whichever 1s greater, but not both.
Plat .1,1
Article 23 - SCHEDULES
23.01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the
following schedules:
Schedule "A"
Hours of Work, Paid Holiday* and General Working Conditions, etc.;
Schedule "B" - Classifications and Rates applicable thereto, and Overtime Provisions;
Schedule	“C“	-	Vacations	with	Pay;
Schedule	"D"	-	Benefits;
Schedule	"E"	-	Transport	Drivers.
Schedule	"F"	-	Maintenance
Article 24 - TERMINATION AMD NOTIFICATION
24.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from end Including the 25th day of January. 19S2 to and Including the 18th day of November. 1193. end unless either party gives notlee in writing to the other party that amendments
are required, or that the party intends tsrm1nat1ng the Agreement, 1t shall continue in effect until the 15th day of November, 1993 and so on from year to year thereafter.
24.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement ma/ only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) days prior to November 1$th, 1993, or any succeeding anniversary date.
DULY SIGNED BY THE PARTIES HERETO AT KITCHENER, ONTARIO
THIS DAY Of
199
FOR THF COMPANY
FOR THE MIQU
SCHEDULE MAM
HOURS CF WORK, PAID HOLIDAYS, GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS. ETC.
1.	No Guarantee;
The Company does not guarantee to provide work to any employee for normally assigned hours, or for any other hours.
2.	Work Week
(a)	Except for transport drivers vJro are referred to in Schedule "E", the regular work week will consist of thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours, to be worked in five (5) days. The days off each week for any employee or group of employees will be determined by the Company. I n a week i n which a paid holiday occurs, as set out in section (6) of the Schedule, employees may be required by the Company to work five (5) days. The hours of work for garage employees shall be forty (40) hours, to bo worked 1n five (6) days each work week.
(b)	The dally hours, starting and quitting times, and the time and duration of lunch periods will be determined by the Corrpary i n accordance with production requirements. Employees w i 11 be notified in advance v\ten changes are to be made in their shift schedules. The starting time of any shift will not be altered more than two and one-half (2 1/21 hours in a week.
3.	Lunch Periods:
Employees will be allowed one-half (1/2) hour for lunch period without pay. When long shifts are necessary, an additional lunch period will be al lowed, without pay.
4.	Rest Periods:
Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration win be allowed as close to the middle of each half shift as possible. The time of these rest periods will be arranged by the Foreman or Superintendent. An employee required to work in excess of ten (10) hours in a shift will be granted an additional paid rest period of ten (10) minutes duration, such rest period to be between the eighth and ninth hours of work, for each two (2) continuous hours of work after ten (10) hours, an additional ten (10) minute paid rest period will be granted.
Schedule "A" Page 2
Un iforms;
(a)	The Campary will supply and launder uniforms for the Production, Maintenance and Sanitation Staff. Such uniforms will cons st of trousers, shirts, hats and smocks, There shall be a change par shift.
(b)	For Maintenance and Garage Department employees, the Company will supply clean coveralls as required. The Company will pay the fu1 cost of laundering such coveralls.
(c)	Shippers and Receivers regularly working on the dock purchase a jacket or heavy shirt twice a year and the Company will pay the coat upon presentation of a receipt up to a maximum of $27.00 per year, and effective November 15th, 1990 to a maximum of $30.00 per year.
(d)	Suitable working apparel shall be provided for employees who are assigned to work in the Freezer.
(e)	The Company will provide up to s1xty-f1ve dollars ($66.00) per year to each full-time employee towards the purchase of Company approved safety footwear provided satisfactory receipts are given. Effective November 15th, 1992 this allowance w i 11 be seventy dollars ($70.00) per year, If a second pair is needed an additional twenty-five dollars ($25,00) w i 11 be provided. The allowance for a second pair for sanitation employees will be sixty dollars ($60.00).
(f) Sanitation employees will be provided with adequate rubber
footwear.
6, Paid Holidays
(a) Subject to the conditions set out below, the Company will pay employees for the following holidays, or days observed by the Company in lieu thereof, but not both:
N^/ Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day,
Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Dominion Day,
Christmas Day,
Boxing Day,	Employee’s Birthday (or, 1f a
non-working day, the day before or after, as assigned by the Company.)
The Company shall make every effort to allow an employee’s birthday off. However, 1n the event either the Federal or Provincial Government declares a National or Provincial holiday which must be observed, then such holiday shall replace the Birthday holiday.
SMLLI
Pegt-,3.
/d Hol1da -______tiaufidi.
(b)	In order to be eligible to receive payment for a holiday, an employee shall be required:
(I)	to have worked for the Company a total of forty-five (45) days;
(II)	to have worked tho full shift immediately preceding the holiday and the full shifts on and succeeding tho paid holiday, unless absence on any of the qualifying
shifts was due to:
(1)	Verified personal Illness; or
(2)	Death in the employee’s lamedlate family; or
(3)	Permission king grantad, In writing, by the
Production Manager.
(c)	Pay for holldeye will be at an employee’s regular rate of pay, multiplied by seven and three-quarters (7 3/4) except gerege employees and transport drivers, where the rata of pay will bo multipHad by eight (8).
(d)	An employee will not be entitled to be paid for a holiday 1f he, does not work during the week i n which the holiday occurs.
(e)	Whan a paid holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, tho employee will be paid for auch holiday at h1s regular rate of pay In accordance with (c) above, or be given another day off as decided by tho Company.