COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Kitchener, Ontario
- and -
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED
STEELWORKERS)
Effective: November 16th, 2005 Expiry: November 15th, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
Article 1 - PURPOSE:................................................4
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:............................................4
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP:...........................................4
Article 4 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:................................4
Article 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:.................................5
Article 6 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:......................................5
Article 7 - UNION REPRESENTATION:...................................5
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:....................................6
Article 9 - ARBITRATION:............................................7
Article 10 - DISCHARGE CASES:.......................................8
Article 11 - COMPANY GRIEVANCES:....................................8
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES:.....................................9
Article 13 - MEETINGS:..............................................9
Article 14- SENIORITY:..............................................9
Article 15 - TRANSFERS:............................................10
Article 16 - JOB POSTING:..........................................11
Article 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:.....................................11
Article 18 - HEALTH AND SAFETY/MODIFIED WORK COMMITTEES:...........13
Article 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS:......................................13
Article 20 - WORK PERFORMED BY FOREMEN:............................13
Article 21 - SEVERANCE PAY:........................................13
Article 22- SCHEDULES..............................................14
Article 23 - TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION..........................15
SCHEDULE "A".....................................................16
HOURS OF WORK, PAID HOLIDAYS and GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS......16
SCHEDULE "B".....................................................19
CLASSIFICATIONS,RATES OF PAY AND OVERTIME PROVISIONS.............19
SCHEDULE "C".....................................................23
VACATIONS WITH PAY...............................................23
SCHEDULE "D".....................................................25
BENEFITS.........................................................25
2
SCHEDULE"E"............
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
SCHEDULE “F”...........
PART-TIME..............
Article 1 - RECOGNITION:.
Article 2- SENIORITY:....
Article 3 - HOURS OF WORK:...
Article 4 - CALL IN PAY:.....
Article 5 - REPORTING FOR WORK:
Article 6 - SAFETY FOOTWEAR:.
Article 7 - PAID HOLIDAYS:...
Article 8 - VACATION:
Article 9 - BEREAVEMENT:.....
Article 10 - RATES OF PAY:...
Article 11 - TOOL ALLOWANCE:.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 1 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 2 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 3 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 4 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 5 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 6 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 7 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 8 LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 9
.27
,27
.28
,28
.28
28
.29
29
29
30 30 30
30
31
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
3
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Kitchener, Ontario.
(Hereinafter called "the Company")
- and -
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
(UNITED STEELWORKERS)
(Hereinafter called "the Union)
Article 1 - PURPOSE:
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the hours of work, wages and certain working conditions, and to provide a means by which employees can raise any complaints or grievances, and to provide for a harmonious relationship between the Company, and its employees, and the Union.
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:
\
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees at Kitchener, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office staff and salesmen, and students employed for the school vacation period.
2.02	Whenever the male gender is used it shall apply to the female gender and whenever the singular is used, it shall also apply to plural and vice versa.
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP:
3.01	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by either the Company, the Union or any agents of the parties, because of any employee's participation or nonparticipation in the Union.
3.02	The Union or employees shall not hold meetings on the Company property, except as agreed to by the Company.
Article 4 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:
4.01	The Company agrees that all employees shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of their continued employment.
4.02	The Company shall deduct from the pay of each member of the bargaining unit, weekly, such Union dues, fees and assessments as prescribed by the Constitution of the Union.
4
4.03	The Company shall remit the amounts so deducted, prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following, by cheque, as directed by the Cambridge Area Office, payable to the International Treasurer.
4.04	The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay deductions have been made and the total amount deducted for the month. Such statements shall also list the names of the employees from whom no deductions have been made.
4.05	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company, including its agents and employees acting on behalf of the Company, from any liability, including any and all claims, demands, actions, or causes of action arising out of or in any way connected with the deduction, collection, or attempted collection, custody, accounting or remittance of such dues.
4.06	The Company shall include the full amount of Union dues deducted on each employee's annual T-4 slip.
Article 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:
5.01	During the term of this Agreement, there will be no strikes or lockouts.
5.02	The terms, "strike" and "lockout", as used herein shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Labour Relations Act for the Province of Ontario.
Article 6 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
6.01	Except where abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
Article 7 - UNION REPRESENTATION:
7.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of three (3) employees to meet with the Company for the purpose of presenting grievances and attending Joint Labour Management meetings (JLM’s). The Union shall further have the right to appoint or otherwise select one (1) Steward for each twenty-five (25) employees or fraction in excess of multiples of twenty-five (25). The Union may also select up to three (3) substitute Stewards to act only in the absence of a regular Steward. While presenting grievances the committee and the steward(s) representing the grievance shall attend. The Union shall provide the names of the committee members and stewards, including alternates to each facility manager or their designate.
7.02	The Union recognizes that the Committee and Stewards, who are appointed from among the employees, have regular duties to perform as employees of the Company. Therefore, such
5
employees will not leave their regular work for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Union without first obtaining permission from their recognized Supervisors. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. In return for the observance of the terms of this Article, the Company shall pay Stewards and the Committee for any regular scheduled work missed for servicing grievances or other direct dealings with the Company.
As a matter of practice, the Steward originally involved in a grievance shall attend the meetings concerning the grievance if at all practically possible.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a locked filing cabinet in a secure location with easy access for the Union.
7.03	An employee shall not be eligible to act as a Steward until after he has completed the probationary period of employment.
7.04	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of five (5) employees to meet with the Company for the purpose of negotiating the renewal of the collective agreement. The Company will pay the five (5) members of the Negotiating Committee one regular day’s pay for each day of negotiations with the Company up to but excluding any conciliation or mediation proceedings.
7.05	The Unit Chairperson of the Union shall be informed whenever an employee has completed his probationary period.
7.06	The Employer agrees that whenever a disciplinary interview is held with an employee that becomes part of his record, a steward shall be present at such interview provided a steward is readily available. In the event that the employee requests no union representation, the steward will be provided with an opportunity to discuss this request with the employee prior to leaving the meeting. For clarity, where a steward is not readily available, the disciplinary interview will proceed.
7.07	Any disciplinary notation placed against the record of an employee shall become null and void on considering any further disciplinary action after twelve (12) months from the date of issue, providing no notation for a similar offence has occurred during the same twelve (12) month period.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
8.01	Prior to commencingto Step 1 of the grievance contained herein, the employee shall first discuss his concern with his immediate supervisor in an effort to avoid a written grievance being filed.
Step fl 1:
If any employee has a grievance he wishes to bring to the attention of the Company, he shall take the matter up with his immediate Supervisor. The employee will be accompanied by
6
his Steward. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee within two (2) working days, it will then be stated in writing and be submitted to the Department Manager.
8.02	Step #2:
Within three (3) working days, the Department Manager (and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company) will meet with the employee and his Steward, to discuss the grievance. The Department Manager will give his answer to the grievance, in writing, within two (2) working days after the meeting has been held. If his reply to the grievance is not satisfactory, the Union may, within three (3) working days after receiving the written reply of the Department Manger, refer the matter to the Plant Manager.
8.03	Step #3:
Within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance, the Plant Manager (and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company), will meet with the employee and his Steward to discuss the matter. At this meeting a full-time Staff Representative of the International Union may be present, if requested by either party. The Plant Manager will give a written reply to the grievance within three (3) working days after the meeting has been held.
8.04	If the meeting referred to in Step #3 does not result in a settlement of the grievance to the satisfaction of both parties, then either party to this Agreement may, within thirty (30) days after the date of the written reply, refer the matter to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
8.05	Any of the time allowances provided for in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement.
8.06	The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged circumstances of which arose more than five (5) working days prior to the complaint being presented to the Supervisor.
Article 9 - ARBITRATION:
9.01	Where a matter is referred to arbitration, the Party requesting Arbitration shall advise the other Party in writing of its request, together with a statement as to the issue to be arbitrated.
An impartial Arbitrator shall be selected by the Parties or if such Parties fail to agree upon the selection of an Arbitrator within twenty (20) working days of notification of appeal to Arbitration, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall designate the Arbitrator.
The jurisdiction of the Arbitrator shall be limited to the matter in dispute and he shall not have the jurisdiction to change, modify or disregard any provision of this Agreement, nor substitute any new provision in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with this Agreement.
7
The Parties agree that an Arbitrator shall have the power to award compensation or damages to any party, or employee, who is dealt with contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.
All decisions of the Arbitrator arrived at in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
Each of the Parties hereto will share equally the expenses of the Arbitrator.
Article 10 - DISCHARGE CASES:
10.01	A claim by an employee who has completed the probationary period, that he has been unjustly discharged from his employment, shall be treated as a grievance, commencing at Step #3 of the Grievance Procedure, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
10.02	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Company premises. The Company will notify the Steward concerned of the discharge as soon as he can reasonably be contacted.
10.03	Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirmingthe Company's action, or by reinstating the employee with full pay for the time lost, or by any other arrangement which isjust and equitable.
10.04	The Company shall have the right to discharge any employees forjust cause and upon any of the following, or similar grounds, without notice:
(a)
(b)
(c)
Theft or dishonesty;
Drinking alcoholic beverages while on duty or being under the influence of such alcoholic beverages or drugs (non-medical use) while on duty;
Direct refusal to obey orders given by the proper person unless such orders jeopardize life, health or safety of the employee, or are illegal.
Article 11 - COMPANY GRIEVANCES:
11.01	Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from submitting any grievance with respect to the conduct of the Union or its officers or representatives, or any allegation that the Agreement has been violated.
8
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES:
12.01	A claim by the Union that the Company is in violation of the terms of this Agreement may be filed as a written grievance by a full-time representative of the Union, or the Unit Chairperson, where the claim is such it affects the entire bargaining Unit, or an entire department of the bargaining unit. Such grievance shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the alleged circumstances giving rise to the grievances, and discussion shall commence at Step #3 of the grievance procedure. The terms hereof shall not detract from, nor replace the regular grievance procedure for employees or groups of employees as set out in Article 8.
Article 13 - MEETINGS:
13.01	The Company and the Union agree to have Joint Labour Management meetings (JLM’s) on a monthly basis, upon written request by either party.
Article 14 - SENIORITY:
14.01	(a) An employee will be considered on probation and will not be placed on a seniority
list until after he has worked a total of forty-five (45) days for the Company. Employees hired as Maintenance Mechanics will have a ninety (90) days worked probationary period. If removed from maintenance after forty-five (45) days worked for reasons of competence, the employee will be eligible to bump a production employee.
(b)	Part-time employees with less than two (2) years of service shall be required to
complete the probationary period as described above once taken on as a full-time employee.
14.02	Seniority lists based upon the date, on which employees commenced to work for the Company, shall be established for each department and Plant. These lists shall be revised semi-annually and a copy of each revision will be given to the Unit Chairperson and Union Office.
Employees with the identical seniority starting date will draw lots to identify their ranking on the Seniority Lists. This is to be done after consideration of the probation period completed and in accordance with Article 14:01 (b).
14.03	In cases of promotion, demotion, up-grading or transfer of employees, the skill, ability and general aptitude for the particular j ob in question shall be guiding factors. When these are relatively equal between employees, seniority shall be the deciding factor.
14.04	Where it is necessary to reduce the working force of the employees, plant seniority shall be the guiding factor so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work, which is available.
9
14.05	(a) Employees who are laid off will be retained on the Company's seniority list for a period of eighteen (18) months but unless they signify their willingness to return to work within three (3) working days after being requested to do so and report to work within ten	„
(10) days thereafter, they will forfeit their claim to re-employment by the Company. Employees will also retain their seniority rights for aperiod of eighteen (18) months from ( date last worked who have more than ten (10) years of service, employees with less than ten <; (10) years of service will have twelve (12) months from date last worked in cases of verified personal illness. Thereafter they will cease to be an employee of the Company.
(b)	Full-time employees who have been laid off will be contacted in order of seniority to
perform any work that they are qualified to perform on a part-time basis lasting for one (1) full week or more full weeks. These employees shall receive the regular rate of pay of the job being performed and all benefits for the period of part-time work.
14.06	Any employee promoted from the bargaining unit shall lose bargaining unit seniority and shall have no contractual right to return to the bargaining unit.
14.07	The Unit Chairperson and stewards with two (2) years or more of seniority will be granted top seniority amongst employees in the event of layoff, provided they are qualified to perform the work assigned by the Company. This shall also apply to the Unit Chairperson and Negotiating Committee during negotiations.
14.08	Seniority previously accumulated shall be lost and employment terminated whenever an
employee:
(a)	quits his/her employment or is discharged forjust cause and is not reinstated through the grievance / arbitration process.
(b)	overstays any leave of absence granted by the Company unless a reason satisfactory to the Company is given;
(c)	is absent due to layoff for a period in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months; (eighteen (18) consecutive months for employees with ten (10) or more years of service).
(d)	is absent without notice for three (3) consecutive working days unless a reason satisfactory to the Company is given.
Article 15 - TRANSFERS:
15.01	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company in order to meet production requirements will receive his regular rate of pay during the period of such temporary transfer.
15.02	An employee who is temporarily transferred to a higher ratedjob for any reason shall receive a rate consistent with his ability to perform the work to which he is transferred, but
10
in no case shall his rate be less than the rate for the j ob to which he is transferred, as set out in Schedule ”B", provided the duration of the temporary transfer is two (2) hours or more.
Article 16 - JOB POSTING:
16.01	Job vacancies will be posted on the plant bulletin boards for five (5) consecutive calendar days. During that period, employees may make applicationto the Plant Manager for the postedj ob. At the end of this period, the list of applicants will be provided to the Unit Chairperson,if the Union requests it.
16.02 Applicants for a posted job will be considered with respect to skill, ability and general aptitude and where these factors are relatively equal amongst employees, then seniority will apply. If none of those applying has the necessary qualifications required by the Company, then the Company may fill the job from any other source.
16.03	Only the originalj ob and the j ob from which transfer was made to the originalj ob will be posted. Any further vacancies will be filled from any source available, but will not be posted.
16.04	A successful applicant for a posted job shall not be permitted to apply again until six (6) months have elapsed.
16.05	When a permanent shift vacancy occurs it will be posted within one (1) week ofthe vacancy and it will be filled within a further two (2) weeks after the posting procedure is completed. Plant maintenance department vacancies will be excluded from this provision.
16.06	The Unit Chairperson shall be informed in writing of the disposition of each posted j ob vacancy.
16.07	Postings for vacant)obs will include details regarding the shift on which the opening exists.
16.08	When the Company becomes aware of a temporary vacancy in excess of thirty (30) working days, the Union will be notified and the j ob shall be posted as per Article 16. The vacancy that results from the posting will be filled at the discretion of the Company.
16.09	The Company shall inform the Union Chairperson of newjobs before posting.
Article 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
17,01	The Company may grant written leave of absence to any employee for personal reasons.
Any person who is absent with such written permission shall not be considered laid off, and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during his absence. The leave of absence will not exceed one (1) year. The Company will pay the benefit premiums for leave of absence of one (1) full month or less. Over one (1) full month the employee will pay the said premiums.
11
17.02	In the event an employee is summoned by proper authorities to serve on ajury, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, the Company will pay the employee the difference between his regular rate of pay and the amount received for jury service or a witness fee, provided the employee reports for work during the hours he is not required to serve on the jury, or remain in the Court House, or provided the employee makes some other arrangements satisfactory to the Company.
17.03	Up to five (5) days leave with pay will be granted an employee who has completed the probationary period in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, child, mother-in-law or father-in-law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law. Only that portion of the five (5) days that would otherwise have been worked will be paid. Up to two (2) days off with regular pay will be granted in the event of the death of an employee's grandparent or grandchild. Only that portion of the two (2) days that would otherwise have been worked will be paid.
17.04	The Company will give consideration to leave of absence for travel, provided:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
the leave of absence does not encompass the period from June 1 st to Labour Day; the leave is taken in conjunction with all or part of the employee's vacation; not more than three (3) employees are absent at a time; the leave does not extend beyond (3) weeks in addition to vacation.
The terms hereof will not apply to employees with less than three (3) years of continuous service.
17.05	Pregnancy leave and Parental leave shall be granted in accordance with the terms of the current Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
17.06	Employees with more than one (1) year of service who are selected to attend Union conventions or seminars will be given leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority, provided the Company is notified at least ten (1 0) working days in advance of the date the leave is to commence. Not more than five (5) employees will be granted such leave at a time, nor shall the total accumulation of such leave exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve (12) month period. Should the Union need an extension beyond the thirty (30) working days, the Company may grant such leave.
17.07	An employee with more than one (l)year of service who is selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union will be given leave of absence without loss of seniority for a period not to exceed one (1) year. The request for such leave must be made one (1) month in advance of the date it is to commence. During such leave the employee shall receive no payment of wages or other benefits.
12
17,08	The Company shall pay the appropriate health and welfare coverage premium costs for up to forty-five (45) weeks for employees absent on verified personal illness.
Article 18 - HEALTH AND SAFETY/MODIFIED WORK COMMITTEES:
18.01	The Company and the Union agree to establish a plant Health and Safety Committee, which will meet once, every two months, or as required. An Alternative member will be appointed by each respective party. The Committee is to be comprised of three (3) Union members appointed by the Union, and three Management members appointed by the Plant Manager, one of which will be the Safety Officer.
18.02	A modified work committee of three (3) Union members, appointed by the Union and three (3) members of Management, appointed by the Plant Manager. (an Alternative member to be appointed by each respective party) will meet as required or at the request of either party.
18.03	The Company agrees to hold regular shift meetings for all employees to discuss safety and other matters.
Article 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS:
19,01	The Company will provide lock-up bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations
throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union, and be submitted to the Plant Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted.
Article 20 - WORK PERFORMED BY FOREMEN:
20.01	Supervisors and persons above the rank of Supervisor shall not be utilized to perform work normally done by employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(a) in cases of emergency;
(b)	where it is necessary to instruct or train employees;
(c)	where it is necessary to carry on experimental or development work, or to insure that an operation is correctly started;
where it is necessary to keep production operating because of the absence of regular employees from theirjobs.
20,02	The above does not apply to Supervisors working in a maintenance capacity.
Article 21 - SEVERANCE PAY:
21.01	In the event an employee has his employment terminated as a direct result of the closing of the plant, he will be paid severance pay of one week of regular pay for each year of
13
fh
continuous service. Starting with the fourth (4 ) year to a maximum of twenty-six (26) years.
21.02 No employee will qualify for severance pay if he is able to exercise his seniority rights within the plant or if he is offered employment elsewhere in the Company in the Kitchener area, or if the closing results from:
(a)	Loss of business;
(b)	Fire, flood, strike, or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
21.03	An employee who accepts severance pay shall have no further claim to employment with the Company.
21.04	A terminating employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms of this Article who may also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance pay provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
Article 22- SCHEDULES
22,01	Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following schedules:
Schedule "A" - Hours of Work, Paid Holidays and General Working Conditions;
Schedule "B" - Classifications, Rates of Pay and Overtime Provisions;
Schedule "C" - Vacations With Pay;
Schedule “D” - Benefits;
Schedule "E" - Maintenance Department;
Schedule "F" - Part Time Employees;
14
Article 23 - TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION
23.01	This Agreement shall continue in effect from and including the 16th day of November, 2005 up to and including the 15 th day of November, 2007, and unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating the Agreement, it shall continue in effect until the 14th day of November, 2008 and so on from year to year thereafter.
23.02	Notice that amendments are required, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) days prior to November
15th, 2007, or any succeeding anniversary date.
Duly signed by the parties hereto at Kitchener, Ontario this 3rd day of August 2006.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR HE UNION
15
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURS OF WORK, PAID HOLIDAYS and GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
1.	No Guarantee:
The Company does not guarantee to provide work to any employee for normally assigned
hours, or for any other hours.
2.	Work Week:
The regular work week will consist of thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours, to be worked in five (5) days. The days off each week for any employee or group of employees will be determined by the Company. In a week in which a paid holiday occurs, as set out in section (6) of the Schedule, employees may be required by the Company to work five (5) days.
(b)	The daily hours, starting and quitting times, and the time and duration of lunch
periods will be determined by the Company in accordance with the requirements of the business. Employees will be notified in advance when changes are to be made in their shift schedules. The starting time of any shift will not be altered more than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours in a week.
3.	Lunch Periods:
Employees will be allowed one-half (1/2) hour for lunch period without pay. When long shifts are necessary, an additional lunch period will be allowed, without pay.
4.	Rest Periods:
Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration will be allowed as close to the middle of each half shift as possible. The time of these rest periods will be arranged by the Supervisor or Department Manager. An employee required to work in excess of ten (10) hours in a shift will be granted and additional paid rest period of ten (10) minutes duration, such rest period to be between the eighth and ninth hours of work. For each two (2) continuous hours of work after ten (1 0) hours, an additional ten (10) minute paid rest period will be granted.
5.	Uniforms:
(a)
(b)
The Company will supply and launder uniforms for all employees. There shall be a change per shift.
Shippers and Receivers regularly working on the dock and persons regularly working in the Bread Wrapping area will be paid $30.00 per year for the purchase of ajacket or heavy shirt. This payment will be made by September 15th. Receipts will not be required.
16
Suitable working apparel shall be provided for employees who are assigned to work in the Freezer.
Effective January 1,2006, employees shall be required to wear safety footwear in accordance with the Company's National Safety Footwear Standard. The Company shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost and arrange for a safety footwear provider, Safety footwear shall be provided on an annual basis. New hires are eligible, upon completion of the probationary period.
(e)	Sanitation employees will be provided with adequate rubber footwear.
(f)	The following will apply to Plant Maintenance Mechanics:
For an employee to purchase a piece of equipment essential to the employee's performance of the normal requirements of hisjob, the Company will pay the cost up to a maximum of four hundred and fifty dollars ($450.00), payable without receipts February 1st each year. Only employees referred to underthis section will be required to bring their own tools into the plant.
6.	Paid Holidays:
(a)	Subject to the conditions set out below, the Company will pay employees for the
following holidays, or days observed by the Company in lieu thereof, but not both:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Employee's Birthday (or, if a nonworking day, the day before or after, as assigned by the Company.)
The Company shall make every effort to allow an employee's birthday off. However, in the event either the Federal or Provincial Government declares a National or Provincial holiday which must be observed, then such holiday shall replace the Birthday holiday.
In order to be eligible to receive payment for a holiday, an employee shall be required:
0)
to have worked for the Company a total of forty-five (45) days;
to have worked the full shift immediately preceding the holiday and the full shifts on and succeeding the paid holiday, unless absence on any of the qualifying shifts was due to:
17
(1)
Verified personal illness; or
(2)	Death in the employee's immediate family; or
(3)	Permission being granted, in writing, by the Department Manager.
Pay for holidays will be at an employee's regular rate of pay, multiplied by seven and three-quarters (7 3/4).
(d)
An employee will not be entitled to be paid for a holiday if he does not work during the week in which the holiday occurs.
When a paid holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be paid for such holiday at his regular rate of pay in accordance with (c) above, or be given another day off as decided by the Company.
Part-time Employees
It is agreed and recognized by both the Union and the Company that the business of the Company is subject to fluctuations according to the needs of the business. For this reason it is necessary to employ both full-time and part-time employees.
In view of its responsibility to its full-time employees, the Company agrees that the use of part-time employees shall not cause the reduction in the number of full-time positions, the lay-off of a full-time employee, prevent the recall of a full-time employee on lay-off or cause a reduction in the regular hours of a full-time employee.
Part-time employees will normally work no more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, except as permitted in the Collective Agreement and as follows:
th
During the period between May 15 and September 15";
To fill in for full-time employees absent on vacation, accident, illness, or approved leave of absence;
During the week prior to and the week of Christmas, New Year's, Easter, and Thanksgiving;
When full-time employees decline overtime.
If requested by the Union, The Company will provide a list of part-time employees working more than twenty-four (24) hours and whom they are replacing. The list will also indicate the total number of weeks to date for the current calendar year that these employees have worked in excess of twenty-four hours.
18
SCHEDULE"B"
CLASSIFICATIONS, RATES OF PAY AND OVERTIME PROVISIONS
1.	The Company will classify its employees and pay hourly rates in accordance with the
following:
BREAD. ROLL AND ENGLISH MUFFIN DEPARTMENTS
Classification	November 15, 2005	November 15,2006
Mixer	$ 20.04	$ 20.49
Utility	19.67 | 20.12	
Bakery Worker	19.55	20.00
Receiver	19.79	20.24
Shipper	19.55	20.00
Cleaner	19.55	20.00
Quality Control	19.45	19.90 		 	
PLANT MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
j Classification	November 15,2005	November 15,2006
Control Technician	$25.05	$25.50
Maintenance Mechanic	24.05	24.50
Maintenance Mechanic Trainee	19.62	20.07
j Lubricator	19.77	20.22
| Building Maintenance	20.02	20.47
Any maintenance employee who currently holds two or more of the following licenses will be paid an hourly premium of$1.00 above their regular hourly rate ofpay:
a)	Industrial Electrician
b)	Millwright
c)	4th Class Stationary Engineer
d)	Refrigeration “B” License
Effective the date of ratification all active full-time employees on the payroll shall receive a lump sum payment in lieu of a wage increase in the amount of $750.00, less statutory deductions.
th
Effective the Saturday following November 15 2006 all active full-time employees on the payroll shall receive an hourly wage increase in the amount of $0.45.
19
2.	Rate of Progression
(a)	Amend to a start rate, 6 month rate andj ob rate at 12 months. The start rate shall be 10% less than the j ob rate and the 6 month rate 5% less than the j ob rate.
(b)	Amend to a start rate, 45 days of work rate andjob rate after a further 45 days of work for Maintenance Mechanic. The start rate shall be 10% less than the j ob rate and the 45 days of work rate 5% less than thejob rate.
(c)	An employee who has completed more than thirty (30) days of work and who is promoted from a lower to a higher rated classification will be paid ten (10) cents per hour below the rate for this classification to which he is transferred. He will progress at the rate of five (5) cents per hour each thirty (30) days of work until the rate for the j ob is attained.
3.	Lead Hands:
The Company may, at its discretion, designate certain employees as lead hands who shall be paid a premium of $ 1.00 above their regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked as a lead hand. The duties of a Lead Hand do not extend to the administering of discipline.
4.	Overtime Regulations:
Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times an employee's regular hourly rate will be paid for all authorized time worked, as follows:
(a)	F or all time worked in excess of seven and three-quarters (7 3/4) hours in a shift and thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours in a regular workweek, but not both.
(b)	For all time worked by an employee on his regular shift off or on the calendar day of a paid holiday.
(c)	For time worked in excess of thirty-one (3 1) hours in the weeks in which (1) paid holiday occurs and for the time worked in excess of twenty-three and one-quarter (23 1/4) hours in any week in which two (2) paid holidays occur.
(d)	Time worked during weekly hours which is due to be paid at the overtime rate of pay shall not be calculated in the weekly hours for the purpose of computing overtime pay in excess of the said weekly hours in that week. Time worked on the calendar day of a paid holiday shall not be calculated in the weekly hours for the purpose of computing overtime pay in excess of the said weekly hours in that week. Furthermore, overtime payment shall not pyramid, nor shall an employee be paid a rate greater than one and one-half (11/2) times his regular hourly rate plus any shift premium to which the employee may be entitled.
(e)	Overtime will be divided as equitably as practicable amongst the employees regularly performing the work or runs on which the overtime is required. An
20
employee, who does not work overtime when requested, shall have no claim regarding equitable distribution. On the last production shift prior to a nonproduction day, the finishing shift may be required by the Company to work three (3) hours overtime with minimum notice of four (4) hours prior to the start of the overtime.
5.	Night Shift Premium:
A shift premium of sixty-five (65) cents per hour will be paid for all shift hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. This shift premium will be computed without regard to overtime hours.
6.	Call-In Pay:
An employee who is called in to work after having left the premises, in order to meet emergency conditions, will be paid not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at straight time rates. Where the call-in occurs two (2) hours or less before the employee's regular starting time, payment will be limited to the hours remaining before the said regular starting time.
7.	Reporting for Work:
An employee who reports for work without having been told in advance not to report, will be given work, or pay, for a minimum of four (4) hours. This obligation on the part of the Company will not apply where an employee is prevented from working because of fire, flood, strike, and loss of power, mechanical breakdown or any circumstance beyond the control of the Company. This provision shall also apply to a full scheduled overtime shift.
8.	Guaranteed Pay:
Each employee who has completed one (1) year of continuous employment will receive minimum weekly pay of no less than the equivalent of thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours multiplied by his straighttime rate (including holiday pay), provided:
(a)	he reports for work and remains at work for each working hour assigned by the Company; and
(b)	he performs whatever work is available and assigned to him by the Company.
The terms of this section will not apply were the Company is prevented from providing work to any employee or group of employees because of fire, flood, strike, breakdown of machinery or any other circumstance beyond the control of the Company.
21
10. Pay Day:
In regular weeks the employees’ pay will be deposited on Thursday. In weeks containing a paid holiday, the pay may not be deposited until Friday but an effort will be made to deposit them on Thursday.
22
SCHEDULE"C"
VACATIONS WITH PAY
1.	Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following
schedule:
| (a) One (1) year of continuous service	I Two (2) weeks
(b) Five (5) years of continuous service	| Three (3) weeks
(c) Ten (10) years of continuous service	| Four (4) weeks
| (d)^Seventeen (17) years of continuous service	| Five (5) weeks
| (e) Twenty-Four (24) years of continuous service	I1 Six (6)weeks
2.	For purposes of computing vacations, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30th.
3.	Payment for vacations will be at the rate of two percent (2%) of employee's earnings for each week of vacation to which he is entitled, based upon the T4 form issued for income tax purposes (excluding taxable benefits) for the year immediately preceding. For the purposes of computing vacation pay entitlement, employees' earnings shall also include earnings from WSIB and Weekly Indemnity.
4.	Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be entitled to vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
5.	Where practical, vacations will be granted on a seniority basis for each department.
6.	Prime time for all employees will be June, July and August.
7.	Vacations shall not be cumulative from year to year and employees shall not	omit
vacations and draw pay in lieu thereof,
8.	The vacation period will extend for the full calendar year.
9.	An employee who leaves the service of the Company will be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled in accordance with his service.
10.	It is understood that vacations will be selected on a seniority basis. Employees will be allowed to pick two (2) weeks only in Prime Time on a rotation basis through the seniority list. Any employee may select the remaining vacation outside of Prime Time or wait for the next rotation.
11.	The Company agrees to post the vacation schedules by January 15th of each year. Employees will make their first selection by January 31 st. Second selection, if so
23
qualified, by February 15th and final selection, if so qualified, by March 1st of each year.
12.	It is understood for exceptional or emergency circumstances employees may be allowed, at the Company discretion, to take up to four (4) weeks vacation at any time.
13.	In the event an employee is off sick and his scheduled vacation falls during that sickness, the employee may notify the Company that he wishes to reschedule his vacation to a mutually agreed upon week(s). It is the employee’s responsibility to notify the Company prior to the vacation pay being issued.
24
SCHEDULE"D"
BENEFITS
1.	The Company will pay the full premium of the following benefits for full-time employees:
1(a)	Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan;
(b)	Company Group Insurance Plan including Life Insurance, Maj or Medical, Weekly
Indemnity, and Dental Plan (equivalent to Blue Cross #9 Benefits), Effective the ratification date of this collective agreement, the previous year’sOD A Fee Schedule will be used. The Company agrees to modify the Dental Plan to include dentures, crowns, and bridges on a 50% co-insurance basis to a $2,000.00 per calendar per person year maximum, all services. Effective one full month following the May 29th, 2000 ratification date of this collective agreement, drug claims will be 100% reimbursed. Only drugs, which require a prescription and are dispensed by a pharmacist, will be covered. Generic drugs where available.
(c)	Effective the ratification date of this collective agreement, the optical plan will
provide a pair of glasses, to a maximum of $175.00 every two (2) years, for all qualifying employees and dependants. Effective January 1, 2003, the maximum will change to $190.00.
(d)	The Long Term Disability Plan will be One thousand five hundred dollars
($1500.00) per month from all sources. Qualifying period of Sixty (60) weeks including Forty-five (45) weeks of weekly indemnity and Fifteen (15) weeks of unemployment insurance, disability insurance. Effective January 1, 2005 this payment shall be one thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600.00).
Qualifier - two years own occupation; - over two years any occupation
(e)	Life Insurance coverage for qualified employees will be $25,000.00.
(f)	A.D. & D. coverage will be at the same benefit level as Life Insurance.
(g)	To purchase optional life insurance for employees coverage in units of $5,000.00, to a maximum of $25,000.00 over and above the levels stated in the collective agreement, at employees cost. Rates are available by contacting Human Resources. Rates are applicable at the time of contract negotiations only and may be subject to change.
2.	The maximum amount payable under the Weekly Indemnity section of the Group Insurance
Plan shall be sixty percent (60%) of regular earnings up to the E.I. maximum, which shall be applied on a 1-1-4-45 basis. First day hospitalisation, for debilitating procedure or if receiving general anaesthetic, will be applied in the weekly indemnity plan.
25
3.	The full premium cost as referred to above shall only apply to those employees with one (1) year or more of service. Those with less than one year shall have fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost paid by the Company.
4.	Decisions regarding payments made to employees under the above-mentioned welfare plans made by a third party - i.e. the carriers of the said plans, shall not be subj ectto the grievance procedure, nor shall the Company in any way be liable for the payment of benefits in connection with such decisions.
26
SCHEDULE "E"
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT The following conditions shall apply to the Maintenance Department:
1.	The normal workweek shall be thirty-eight and three-quarters (38 3/4) hours, except as set out under the heading, "GuaranteedPay" in Schedule "B". This shall not be constmed as a guarantee of either hours of work or pay thereof.
2.	Apprentice Program
Apprentice positions will be posted and the selection of the successful applicant(s) will be at the discretion of the Company. The minimum Government guidelines will be applied.
The rates of pay for the Apprenticeship program will be in accordance with the Government standards.
27
SCHEDULE “F”
PART-TIME
Article 1 - RECOGNITION:
1.01	For the purpose of this Schedule, a part-time employee is an employee who is normally scheduled to work twenty-four (24) hours or less per week, except as provided for in the Collective Agreement. All matters relative to part-time employees and their working conditions shall be contained in Schedule "G" and Articles 1,2,02, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10, 11, 12, 13, 17.05, 18, 19, 20, 23 of the main body of the Collective Agreement and Schedule “A” - 7 and Letter of Understanding #7 (re: Weston’s Company Pension Plan).
1.02	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all the employees of Weston Bakeries Limited (Kitchener Division) in the city of Kitchener, regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week, and students employed during the vacation period, save and except forepersons and persons above the rank of foreperson, office, and sales staff.
Article 2- SENIORITY:
2.01	Part-time employees shall be on probation for the first forty-five (45) days worked. Upon successful completion of the probationary period, the employee shall be given a seniority date based on his original part-time hire date with the Company and placed on the part-time seniority list.
2.02	Bargaining unit seniority means the relative ranking of employees as determined by the respective length of accumulated seniority within the Company, in the bargaining unit. Employees with identical seniority dates will draw lots to identify ranking on the seniority list.
2.03	Provided that all available full-time employees have been scheduled and assigned work, in filling temporary full-time vacancies and/or new positions, part-time employees will receive first consideration for the availablejob.
Reliability, skill and ability and qualifications of the part-time employee to perform the work required shall be the governing factors, and where these are relatively equal seniority shall govern.
It is understood that the Company maintains the right to hire from outside the bargaining unit if/when the need arises.
2.04	Following the date of ratification of this agreement, part-time employees who are hired fulltime shall be credited with seventy-five (75)percent of their regular part-time seniority to a maximum of two (2) years, for the purposes of full-time bargaining unit seniority.
28
2.05	The Company shall revise and post the part-time seniority list and send a copy to the
Union every six (6) months.
Article 3 - HOURS OF WORK:
3.01	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee for any number of hours.
3.02 Part-time employees may be scheduled to work up to, but not in excess of twenty-four (24) hours per week, except as provided for in the Collective Agreement.
3.03	The Company reserves the right to schedule employees to meet the needs of the business and the requirements of the work that is available.
When scheduling the number of hours, up to twenty-four (24) hours per week, reliability, the immediate skill, ability and qualifications and availability of the part-time employee to perform the work required shall be the governing factors, and where these are relatively equal, seniority shall govern.
3.04 The hours worked by employees in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week shall be paid a premium rate of one and one half (1 Vi) times their regular hourly rate.
3.05	The part-time schedules of work shall be posted on one list, the Wednesday prior to the first day of the schedule. The work schedule may be changed after posting by the Company if business circumstances change. Employees will be given as much notice as possible, when changes to the schedule take place.
3.06	Employees shall be provided with an unpaid lunch period of one half QA) hour scheduled as close to the middle of the shift as possible.
Rest periods of ten (10) minutes duration shall be provided as close to the middle of the half shift as possible.
The Company will continue its practice of providing employees with a ten (10) minute rest period when scheduled to work for less than five (5) hours.
3.07	The Company will provide part-time employees with uniforms as necessary.
Article 4-CALL IN PAY:
4.01	An employee who is called back to work after having left the premises will be paid not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours pay at the straight time rates.
Article 5 - REPORTING FOR WORK:
29
5.01	An employee who reports for work without having been told in advance not to report, will be given work, or pay, for a minimum of four (4) hours. In the event of a challenge regarding whether an employee was called or not, the Company phone records will be the deciding factor.
Article 6 - SAFETY FOOTWEAR:
6.01	Effective January 1,2006, employees shall be required to wear safety footwear in accordance with the Company’s National Safety Footwear Standard. The Company shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost and arrange for a safety footwear provider. Safety footwear shall be provided on an annual basis. New hires are eligible, upon completion of the probationary period.
Article 7 - PAID HOLIDAYS:
7.01	The Company agrees to the following Statutory Holidays with pay, as per the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, subject to the terms and conditions as set out below:
New Years Day	Good Friday	Victoria Day
Canada Day	Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	Boxing Day
7.02	Part-time employees who are required to work on a paid holiday shall receive one and one half (1.5) times their regular hourly rate for all hours worked, plus their regular entitlement of pay for the said holiday.
7.03	Part-time employees will receive pay for Statutory Holidays as outlined in the Employment Standards Act of Ontario except for the following exception:
In order for a part-time employee to receive Statutory Holiday pay, they must have worked a total of ten (10) shifts in the four weeks immediately preceding the public holiday.
Article 8 - VACATION:
8.01	Vacations shall be granted with pay as per the Employment Standards Act of Ontario, provided that the employee makes his request in writing with a minimum of two (2) weeks notice, subject to the approval of the Department Supervisor.
8.02	Vacations will be granted on a seniority basis for each department.
8.03	The vacation period will extend for the full calendar year.
Article 9 - BEREAVEMENT:
30
9.01	Should a bereavement occur in the immediate family of an employee who has completed
their probationary period, the employee will be given three (3) days off with pay provided he was scheduled to work. Immediate family shall be mother, father, sister, brother, spouse, child. One (1) day off with pay on the day of the funeral or the day immediately preceding the day of the funeral will be provided for all hours that he was scheduled to work that day in the event of the death of an employee's grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
Article 10 - RATES OF PAY:
10,01	The following shall be the minimum hourly rates of pay for part-time employees.
Start
1000 Hours Worked
Part-time Licensed Trades people
Active Part-time employees hired prior to the date of ratification shall be placed on the wage progression in accordance with the number of hours worked.
Active Part-time employees who are currently at the end rate of pay as of the date of ratification shall be provided with a lump sum payment in lieu of a wage increase in the amount of $250.00, less statutory deductions.
10.02	It is agreed that the Company may, at its discretion, designate certain part-time employees as Team Leaders.
Article 11 - TOOL ALLOWANCE:
11.01	The Company agrees to provide a tool allowance to part-time maintenance employees who have completed twelve (12) months of service, in the amount of two hundred and twenty-five dollars ($225.00) per year, payable February 1st each year.
31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 1
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh
This letter, which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement, shall confirm the understandings as listed below which were reached at negotiations and which shall be Company policies regarding:
1.	Employees who are required to work on Saturdays shall be allowed time off to attend the General Union Meeting held every second Saturday of each month provided the employees return to work as soon as possible after the meeting and finish their scheduled shifts. (In the case of Sanitation, their assigned task must be finished).
2,	The paid holiday "Employee'sBirthday'' shall be observed as follows:
(a)	The scheduled starting shift on the day of the employee's birthday shall be observed as the calendar day off for the birthday.
(b)	The employee may request another scheduled shift off in lieu thereof, but not both, providing the request is submitted in writing to the Company two weeks prior to the birthday.
(c)	The day off for the birthday shall be within the week of the birthday.
(d)	The Company shall make every effort to fulfil the employee's request.
4,	The Company further agrees where shift changes of an extraordinary nature occur, involved employees will be advised personally and all other plant employees will be advised by means of a notice posted on the main plant bulletin board.
5,	Should it become necessary to move to a 4 day workweek, the Company and Union will meet to discuss and agree upon the terms and conditions of a 4 day schedule.
6.	Three weeks prior to a paid holiday, employees may request to not work the paid holiday. So long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a working force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available, the request will be granted.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
T erry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
32
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 2
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations on the following issues:
Scheduling of Work
When business circumstances allow, the Company will schedule the shifts to provide alternativesto the split workweek. All reasonable options including alternating Saturdays and Sundays off, or, two consecutive days off will be considered. This should not be taken as a guarantee but rather as a commitment to seek solutions to the split workweek. The parties agree to meet on an annual basis on or about the week of April 15th to discuss alternatives to the split work week. The intent of this letter is not to provide for an individual or individuals to benefit from any particular set of circumstances, but rather to identify solutions to greater issue of the split workweek.
Should the operation have a need for additional (extra) shifts on an ongoing basis, the Company will meet with the Union Committee to investigate the possibility of filling those additional (extra) shifts with Saturday, Sunday full time employees.
New Equipment
Before the implementation of any new equipment or processes, the training needs will be reviewed and agreed upon with the Health and Safety Committee.
Return to Work
It is understood that where an employee is returning to work without restriction, following a work related injury, the employee will be returned to their pre-injury j ob as long as the work is still available. When returning on modified work, the ability to offer their pre-injury work or any other work will be determined by the specific circumstances and the employee’s restrictions. All other applicable provisions of the Workers Safety and Insurance Board Act will apply.
Familiarization Period
The familiarizationperiod for employees whosejobs are eliminated will be a maximum of five (5) full shifts. Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 3
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations on the following issue:
Placement of Spare Employees
As agreed this letter shall confirm the agreement that was reached on January 21,1994, regarding the procedure for moving spare plant employees into current scheduledjobs. The procedure will be as follows:
1.	The spare employees will be asked, in order of seniority, to choose aj ob, which they can perform with a maximum familiarisationperiod of five (5) days. They will displace the mostjunior employee doing that particularjob.
2.	The remaining employees currently doing the j ob will be able to select their shift before a spare employee, regardless of the spare employee’s seniority (as per the straight shift guidelines).
3.	In the case where more than one spare employee moves into a particular job, the current employees on thatj ob choose their shifts, and the spare employees would choose their preference from the remaining shifts, based on seniority.
4.	Once the spare employees with seniority are placed intoj obs using the above procedure, the displaced employees, with seniority, will follow the same procedure.
5.	Once this procedure is complete, the remaining spare employees will be asked to notify the Company ofjobs, which they are currently capable of doing, Every effort will be made by the Company to place spare employees intojobs, which they are capable of doing, based on seniority. However, if a spare employee is not capable of performing any of the jobs, which are vacant in a given week, that spare employee will be laid off.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 4
December 16, 2005
Mr, Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the following understanding reached during negotiations regarding:
Employee Selection of Shift Preference
The Parties agree that one-month following the ratification of this collective agreement; a process for the selection of shift preference, within department classifications will take place. It is clearly understood by the Parties, that this process does not involve training or retraining, but is intended solely to offer employees an opportunity to apply their seniority for the purposes of obtaining a more preferred shift within the employee’s current department and classification.
Employees will be provided with a form to submit to their respective Supervisor, on which they will indicate in writing, their shift preference for the duration of this collective agreement. Such form must be returned completed within two (2) days of receipt. It is understood that selection of a preferred shift does not prevent an employee from posting for other classifications during the term of the collective agreement.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 5
December 16, 2005
Mr, Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr, Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the following understanding reached during the recent negotiations regarding:
Relocation of Wellington Warehouse
In the event the Wellington Street shipping operation is relocated within the cities of Waterloo/Kitchener/Cambridge, then the employees and Union will be recognized at the new location.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 6
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle Street North Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the following understanding reached during the recent negotiations regarding:
Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance
Employees whose age plus service equals eighty-five (85) or more may apply for a voluntary retirement allowance. Employee(s) must make application for such voluntary retirement allowance at least six (6) months prior to retirement. The employee(s) will receive on their date of voluntary retirement, a lump sum equal to one week’s pay per year of continuous service, to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks regular pay, less statutory deductions. The Company will also maintain coverage for prescription drugs until the employee(s) reaches their sixty-fifth (65) birthday. Provided that the Company can meet its production requirements, the selection of qualified employees and the number of employees permitted to retire, will be determined by the Company.
Note:	Eju^|cjye^s^shal 1 not be eligible to receive a voluntary retirement allowance after their sixty-fourth
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
37
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING# 7
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr, Walsh:
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement will confirm the following understanding reached during the recent negotiations regarding:
Weston’s Company Pension Plan
This letter is to inform all of our employees that there is a “Voluntary Company Pension Plan” that is available for all employees, subject to them meeting certain eligibility requirements. Both the employee and the Company contribute to this plan. Employees who are interested may arrange or request to receive a pension information pamphlet that outlines the steps necessary to becoming enrolled in the pension plan and also outlines the workings of the plan itself. This information pamphlet is available from the main office at the Kitchener plant. For further information, employees may also telephone (416) 922-2500.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 8
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle Street North Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mr. Walsh:
The Company acknowledges the mutual benefits of providing training to part-time employees. On occasion, the Company may provide opportunities for training to part-time employees.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 9
December 16, 2005
Mr. Tom Walsh The United Steelworkers 2445 Eagle StreetNorth Cambridge, ON N3H 4R7
Dear Mi. Walsh:
Re: Workplace Harassment
Both the Company and the Union recognize the diverse and multicultural composition of the workforce and appreciate the dignity and worth of each individual.
The parties agree that when a formal complaint has been filed under the Employer’s Standard regarding Workplace Harassment where the complainant or the alleged harasser is a member of the bargaining unit, the Company will notify the Union and the Union will have the option to participate in such investigation.
Yours truly,
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
Terry McArthur
Director, Labour Relations & Human Resources
40