Collective Agreemej
Between
BETA BRANDS IN
London, Ontario - and -
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO-CLC
Effective: Deosniber 27,1997 Expiry: December31,2002
NAME:
Beta Brands
1
INDEX
A
ABSENTEEISM AND CALL-INS APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM. ARBITRATION............
B
BEREAVEMENTLEAVE............
BULLETIN BOARDS.............
C
CHECK-OFF...................
CLOTHING FOR PLANT EMPLOYEES.
COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES...
Crew Leader.................
D
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE, DISCRIMINATION..........
E
ESTABLISHEDWORK PRACTICES,
G
GENDER...............
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE Group Insurance Plan.
H
HOURS OF WORK.....
/
Interim Wage ReplacementWhen WCB Benefits Delayed. J
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES.........
JOB SECURITY...............................
JOB SKILLS INVENTORY.......................
19
62
14
28
36
..7
40
11
58
15
..6
55
..6
10
32
37
66
50
34
26
2
JOB SKILLS TRAINING, JURY DUTY..........
L
LAY-OFFS...........
LEAVE OF ABSENCE..,
M
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT. MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.......
N
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE...
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS....
O
OVERTIME PARAMETERS.
OVERTIME RATES.....
OVERTIME REGULATIONS
P
PARTTIME EMPLOYEES....
PAY WEEK..............
PLANT VISITATIONS.....
POLICY GRIEVANCES.....
POSTING OF JOB VACANCIES PRODUCTION SHUTDOWN...
Profit Sharing Plan PURPOSE..........
R
Rates for New hires............
RECALL TO WORK.................
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS............
RELATIONSHIP...................
Relocation of equipment to London Plant REPORTING ALLOWANCE............
Rescheduling of Vacations REST PERIODS...........
27
29
21
27
41
..8
10
..7
43
47
46
60
40
36
15
22
63
53
..5
51
47
39
10
67
47
43
41
3
RETURN TO WDRK PROGRAM.
S
SAFETY...............
SCHEDULING...........
SCHEDULING GENERAL...
SCOPE AND RECOGNITION SENIORITY............
SEVERANCE PAY SHIFT PREMIUM-STEWARDS....
T
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION Teliminations on 24 month absence..
TRAINING ADMINISTRATION.......
TRIAL\TRAINING PERIODS........
U
UNION ELECTIONS.............................
Union Members Temporarily Assigned to Non Union Jobs. UNION SECURITY..............................
V
VACATION PLAN...............................
W
WEEKEND SCHEDULED OVERTIME...............
WEEKLY SCHEDULED OVERTIME................
WORK PERFORMANCE AND EFFICIENCY..........
WORK UNIT AND DEPARTMENTS JOB POSTING PURPOSES.
65
4
cn -f». cn -t*.	—*■	~siji.cn -*■ cn oo	ooocoohdconio
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
BETA BRANDS INC. LONDON, ONTARIO (Hereinafter referredto as "the Company")
AND
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, LOCAL 242, (Hereinafter referredto as "the Union").
Article 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide orderly collective bargaining relations, to provide a procedure for the prompt disposition of grievances, and to develop and maintain mutually satisfactory hours, wages, working conditions, efficiency and safety.
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
1.02	(a) This Agreement, which supersedes all other, written, express or implied, will continue in effect until December 31, 2002, and will continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice of its intention to terminate or to seek amendments to this Agreement within a period of not more than ninety (90) days prior to the date of expiry.
5
(b)	In the event that either party gives notice seeking amendments, negotiations will commence within twenty (20) days after receipt of such notice and if as a result of such negotiations, the parties fail to negotiate a new Agreement or modification of the present Agreement prior to the date of termination, then this Agreement will terminate on that date.
(c)	It is understood that during any negotiations following upon notice of termination or notice of amendment, either party may bring forward counter proposals arising out of or related to the original proposals.
GENDER
1.03(a) Except where clearly indicated otherwise, reference to the masculine pronoun shall refer to either sex.
DISCRIMINATION
(b)	It is agreed that the provisions of this agreement shall be applied to all bargaining unit employees without discrimination in regard to race, colour, religion, sex, age, handicap, or national origin. Such employees who claim that he/she has been discriminated against with regards to rights guaranteed by this agreement, may grieve as provided in Article 10.
Article 2 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at its London Plants, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, plant nurses, office and sales staff, and watchmen.
2.02	A full-time employee is one who is hired to normally work forty (40) hours perweek
6
Article 3-UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees covered by the terms of this Agreement will
be required to become and remain members in good standing in the Union as a condition of continued employment.
3.02	All employees will pay Union dues after three days of work.
This payment of Union dues will not be refunded, but will in no way change the new employee's status as a probationary employee. All new employees will become and remain members in good standing in the Union upon completion of forty-five (45) working days of service as defined in section 14.02 of Article 14, as a condition of continued employment. The Company will notify new employees of this condition of employment at the time of hiring and will require a signature on the "Application Form" at that time.
3.03	CHECK-OFF
The Company will, for the term of this Agreement, deduct Union dues, sums collectedfrom weekly dues will be forwarded along with a record showing for whom the deductions were made, to the financial secretary no laterthan the last day of each week (biweekly effective July 1,1998). When an employee has been off on weekly indemnity and returns, no more than 1 week union dues of back premiums will be taken off any one pay. Initiation fees will also be deducted after forty-five(45) working days and submitted to the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union.
Article 4 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	The Union agrees that there will be no strike or other
collective action which will stop or interfere with production, deliveries or
services, and that if any such collective action should be taken, it will
instruct its members to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and to
return to or resume work and perform their duties in the normal manner.
7
Article 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	Management of the business of the Company, the direction
of its working forces, the securing of efficient operation of the plant, the schedules and quantities of production and methods, processes and means of production and distribution are the exclusive functions of the managerial and supervisory staff of the Company.
5.02	Management shall determine the kinds of products to be manufactured, processed and/or distributed by the Company. The equipment, materials and processes shall be those deemed by Management most suitable for its requirements.
5.03	Management shall maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
5.04	Subject to the limitations of this Agreement, Management will hire, promote, transfer or demote employees and suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, subject to the right of the employees to enter into the grievance procedure as contained herein. The Union recognizes the right of the Company to institute and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, a copy of which will be given to all employees. Any changes to or any new rules will be discussed with the Union prior to being posted on the bulletin boards. Copies if changed, or new rules, will be given to the Union.
5.or
<
<
i
i
i
(
' I 1 1
i
i
5.05 The Company will not contract out any work which is normally performed by members cf the bargaining unit, contracts in force as cf the effective dates of this Agreement excepted. When outside contracts are necessary, the Union will be notified in writing at least forty eight (48) hours before any work commences, in order that representation may be made to the Company. Before contracting out any work, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee or appropriate union steward to explain to them work to be contracted, why it is necessary to contract any such work, and the approximate time that will be required to perform the work. It is the Company's and Union's understanding and intent to co-operate in the case of emergencies or unusual circumstances.
8
t
'Ut
i
Outside contractingwill be effected in the best interest of the company. The issue of contracting out will be referredto the panel in situations where contracting out is in excess of $10,000. per annum.
In the event of a dispute between the union and the company on the issue of contracting out, a panel of 5 personswill be organized with each of the union and the company selecting 2 members and thefour(4) members appointing an independent fifth memberwho shall serve as voting chairperson.
In such case, the union and the company shall instruct the panel to make a determination with five (5) days from the date of appointment
5,06 (a) Employees will not be required to, or be penalized for, refusing to cross a picket line where a legal strike is in progress.
(b)	The Company will not knowingly purchase or use material from a Company where a legal strike is in progress, if it is able to secure such materialfrom other sources without unreasonable delay.
(c)	The Company agrees that it will not knowingly manufacture, process or package any product normally produced by another Company where a legal strike is in progress for the purpose of assisting the employer to maintain operations or market.
(d)	The Union agrees to meet with the Company in an attempt to work out a satisfactory solution to the above-mentioned problems which is acceptable to both parties.
9
Article 6 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE:
6.01	The Company recognizesthe right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than seven f7Jfemployees, and will deal with the said Committee on such matters as are properly the subject of negotiation during the term of this Agreement, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
6.02	International Representativesof the Union may be present at any meeting held under this provision if their presence is requested by either party hereto.
Article 7 - STEWARDS
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the appropriate supervisor. A list of such stewards and areas within which each one is to normally function will be a matter of record between the Company and the Union. The Company will not be obliged to recognize any steward until notified, in writing, of their name and work unit in which the steward is to normally function.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
8.01	The Company recognizesthe right of the Union to appointor otherwise select a Grievance Committee of not more than four (4) Union officers plus one (1) steward as observer and other stewards concerned to be called in singly as necessary.
Article 9- RELATIONSHIP
9.01	It is mutually agreed that employees will not be eligible to
serve as stewards or members of any committee established under this Agreement, until afterthey have served their probationary period in the employment of the Company.
10
9.02	Officers and stewards, required to be absent from their regular duties for the purpose of investigating and processing grievances and complaints will notify their supervisor, who will arrange the necessary relief as soon as possible. It is understood that only under emergency conditions shall a supervisor refuse to grant permissionto stewards to leave their job(s) for necessary steward's duties. It is agreed that stewards will only absent themselves from their duties for the length of time necessary to investigate or adjust a complaint or grievance and will report to their supervisor immediately upon their return to their job. The Local Union President will be assigned to work on day shift. The same absence from work for Union business regulations as govern other Local Union officials will apply to the President.
9.03	The Company agrees to permit stewards and committee members, including the negotiating Committee, reasonable time off from regular duties to attend to matters properly coming under the provisions of the Agreement and that in accordance with this understanding, will compensate them at regular rates of pay for time allowed off during regular working hours.
9.04	The Union agrees to keep the Company currently informed,
in writing of the names of the stewards and committee members. The Company will not be asked to recognize any steward or committee member until such notificationfrom the Union has been received.
Article 10 - COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the patties hereto that complaints of employees will be adjusted as quickly as possible. S is understood that a formal grievance may not be filed until the employees have contacted their supervisor giving them an opportunity to adjust the complaint or answer the question within the next regular workday, or any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon by the employee and supervisor concerned.
Employees may be assisted by any Steward in their Department.
11
10.02	Employees will be allowed reasonable time off to register complaints or questions during working hours after securing permission from their supervisor.
10.03	Failing satisfactory adjustment or answer, the following
steps of the Grievance Procedure may be invoked in order, provided the grievance is reduced to writing within three (3)working days of the answer to the supervisor and within ten (10) working days of the time the facts giving rise to the grievance became known to the employee.
10.04	The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
STEP1
(a)	The written grievance will be signed by the employee and the steward and be delivered to the supervisor Concerned.
(b)	The supervisor concerned will state a decision in writing, with appropriate reasons and return the grievance and signed statement to the employee, with a copy to the steward and the Local Union President within three (3)working days.
(c)	Failing settlement, the grievance may, within two (2) working days following the decision of the supervisor, be referred to and dealt with under the following Step 2.
(d)	Grievances may be registered during regularworking hours at the reasonable convenience of the supervisor during that shift.
NOTE: The term supervisor shall not include any bargaining unit personnel.
12
I
STEP 2
The steward and the aggrieved will meet with the appropriate manager (and Industrial Relations Manager on request), or their designate within five (5) working days. The President of the Union or his/her designate will be present at Step 2 meetings. A written answer to the grievance will be given by the appropriate Company official within two (2) working days following this meeting. If no settlement is reached at this stage, the grievance will be referred to a meeting of the Grievance Committee and Management of the Company.
STEP 3
(a)	If the reply of the appropriate manager is not satisfactory to the aggrieved, the grievance shall be referred, within three (3) working days following the date of the manager's reply, to the appropriate Director. The Director and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Grievance Committee within a further five (5) working days to discuss the grievance. The Director or his designate will give a reply to the grievance, in writing, within five (5) working days after the said meeting has been held.
(b)	Failing settlement within a period of five (5) working days following the meeting, at the request of either party, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as provided hereinafter.
10.05	Any of the time limits provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
10.06	If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, the party requesting arbitration will do so within ten (10) working days after receipt of the other party's answer at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Nothing in the grievance procedure will prevent representatives from either party from reviewing matters and trying to reach an agreement before going to arbitration.
13
Article 11 - ARBITRATION
11.01	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted
to arbitration, they will make such request in writing, addressed to the other party, after the grievance has been dealt with in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure and at the same time will suggest the name of the sole arbitrator. The other party will have ten (10) working days to accept or to suggest the name of another arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on the sole arbitrator within the above ten (IO) working days, the party requesting arbitration will request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint the sole arbitrator.
11.02	Each party will jointly and equally bear the expense of the sole arbitrator.
11.03	No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not
been properly carried through all appropriate steps of the grievance procedure.
11.04	The sole arbitrator will not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any pari of this agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by this agreement.
11.05	In suspension or discharge cases, the arbitrator will have authority to deal with such matters properly before it in any manner which it deems just and equitable in the circumstances of the case. All reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the arbitrator to fully investigateall the circumstances relating to the grievance.
11.06	The proceedings of the arbitrator will be expedited by the parties hereto. The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
14
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES
12.01	Eitherthe company or the union executive committee may
file a policy grievance over any dispute or alleged violation arising out of an interpretationof a section of the collective agreement, which will be presented in writing, dated and signed by the aggrieved party to the other party. A meeting, as set out in Step 3 will be held between the parties within five (5) working days after receipt of the grievance. Failing settlement, the matter may be referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee as set out on 10.06 above.
12.02	International Union representatives may be present at any meeting held under the provision of this Article, if their presence is requested by either patty.
Article 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	a) Verbal warnings will be given in the presence of a steward. A copy of written warning notices will be given to the affected employee and the employee's regular work unit steward.
b)	Any employee permanently demoted or transferred from their job posting will be considered a special grievance and will be treated as in Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
13.02	(a) A claim by a suspended or discharged permanent employee that the suspension or dischargefrom employment is unjust will be considered a special grievance and will be treated as in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. Any employee discharged or suspended will have the right to be represented by the union president or his/her designate at the time. In the event the president or his/her designate is not available, the employee will have the right to representation by any steward available. An employee returning to the plant on the matter of a grievance will report to the Administration Office before entering the plant proper. Such grievances will be lodged with the Manager Industrial Relations, in writing, within three (3)working days from the date of the
15
suspension or discharge. Such grievances will be heard by the appropriate Director or his designate within a further three (3) working days. At this hearing, employees will be accompanied by their steward and the President of the Local Union, or his/her designate, ifthe employee so desires, and the matterwill be treated as in Step 3 cf the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Such grievances may be settled by confirming the Company's action in suspending or dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee without the loss of seniority with full compensation for the time lost, or by any other arrangement which is mutually considered just and equitable by the parties. If the suspension or discharge is confirmed by the Director or his designate, then the matter may be referred to arbitration as provided in Article 11.
(c)	Personnel files will be kept intact, however, for disciplinary actions, records will be disregarded after 18 months from the incident. Employees who wish to have access to their own personal file, under supervision of management, must submit the request in writing to the Administration Department. Request will be granted (unless abused) within a reasonable period of time.
Article 14 - SENIORITY
14.01	Seniority will provide employees with security based on their continuous employment with the Company dating from the employee's most recent date of hire.
14.02	Employees having less than forty-five (45) working days of service will be considered probationary employees and will have no seniority rights during this probationary period, except that such employees will be given the opportunity to return from layoff before new employees are hired. It is understood, however, that part-time employees will not accumulate any seniority rights.
16
14.03	Seniority lists of permanent employees will be maintained
by the Company and revised every six (6) months. Ali seniority lists will be posted on the bulletin boards of the Company and a copy supplied to the Union President, Union Executive, and Stewards.
14.04	SCHEDULING 11 General Principle
(i)	Senior employees who are qualified will be scheduled for work according to the operations’ requirements.
(ii)	Scheduling will be daily.
Procedure
A Place employees according to shift/posting.
B.	Fill vacancies on shift, in the department, then in the plant with employees who do not make it on their job posting.
C.	Bump the mostjunior employee on a job he/she is qualified, on shift in the dept., then in the plant.
D.	Fill vacancies on the opposite shift in the dept, then in the plant.
E.	Bump the mostjunior employee on a job he/she may be qualified, on the opposite shift in the plant
2)	The daily schedule will be posted by 2:30 p.m. the regular workday prior.
3)	Vacancies that cannot be filled by available employees, will be filled by moving the junior qualified employees on shift, then on the opposite shift. In all cases consideration will be given to moving the fewest number of people possible. This may result in not moving the most junior employee.
4)	Employees on 11 -7 will only change shift as a last resort.
17
5)	Employees called in from layoff will be assigned to their shift and then to the day shift by reverse seniority.
6)	When a reduction takes place during the shift part time employees are reduced and the position is filled like a normal vacancy.
Affected employees fill vacancies on shift in the department, then in the plant and failing this will bump the most junior on shift in the plant on a job they are qualified.
14.05	GENERAL
14.05	a) Employees on jobs that have rotating shifts will be required to work all shifts when necessary.
The packaging department 11-7 shift will be staffed with junior qualified employees.
b)	These articles (14.04,14.05) may not be construed as preventing the company to assign any junior qualified employees to meet its daily operational requirements.
c)	Employees will be responsible to find their own qualified replacementfrom another shift for appointments that conflict with their assigned shift and will have the change approved by their supervisor in writing.
d)	If employees have their shift changed by the company without notice on the prior working day and they have a prearranged commitment, then the supervisor will make arrangements to relieve the employee for such commitment.
e)	An employee reporting for work more than 15 minutes late without just cause and who has not called in priorto his/her start time, may not be placed if he/she has been replaced. If the employee has been replaced, then available work will be at the discretion of the supervlsor/scheduler.
18
f)	Ai employee who calls in and notifies his/her supervisor or the scheduler priorto the start of his/her shift will be placed if he/she reports within one hour of the start of his/her shift.
g)	If a steward secures a change with another employee on the opposite shift and each are qualified to do the other's job, permission will be given to change in order to attend steward's meetings.
h)	The Administration Office has complete seniority listing which can be referred to by the Union.
I) Employees on layoff who are scheduled to work will be called by the scheduler. Personal contact must be made in all cases acknowledging the scheduled shift. When personal contact is not made and the employee does not call by 2:00 p.m. of the day priorto the scheduled shift, the schedulerwill schedule the next senior qualified employee.
j)	When scheduling changes occur after the schedule has been posted, employees will be moved to effect the least number of changes.
k)	Employees who may no longer have the physical requirementsto performthe job will be considered not qualified for the job.
l)	Employees will maintain their rate in their department.
m)	Employees from the 11-7 shift finishing Friday morning, must call after 2:30 p.m. to confirm their next scheduled shift.
14.06	ABSENTEEISM AND CALL-INS
14.06	a) Employees returning to work must call in priorto 12:00 noon the day before returning from an absence in order to be placed the next day. Daily scheduling procedures will apply.
b)	Vacancies due to a call-in from a scheduled worker will be replaced by another worker who has been called-in for the day.
19
c)	Workers called in to replace an absent worker will be placed in the vacant spot. However, supervisors will place the worker at their discretion as to qualifications and seniority.
d)	Employees called in by telephone for each shift day of work will be taken strictly in order from the seniority list. If employees in turn cannot be contacted, including repeated busy signals, they shall be by-passedfor the next in turn.
14.07	Seniority status, once acquired, will be lost and emplo-ment terminated only for the following reasons:
a)	Voluntary resignation
b)	Dischargeforjust cause
c)	Layoff in excess of one (1) year
d)	Layoff in excess of eighteen months for employees with five (5) or more years of seniority.
e)	Failure to return to work after a layoff within seven (7) working days after proper notification by registered mail has been sent to the employee at the last address appearing on the records of the company.
f)	Employee who is scheduledfor work fails to reportforworkorcall in for 3 consecutive days, unless the employee was totally incapacitated to do so for just cause.
g)	Absence from work for sickness or accident for a period of 24 months. (see letter of understanding)
14.08	Correct phone numbers and addresses are the responsibil ity of the employees, who must keep the scheduler informed.
20
Article 15 - LAY-OFFS
15.01	When employees are scheduled to be laid off from the plant, such lay-offs will be in order of reverse seniority.
15.02	a) When an employee is scheduled or displaces another through the exercise of seniority according to 14.04 and 15.01, this may only be done when that employee has the ability and qualifications to do the job without training (i.e. capable of performing the job safely and efficiently after a maximum of one (1) hour. RefertoJ.S.I. article 16.05.
This article is applied to all cases of displacement by seniority except where otherwise specifically indicated in another part of the agreement (example: 22.04 Job Elimination).
b) Employees who may not possess the physical requirements (whether inherent or arising out of illness or injury and) who have enough seniority to hold a job will be deemed not qualified in jobs which they no longer have the physical abilities to perform (article
16.05	b) and will exercise their seniority on jobs they are qualified as per 15.02 a).
15.03	Should there be a cutback in production within two (2) hours from the completion of the scheduled shift, then seniority will not apply except that part-time and probationary employees would be displaced by permanent employees in accordance with seniority.
15.04	Not withstanding their position on the seniority list, Union Officers (President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary-Treasurer)will have top seniority throughout the Company's operation in the event of layoff and recall.
21
15.05	Employees assigned to jobs other than their own for
the convenience of theCompany shall receivethe rate of the job or their regular rate, which ever is the greater. When an employee works on a higher rated job for four (4) hours or more, that employee will receive the higher rate for that shift.
15.06	The company will give the Union President a written notice
as soon as possible regarding a major plant layoff which is expected to be in excess of five (5) consecutive days of work. A notice will be posted on the bulletin boards in the department concerned.
Article 16 POSTING OF JOB VACANCIES
16.01	(a) When a job vacancy occurs and a replacement is
required, a notice of job vacancy including the job classification rate, title, summary job write-up, work unit and effective date will be posted plant wide for five (5) regular work days.
(b)	Applications will be considered first by work unit, then total plant. The successful applicant will have the greatest seniority and be capable to perform the work or be given a fair trial or training period which length is determined in schedule I.
Senior applicants who are refused the job vacancy and applicants found unsatisfactory and removedfrom the job before or at the end of the trial/training period indicated in schedule I will be given the reasons in writing by the appropriate supervisor. When found unsatisfactory applicants will be returned to their previous jobs as soon as a replacement is available under the bidding procedure. Grievances arising out of such refusal will be referred directly to step 2 of the grievance procedure.
Within 30 working days a successful applicant may indicate his desire to return to their former job.
(c)	The name of the successful applicant along with the award date and effective date will be posted three (3)working days from the close of bidding.
22
(d)	It will not be necessary to re-post a job in the case of an applicant returning to this former job within 30 working days, under this article and applications will be considered from among the original bidders.
(e)	An employee who is successful on a job posting will not be eligible to bid on other postings for a 12 month period from the effective date, unless no other internal applicants qualify. An employee will not be allowed to bid into anotherjob and later return to his original job more than twice (2) in any one year.
(f)	Employees who elect to withdraw or are returned to their former job will not be deemed to have qualified for the job.
(g)	A successful applicant will be paid his own rate during the trial/training period as indicated in schedule I. He will receive the rate of the new job once he qualifies at the end of the trial/training period or earlier should supetvision establish that he qualified before the end of that period.
If deemed qualified before the end of the 30 day period indicated in
16.01	,b, the applicant will be required to exercise his option at that moment.
The number of days spent on a job priorto successfully bidding on a job will be considered as part of the trial/training period, as long as 30 days is left to the period of assessment.
(h)	A new employee who is successful on a job posting will receive the probation rate (except for groups 7,8 and 9) for the first 45 days. Following the probationary period of 45 days the employee will receive the rate of the job provided he has qualified according to the trial/training period of Schedule I.
23
16.02	Employees absent from work due to illness, vacations,
leave of absence (not exceeding four weeks from posting the notice) or lay-offs, and who are eligible to bid for the openings, will be considered along with other eligible applicants and, if selected, the job will not be filled permanently until the absent employee returns to work.
An employee absent under the above noted conditions will be required to apply no later than five (5) working days following his return to work in order to be considered.
16.03	Skilled trades jobs will be posted on the Department bulletin board as in 16.01.
If no suitable applications are received, the posting will then go Factory-wide. If no applications are received for a posted job, or, if of the applicants, no employee has the required certificate, the Company may hire a new employee.
If required, the Company will post factory-wide for apprentices and register same underthe Provincial Regulations. If no suitable applicants are available the Company may hire a new employee. Apprentices are not subject to layoff or bumping.
24
16.04	WORK UNITS AND DEPARTMENTS:
a)	Work units and departments for the purpose of job postings and overtime are defined as:
Work Units
i)	General Packaging
ii)	Biscuit/Cracker Packaging
iii)	Chocolate /Caramel Packaging
iv)	Mixed Candy Packaging
v)	Bakeshop
vi)	Cream & Gum vi)Panning
viii)	HardCandy/Caramel
ix)	Material Handling
x)	Maintenance
xi)	Sanitation
Departments
Packaging
Packaging
Packaging
Packaging
Process
Process
Process
Process
Material
Maintenance
Sanitation
b)	Job postings will be respected as per current postings (i.e. - packer - mixed candy, packer crackers) except postings are not recognized for an individual line, machine or oven.
Future packers will be general packers and not attached to any work unit but to the packaging dept.
25
16.05	JOB SKILLS INVENTORY
16.05	(a) I n order for employees to identify skills for which they are qualified under the Skill Inventory they must meet one of the following criteria:
-	currently hold the job posting
-	must have done the job in the last two (2) years.
b)	Employees will be listed as being skilled on group 3 and 4 jobs requiring one hour or less training provided they are physically capable of doing the job.
c)	Employees who have not done a job for two (2) years will be marked retrain and they will bump and be given a trial as in article
15.02	a).
d)	Employees will be responsiblefor updatingtheir J.S.I. with newly acquired skills in writing by means of a J.S.I. updateform. Before amending the J.S.I. update forms must be approved by the Production Manager.
e)	The J.S.I. will be kept in the Human Resources Office and will be updated on an ongoing basis. Whenever a change is made to an employee's J.S.I a revised copy will be forwarded to the employee.
16.06	TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
a) Training can be done by the senior qualified posted employee who possesses the minimum abilities required to successfully complete the trainer's program. Refer to schedule I for trainer's rate. Trainer's rate to apply when supervision determines that training is required for a full shift.
26
b) JOB SKILLS TRAINING
Priority for training will be given to posted employees. Senior employees who will be laid off on an ongoing basis, will have the option upon request to be trained in the position held by the most junior employee in their group or in a lower group in the plant, provided they are qualified to be trained.
In exceptional circumstances the union and management may agree to training in a higher grouping
Article 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01	(a) The Company may grant Leave of Absence to any employee for legitimate reasons.
Such leave of absence will be in writing and seniority will continue to accumulate as though the employee were actually at work.
The Company may refer such applications to the Medical Centre for advice before making a decision on the application or may require a statement from a Medical Doctor in support of such application. Twenty-five (25) year service employees will be granted Leave of Absence during, June, July, August and September on one occasion only.
(b)	Leaves of absence and vacations granted under the 25 year of service leave may not exceed a total of 8 weeks during the period June 1st through September30th (3weeks of which must be vacation).
(c)	Leaves of absence of 5 days or more must be approved by the appropriate manager.
17.02	Company will grant Leave of Absence to Union Officers
and no more than four (4) other employees at one time delegated to attend Union conferences and conventions, provided one weeks notice is given to their production manager.
17.03	The Company agrees to grant Leave of Absence to Union
27
Officers to accept a full-time Union job with the American Federation of Grain Millers Union with retention of seniority rights.
17.04	(a) Employees applying for a leave of absence will not be required to use their vacation before leave of absence is granted, if leave of absence is requested outside the vacation period.
(b)	Anyone being granted a leave of absence will be given a written copy by the appropriate supervisor or manager.
17.05	Any employee engaging in employment other than that referred to in 17.03 above during a leave of absence or extension thereof, may be subject to immediate dismissal.
Article 18 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
18.01	In the event of a death in the employee's current immediate family (parents, including legal adoption) sister, brother (including legal stepsister and step-brother) spouse or children, father-in-law or mother-in-law, employees will be entitled to be absent from work for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive regular working days, or, in the case of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents or grandchildren, one (1) day off with pay when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral, provided acceptable proof is shown where requested. During such absence, employees will be compensated for their straight time regular rates. Company to provide for (1) day with pay for an employee acting as pall bearer for a fellow employee.
18.02	I n the event of the death of an employee s mother or father outside of the country, an employee will be entitled to be absent from work for one (1) day with pay on a scheduled workday falling immediately prior to, after or on the date of the funeral. Such payment will be made at the employee s regular straight time rate, provided acceptable proof is shown where requested.
28
Article 19-JURY DUTY
19.01	The Company agrees to pay a full day's pay at the straight
time hourly rates for each day an employee is required to serve and does serve on any jury, provided employees would have worked on the day or days actually served on the jury. Employees, however, will be required to turn in to the Company the jury duty fees in order to receive the compensation above provided. Employees subpoenaed as witnesses, except in their own defence, will be compensated in the same manner as those qualifying for jury duty Pay-
Article 20 - SEVERANCE PAY
20.01	In the event an employee is terminated as a direct result of
the closing of the Plant, that employee will be paid severance pay as follows:
(a)	Five (5) years or more of continuous service -1 weeks pay per year of service to a maximum of 26 weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years or less of continuous service • 1 weeks pay.
(A weeks pay to be the regular weekly hours multiplied by the employee's regular hourly rate.)
20.02	No employees will qualify for severance pay if they are offered employment elsewhere in the Company, or if the closing results from or during a strike at the Beta Brands Inc.. London Plant.
20.03	An employee who accepts severance pay will have no further claim to employment with the Company.
20.04	An employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms
of this Article who may also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
29
20.05	In the event of the plant closing, wages owing the employ ees shall take preference, as required by law.
Article 21 -WELFARE AND SAFETY SAFETY
a)	All work related accidents no matter how minor must be reported to the supervisor in charge. Employees injured at work while performing their assigned duties and who leave the Plant premises for medical treatment, will be paid for the balance of that shift, providing they report to, or telephone, the Human Resources Office or supervisor following such treatment.
b)	In the interest of any employee sustaining any incapacitating injury or illness, as certified by a doctor, the Company and the Union will confer to offer alternative and suitable employment, if such is available, without violating the rights and seniority of any other employee.
Where there Is a disagreement between the Company's and the employee's doctors, a specialist will be consulted on mutual agreement of the doctors. If further disagreement, the whole matter will be returned to the modified work committee.
c)	All notes from the doctors should be delivered to the supervisor or the Administration Office.
d)	Any injured employee requiring medical aid will be provided transportation to the treating facility by the Company.
e)	Any job site where a critical accident occurs cannot be started up, or cleaned up, until the site has been inspected by a union and management Joint Health and Safety Committee representative and if necessary, the OHS inspector from the Ministry of Labour. Please also remember that the area must not be disturbed in any manner (except to relieve human suffering or prevent further damage) or
30
machinery may not be started up until approval is given by the M.O.L. inspector.
t) When a new employee is hired the Company will make sure that they are given a copy of the Safety Rules and Regulations and that such is fully explained to them in the presence of a Union Designate.
g)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee will consist of no less than two (2) non-bargaining unit members and five (5) bargaining unit members includingthe co-chairperson.
h)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall designate a Worker Representative and a Company Representative to inspect once a year the plant's physical conditions and unsafe work practices, inspecting at least part of the workplace each month as established by the JHSC.
(i) A maximum of one (1) unionized Safety Committee representativewill be allowed for each department (max. 5 for the plant).
31
21.02	The Company will continue to administer the Company group insurance plan which includes:
(a)	Life Insurance for active employees will be equal to annual earnings with a minimum of $19,000.00 on a basis of $500.00 increments to a maximum of $27,000.00 effective November 4, 1995. Effective May 1,1992 a paid up $2,000.00 policy for future retires.
(b)	Weekly Indemnity coverage of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's regularweekly earnings (forty (40) hours at base rate on regular group) to fee current E.l. maximum. There shall be a 1-1-4-26 paymentformula. Income Tax to be deducted at source.
The Company will prepay up to four (4) weeks equivalent weekly indemnity for employees offor reason of pregnancy, if the employee claims and qualifies for Employment Insurance Commission benefits. Such advance will be repaid when the E.l. benefits are received.
Employees undergoing outpatient surgery in a hospital will qualify for benefits from the first day provided they have a Doctor's certificate of incapacity to work.
(c)	Extended health plan paying for ninety per cent (90%) cf specified medical expenses after annual deductibles of ten dollars ($10.00) for single and twenty dollars ($20.00) for family coverage. The maximum lifetime benefit will be $50,000.00 effective May 1, 1992.
DEFINITION OF DRUGS/MEDICATION COVERED UNDER HEALTHCARE BENEFITS
The cost of medication which is necessary for treatment and which can only be obtained on medical prescription by a physician and provided by a pharmacist (medically coded "PR", "C" or "N" in the Compendium of Pharmaceutical and Specialities)
32
In addition, medication used for the treatment of severe illness with or without medical prescription and part of the following categories is also refundable.
o Bronco-dilators o Vaso-dilators Vaso-pressors o Anti-arthritics o Anti-arhythmics o Anti-spasmodic o Anti-convulsive
o Insulin and tools necessaryfor its injection o Anti-coagulants o Anti-anginous o Anti-inflammatories
(d)	The Company will pay 70% of the premium costs of a Dental Plan equivalent to Blue Cross #7, the most current O.D.A. Schedule as outlined by the ODA to be in effect. The Plan will contain a $25.00 deductible with co-insurance on a 100% basisfor preventive services, 80/20 basisfor basicservices, 50/50 basisfor restorative setvices, 50/50 basisfor dentures, to be in effect August 1,1990.
(e)	Eye Care Plan
To provide $100.00/2 yrs ($100.00/1 yr for children under 18 years of age) towards prescription glasses or contact lenses effective May 1,1992.
21.03	The Company will pay sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per calendar year effective November4,1995 towards the cost of safety shoes as approved by the Company for those employees required by the Company, to wear safety shoes, or by Government Dictate. This subsidy will be eligible to be carried over one year. If required and approved by company an additional pair may be purchased within the same year.
In addition, the Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of prescription safety glasses, Company to determine
33
supplier, for employees on jobs where the Company thinks the lenses are necessary.
Article 22-JOB SECURITY
22.01	One (1) month’s notice will be giventothe Unionto advise of any significant technological change.
22.02	If the context of any job should be changed during the term of this Agreement to a sufficient extent that either an increase or decrease in the job rate should be considered, or a new job established, it will be subject to negotiation with the Union Grievance Committee. If agreement is not reached, the Company will assign a rate and the Union may grieve under Article 12. Any rate agreed to or awarded at arbitration will be retroactive.
22.03	(a) When a job is to be eliminated, the Company will meet with the Union Executives ten (1O) days prior to the proposed elimination, in order that other alternatives can be considered.
Failing an agreement, the affected employee and the Union President will be given thirty (30)days prior notice of job elimination in writing.
(b)	When a job is eliminated the former incumbent will retain his former rate of pay or the rate of the new job, whichever is greater, for a twelve (12) month period from the time of elimination.
The former incumbent will also keep bidding rights i n his former work unit for twelve (12) months. Should the employee bid and qualify on anotherjob within that year, bidding rights will stop.
22.04	When a job is eliminated the following applies:
(a)	The affected employee with sufficient seniority will be entitled to bump the most junior employee in the department in the same grouping or lower grouping. Failing this the employee may bump the most junior employee in a higher group if the employee is already
34
qualified. If no one junior in the department, then bump the most junior in the plant same cr lower grouping.
A fair trial period of up to thirty (30) working days will be given the affected employee to establish competency.
Failing the trial period, the employee will be laid-off and will apply seniority according to Article (14.04).
(b)	Employees being displaced as a result of job elimination will exercise the same options as in (a) above.
(c)	Employees who become redundant by the reassignment of duties will exercise the same option as in (a) above.
(d)	Affected employees or displaced employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they will become assigned.
22.05	When a re-organization occurs and jobs are transferred to another work unit, the job incumbents will transfer to the new work unit.
The employee will also keep bidding rights in his former work unit for twelve (12) months. Should the employee bid and qualify on anotherjob within that year, bidding rights will stop.
If the employee requests to remain in his/her own department, 22.04 will apply.
Article 23- UNION ACTIVITIES
UNION ELECTIONS
23.01	I n order to assist the Union during the term of this Agree ment to obtain a truly representative vote of employees by secret ballot for the election of Union officers, the Company will provide facilities on its property for the annual election of such officers, outside of working hours, in accordance with present practice. Arrangements for the election will be made between the Company and the Union Executive Committee prior to the date of the election, but it
35
is understood that the vote will be conducted by a Union Election Committee.
PLANT VISITATIONS
23.02	The business representative of the Union will be granted admission to all properties covered by this Agreement during working hours to interview members of the Union after first receiving permission from the Director Manufacturingor his designate, and with the understanding that there will not be any interruption or curtailment in production. This clause shall also apply to the Local Union President during their off-shift hours.
BULLETIN BOARDS
23.03	Forthe convenience of the Union, the Company will provide bulletin boards on which may be posted notices of the Union activities. Such notices will be subject to the approval of the Director Manufacturing, Industrial Relations Manager or Department Manager before posting.
Article 24 - SCHEDULES
24.01	The following schedules are hereby annexed to and form part of this agreement:
(1)	A schedule of Job Classifications, Wage Rates.
(2)	A schedule of Work Performance and Efficiency.
(3)	A schedule of Established Work Practices.
(4)	A schedule of Part-Time Employees.
(5)	Letters of Intent and Understanding
(6)	Trades Training
36
Article 25 - USE OF PART-TIME HELP
25.01	It is necessary to employ both regular (referred to as "fulltime employees") and part-time employees.
Article 26 - GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
26.01	HOURS OF WORK 1. No Guarantee
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours, unless so specifically provided for herein.
2. Hours of Work (a) Regular Shifts
Shift No. 1: Commencing between6:00 am. and 8:00 am. to 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Shift No. 2 Commencing between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 am.
Shift No. 3: Commencing between 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 am. to 6:00 am. and 8:00 am.
fbl HOURS OF WORK All employees:
The regular work week consists of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty (40) hours, Sunday midnight through Saturday midnight. (No split shift)
All work on Saturday will be voluntary.
(c)	By exception, some employees in the processing departments will schedule starting times of their shifts to accommodate regular shifts. Their regularwork week will consist of five(5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty(40) hours which may start on a Sunday (no split shift).
(d)	Rotating shifts will be weekly.
37
(e)	Shift No. 3 starts on Sunday (considered Monday shift) except for sanitation which starts on Monday.
(f)	Any changes to the above when conditions warrant will be subject to negotiations between the Union's Executive Committee and the Company.
(g)	An employee may be required to change from one shift to another in order to meet unexpected changes in production schedules. However, such a change may not be made more than once weekly and in such cases, a break of at least seven (7) hours will be allowed between shifts. A shift change is defined as: a change from one shift to the opposite shift. This does not apply in the case of a layoff, or as a result of an individual remaining in their work unit.
(h)	(i) Employees scheduled on the production work week (Sunday 11 -7 to Friday 3-11) who are required to change to the Sanitation work week in order to obtain work will not be eligible for overtime rate on the Friday 11-7 shift.
The employee bumping will start on the appropriate working day on the sanitation schedule.
(ii) Time and one-half will only be paid to an employee (other than a sanitation employee) on Friday 11-7 if requestedto work in sanitation where he/she otherwise would have had seniority to work on 7-3 or 3-11 on that Friday, unless this employee began his/her week in sanitation.
3. OFF-SHIFT PREMIUM
a)	A shift premium of .40 cents will be paid for hours worked during the 3rd shift.
b)	Employees working through from shift 3 to shift 1 will receive shift premium for all hours worked in shift 1.
Shift premiums are not subject to overtime premiums
38
26.02	RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
(a)	All permanent employees will be reimbursed for wages lost by reason of the plant being closed on any or all of the ten (1O) recognized holidays, providedthey have worked their scheduled shift prior to and following the holiday, unless excused by the Administration Office, in writing.
When absence is due to illness or injury and provided the employee works sometime in the week in which the holiday occurs or the following week, Administration Officewill also excuse.
Permanent employees who are laid off within two (2) weeks prior to the holiday or who are recalled after layoff within (2) weeks following the holiday, will be entitled to holiday pay.
(b)	An employee working on a higher rate of pay before and after a holiday for the convenience of the Company, will receive the higher rate for the holiday.
(c)	An employee required to work on a recognized holiday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) for all hours worked on the holiday, in addition to the holiday pay, at straight time.
Employees working beyond eight (8) hours will be paidtwo and one-half (21/2) times the regular rate for all hours worked over eight (8).
If a recognized holiday is observed during the vacation period of an employee, the employee will be paid for the recognized holiday in addition to the vacation allowance, or an extra day of vacation in lieu thereof at the wish of the employee, provided the extra day vacation is so requested before vacation begins.
The reference to at the wish of the employee refers to the choice of pay or an extra day of vacation. Management must approve when that extra day can be taken off.
39
d) Holidays recognized New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day
under this provision are as follows: Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
(e)	Recognized holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday will be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
(f)	Also, arrangements may be mutually made annually to substitute Saturdays worked at regular rates prior to Christmas as paid off in order to extend the Christmas holiday break.
26.03	WORKING CONDITIONS (a) CLOTHING FOR PLANT EMPLOYEES It is the intent of the company to change the uniform program, to have employees laundertheir own uniforms. Employees working in areas with unusualdlrty working conditionswill be reviewedto determine the suitable number of uniforms (cleaning and repair) to be issued. These changes will become effective the end of the current contract with our uniforms supplier or sooner if possible. These changes wil be reflected in 26.03 a).
Uniformswill be provided without a charge. All employees will be provided with two (2) clean uniforms per week Additional clean uniforms will be provided at the discretion of the supervisor.
to) PAY WEEK
It is the intent of the company to have direct deposit for employee paychecks as soon as possible.
For payroll purposes, the work week commences at the start of the 7-3 shift Saturday morning and finishes at fee end of the 11-7 shift Friday night.
Payment will be made each Thursday, except when a recognized holiday falls on Friday, when payment will be made Wednesday.
40
A bi-weekly payroll will be in effect by July 1,1998, 26,03 b) will be amended to reflect these changes.
(cl REST PERIODS
All employees will be allowed two (2) rest periods, each of ten (10) minutes duration, one in each half of the working day or shift, at regular rate. Lunch period of one-half (1/2) hourwill be established in all departments.
(dl MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Subject to it's prior approval of the tools involved, the Company will credit an employee's account with an annual tool allowance in the amount of $160. (applies to new or upgraded tools) to those employees who are required by the Company to provide their own set of tools. The purpose of this allowance is to replace the employee's existing tools that become broken or damaged in the performance of the employee's job. If specialized tools are-required, they will be supplied by the Company, and such tools will remain the property of the Company. Unused portion of allowance in any year may be carried over into the next year only.
Article 27 - VACATION PLAN
27,01 a) Vacations will be earned inthe previous year from January 1stto December31st, The rate at which vacation pay is earned will determine the number of vacation weeks for the following year.
The rate of vacation pay (2% for each week) will be changed on the employee's anniversary.
b) The schedule of earned vacation will be as follows:
After one year of service 2 weeks After five years of service 3 weeks After twelve (12) years of service 4 weeks Effective January 1, 2001 employeeswho have twenty-five (25) years or more of servicewill receives weeks of vacation.
41
27.02	Preference of vacation dates will be recognized by May 1 st in order of work unit seniority provided that such preference is indicated to the Company prior to April 15th in the vacation year and that the exercise of such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules. Employees will be entitled to take three (3) consecutive weeks vacation between June 1st and September 30th. The fourth and fifth weeks of vacation are to be taken at other times, subject to operational requirements of the vacation year.
27.03	In the event that continuity of service with the Company is broken, an employee re-entering the service of the Company at a later date will be considered a new employee in respect of the Vacation Plan.
27.04	Employees who are laid off but who have not severed their employment with the Company will not be paid for any vacation credit at the time of layoff, but such employee vacation credits will be determined and paid at the employee's request during the vacation year as of the employee's anniversary date of hire in the vacation year.
27.05	Employees leaving the Company during the vacation year
will be entitled to receive credit, calculated to the day of leaving, by direct deposit in accordance with the Plan.
27.06	All deductions normally made from an employee's regular pay will be deducted from the vacation pay.
27.07	Vacation pay will be paid on a separate deposit with all normal deductions to cover the vacation period.
42
27.08	Rescheduling of Vacations
(i)	Employees may only cancel vacations with a minimum 7 days notice from the date of departure.
(ii)	Employees who become disabled due to illness or injury during their vacation may only cancel full weeks of vacation provided they are certified disabled by a doctor.
(iii)	Employees who are off on Worker's Compensation or weekly indemnity during a scheduled vacation period must cancel their vacation and reschedule them upon their return to work.
In all cases if the employee has already received his/her vacation pay, an unpaid vacation will be scheduled upon his/her returnto work.
Article 28 - OVERTIME PARAMETERS 28.01 SATURDAY/SUNDAY/STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime and fail to report are to forfeit their next opportunity for overtime. At the supervisor's or manager's discretion, employees may be granted permission to be off the Friday prior to the overtime, which will not disallow them to work the overtime.
If employees do not have permission and are absent on the Friday, they will not be allowed to work the overtime.
b) i) Overtimeopportunity will betaken down by 3 p.m. Thursday prior to the overtime and posted by 11:00 am. Friday (11:00 p.m. Sanitation). Employees have until 1:00 p.m. Friday to remove their names and notwork the overtime without penalty.
(Ii) Unless advised of an error on the posted schedule by 2 p.m. Friday, the overtime posted schedule will be deemed free of error and not subject to the grievance procedure. Any error reported to the scheduler prior to 2 p.m. Friday that Is not
43
corrected will be compensated at the appropriate rate. Once the complaint has been lodged, the employee would be advised cf it’s disposition by Friday by the end of his/her shift.
(c) Employees on holidays cannot work the Sunday of the week their holidays start or the Saturday of the week their holidays end.
d) Overtime will be offered on a work unit basis first. (except packaging which will be assigned by department as per article 16.04)
(e)	Failure to report is deemed to be insufficient notifications allow reasonable time to call in a replacement at least one hour before your scheduled shift starts.
(f)	Employees laid off for more than 30 days may not volunteer for this overtime.
(g)	(I) Employees are required to notify their supervisor before 10:00 a.m. on Friday if they will not be available for work on Saturday or Sunday. Employees accepting work on a Saturday or Sunday, who fail to reportforthe assignedwork, will forfeit his/her right to be scheduled on the next occasion for Saturday/Sunday work.
(ii) Should such an employee be needed on the date of forfeit, the employee shall forfeit his/her next turn. Such an employee can only be used once all the weekend scheduled overtime volunteers list has been exhausted.
28.02	OVERTIME SCHEDULING (a) WEEKEND SCHEDULED OVERTIME
Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holiday overtime will be followed on separate rotating lists, starting with the senior employee in the work unit, on January 1st of each year.
44
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people in the work unit (for all areas except packaging who will be assigned by department as per16.04 a), and not necessarilyjob postings, in order to accommodate as many people as possible in the rotation.
(bl WEEKLY SCHEDULED OVERTIME
Amend Overtime will be offered on a rotating list starting with the
senior employee in the work unit as per 16.04.
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people and not necessarily their job postings. Overtime will only be offered to the shift on which it is scheduled.
(cl NON-SCHEDULED WEEKLY OR WEEKEND OVERTIME OR SCHEDULED OVERTIME OF FOUR (41 HOURS OR LESS Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work in the production/process line first on a voluntary basis. Failing sufficient response, the overtime will then be offered to the senior qualified person in the operational work unit regardless of job posting.
d) NON-SCHEDULED WEEKLY OR WEEKEND CALL-IN OVERTIME DUE TO ABSENTEEISM OR UNSCHEDULED PROGRAM CHANGE WHERE SUFFICIENT TIME WAS NOT AVAILABLE TO POST
Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work on the production/process line four hours each from the opposite shifts on a voluntary basis. Failing a response, the senior qualified person in the operational work unit will be offered the overtime regardless of job posting. If a production line is not running, senior qualified person will be asked. All employees will notify their supervisors if they wish to be called in for unscheduled overtime. A list of people agreeing to be called in, will be kept in Scheduler's office and it will be the employee's responsibility to keep the list updated regarding their status and correct phone listing. Off-shifts will have access to this list via shift supervisor.
New weekend overtime requirements which become known after 10:00 am. Friday and before4:00 p.m. Friday will be assigned to
45
employees who have signed up. This overtime will be offered to the first qualified person on the list. If no one is available from the sign up, weekend overtime will be assigned according to 28.02 (d).
28.03	OVERTIME REGULATIONS
(a)	All overtime work in excess of five (5) hours per week in a regular work week will be voluntary. The five hours will not necessarily be continuous. Overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays will be entirely voluntary except in cases of emergency, such as fire, flood, powerfailure or acts of God. Overtime will be distributedon a work unit basis, by rotation starting with the most senior qualified employee. Notice of Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime will be given on Tuesday if possible. Employees will work the shift wherever their seniority falls.
(b)	A paid relief period of twenty (20)minutes when working in excess of two (2) hours, overtime and an additional paid relief period of ten (10) minutes when working in excess of three (3) hours overtime following the regular shift will be allowed.
Employees working more than five (5) hours on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays will be given a one half hour paid lunch period. Overtime records will be made available to the responsible Steward if requested.
(c)	On one occasion, per calendar year, non-accumulative, an employee may be required to perform a shift of overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. It is understood, that this requirement will only be used by the Company in the case of extreme need for product, when enough volunteers are not available.
46
fd) OVERTIME RATES
(i)	All Regular Production Shifts
Employees will be paid for overtime work at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift in any one day, Monday through Saturday.
(ii)	All hours worked in excess of 40 hours perweek on Saturday
will be paid at time and one-half. All hours worked on Sunday will be paid at a rate of double time (2).
(iii)	Continuous production shifts will receive one and one-half (11/2) times the regular hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in one day, or forty (40) in one week.
(iv)	All hours worked on the seventh (7th) day of a scheduled work week will be paid at the rate of double time (2).
(e) It is understood for Maintenance Personnel Employees, that if a job is started either during regular or overtime hours, that job will be completed if the company requires it to be completed by the trades person on the job, cr another qualified replacement, if one can be obtained.
ffl RECALL TO WORK
An employee recalled to the plant to perform overtime work in the event of an emergency will be paid for not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours time at the applicable rate.
When an employee is recalled to work overtime and has not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since completing the last regular scheduled shift, such employee will not be required to continue working into the next regular shift except in the case of extreme urgency.
fa) REPORTING ALLOWANCE
Employees reporting for work who have not been advised in advance to the contrary, will be given work for at least four (4) hours at regular rate, or if no work is available, will be paid four (4) hours at regular rates in lieu of work.
47
Where lack of work is due to circumstances such as fire, flood, power failure, or Acts of God, this obligation shall not prevail.
An employee on lay off who is called in to work less than four (4) hours prior to the commencement of the shift will receive one (1) hour straight time. This clause assumes commencement of work at the requested time. This hour bonus is not to be calculated as time worked.
48
Signed at London, Ontario. DATE: November 10,1997, FOR THE COMPANY:
T. COPPING	B. PACKHAM
Chief Operating Officer	Chief Financial Officer
B. DESILETS	L. PINCOMBE
Manager Human Resources	Director Manufacturing
FOR THE UNION:
B. DEGAUST	M. KONESKO
President- Local 242 V. P. - The American Federation
of Grain Millers International Union
P. MUNDT	T. MILLAR
Vice President
B. A. BANNON	Fi. STEVENSON
Treasurer
49
SCHEDULE I
JOB CLASSIFICATIONSAND WAGE RATES
GROUP	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS	12/27/97	01/01/01	01/01/02
1	Probationary (45 days)	8.72	8.86	9.00
3	Trucker	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Time-Keeper/Relief	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Time-Keeper	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Packer	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Janitors	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Housekeeper	13.72	13.86	14.00
3	Group 3 Candy Processor	13.72	13.86	14.00
4	Trucker	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Sanitor	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Porter	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Palletize Off Conveyor	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Laundry Attendant	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Group 4 Candy Processor	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Group 4 Candy Maker	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Group 4 Machine Operator	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Groundskeeper	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Grinder/Trucker	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Elevator Operator	13.82	13.96	14.10
4	Cracker Processing	13.82	13.96	14.10
5	Group 5 Verticle Form & Fill Oper.	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Sander/Oiler Operator	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Mogul Trucker	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Mould Maker	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Lozenge Mixer	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Hard Candy Cooker	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Group 5 Candy Maker	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Rapistan Operator	13.94	14.08	14.22
5	Group 5 Machine Operator	13.94	14.08	14.22
6A	Votator Operator	14.10	14.24	14.38
50
GROUP	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS	12/27/97	01/01/01	1/01/02
6A	Mogul Operator	14.10	14.24	14.38
6A	Group 6A Material Handler	14.10	14.24	14.38
6A	Group 6A Machine Operator	14.10	14.24	14.38
6A	Group 6A Candy Maker	14.10	14.24	14.38
6A	Enrober Operator	14.10	14.24	14.38
6B	Set-up/relief	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Set-up/Cleaner/Relief	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Operator Sheeter/Laminator	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Machine Operator Set-Up	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Lab Attendant	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Group 6B Top Candy Maker	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Grp6B Machine Operator	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Dough Mixer	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Baker	14.30	14.44	14.58
6B	Chief Material Handler	14.30	14.44	14.58
7	Building Maintenance	15.82	15.98	16.14
8	Welder	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Tinsmith	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Stationary Engineer	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Refrigeration Mechanic	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Plumber/Pipefitter	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Millwright	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Electrician	17.62	17.79	17.97
8	Carpenter	17.62	17.79	17.97
9	Technicians	18.09	18.27	18.48
New hires will be paid $5.00 belowthe new rates for the first two (2) years of their employment. Every year thereafter their rate wi 11 be Increased by $1.00 on their anniversary untilthey have reached the regular wage rate posted in schedule 1.
Trainers, Crew leadertrelief Rate $.30 per hour (see training administration)
51
TRIALATRAINING PERIODS o Group 3 - 30 working days within 60 calendar days o Group 4-45 working days within 90 calendar days o Group 5- 60 working days within 120 calendar days o Group 6-60 working days within 120 calendar days o Group 7 - 60 working days within 120 calendar days o Group 8 - 90 working days within 180 calendar days o Group 9 - 90 working days within 180 calendar days
52
PROFIT SHARING PLAN
A profit sharing plan will come into force January 1,1998. ProfitSharina Plan
The profit sharing plan formula will be based upon the company’s earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) which EBIT will mutually be defined among the union and the company (“Parties”) less interest bearing debt. The resultantwill be multiplied by 3% determining the profit sharing amount (“Profit Sharing Amount1).
The EBIT and interest expense will be calculated from the combined operations of Beta Brands Incorporated including the London Plant. However, the proceeds of Profit sharing Amount will be solely distributed to all the employees of the London Plant on a Quarterly basis.
The 3% Profit Share Amount is effective provided the company has EBIT of $11.7 million annually and will be calculated as a 1% Profit SharingAmount if the EBIT is less than $11.7 million annually. Any disputes regardingthe Profit Sharing Amount will be submitted to a nationally recognized accounting firm whose decision will be binding upon the Parties.
Details of the plan will be mutually finalized by the Parties and the representative of the salaried employees by December 15,1997. Itisthe intent of the Parties for fiscal 1998 to have the proceeds distributed to the entire London Plant. However, the Parties agree to apportion a part of this on a mutually agreed departmental and company basis effective on or after July 1,1998.
53
SCHEDULE II
WORK PERFORMANCE AND EFFICIENCY
1.	Employees will perform any and all reasonable duties to which they may from time to time be assigned and it is understoodthat the Company is entitled to receive a fair day's work from each employee. It is understoodthat employees will not be required to perform any work assignment which violates either the established Company rules and regulations or safety rules or which, because of certified medical reasons, is liable to cause or aggravate injury. An employee having a complaint concerning a work assignment other than as referredto herein will nevertheless perform the same, after which such complaints may then be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
2.	Complete production standards will be available for review in each department. The Union recognizesthat the right of the Company to establish fair standards of production is granted by Article 5 of this Agreement. New standards will be established by the Company. Results reflectingthe efficiency will be available. The Union agrees to work with the Company to promote efficiency. The employees affected by a new time study will be told beforehandwith an explanation of what is being attempted.
54
SCHEDULE III
ESTABLISHED WORK PRACTICES
(This replaces all prior letters of understanding, Labour-Relations minutes or other past practices).
Any new established work practices, letters of intent and understanding, agreed to will be distributed to all employees monthly during the life of this agreement.
1.	Supervisors of employees who leave early will advise the Labour Scheduler to telephone those employees and inform them of the time to report for work on the next day that work is available.
Employees returningfrom absence due to sickness are to telephone the Labour Scheduler in the morning. The Labour Scheduler will notify the supervisors to list them for work on the next day that work is available.
2.	Ail employees must call the company at least thirty (30)minutes priorto the commencement of their shift when unable to report for work.
3.	All employees must call in priorto 12:00 p.m. the day before returning to work after an absence.
4.	(i) Employees called in by telephone for that day of work will be taken strictly in order from the seniority list. If employees in turn cannot be contacted, including repeated busy signals, they shall be by-passed for the next in turn. Employees knowing they were bypassed may contact the Scheduler to inquire if work Is available for them.
55
(ii) Employees authorizing the use of the answering machine in order to be called in for their scheduled shift on the following day or following week will be subject to all company rules and regulations as if they had been personally contacted to report for work.
5.	When a steward is absent, the President or his/her designatewill substitute.
6.	The Administration Office has complete listings of work unit /department/plant seniority which can be referred to by the Union.
7.	100% of back dental premiums are due upon return to work.
8.	Notice will be given the relevant steward and Financial Secretary when the Administration Department is first notified that an employee has completed the probationary period.
9.	Yearly statements on pension contributions will be distributed at an early date. Employees unable to estimate their benefits will be assisted by the Administration Office.
The current pension pian will terminate effective December31, 1998. Beginning May 1,1998 a union-management committee will be formed to examine options for a new pension planto be supported by the company at a rate of 1.5% of an employees’s salary. In conjuction with discussions on a new pension plan, the benefit plan will also be subject to review.
10.	The Company will make every effort to have employees who are responsible for cleaning their immediate area not switch between areas of contrasting temperature.
11.	Employees wishing to transfer to another work unit must register their request in the Administration Office. A transfer request is only valid during the calendar year in which it is requested. The transfer register will be used to fill permanent vacancies before new employees are hired, and employees will be selected on a seniority
56
basis. Written requests of employees wishing to transfer will be given to the local Union President. Employees are only entitled to transfer once during the term of this agreement.
12.	The Company will give the Union President a written notice as soon as possible regarding a major plant layoff which is expected to be in excess of five (5) continuous days of work. A notice will be posted on the Bulletin Board in the Department concerned.
13.	The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of all fees and required textbooks upon successful completion of a technical course which has been assigned or approved by the Company prior to the commencement of that course.
14.	The Company will pay employees who have permission to be off work on Union business and to bill the Union for such sums.
15.	When any equipment breaks down during the 2nd and 3rd shifts, no management personnel will perform any work that could normally be done by the bargaining unit personnel except in the cases of:
1.	Emergency
2.	Training
3.	Experimentationsand quality control
4.	Assisting in repairs
5.	Maintaining safety
6.	When regular employees are not available to do the work,
Maintenance personnel will be called as soon as possible.
16.	Trades people will, during the probationary period, present their license or certificate to the Department Steward and the Union President.
57
17.	A Crew Leader/Relief is defined as follows:
a)	Crew Leader/Relief will be selected by a Joint Union-Management selection committee of six (6) (3 Management and 3 Union) and be appointed on a needs basis. They can be deemed as the competent person in charge as required under the Ontario Health and Safety Act.
The designated Crew Leader/Relief will be assigned on a rotation basis as required and will be noted on the work unit schedule with a copy to the union executive.
b)	Crew Leader/Relief will be required to have working knowledge of various job skills in the work unit and be able to communicate effectively written and oral. This knowledge will be used to: trouble shoot, ensure smooth start ups, provide assistance to employees regarding operational procedures, health and safety practices.
c)	Crew Leader/Relief will be requiredto relieve, fill in when needed and do necessary clerical functions.
d)	Administration and discipline with regards to the collective agreement will be dealt with by supervision and is not a function of the Crew Leader/Relief.
e)	Appointed Crew Leader/Relief are not given any additional seniority rights or privileges whatsoever.
18.	Tools for Sanitation will be provided as determined by the Company.
19.	An employee working in a higher job classificationfor seventy-five percent (75%) of his working time in a calendaryearwill be paid that rate for the year. Seventy-five (75%) will equal 175 days.
58
20.	An employee accepting a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit will have six (6) months to confirm his decision to remain outside the bargaining unit and the Company will have six (6)monthsto assess said employee(s) acceptability in such position. During such period, his seniority shall be retained and accumulated. At the expiration of such period, the employee's seniority shall be cancelled.
It is understood and agreed that either the employee or the Company may make a decision to change or rescind their initial decision at any time during the six (6) month period.
59
SCHEDULE IV
PART TIME EMPLOYEES (INCLUDING STUDENTS)
1.	Part-timers, including summer students, may be hired under the following conditions:
a)	these employees do not benefit from the collective agreement except for this schedule.
Rate for Temporary and Part-time Employees effective date of sale will be$5.00/hr. below group 3.
b)	from April 1st to October 31st, these employees will work 40 hours or less per week
c)	from November 1st to March 31st, these employees may not work more than 24 hours per week, will not be assigned on jobs of group 4 or more and as much as possible will be scheduled on the 2nd and 3rd shift.
d)	these employees are to pay union dues after 3 days of work.
e)	at any time, these employees, as much as it is possible and feasible, will not be assigned to jobs higher than group 3.
Part-time employees who are successful on job postings will be considered newly hired employees.
60
SCHEDULEV
LETTERS OF INTENT & UNDERSTANDING
1.	PlantShutdown(as amended)
2.	Temporarily assigned to non union jobs
3.	Return to Work
4.	Interim wage replacement
5. Relocation of equipment to London Plant
6.	Termination of Employment - 24 months absence
61
Schedule VI - APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The Company will provide an Apprenticeship Program in the Maintenance Department during the term of this Agreement, as follows:
A)	Qualifications:
1.	An employee applying to be an apprentice, must be certified as medically fit by the Plant Physician.
2.	The employee must pass an aptitude test established by the Company.
3.	The employee must possess Grade 12 diploma or equivalent.
B)	Procedure:
Vacancies for the Apprenticeship Program will be posted on the Plant Bulletin Boards. Selection will be made on the basis of seniority, amongst those who apply and qualify under A above. If no qualified applicants apply for the job, then the Company will hire candidates from outside.
C)	Administration:
An apprentice will be removed from the Program if the standards established by the Company are not met by the apprentice.
The company is under no obligation to place someone in this program.
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PRODUCTION SHUTDOWN
The Company may shutdown production for two (2) weeks preceding the civic holiday. Employees are required to take 2 weeks vacation during the shutdown. Preferenceof vacation dates will be recognized in order of seniority by work unit provided that such preference is indicated to the company prior to April 15th in the vacation year and that the exercise of such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules and is in accordance with the following additional rules during shutdown:
-	3 consecutive weeks (including the 2 weeks shutdown) may be
scheduled by seniority failing this;
•	2 other consecutive weeks outside the shutdown, between June 1st and
September30th, by seniority.
Duringthe term of this letter employees with 5 years of seniority or more will receive vacation pay of at least 50% of their regular weekly earnings in the reference year for each week of the shutdown.
Notice of production shutdown shall be posted on the bulletin boards no later than March 31st.
This letter of understandingwill be in effect for the term of the Collective Agreement. Each year in October union and management will meet to review the shutdown.
While in effect this letter replaces clause 27,02.
______________________________________________FOR THE COMPANY
T, COPPING	B. PACKHAM
Chief Operating Officer	Chief Financial Officer
B. DESILETS	L. PINCOMBE
Manager Human Resources Director Manufacturing
____________________________________________________FOR THE UNION
B. DEGAUST	M. KONESKO
President- Local 242	V. P. - The American Federation
of Grain Millers international Union
P. MUNDT	T. MILLAR
Vice President
B. A BANNON	R. STEVENSON
Treasurer
Signed: NovemberlO, 1997
63
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING
Between
BETA BRANDS INC.
and
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242
Unionizedemployees may be temporarily assigned to non union jobs (special projects and modified work assignment) without the loss of unionized status.
T, COPPING Chief Operating Officer
B, DESILETS
Manager Human Resources
B. DEGAUST President- Local 242
P. MUNDT Vice President
B. A BANNON
Treasurer
__________________FOR THE COMPANY
B. PACKHAM Chief Financial Officer
L.	PINCOMBE Director Manufacturing 	FOR THE UNION
M.	KONESKO
V. P. - The American Federation of Grain Millers International Union
T. MILLAR
fi. STEVENSON
Signed: November! 0, 1997
64
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING Between
BETA BRANDS INC. and
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242
RETURN TO WORK
Individuals affected by Occupational. Non Occupationalor diminished capacity injury or illness, may return to work by a fair consistent system using the following criteria.
(1)	Employees abilities (not disabilities) as given by a Medical Practitioner are considered in order to return the individual to meaningful work as soon as possible.
(2)	The priority will beto returnthe individualto his/her regularjob first.
(3)	However, in order to accommodate abilities, the employee may be assigned any suitable work, union or non union without loss of seniority or benefits for an assigned period of time.
(4)	Employeeson the return to work program may displace the most junior employee to them on a job he or she is able to perform for a determined period. Employees being displaced will maintaintheir rate of pay.
The above will be used as guidelines by the committee as indicated in articles 21 b) & d).
_________________________________________________FOR THE COMPANY
T. COPPING	B. PACKHAM
Chief Operating Officer	Chief Financial Officer
B. DESILETS	L. PINCOMBE
Manager Human Resources Director Manufacturing
_________________________________________________FORM EUNION
B. DEGAUST	M. KONESKO
President- Local242	V. P. • The American Federation
of Grain Millers International Union P. MUNDT	T. MILLAR
Vice President
B. A BANNON	R. STEVENSON
Treasurer
Signed: November 10, 1997
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
BETA BRANDS INC.
and
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION CF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242
The Company agrees to provide an interimwage replacement benefit equivalent totheW.I. benefit for employees who haveaWCB claim-payment delayed fora period exceeding 14 calendar days. This benefit eligibility is based upon the following criteria:
1)	The employee must participate in the Return to Work Program
2)	The employee must be eligible for W.l. benefits
3)	The employee must sign a reimbursement agreement
4)	The employee must sign a medical information waiver agreement for the company doctor and or insurance company.
This provision will be in effect the 1st of the 2nd month following the date of ratification
_____________________________________________FOR THE COMPANY
T. COPPING	B. PACKHAM
Chief Operating Officer	Chief FinancialOfficer
B. DESILETS	L. PINCOMBE
Manager Human Resources Director Manufacturing
_________________________________________________FOR THE UNION
B. DEGAUST	M. KONESKO
President- Local242	V. P. - The American Federation
of Grain Millers International Union
P. MUNDT	T. MILLAR
Vice President
B. A BANNON	R. STEVENSON
Treasurer
Signed: NovemberlO, 1997
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
BETA BRANDS INC.
and
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242
Relocation of equipment to London Plant
Six months following the establishmentof efficient operations (of the equipment relocatedto the London Plant), the Company will be required to post the jobs higher than the entry level jobs which are relocated. The seniority of employees transferring with the equipment at the London Plant will become effective date of sale.
UNION______________COMPANY
Mike Konesko Betty Ann Bannon PatMundt Terry Millar Rich Stevenson Edith McGinnis Barbara DeGaust
Joe Pulla KenCancellara
DATE: September11,1997.
Above signed on September 11,1997.
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
BETA BRANDS INC.
and
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242
In referenced article 14.07 g) -terminations will only occur when it is established that the employee is incapable of performing the essential duties of the job, after taking into account the duty to accommodate.
___________________________________________FOR THE COMPANY
T. COPPING	B. PACKHAM
Chief Operating Officer	Chief Financial Officer
B. DESILETS	L. PINCOMBE
Manager Human Resources Director Manufacturing
_________________________________________________FOR THE UNION
B. DEGAUST	M. KONESKO
President- Local 242	V. P. - The American Federation
of Grain Millers International Union
P. MUNDT	T. MILLAR
Vice President
B. A BANNON	R, STEVENSON
Treasurer
Signed: November 10,1997
68