COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED Regina, Saskatchewan
and -
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO
WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL NO. 389	Saskatchewan
Effective:	10 July 1990
Expiry:	15 March, 1993
R-PL&SAL
1S92

WLSTQN BAKERIES LIMITED
I H B EJ
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT - WESTON BAKER IEB LIMITED
Bisini ~ g*fhitchtwa 1 Bix*. 12BZ - la BscriLu im
Pag* 1	Article I
Union Recognition
Pag* 2	Articl* 2
Article 3
Union Diaerialnation union Security
Page 3	Articl* 4
Article S
Article 6
Deduction cf Union Dues from Wage* Leave of Absence
Hours of Work (Bakery Eaployees)
Page S	Article 7
Article 8
Public Holidays Vacations
Page 6
Article 9
Conveniences
Page 7
Articl* 10	Reservation of Management's Rights
Article 11	8rievance Procedure
Page 9 Page 10
Pag* 12
Page 13 Page 14
Page 16
Pag* 17
Pag* IB
Article 12
Seniority
Articl* 13 Article 14 Articl* IS Articl* 16
Union 8hop Cards No Verbal For Written Agreement Extra Duties and Staff Changes Miscellaneous
Article 17
Article 18 Article 19
Articl* 20
Article 2i
Wages and Classifications (Bakery Eaployees)
Hours (Salesmen)
Wag*sv Comaissions and Suarante* (Salesmen)
Deliveries and Working Conditions Transport Drivers
Articl* 22 Article 23 Articl* 24 Articl* 23
Route Changes
Nbh Occupational Classifications 8af*ty and Health Compensation for Injury
Article 26	8ick Leave Benefits
Article 27	Severance Pay
^CS'^ON BAKERIES LIMITED
I N £ E X jcont^l
Page 19	Article 28
Article 29 Article 30
Automation
Jury Duty Pay Pension Fund
Article 31 Article 32
Welfare) Benefits Expiration of Agreement
Page 23
Signing space for both Parties
- 1 -
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED (Regina, Moose Jaw and Saskatoon, Saskatchewan) (hereinafter referred to as "the Company"1)
and
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL NO. 389,
Saskatchewan, of the City of Regina in the province of Saskatchewan (hereinafter referred to as the "the Union")
Article 1 - UNION RECOGNITION:
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for the employees covered by this Agrement during the life of this Agreement.
1.02	This Agreement applies to all employees employed by the Company under the jurisdiction of its Bakery in each area designated above, but does not apply to employees employed as Office Staff or to Company officials who act in a confidential or supervisory capacity. The Company shall, upon the written request of the Union, send to the Union a list of a Company officials so acting, and will indicate by appropriate job titles, the nature and extent of their authority.
1.03	Recognized supervisors and foremen who are not part of the bargaining unit will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	when performing development or experimental work;
(b)	when checking production on any operation:
(c)	when employees are not available for vork due to being late for work or absent from the Plant;
(d)	in cases of emergency.
NOTE:	The terms of this section shall be subject to the grievance
procedure.
2
ARTICLE 1 (Cont’d.)
1.04	Where a vacancy occurs, the Company agrees to enquire whether any Union members are available before engaging non-union help. It is clearly understood that there is no obligation on the part of the Company regarding their final selection.
1.05	Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any circumstance occurring which is beyond the control of the company.
1.06	Wherever the male pronoun is used, it shall be deemed to include the female pronoun, and vice versa.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION DISCRIMINATION:
2.01	No employee shall be discriminated against for being a member of the Union or taking part in Union affairs.
2.02	The Company will permit the Business Agent or officially appointed representatives of the Union to enter the various departments of the Company's plant during working hours in order that they may attend to the business affairs of the Union provided, however, that none of them unduly takes up the time of the employees at work and that each such representative, will, as a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Production Manager on entering the plant.
ARTICLE 3 ~ UNION SECURITY:
3.01	All employees shall remain members in good standing with the Union as a condition of employment. New employees hired after the date of the this Agreement shall be advised of this requirement and shall, as of the first day of their employment, file a post-dated application to join the Union thirty (30) days later. The Company shall forward the post-dated application to the Union at the same time as the monthly dues, etc.
3.02	The negotiating Committee is a separate entity from the Grievance Committee and will deal with only such matters as are properly the subject of the negotiations, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time. The Company will include an employees union dues on their T-4.
3.03	The Union will not question the dismissal of any employee employed for less than thirty (30) working days.
- 3
ARTICLE 4 - DEDUCTION OF THE UNION DUES FROM WAGES:
4.01	Upon the individual request, in writing, of any employee, the Company shall deduct and pay on or before the 15th of each month out of the wages due to such employee to the person designated fcy the Union to receive the same, the Union dues, initiation fees, fines and assessments of such employee, and the Company shall furnish to the Union the names of the employees who have given such authority, also the names of the employees who have left the service of the Company.
ARTICLE 5 ~ LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
5.01	Leave of absence without pay, may be granted to any employee for a good and sufficient reason satisfactory to the Company without forfeiture of seniority.
5.02	Employees who are elected or appointed to do Union work shall be granted leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority for such purpose by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. It is understood that such leave shall not impair the smooth operation of the business and that at least 3 weeks notice shall be given unless in the case of emergency,
5.03	Special leave of absence for a period not to exceed three (3) days, with pay, shall be granted by the Company in cases of pressing emergency. Pressing emergency shall be confined to cases of sickness, death, or accident to the immediate family of the employee. The immediate family is limited to mother, father, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, or sister of the employee. Employees receiving special leave with pay under this sub-article may be required to produce a Doctor's certificate or some other authorized verification satisfactory to the Company before receiving such pay. In the case of bereavement in the immediate family, additional leave of absence shall be granted without pay, if required and requested. In the case of bereavement in the immediate family, additional leave of absence shall be granted without pay, if required and requested. In the case of the death of a father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandchild, or grand parents, one (1) working day off with pay will be allowed to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK (BAKERY EMPLOYEES) :
6.01	Thirty-six and one-half (36 1/2) hours or less shall constitute a wade's work made up of five (5) working days; three (3) days at seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours and two (2) days at seven (7) hours. Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (l 1/2) shall be paid over the regulation hours in any one day, or over thirty-six and one-half (36 1/2) hours in any one week, except in weeks where public holidays occur, when the weekly hours shall be reduced by seven and one-half (7 1/2) in a week where one (1) public holiday occurs, and the weekly hours will be reduced by fifteen (15) in a week where two (2) public holidays occur. Employees will be
- 4 -
Article 6 (Cont'd)
notified as far ahead as possible when overtime is required and will be given a minimum of two (2) hours' notice of such overtime except in cases of emergency. Also except in cases of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing management can get another qualified employee to perform the work required.
6.02	(a) Shift schedules showing starting times and anticipated finishing times will be posted sixty (60) hours in advance of becoming effective. Except in cases of emergency, forty-eight (48) hours notice will be given of any change in scheduled shifts.
(b)	Days Off:	Under present conditions, production employees
shall have Saturday and Sunday as their regular days off and maintenance employees, Sanitation persons, and Thrift Store employees and one shipper, shall have two (2) consecutive days off, either Friday and Saturday or Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday.
(c)	Employees who are not granted two (2) regular shifts off together each week, will be paid a premium of one dollar and five cents ($1.05c) per hour for each hour worked between 12:01 A.M, and 11:59 P.M. each Sunday. The aforementioned premiums shall also apply to all hours worked on a Monday Statutory Holiday. This shall became $1.10 per hour effective March 15, 1991 and $1.15 per hour effective March 15, 1992.
6.03	All employees shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between shifts daily, and thirty-six (36) hours off in the event of their day off except in the case of emergency.
6.04	If an employee is required to work on his scheduled day off, the employee shall be paid at the rate of double time for the hours so worked on said day.
6.05	Any employee who works on his scheduled day off shall not be required nor scheduled to take another day off that work week.
6.06	Not less than one-half hour, and not more than one hour shall be allowed between the third and fifth hours of work for meals. Mealtime is not to be considered as working time. No employees shall be required to remain on the premises during the lunch period..
6.07	All employees shall alternate between night and day shifts.
6.08	There shall be no split shifts, except in case of emergency requiring a shut-down exceeding two (2) hours.
6.09	Employees called to work will be paid for not less than four (4) hours.
6.10	No dividerman shall be required to commence work before 8:00 p.m. except that this shall not apply in Christmas and New Year's weeks. Effective March 15, 1992 no dividerman shall be required to commence work before 7:00 p.m.
5
ARTICju^W - PUBLIC HOLIDAY:
7.01 "Public Holiday" shall mean and include any of the following
days:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Remembrance	Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving	Day	Boxing Day.
and any other day when proclaimed fcy Federal, Provincial or Civic authority in the area: and whenever a holiday falls on a Sunday, the expression "public holiday" includes the following day.
7.02	The Company may substitute another working day within the same week the public holiday occurs unless mutually agreed otherwise.
ARTICLE 8 ~ VACATIONS:
8.01
Vacations with pay shall be granted by the Company as follows:
(c>
<d)
(e)
•ne, (1) year of continuous service lght (8) years of «	*	_
Thirteen (13) years of " Eighteen (18) years of " Twenty-three (23) " "	"
- three (3) weeks four (4) weeks five (5) weeks six (6) weeks seven (7) weeks
Gross earnings for purposes of calculating vacation pay shall be those earnings set out in an employee's T-4 slip for the prior year to the year in which the vacation is being taken.
8.02	The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh weeks of vacation, where applicable, shall be taken at a time convenient to the Company.
8.03	(a) Employees will submit to the Company a list of the employees
and holiday or vacation dates requested in accordance with the seniority list supplied by the Company. In co-operation with the employees, as many employees as possible, consistent with the efficiency of the plant will be permitted vacation or holiday time during the period from the 1st of May to the 3 0th of September. Vacations of persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not interfere with vacations cf' employees covered by this Agreement.
(b) Vacation lists will be completed and posted by April 1.
After the completed list is posted, should a vacation period become vacant it will be posted immediately to allow interested employees an opportunity to change their vacation dates.
8.04	If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he/she may elect to receive one (1) day's pay in lieu thereof. The selection of the extra day shall be mutually agreed by the Supervisor and the employee.
6
ARTICLE 9 ~ CONVENIENCES:
9.01	If the Company decides the wearing of uniforms and crests by the salesmen is obligatory to employment, the Company will provide the salesmen with such uniforms at seventy-five percent, (75%) of the cost to the Company, the uniform becoming the property of the employee. Uniforms are to remain the property of the Company for six (6) months. In the event of any employee leaving the Company, he will be reimbursed at the rate of l/6th per month for his portion. Employees shall be informed of the cost of uniform articles, including crests, and shown a copy of the actual invoice, if requested, Crests shall be part of the Uniform, and the cost sharing formula shall apply.
9.02	All inside employees shall have uniforms supplied and laundered by the Company. Production employees shall be supplied with a smock for female employees and a shirt and trousers for male employees. All other inside employees shall be supplied with suitable wearing apparel chosen by the Company.
9.03	Employees shall co-operate and assist in maintaining the utilities and conveniences of the plant in good order and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensil or convenience,
9.04	The employees will leave their benches and machines in clean
condition, ready for the next day's work, Smoking to be allowed only in the following places:	Dressing Roams, Lunch Roans, Coffee Rooms,
Salesmen's Cashing-in Room, or any other place authorized by Management.
9.05	All deliveries made to route book established customers of a salesman and all orders given to a salesmen on any day shall accrue as commissions to the salesman in or on whose route the delivery is made or the orders given.
9.06	Commission shall be paid to the salesman on whose route any bakery products are delivered or supplied to a route book established customer by or from the Company's Plants in Saskatchewan.
9.07	No other sales agreement will be entered into for the duration of this Collective Agreement, unless the salesman receives his commission, or regular weekly earnings as the case may be.
9.08	(a) Ten (10) minutes' rest period shall be allowed during the forenoon shift and during the afternoon shift. The foreman will arrange such rest periods as near mid-forenoon shift as possible and as near mid-afternoon shift as possible.
(b) An employee required to work two (2) hours or more of overtime will be given an additional rest period of fifteen (15) minutes' duration to be taken before the overtime commences.
- 7 -
Arties 9 (Cont’d)
9.09	The Company shall have all trucks kept as clean as possible except truck interiors which shall be the responsibility of the salesman.
9.10	Salesmen will attend sales meetings once per quarter, commencing not later than 4:00 p.m, No salesmen shall be obliged to attend meetings on his scheduled day off.
10
OF MANAGEMENT
10.01	Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the Union acknowledges that It is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a) maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b) hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be dealt with under the grievance procedure as set out in this Agreement;
(c) generally manage, control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged; and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of the plants, the products to be manufactured, kinds of machines and tools used, processes of manufacturing and designing of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products or its sales policy in so far as it does not conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
10.02	The Company has the right to operate its plant for as many hours as may be required to produce the quantity of bakery products for which the Company feels that there will be a demand.
PROCEDURE:
11.01	A grievance committee, not exceeding three (3) employees, shall be paid for time lost from work during regular working hours while processing grievance of employees with representatives of the company.
11.02	When a non-probationary employee has been disciplined, suspended, demoted or refused re-employment, an investigation shall be held at his written request, the procedure to be as follows:
(a) The employees shall, within three (3) working days, first state his case to and be heard by the Union or a committee of the Union officially appointed for that purpose;
8
Art-i „ 11 (Cont'd)
(b) The Union shall, through a committee for the employees, of the Company concerned, with the Business Agent present or absent, at the option of the Union, have the right to be accorded a hearing by the Company, and the hearing shall be held within three (3) working days of the application for such hearing being made; then the Company shall, within three (3) days of the said hearing, give its decision in writing to the Union,
11.03	If no agreement is reached under the foregoing procedure, the parties agree that the matter shall be referred to an impartial Conciliation Board, for which the following procedure shall be invoked.
11.04	The party referring the matter to conciliation shall, within ten (10) days of the decision given under paragraph 11.02 (b) submit the
matter to be conciliated, in writing, to the other party, and at the same time submit the name of its nominee to the Conciliation Board. The party receiving such notice in writing shall, within five (5) days of receipt thereof, submit the name of its nominee to the other party.
11.05	The two nominees so appointed members of the Conciliation Board shall, within five (5) days from the appointment of the second of them, endeavour to agree upon a third person to be the third member and Chairman of the Conciliation Board. However, if they are unable to agree upon a third person within such time limit, either of them or they may together request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Saskatchewan to name a third member and Chairman of the Conciliation Board.
11.06	The Conciliation Board shall receive and consider such material evidence as may be submitted by the parties, and shall make such independent investigation as it deems necessary to reach a full understanding and determination of the issues in dispute. Hie Conciliation Board shall not alter, add to or amend any of the clauses contained herein.
11.07	This provision shall provide a peaceful method of adjusting grievances so that there shall not be a suspension or interruption of normal operations. Both parties have agreed to act in good faith in proceeding to adjust grievances under this procedure.
11.08	Each party shall bear the expense of the appointee appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman.
11.09	The Company shall render all possible assistance in the conduct of any and all investigations made under this procedure.
9
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY:
12.01	New employees shall be considered on probation and shall not have any seniority rights until the employee has completed thirty (30) working days, after which time the employee's seniority date shall be his date of hire. There shall be one seniority list for full-time employees and part-time employees. Part-time seniority shall be calculated by actual hours worked. Part-time employees who restrict their availability shall not accumulate seniority. Part-time employees shall not have any seniority rights over full-time employees. Seniority shall be established and recognized by departments - i.e. production and sales, for each designated area, as defined in paragraph 1.02f subject to the provision that an employee in either department be given preference over new help, subject to skill and ability. Seniority shall terminate as of the date of termination of the employee's service by discharge on the part of the company, or voluntary quit on the part of the employee. If an employee is laid off by the Company, seniority shall continue for a period of six (6) months. If, within fourteen (14) days' written notice to do so, the employee does not return to work, any claim of seniority or re-employment is forfeited by the employee concerned except where such employee is unable to return by reason of sickness.
12.02	When a new position is created, or a vacancy occurs, the company will post a notice of such position or vacancy, stating the position and the rates of pay, for a period of four (4) working days prior to a permanent appointment being made thereto. The name of the employee awarded the vacant job shall be posted on the bulletin board if the employee was an applicant. The Company will make every reasonable effort to place a successful applicant on the posted job as soon as practically possible. All copies of the job postings and the name of the successful applicants shall be forwarded to the Union office.
12.03	\Atae there is a possibility of a job being filled other than by seniority, it is agreed that a Uni on-appointed committee of three (3) shall meet with the management and review the applications.
12.04	Any successful applicant for a posted job who fails to qualify shall revert to his former job held at the time he made the application.
12.05	An employee who is transferred as a result of the posting procedure will be allowed up to twenty (20) working days' trial period.
12.06	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on the Company bulletin boards once each four (4) months commencing the first week of January. A copy of all seniority lists will be forwarded to the Union's office. The lists will show the classification of employees as of the date of posting
12.07	In promotions, demotions, lay-offs and re-hiring, seniority will be given every consideration, subject to skill and ability.
10
Artio.^/12 (Cont'd)
12.08	Names of employees hired, discharged or promoted, and of employees who leave the service of the Company, shall be promptly forwarded at the time of such action to the representative of the Union designated to receive such names.
ARTICLE 13 - UNION SHOP CARDS?
13.01	The Company will display in its establishment the designation of a Union Shop as supplied by the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers’ International Union of America,
ARTICLE 14 - NO VERBAL OR WRITTEN AGREEMENT:
14.01	No employee shall enter into a verbal or written Agreement which may conflict with this Agreement.
ARTICLE IS - EXTRA DUTIES AND STAFF CHANGES:
15.01	When an employee is transferred to a lover paid job at the request of the Company, the employee shall receive the rate of the former job for a period of three (3) weeks. However, in cases of transfers accepted by the employee to avoid lay-off, and in cases when the employee transfers at his own request, the rate will change immediately. In the case of temporary transfers to a higher rate job which becomes necessary, the new rate for the job shall apply.
ARTICLE 16 - HISCRT.TAWKOTTS;
16.01	All bottled drinks will be consumed in lunch or dressing rooms.
16.02	Any employee guilty of dishonest practices or wilful carelessness leading to the damage of Company property, shall be held responsible for payment for same and liable to immediate dismissal from the Company's service, The Company agrees to notify the Shop Steward within twelve (12) hours of any action taken under this sub-article and shall, if requested, supply a general statement of the reason therefore.
16.03	spirituous liquor or non-prescription use of narcotics will not be taken onto Company premises or on a Company vehicle. Any employee frequenting beer parlours or indulging in the use of spirituous liquor or non-prescription use of narcotics during working hours or, in the case of salesmen, before having delivered their vehicles to the Company's plant and cashed in, shall be liable to instant dismissal.
16.04	The Company and the Union shall co-operate in all matters relevant to absenteeism.
- 11
Artiom. 16 (Cont'd)
16.05	Hatters which arise between the Union and the Coaipany that require adjustment will, in the absence of the Branch Manager, be deferred until such time a6 the Branch Manager can sit in personally with those concerned for discussion, but in no case shall they be deferred for a period exceeding seven (7) days.
16.06	Any employee who has completed thirty (3 0) days of work for the Company and whose employment is terminated for any reason except discharge for cause, will be given one (1) vadc's notice of such termination of pay in lieu thereof. If an employee is required to continue working beyond the one (l) wedc's notice, he shall be given a further notice of one (l) week. Any employee who wishes to terminate his eaploynent shall give the company one (l) week's notice of such termination.
16.07	The Company will not be required to gay an employee while absent from employment aue to sickness or otherwise, excepting such benefits as accrue to the employee by reason of the Company Insurance Plan and such benefits as may accrue from Articles 26 and 27 of this Agreement
16.08 Cameras to be positioned on exits. Union does not support theft of Company product.
12
17 - WAGES AND
]
(BAKERY EMPLOYEES!:
17	]	The wage rate f herein is weekly and minimum, an no
empl< s a have t or her pay reduced except as a >result f change of ation 1	contained herein shall	Lt the paying of a
higher rate ( iy at the discretion of ie j
Effective Effective Effective
CLASSIFICATION	March 15/90 March 15/91 March 15/92
Doughman, Overman and Cake Mixer	$ 593.99	$ 614.06	$ 634.13
Bench and Machine Hands,
Bread Wrapper & Doughnut Pryer,
Dividerman, Moulderman	588.99	609.06	629.13
Bread Racker, Shipping Linesman, Shippers, Checkers,
and Sanitation	583.99	604.06	624.13
Receiver	585.99	606.06	626.13
Bun Boxer and leer, Bun Wrapper, Box Maker and Dishwasher (Cake Shop)	575.99	596.06	616.13
Cake Depositor, Do-Nut Machine Operator,
Cookie Machine Operator, Sweet Goods &
Cake Wrapper (Machine) , Cake Utility
Cake Finisher & Cake shipper	578.99	599.06	619.13
Head Shipper	589.99	610.06	630.13
Maintenance Man	585.99	606.06	626.13
Journeyman-Garage Mechanic	593.99	614.06	634.13
Thrift Store Man	551.92	551.92	551.92
Frozen Dough Department
Doughman, Dividerman	593.99	614.06	634.13
Freezer/Moulder Operator	588.99	609.06	629.13
Utility
Packaging
17.01	b) New Hires in the thrift store shall be paid an hourly rate of
$11.00. . . . . ,. . . . . .
inrirt store employees will receive signing oonus as below:
1st Year	-	$	100.00	lump	sum
2nd Year	-	$	100.00	lump	sum
3rd Year	-	$	iOO.uO	lump	sum
Red Circle Current Employees.
13
ARTICLE 17 (Cont'd.) ,
17.02	Effective the week of July 1, 1975, the Companies added one dollar ($1.00) per week to the pay of each employee; such addition was in lieu of the legislated Medical Care and Hospital Services premiums,
In the event the Government again introduces such premiums, the one dollar ($1.00) will be used toward the payment of such premiums.
17.03	Employes hired after July 10, 1990 will be paid in accordance with the following progression scale:
A)	1st year of	employment -	75%	of	basic	wage
B)	2nd year of	employment -	80%	of	basic	wage
C)	3rd year of	employment -	85%	of	basic	wage
Dj	4th year of	employment -	90%	of	basic	wage
E) 5th year of employment -100% of basic wage
Employees must work a minimum of 225 shifts to progress to the next level. Vacations will be considered time worked..
17.04	Any employee whose entire shift or any portion of his shift falls between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall be paid, in addition to his regular rate of pay, a premium of thirty-nine (39) cents per hour for all such hours worked. This shall became 41 cents effective March 15,
1991 and 43 cents effective March 15, 1992.
17.05	(a In addition to such regular job duties as time will permit,
a Lead Hand shall be responsible for assisting in scheduling and assigning work to employees he is required to lead, and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. A Lead Hand shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees or to exercise any disciplinary action.
(b)	A Lead Hand regularly employed and designated as such by the Company will be paid not less than ten dollars ($10.00) per week above the rate of the highest classification he is required to lead. Where the rate of a Lead Hand is presently higher than referred to herein, his rate will not be reduced to conform with the amount set out above.
(C) Lead Hand shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
ARTICLE 18 ~ HOURS (SALESMEN) :
18.01	All salesmen shall work a five day week, it being understood that Management may make such arrangements with the Union, varying this clause to provide that, where necessary, salesmen may work any combination of days over a period of one (1), two (2), six (6), or twelve (12) weeks.
City salesmen shall work on the basis of a five (5) day, forty (40) hour work week.
Hie Company may reduce the work week for any route from five (5) to four (4) days. This shall only take place after discussion with the Union and the salesman involved, and shall have no effect on the present arrangement regarding the number of weekly hours to be worked..
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
- 14 -
ARTICIW18 (Cont'd.)
18.02	When a salesmen has worked on h±8 scheduled day off, he shall be paid two (2) times the basic pay rate and, in addition, two (2) times the commission rates for that day. However, it is agreed, notwithstanding any other provision, that this shall not apply if a salesman makes a voluntary arrangement with another salesman and it has been cleared by Management and the Union.
18.03	When a public holiday falls on a salesman's day off, he will be entitled to another day off within thirty (30) days.
18.04	(a) The Hours worked on routes by country salesmen shall not exceed more than fifty (50) each regular work week from Labour Day to the end of the first week of the following June, and fifty-five (55) each regular week from the start of the second week of June to Labour Day.
(b In the event of a country salesman being required to work in excess of the hours set out above and such excess work is in connection with the sale and delivery of the Company's products, for each one and one-half (1 1/2) hours so worked he will be granted one (1) hour off with pay at a time arranged between the salesman and the Sales Manager.
For purposes of time off, a day shall be considered as ten
(10) hours.
ARTICLE 19 - WAGES, COMMISSIONS AND GUARANTEE (SALESMEN)
19.01	(a)
kilogram
Salesmen shall be s p i a	:
l< 491.46 basic pay plus the following
itive
B:
Pr Lva Labels
Jul 10,	3
7.3	cents
5.1	cents
<	15, 1991
8.5 cents ” cents
March 15, 1992 9.0 cents 1 !
Note:	A retroactivity payment of $20 per week will be made to all
full-time salesmen who were continuously employed for the period March 15, 1990 to July 10, 1990.
(b) Drop Delivery:
(1) Partial Drop - Routes with drop delivery calls on
them shall pay the current base rate per week and a kilogram rate equal to one-half (1/2) the kilogram rate in effect.
(ii) 100% Drop Delivery Routes - Employees assigned to a
100% drop route shall receive a weekly wage of $588.80 per week. Effective March 15, 1991, this shall be $608.80 per week. Effective March 15, 1992 this shall be $628.80.
NOTE:	Full commission shall be paid to present salesmen (as of April
19, 1983) who have existing calls presently being served on a drop delivery basis. If any existing call is changed to drop, the matter will be reviewed and explained to the salesmen involved before the change is effective. upon signing the renewed Collective Agreement.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
15
19.02	(a) Regular Relief Salesmen hired on a full-time basis shall be paid the average of ail routes serviced, plus $6.00 per week.
Relief Salesmen will receive commission for the route served - provided they operate and are responsible for the routes themselves, Commission will not be paid while learning or reviewing a route along with another salesman.
(b) Regular Relief Salesmen required to travel eighty (80) kms or more to take over a route will be paid an hourly rate of $6.50 for the said eighty (80) kms, pro-rated accordingly where the mileage exceeds eighty (80), plus an allowance of a maximum of $13.00 per day mea? allowance, where the salesman is required to stay overnight. If a relief salesman uses his own automobile for travel, a mileage allowance of twenty cents (20c) per km will be paid. Effective March 15, 1991 the hourly rate will increase to $6.75, the meal allowance will increase to $13.60 and the mileage allowance for use of personal vehicle will increase to 22 cents. Effective March 15, 1992 the hourly rate will increase to $7.00. The meal allowance will increase to $14.00 and the mileage allowance for use of personal vehicle will increase to 25 cents.
19.03	Part-time relief salesmen shall be paid the average of the route they service for days spent on the route, plus such portion of wages they earn from time they spend on other jobs.
19.04	(a) Salesmen in training shall be paid $487.46 for a period of four (4) weeks, and $491.46 per week thereafter, with the right to bid on the first route vacant.
19.05	(a) The guaranteed weekly wage for all salesmen shall be $499.46 respecti vet y.
19.06	Where a salesman-in-training is assigned to take over a route before he has completed his training period, he shall be paid wages and commissions in accordance with paragraph 19.01.
19.07	Country salesmen required to drive in excess of three hundred and twenty two (322) kms weekly, will receive a bonus of .0031 cents per km for kms driven in excess of three hundred and twenty two (322) weekly.
19.08	in weeks in which Public Holidays occur, as set out in Article 7, salesmen shall be paid for such weeks at not less than the average of their weekly earnings for the preceding calendar year.
16
ARTTcff* 20 - DELIVERIES AND WORKING CONDITIONS (SALESMEN):
20.01	No deliveries will be made by regular route salesmen on merchants’ closing day in the cities of Regina and Moose Jaw. This will not affect, special deliveries.
20.02	No bakery or salesman shall be permitted to make deliveries of any kind on Sundays or holidays.
20.03	Nothing in this Article shall prevent or limit deliveries to trains, buses, or hospitals, at any time.
20.04	Relief salesmen will be responsible for any shortage occurring on a route which he is working, except when the cash has been transferred to a trainee to handle exclusively, and the Company has been so advised in advance of the transfer of cash.
20.05	Trucks to be cleared of a 11 bakery products every Saturday, and unese bakery products to be returned to the Company with full credit to salesmen.
20.06	In cases of a new man starting on a route, ne will not be asked to take over bakery products left by the former salesman.
20.07	No unauthorized person shall be permitted to serve customers, drive or ride in Company vehicles.
ARTICLE 21 - TRANSPORT DRIVERS:
21.01	(a) The basic rate of pay applicable to transport drivers shall be $590.92 per week for the first two thousand ninety two (2092) kms. the basic Pay shall be $610.92, effective March 15, 1991, and $630.92, effective March 18, i992.
(b) Kms driven by transport drivers in excess of two thousand ana ninety two (2092) in a week shall be paid at the rate of 6.2 cents (6.2c) per km.
(c)	Kms driven by transport drivers in excess of two thousand, five hundred and seventy five (2575) in a week shall be paid at the rate of nine cents (9c) per km.
(d)	In addition to the foregoing, transport drivers shall
receive a meal allowance of $55.00 per month. Effective March 15,	1991
the meal allowance shall increase to $60.00.
21.02	The hours of work and overtime provisions contained in this Agreement shall not apply to Transport Drivers.
21.03	Any employee other than a transport driver who is required to make a trip, shall be paid a daily meal allowance of Five Dollars ($5.00) plus 6.2 cents (6.2c) per km.
- 17 -
Article 21 (Cont'd)
21.04	Breakdown time for transport drivers will be paid as follows:
First hour of breakdown - no additional pay
Next three hours, or portion thereof -	$5.25 per hour effective
March 15, 1991 the rate shall increase to $5.50. Effective March 15, 1992 the rate shall increase to $6.00.
The term "breakdown" shall mean mechanical breakdown of transport equipment.
ARTICLE 22 - ROUTE CHANGES:
22.01	Any outside salesman or driver whose route is split shall receive the same total rate of wages as his past three (3) months' average for a further period of three (3) months from the date of adjustment.
22.02	All salesmen will be notified of route vacancies. It is recognized fcy the Company that this will entail mailing of notices of vacant routes to all employees who are not located in areas where they have access to the bulletin boards.
This procedure shall not, in any way, affect ox delay the filling of vacant routes by the Company.
ARTICLE 23 — NEW OCCUPATIONAL CLASSIFICATIONS:
23.01	Classification titles and rates thereto for any new classification or positions that may hereafter be established, shall be subject to negotiation and agreement between the Company and the Union and a supplementary agreement shall be executed in respect to any such position.
ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY AND HEALTH:
24.01	The Company shall make all reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees during working hours, and the Union may, from time to time, bring to the attention of the Company any suggestions in this regard and also any other suggested improvements regarding conditions of work insofar as they affect the safety and health of employees. Such recommendations shall be subject to negotiations between the Company and the union.
ARTICLE 25 - COMPENSATION FOR INJURY:
25.01	when an employee is injured in the performance of his duties during working hours, the Company agrees to pay to such employee the difference between the Workers’ Compensation Board payment and such employee's regular wage rate on the following conditions:
The Company will not pay the above mentioned difference for the first two weeks an employee is off on account of being injured. After the second week, the Company will pay the difference for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.
18
ARTICLE 26 - SICK LEAVE BENEFITS:
26.01	Regular full-time employees, after three (3) months' consecutive employment, will be allowed sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each month worked thereafter up to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second and third working days of any absence due to illness. However, should such continue for five (5) working days or more, then the first day will be paid, provided there are sufficient benefits credited to the employees.
26.02	In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and the monies received from Weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay.
26.03	The Company shall, upon request, be provided with verification of illness of the employee in the form of an authentic medical certificate. The Company will bear the cost of the initial certificate to a maximum of ten Dollars ($10.00) upon proof of such cost.
26.04	Any employee who abuses the sick leave privileges contained herein may have the benefits discontinued or reduced and shall be subject to discipline by the Company.
ARTICLE 27 - SEVERANCE PAY:
27.01	In the event of amalgamation, permanent closure of plant or department thereof, or automation causing regular full-time employees to lose employment, regular full-time employees will be paid severance pay as follows, in addition to the regular week's notice, or pay in lieu thereof to which employees may be entitled.
(a)	Over two (2) years & up to ten
(10) years of continuous service
(b)	Over ten (10) & up to twenty (20) years of continuous service
one (1) week's pay for each full two (2) years of such service;
one (1) week for each full year of continuous service in excess of ten (10) years to a maximum of twenty (20) full years of service.
NOTE:	The amount set out in (b> to be paid in addition to the amount
set out in (a).
27.02	An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms hereof may elect to receive his severance pay as soon as possible, or he may elect to be placed on a recall list subject to recall in accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on a recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
19
27.03 Where a sales route is discontinued by the Company, the severance pay applicable will be paid to the salesman involved unless he is offered suitable alternate employment by the Company which he could reasonably be expected to perform and which is not more than a radius of 40.3 kms from where he has previously been located.
ARTICLE 28 - AUTOMATION:
28.01	Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
ARTICLE 29 - JURY DUTY PAY:
29.01	An employee called for jury duty shall be paid the difference between jury duty pay and the sum which would have been paid if the employee had worked the normal shift or day.
29.02	Payment will only be made if:
(a)	the employee has given the Company prior notice of jury duty
call, ana
(b)	he presents proper evidence that jury duty has been performed, and the amount of remuneration received for such duty.
ARTICLE 30 - PENSION FUND:
30.01	The Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, referring to the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Union and Industry international Pension Fund, as amended, shall be continued without change. This Clause shall continue to form part of this Agreement, and shall continue in full farce and effect during its term.
30.02	The Company's contribution to the Pension (Plan C) fund shall be in daily amount sufficient to provide a pension under the existing retirement conditions of $ 600.00 per month. This shall be increased to $625.00 per month effective March 15, 1991. Effective March 15, 1992, this shall increase to $675.00 monthly.
30.03	As used herein, the term "existing retirement conditions" shall mean those in effect as of the signing date of this Agreement.
20
ArticM^30 (Cont'd)
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CIAPSB (CANADA)
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is as follows:
1.	(a) Commencing with the 1st day of August, 1950, and for the duration
of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the said Local Union and Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $7.52 to the above named Pension Fund, but not more than 5 days per week for any one employee.
Effective March 15, 1991, Employer contribution will be $7.90. Effective March 15, 1992, Employer contribution will be $8.66.
For the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees from the first day of employment whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. It is further understood that each day or hour paid for, including days or hours of paid vacations, paid holidays, and other days or hours for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days or hours for which contributions are payable.
(b) The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated September 11,1955, establishing the said Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Union and Industry International Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of the said Agreement, a copy of which is annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer further agrees irrevocably to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees of the Fund, such Trustee as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement, and agrees to be bound by all the action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
(c\ It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval for the appropriate Canadian Government Departments, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
- 21 -
Article 30 (Cont'd)
1(d) It is agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require; and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Certified Public Accountant audit the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Pension Fund.
(e) If the Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law to secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable for all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with attorney's fees and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustees.
2.	The parties agree and represent that there is no other agreement between them regarding pensions, other than this Article, presently in effect. The parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3.	The expiration date of the present Collective Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is March 15, 1993 . Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this Standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination of participation of the Employer.
4.	This article shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors administrators, executors and assigns. The Employer shall give prior notice in writing of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee or other successor in interest. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Trustees not later than ten (10) day8 after the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligation under this Article.
ARTICLE 31 - WELFARE BENEFITS:
31.01	The Company will continue in effect the following welfare provisions and employees are eligible to participate in the Weekly Indemnity, Group Life Insurance and He Dental Plan after three (3) months of employment.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
- 22
Article 31 (Cont'd)
(a)	The Weekly Indemnity Flan as constituted, shall have a benefit level pf $325.00 per week or to 60% of the U.I.C. maximum. It is further understood that Weekly Indemnity Benefits will apply on the basis of the first day of coverage in case of accident, and fourth day in case of illness for a total of twenty-six (26) weeks.
(b)	The Group Life Insurance Plan based on yearly earnings with a maximum of $22,000 insurance. Increase coverage to $23,000 effective March 15, 1991. Effective March 15, 1992 increase coverage to $25,000.
The basic Dental Plan amended to include dentures.
31.02	The premiums of the above plans will be on a shared basis with the Company paying seventy-five per cent (75%) and each eligible employee paying twenty-five per cent (25%) .
31.03	With regard to the Dental Plan, the following shall apply with respect to membership in the said Plan:
(a)	All new employees, as soon as they become eligible, shall enroll in the Dental Plan;
(b)	All present employees with dental insurance coverage shall remain in the Plan:
(c)	Effective March 16, 1978, all employees not enrolled shall be given the opportunity to do so.
31.04	The Company shall not be responsible for decisions made by the carriers of the above welfare plans (i.e. Weekly Indemnity, Group Insurance and Dental Plan) with respect to the payment of benefits, nor shall there be any liability on the part of the Company for such decisions.
ARTICLE 32 - EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT:
32.01	This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties until the"i5tK"Pay of March, 1993, and shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless notice of revision thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty (30) days, and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the natural expiration date of same, in which case either party may, on fourteen (14) days’ notice, in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the Agreement within the same period, and both of those notices shall contain an itemized list of all requested changes and these shall be the only items which will be considered.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow,... FOREVER
23
DULY SIGNED BY THE PARTIES HERETO, IN THE CITY OF REGINA, IN THE PROVINCE OF SASKATCHEWAN
DATED THIS *5 DAY OF
FOR THE UNION
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
WESTON BAKERIES' ’*	MEMBERSHIP OATH
I, (giving name), solemnly promise to' maintain the Constitution of the International Union and the By-Laws of this or any other Local Union with which I may become affiliated as they are now Constituted or may later be changed,
I promise to maintain the dignity of this organization and to further its objectives,
I furthermore promise that I will not join or render aid or comfort to any organization hostile to the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union and that I will keep secret the proceedings of this Union,
I also promise that I will, whenever possible, purchase only Union Label goods.
LOCAL UNION OFFICER'S OATH
I, (giving name), do solemnly promise that I will to the best of ny ability perform the duties of my office faithfully and honourably on behalf of the membership,
And that I will always conduct myself in this office according to the strictest requirements and standards of conscience and integrity,
And the provisions and spirit of the Constitution of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union and the By-Laws of my Local Union and that I will carefully preserve and guard all union property that may be left in my charge and that upon the expiration of my term of office I will turn over such property to my duly elected and installed successor.
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED
November 26, 1990
Mr.J Gustilov Business Agent
Bakery, Confectionary and Tobacco Workers International Union Local 389
Dear Mr. Gustilov;
This letter of understanding which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement, shall be your assurance that if the Company wishes to introduce a new business venture into the facility, wages and classifications pertaining to that business will be negotiated prior to its Introduction.
Yours truly,
General Manager
Continuous Quality Improvement.... Today, Tomorrow.... FOREVER