■COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Winnipeg, Manitoba
-and-
BAKERY / CONFECTIONERYAND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL #389
Effective: 1 May, 1996 Expiry:	30 April, 2006
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
1	Scope and Extent
2	Recognition
3	Relationship
4	Management Rights
5	Grievance Procedure
6	Arbitration
7	Discharge Cases
8	ManagementGrievances
9	Continuity of Operations
10	Seniority
11	Vacancies
12	Safety and Health
13	Bulletin Boards
4	.• Lunch and Rest Periods
5	Dismissal and Lay-off Notice
6	Leave cf Absence
7	Compassionate Leave
8	Uniforms and Whites
19	- Wages
20	Hours cf Work and Overtime
21	Vacations
22	Sick Leave
23	Severance Pay
24	Automation
25	Jury Duty
26	Benefits
27	Western Canada Employee Transfer Program
28	Alternative Work Completion
29	Termination of Agreement
Pagel Page 1 Pagel Page 3 Page 3 Page 5 Page6 Page 6 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page9 Page10 Page10 Page10 Page11 Page 11 Page 11 Page 12 Page15 Page 18 Page20 Page 21 Page 21 Page 21 Page22 Page24 Page 25 Page 26
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, Winnipeg, Manitoba (hereinaftercalled "the
Company’’)
-and-
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL #389, Winnipeg, Manitoba, (hereinafter called “theUnion”)
WHEREAS the parties hereto have formulated this Agreement in order to continue and maintain the existing peaceful and harmonious industrial relationship between the Company and its employees, concerning hours of work, rates of pay, working conditions and employer-employee relations generally,
NOW. THEREFORE. THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1 - SCOPE AND EXTENT:
This Agreement applies to all plant employees (herein called the Plant Employees) of the Company, in the City of Winnipeg, Manitoba, as designated by Certificate #352 ofthe Manitoba Labour Board, datedFebruaiy 6,1952, but does not extend to employees employed as office staff; or to Company officials who act in a confidential or supervisory capacity. The Company shall, upon the written request of the Union, send to the Union a list of Company officials so acting, and will indicate by appropriatejob titles, the nature and extent of their authority.
Article 2 - RECOGNITION:
2.01	The Plant Employees have selected the Union as their sole and exclusive bargaining agent, and the Company recognizes the Union as such.
2.02	The Company shall recognize the Business Agent of the Union as,a representative of the Plant Employees, and shall extend to him every privilege as such.
Article 3 - RELATIONSHIP:
3.01	All Plant Employees at present employed, who are new members ofthe
Union, and all plant employees hereinafter employed, shall, from the date of this Agreement, or within thirty (30) calendar days of employment,
Wplant97
2
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
3.06
3.07
3.08
3.09
become and remain members in good standing of the Union, for the life of this Agreement.
The Company agrees that all new employees shall, on the first day of employment, sign a post-dated application formembership in the Union, effective thirty (30) calendar days later, which shall provide for Company deduction ofU'nion initiation fees, dues and assessments. For the convenience of the Company, application forms shall be supplied by the secretary of the Union.
The Comp,any shall deduct from the pay of each plant employee who so requests the Company, in writing, to do so, all Union initiation fees, dues and assessments uniformly applied.
All such deductions for Union fees, dues and assessments shall be taken from the first pay period of the month.
All sums deducted, together with a record of those from whom such deductions have been made, and the amount, shall be forwarded to the Secretary Treasurer ofthe Union not later than the twentieth (20th) day of the calendar month in which such deductions are made.
The Company shall supply the Union, at least once per month, with the names of all new employees and those having left the service of the Company.
When new help shall be required, the Company shall notify the Union of its requirements and the Union shall endeavour to send competent	j3.
personnel to the Company, but the Company shall not be obliged to engage anyone so sent by the Union.	&■/ -
The terms and conditions as negotiated by the parties of this Agreement shall apply to all plant employees and no alteration of wages, increase in hours of labour, or changes in working conditions shall be made to any plant employees without prior discussion with the Union or its representatives.
(a)
The Company will permit the Chief Steward of the Plant to enter any department to conduct business on behalf of the Union, provided he first notifies the department head and further provided he does not unduly take up the time of employees at work.
(b)
The Business Representative of the Union will be permitted to visit the Plant to conduct Union Business, provided permission is first
obtained from the Production Manager, and further provided such visit does not interfere with production or the work of employees.
3
3.10
3.11
3.12
Recognized supervisors and foremen will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)
0)1
(e)
(d)
when performing development of experimental work;
when checking production on any operation;
when employees are not available for work or due to being late for work providing every effort is being made to replace the employee
in cases of emergency.
NOTE:	The terms of Ms section shall be subject to the grievance
procedure.
Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any circumstance occurring which is beyond the control ofthe Company, and may become the subject of discussion between the parties.
The Company agrees to display a Union plaque on the Company premises.
Article 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
4.01
4.01
Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, it is
the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that a non-probationary employee has been discharged without reasonable cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	Manage, control, continue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged.
Article 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
5.01	A grievance is a difference arising between an employee and/or the Union
and the Company, as to the meaning or application of any provision of the Agreement. Unless agreed to by both the Company and the Union, no
4
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
grievance shall be processed, should the alleged circumstanceshave originated or occurred more than thirty (30) calendar days prior to its originalpresentation in writing. No grievance shall be processed by the Union on behalf of an employee without the employee being notified by the Union of such proceeding.
If a complaint or question should arise, which is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee or employees concerned, after discussionwith the immediate foreman concerned, or the Superintendent in the absence of the foreman. Within one (1) working day, or within any 'suc^ longer period as may be mutually agreed upon the time, then the following steps of the grievance procedure shall be invoked, in order:
Step#!:
The Production Manager or his designatemay confer with not less than three (3) representatives of the Grievance Committee of the employees and settle the grievance, subject to the confirmation of the management of the Company, and if the grievance is not settled within three (3) working days to the satisfaction of the employees, representatives may appeal to the Plant Manager, but the employees must carry out the orders of the Production Manager or his designate, pending the appeal.
/. (tr)
Step #2:
If the grievance is not then settled, the Union shall state the grievance in writing and deliver a copy to the Plant Manager or his designate requesting a meeting which will be held within two (2) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon. At this meeting, the Business Agent of the Union may be present if his presence is requested by either party.
No Company official shall take up a grievance personally with any /	./
affected employee without a Shop Steward being present once the -6 * c , y
grievance has been formally lodged, in writing, by the Grievance Committee.
Step #3:
If the grievance is not settled at the meeting held under Step #2, the grievance shall be discussed within a further period of five (5) working days, between the Plant Manager or his designate and a representativeof the Union, who shall meet and attempt to reach a settlement.
5
5.07
5.08
Any arrangement or decision agreed to under the foregoing steps shall be confirmed and set forth in writing, and be binding upon the Thiol, the Company, and the employee or employees concerned.
A grievance committee, not exceeding three (3) employees, shall be paid for time lost from work during regular working hours while processing and discussing grievances of employees with representatives of the Company. Meetings to discuss grievances shall be held during regular office hours of the Company.
Article 6-ARBITRATION
6.01	Should the parties fail to reach an agreement under the foregoing procedure, either party may refer the matter to arbitration. In such event, the requesting party shall, within (10) working days of completion of the steps referred to above, serve written notice on the other party by registered mail of its request, stating the matter to be arbitrated.
6.02	The requesting party shall then notify the other party, in writing, within five (5) working days, of its serving such notice, of the name of the person to represent it as an arbitrator, and the receiving party shall, within five (5) working days of receipt of such name, notify the requesting party of the name of its arbitrator. The two arbitrators so named shall then meet and attempt to settle the dispute, and failing agreement, they shall, within five (5) working days after their last meeting, name an impartial representative to assist them in settling the dispute.'The two persons named and the impartial representative, shall form a Board of Arbitration, herein called "the Board", and the impartial representative shall act as Chairman of the Board. Should the two arbitrators fail to agree on the choice of the impartial representative, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Manitoba shall be asked to select such person. The majority decision of the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties. By mutual agreement, the parties may refer the grievance to a single arbitrator.
6.03	The Board of Arbitration shall havejurisdiction and authority only to interpret, apply or determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement insofar as shall be necessary to the determination ofgrievances appealed to the Board, but the Board shall not havejurisdiction or authority to add to, deduct from, or alter in any way, the provisions of this Agreement.
6.04	The Board of Arbitration shall adopt its own procedure for determining the matter in dispute.
6 '
6.05	No person shall be appointed as an Arbitrator who has been involved in
any attempt to settle the grievance. The cost of the arbitrators appointed by the Company and the Union shall be borne by each party respectively, and the cost of the third member of the Board shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
Article 7 -PISCHARGE CASKS:
7.01	The Union will not question the dismissal of any employee employed for less than forty-five (45) working days.
7.02	A claim by a non-probationary employee that he has been unjustly dismissed from employment, shall be treated as a grievance, only if a written statement to that effect is lodged with the Winnipeg Manager of the Company within five (5) working days of the employee being given notice of dismissal. Such special grievances may be settled by confirming the Management’s action in dismissing the employee, or by reinstatement of the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which, in the opinion of the parties, is fair and reasonable.
7.03	Schedule^’ Employees Terminated bv Employer
Within one week of terminating an employee in pay schedule “A” for cause, the employerwill promote the senior employee in schedule “B” to schedule “A” in his/her current classification.
Article 8 - MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES:
8.01
It is understood that the management of the Company may bring forward at any meeting with the employees’ Grievance Committee, any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, committeemen or stewards, and that if such complaint by management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
Article 9 - CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS:
9.01	There shall be no strike, slow-down or stoppage of work on the part of the Union, or any employee, and there shall be no lockout by the Company during the life of this Agreement, or during the period stipulated by Manitoba Law, for the negotiation of a new Agreement.
9.02	A shut-down occasioned by any cause beyond control of the Company, or by any changes in method of operation, shall not constitute a lockout.
9.03
Article 10 10.01
10.02
10,03
10.04
10.05
7
Any employee who contravenes the provisions of this Article may be subject to discharge by the Company and, if discharged, may have recourse to the grievance procedure.
SENIORITY;
Employees shall be considered on probation and shall not be entitled to seniority rights until they have completed forty-five (45) working days’ service with the Company. Upon completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be dated from the date of employment. During an employee’s probationary period, he shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off at the discretion ofthe Company and neither such employee nor the Union shall have recourse to grievance or arbitration procedures, Employees who restrict their availability shall not accumulate seniority. This shall not prevent seniority already accrued from being used in recall from lay-off.
As ofthe first week of May and the first week of October of each year, the Company shall prepare and maintain seniority lists; such lists shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards or will otherwise be made available for the employees to examine on request. A copy of all seniority lists will be mailed to the Union office. The classification of employees as of the date of preparation of seniority lists will be shown on the said seniority lists.	.
I* 2
Promotions, transfers, demotions, upgrading, layoff and recalls fern / f* layoffs will normally be based upon seniority, provided there is equality of skill, ability and physical fitness amongst the eligible employees.
All employees may exercise their seniority rights and shall be entitled to a trial period of up to thirty (30) working days in layoffs, recalls from layoff,
transfers, reduction in staff for any reason, or when making applications - for vacancies posted on the bulletin boardr The rate of pay applicable during such trial period shall be that of the rate the employee was earning ' prior to the trial period commencing, except that where the Classification rate at which the employee is working during the trial period is less, then the lesser rate shall apply, where atrial period is applicable, training will be provided.
Training guidelines will be developed, implemented and monitored by . E. the Joint Labour Management Committee or their designates. The Joint Labour Management Committee shall be made up of two Management and two Union members.
10.06
10.07
10.08
10.09
Article 1 11.01
8
Training and scheduling will be done by seniority with the objective being to have people working with seniority. Persons trained will provide their skills in jobs as required. Skill and ability will be determined upon completion of the agreed upon training period.
Where it is found necessary to generally reduce the working force, seniority of all plant employ eeswill be the guiding factor, so long as it does not prevent the Company from maintaining a workable force of employees who are qualified and willing to do the work which is available.
z'
An employee laid off in accordancewith 10.06 above will, if he had six (6) months or less of seniority at the time of layoff, retain the seniority he had and the right to be recalled for aperiod of six (6) months. If he had more than six (6) months of seniority at the time of layoff, he will retain the seniority he had and the right of recall for a period equal to this seniority, but not exceeding twelve (12) consecutive months.
/O.Z> 1 w
' An employee who is working at a full-timejob when recalled shall first contact the Company as soon as possible and then shall report for work within seven (7) days. However, if the employee is not working at a full-timejob, he shall first contact the Company as soon as possible and then shall report to work within three (3) days. Failure to report to work within the time limits set out herein shall mean an employee shall forfeit any claim to recall. Any recalls shall, if made by telephone, be immediately confirmed by registered mail or telegram addressed to the last known address on record with the Company.
Where the Company is unable to contact an employee by telephone who is eligible for recall following layoff, the Company may call the next eligible employee, Where the said recall does not involve the first eligible employee and is for more than one (1) working day, the Chief Steward will be notified ofthe circumstances.
In cases of sickness and injury the Company will maintain the employees benefits for a period of six months from the date of injury/illness. The employee will remain on the seniority list for a total of eighteen months from the date of injury/illness, provided they are totally disabled for the -ehtire period.!
VACANCIES:
(a) When new positions are created or a vacancy occurs, including lead hand vacancies, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancy where all employeesmay see same. Such notice shall
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
11.07
Article 12
12.01
12.02
9
remain posted for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days. Senior employees applying for same shall be given preference. All applications shall be made in writing and a copy handed to the Chief Steward.
(b)
All full-timejob vacancies shall be posted.
Posted jobs shall be those that are vacated, for example Oven Operator (Bread).
Where there is a possibility of ajob being awarded other than by seniority, it is agreed'that an appointed committee of three (3) Stewards shall meet with the management and review the applications, it being understood that no employee shall serve on the committee while his own case is being dealt with.
Successful applicants shall be put on thej ob within eight (8) working days, provided thejob is in operation and unless agreement is reached to extend this period oftime,
Successful applicants for ajob posting who fail to qualify shall revert to their originaljob and the applicant to the originaljob posting will be considered as outlined in this article. When bidding for more than one (1) posted job at atime applicants shall indicate their preference.
If, during the currency hereof, it is deemed necessary by the Company to create a newjob or classification, not at present classified herein, the wage rate therefor shall be negotiated by the parties prior to its posting,
Any employee who may be absent due to illness, vacation or leave of absence or worker's compensation may, within five (5) days upon return to work, submit an application for ajob that has been posted.
Where possible, preference will be given to senior helpers for vacation and part-time relief in higher classifications.
SAFETY AND HEALTH:
The Company shall make every effort to provide all safeguards necessary for the health and comfort of the employees, and the employees shall endeavour at all times to promote cleanliness and safety.
Upon mutual request of the parties hereto, or by request of the Company, any or all employees shall be subject to a physical examination by a competent physician at the Company's expense.
Article 13 ■ BULLETIN BOARDS:
10
13.01	The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory
locations throughout the plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. Ail such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union.
Article 14 . LUNCH AND KESTPERIODS:
14.01	No employee shall be required to go for lunch before completing three and one-half (3 1/2) hours' ofwork, nor shall any employee be required to exceed four and one-half (41/2) hours' work without a meal period. Meal periods shall be thirty (30) minutes without pay.
14.02	A rest period often (10) minutes shall be allowed, without deduction of pay, to each employee at approximately mid-way in each half shift. Any employee who works eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours, but not more than nine (9) hours in any one day shall, after the completion of seven and one-half (71/2) hours, be entitled to a third 10-mmuterest period and, if the work day is more than nine (9) hours, then the third rest period shall be twenty (20) minutes. It is understood that in lieu of the third IO-minute rest period the company may elect to pay 15 minutes at straight time.
Article 15 • DISMISSAL AND LAY-OFFNOTICE:
15.01	Except in the case of cause, all employees employed by the Company for more than forty-five (45) working days, shall be entitled to one-week's notice before dismissal, and the employee shall give the Company one (1) week's notice before severing employment with the Company. Failure on the part of any employee to observe the terms of this clause shall be deemed to be a breach of this Agreement, and the employer shall be entitled to retain and use for his own purpose, any monies due to such employee, up to and including one week's wages.
15.02	All warnings, lay-off and dismissal notices shall be given by the Company in writing, with reasons given, and a copy provided to the Shop Steward.
15.03	Regular employees who are laid off, and who have not severed their employment with the Company, shall receive one (1) week's notice, or pay in lieu thereof Regular employees shall be defined as any employee employed as regular help for more than forty-five (45) working days. If the Company requires an employee to continue working one (1) week or more after the original one week's notice has expired, the employee shall then be entitled to a further one (1) weeks' notice of lay-off.
Article 16 - T,E A VE OF ABSENCE :
11
16.01
16,02
16.03
The Company will grant leave of absence without pay, to employees who are appointed or elected to union office, for a period up to and including one (1) year. Further leave of absencemay be granted by mutual consent, The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of his term of employment with the Union.
The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the ‘ Union.
h Ps */
In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in clauses 16,01 and 16.02 above, the employerwill be given duenotice, in writing; in the case of 16,01, twenty (20) calendar days, and in the case of 16,02, five (5) calendar days.
Article 17 - COMPASSIONATE LEAVE:
17.01	Permanent employees who, through illness, are compelled to leave work
during the course of a day, shall receive full pay for the whole of such day, providing they have worked at least four and one-half (41/2) hours,
17.02
17.03
An employee who has completed the probationary period shall be entitled to not more than three (3) consecutive days' leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of the employee's father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, child, grandparents, father-in-law or mother-in-law, to attend the mourning and the funeral, Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. Additional leave without pay will be granted up to a maximum of four (4) consecutive days if such leave Is justified.
The Company may grant written leave of absence to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. Such leave, when granted by the Company, shall be without pay and with accumulation of seniority.
I*H3
✓
Article 18 - UNIFORMS AND WHITES:
18.01	Employees who are required by the Company to wear uniforms shall
have such uniforms supplied and laundered by the Company. The existing practice regarding uniforms for female employees - i.e., the
12
type of uniform, shall remain in effect. White uniforms for male employees shall consist of a T-shirt and trousers with three (3) such uniforms being supplied each calendar year.
18.02	The Company shall supply and launder aprons for such of the employees
as the Company shall consider requires them.
Articled-WAGES:
19.01	The Company covenants and shall pay all employees employed by it, pursuant to this Agreement, not less than the following schedule of wages, during such time as this Agreement is in force.
19.02	Schedule A • Classifications and rates of pay for employees hired on or before May 17,1997
Class 1 - Bread Line 'Lead Hand
--Dough Operator
C^Oven Operator yBread Divider Operator Bread Wrapping Operator Machine Operator (Panstacker) Class 2 - Bread Line Bread Packer
Effective Mav 1. 1997 $19.22 818.80 $18.80 $18.80 $18.80 '$18.80
$18.50
Effective Mav 1, 1998
$19.42
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$18.70
Class 1 • Roll Line
Lead Hand
Dough Operator
Oven Operator
Roll Machine Operator
(Model K, TJBE, Scrambler,
Panstacker)
Assistant Dough operator (Scaler)
Shipper/Receiyer/Cliecker
Production Relief Class 2 » Roll Line Rackoff.
Pan feeder Roll Packers
$19.22
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.80
$18.50
$18.50
$18.50
$19.42
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$19.00
$18.70
$18.70
$18.70
Sanitation*
$18,50	$18.70
$19.56	$19.76
Maintenance
* Full-time sanitation employees who were hired on or before May 17,1997 shall be paid Class1 rates. Anyfutureposting of sanitationpositionsshall be at the Class2 rate,
1999	• No increase
2000	• N) increase
January 1, 2001 and every otheryear of the contract • COLA will be applied to alljob classifications,
19.03	Progression rate for employees hired on or before May 17, 1997
year of employment 2nd year of employment 3rd year of employment At the start of die 4th year of employment
-	75% of basic wage
-	80% ofbasic wage
-	90% ofbasic wage
-100% ofbasic wage
NOTH: Any employee on lay-offwill berecalled fran lay-off at the rate of pay they were earning at the time they were laid off
Classification (as listed in clause 19.02)
Class 1
Class 2
_ ,Year 1 " -$10.50 $9.50
Maintenance <j Lead Hand I Student*
Length ofEmployment
Year2
$11.00
$10.00
Year3
$11.50
$10.50
Year4
$12.50
$11.50
Year 5 $13.50 $12.50
Year6
$14.50
$13.50
^Students will r
19.05 COLA Clause
Section 1	The wage rates set outabovewill be adjusted on January 1,2001 (and
on January 1 of each succeeding year), in accordance with the year-over-year	^
percentage changeof the Statistics Canada ConsumerPrice Index (all items) for
l|.V^ /
14
Winnipeg for the year ended September 30,2000 (and for the year ended September 30 in succeeding years).
The total Cost of Living Adjustment will be applied to wages and the pension contributions year-over-year.
Section 2 Should the Consumer Price Index be discontinued or modified during the term of this Agreement, the parties shall meet to agree on a substitute mechanism for the annual wage adjustment. Failing agreement, the difference shall be resolved by arbitration.
19.06	The two courses required for the Sanitation Classification shall not take
more than eighteen (18) months to successfully complete.
A Lead Hand, designated as such by the Company to direct the work of others, may assist in scheduling and assigning work to employees and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. He shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees or to exercise any disciplinary action,
A Lead Hand, shall be paid not less than $ 10,00 per week above the rate of the highest classification he is required to lead. Where the rate of a Lead Hand is currently higher than referred to herein, his rate shall not be reduced to conform with the amount set out above.
In direct production a Lead Hand shall not replace any employee in his classification for more than eight (8) hours in a week in addition to relieving for rest periods, lunch periods or when regular employees are absent femthe Plant due to being late for work or absent from work. A Bargaining Unit employee required to relieve a Foreman or Supervisor for any reason will be subject to the conditions of Article 3,10.
Lead Hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
19.08	An employee required to work fifty per cent (50%) or more of the hours in
a work week in one or more classifications will be paid for the full week at the highest rated classification in which he has worked. For any hours less than fifty per cent (50%) of the weekly hours, he shall be paid the appropriate pro-rated hourly rate except that this shall not apply for short periods of less than one (1) hour.
19.07
(a)
(b)
(e)
(A)
19.09
19.10
19.11
Article 20 20.01
Any employee required temporarily to take the place of a lower-rated employee shall not have his wages reduced.
Job Rotation
Employees may be provided with opportunities to rotate between Class 1 and Class 2 positions within the bakery and will receive the applicable rate based on the position being performed. Should employees be relocated on a temporary basis from a Class 1 position to a Class 2 position to accommodate planned training, their rate shall not be reduced. This will allow employees an opportunity to be trained on Class 1 positions and increase internal opportunities for posted positions in the Class 1 category.
EQuiomeDt Allowance
In January of each year, employees classified in a trades category in the Maintenance Department will be entitled to a $600.00 equipment allowance. The equipment must be used on the premises. Employees will be reimbursed funds from’this allowance upon providing proof of purchase for the necessary tools and equipment to the plant manager. Reimbursement shall be made to the employee in a timely manner. There will be no carryover of unused entitlement from year to year.
-HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME. ETC :
In lieu of payment or premiums as described in clauses 20.02,20.03, or 21,10 forpublic holidays (excluding Christmas Day), employees will be. eligible for two weeks of paid time off to be taken outside the May 1 to . September30 regular vacation period. In addition, employees will be ''?//* eligible for one “floating” public holiday, which may betaken in the regular vacation period. All time off must betaken by April 30 forthe previous 12 months (May 1 - April 30) in which it was earned.
In the event that employees receive compensation for the public holiday but have not yet earned the public holiday and are no longer employed by the Company by either voluntary or involuntary reasons, the public hollday(s) will be treated as vacation days and deducted accordingly from the employees’ vacation entitlement on termination from the Company payroll system.
This program will discontinue and the contract will return to its original state should the Labour Board or a Court determine that this does not meet or exceed statutory requirements, or should this provision not be cost neutral to the Company versus statutory
requirements. The Union will be notified by November 30 if the Company intends to discontinue the practice in the following year.
16
20.02
20.03
20.04
The following shall be defined as public holidays, for which all employees shall be paid:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday,
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day.
and all other holidays declared by the Dominion, Provincial or Municipal Governments.
Employees shall work thirty-six and one-half (36 1/2) hours per k, herein called the "regulation hours", divided into any five (5) days, herein called the "regulation days". If a public or statutory holiday occurs during any part of the calendar week, the regulation hours and the regulation days shall be reduced by one-fifth (l/5th) for each holiday therein.
(5) Four-day shifts will be established in the following manner:
•	Voluntarily by the employee (The Company will endeavour to accommodate employees who prefer not to work four-day shifts.)
•	9.5 hours maximum per day
•	Daily overtime paid at time and one-half after 9,5 hours
•	No more than two hours daily overtime for any reason
•	Sick days paid according to scheduled shifts missed » Three ten-minute paid rest periods, except the third
break will be 20 minutes if the shift extends beyond ten hours
e Public Holidays • work week reduced by 9,25 hours for each holiday • fourth day pald/banked at time and one half
•	Pension • All hours worked over:
•	8 • two days credit
•	16 • three days credit
»	24 • four days credit
•	32 • five days credit
(a)
Shift schedules showing the normal starting times and anticipated finishing times will be posted at least forty-eight (48) hours in
17
20.05
20.06
20.07
20.08
advance of the end of the work week of the employees affected. Except in the case of emergency, shift schedules shall not be changed unless forty-eight (48) hours' notice is given to the employee affected. Call-in employees shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of change in shift,
(b)	All employees shall have at least twelve (12) hours off between the end of a drift and the start of the next unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
(c)	Employees shall have two (2) days off together which shall be Friday-Saturday, or Saturday-Sunday,or Sunday-Monday, and shall have fifty-two (52) hours off work where the two consecutive days apply. The consecutive days off set out herein may not apply to maintenance and cleaning employees; however, they shall have two (2) days off together under the same provision set above.
(d)	No employee exceptthe Doughman and Maintenance ^fen. shall be required to commence work earlier than 10:00 p.m, on Christmas Day and, if the plant is closed or New Year's Day, 8:00 p.m. New Year's Day unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
(a)	Except for employees who are working a four-day week, no
employee shall be called upon to work more than seven and one-half (71/2) hours in any one day, unless paid time and one-half for all hours worked in excess thereof up to nine (9) hours with double time thereafter, provided that both daily and weekly overtime shall not be paid for the same hours. Such extra hours worked shall not be included in computing the regulation hours.
(b)	An employee required to work overtime will be given notice of at least one (1) hour.
Employees who are called in to work for regular shift hours shall be paid for not less than six (6) hours.
ll. D. I (tys
If an employee is absent during the regulation week without valid reason for any part of his scheduled work, he shall be paid overtime only on a weekly basis.
Any employee who works in excess of the regulation hours in a week, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate for all such extrahours worked, subjectto the provisions of clause20.05.
20.09
20.10 20.11
20.12
20.13
Article 21 21.01
1s
Any employee who shall work in excess of the regulation days shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times his regular rate for such extra hours worked, provided, however, that such extra hours shall not be included in computing the regulation hours.
Except in case of emergency, or immediately prior to a double or triple holiday, no employee shall be called upon to work more than nine (9) hours in any one day.
Any contemplated change of a major nature, in the schedule of working hours, shall be brought to the attention of the Union, at least one week before such change is made effective, and the Union shall have the right to make such representations as it may deem proper.
All employees must punch a time clock.
An employee who has left the Company premises and who is then called in to work outside his regular working hours to meet emergency conditions, shall receive not less than the equivalent of four (4) hours’ pay at time and one-half.
VACATIONS:
Vacations with pay will be granted by the Company in accordance with the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)	* (0*
Twelve (12) months service, continuous or collective-
Three (3) years of service Eight (8) years of service Thirteen (13) years of service Eighteen (18) years of service Twenty-three (23) years of service
two (2) weeks; three (3) weeks; four (4)weeks; five (5) weeks; six (6) weeks; seven (7) weeks.
U3
(). A
(H.J)
((.A
(uj).
*Note: Employees hired after May 17,1997 (scheduleB) will not be eligible for vacation entitlementTofsix weeks and seven weeks under
sections “(e)"and “(I)” above,	|{ <k' ^
19
21.02
21.03
21.04
21.05
21.06
21.07
21.08
21.09
21.10
In the first year an employee qualifies for a third week of vacation, the employee shall, by request, be granted a three (3) week vacation to run consecutively.
Apart from the exception set out in 21,02 above, the three (3) weeks' vacation will normally be scheduled in two (2) periods, one of fourteen ( 14)consecutive days within the regular vacation period, and the other of seven (7) consecutive days at some time outside the regular vacation period.
The four (4) weeks' vacation shall be taken as follows:
Twenty-one (21) consecutive days within the regular vacation period, and the other seven (7)consecutive days at sometime outside the regular vacation period;
-or-
At the request of the employee, twenty-eight (28) consecutive days at some time outside the regular vacation period.
Employees With less than twelve (12) months' service will be paid vacation pay pro-rated in accordance with the amount of time worked up to the cut-off date.
Call-in employees who work more than 1,277 hours in the 12 months prior to the cut-off date (September 30) will qualify for vacation in the May 1 lo September30 regularvacation period. Otherwise, their vacation must be taken outside of the regularvacation period.
The regular vacation period shall be from May lstto September 30th each year. However, this shall not preclude an employee fern making a mutually satisfactoiy arrangement with his supervisor or foreman to take all or part of his vacation at a time other than the normal vacation period.
The vacation list shall be posted not later than April 1st of each year, and should a vacation period become vacant, after the holiday list has been posted, such vacancy shall be posted immediately.
Choice of vacation periods shall be granted according to seniority.
If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he may elect to receive one (1) day's pay in lieu thereof The arrangement for the extra
tex.t,
21.11
21.12
21.13
21.14
Article 22 22.01
22.02
22.03
20
day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacation.
- All employees shall take their vacations annually.
_ The cut-off date for accumulating service for vacations with pay shall be September 30th of each year.
An employee who works six (6)months or more in the year prior to his vacation in a higher rated classification, will have his vacation pay prorated in accordance with such time worked.
i An employee will be allowed up to a total of 65 full or partial working days absence due to illness, compensable injury, or lay-off during the vacation year without any deduction being made femhis vacation pay. However, should the total of all such absence exceed the aforesaid 65 full or partial working days, his vacation pay will then be prorated for such excess absence only on the basis of a full year's credit. Should absence due to illness, compensable injury, lay-off, or any combination thereof, cover the entire vacation year, the employee shall not be eligible for vacation pay. An employee who is on leave for reasons other than set out above, shall have his vacation pay prorated in accordance with the time lost due to such leave of absence. "Vacation year" shall mean May l to April 30 inclusive.
SICK LEAVE:
Regular full-time employees who have completed three (3) consecutive months of employment shall be paid sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each full month worked to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay shall only apply to the second and third working day of any dlness except that, if an employee is absent due to illness for more than seven (7) calendar days, then the first day will be paid, provided there is sufficient benefits credited to the employee.
In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and monies received from weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay.
If the Company requests verification of illness, the employee shall be required to provide suitable verification, such as an authentic medical certificate. The Company will bear the cost of such certificate upon proof of such costs.
An employee, if found abusing this privilege, may be disciplined by the Company. The Company may discontinue or reduce the benefit to the employee.
21
22.04
Article 23-SEVERANCE PAY:
23.01
23.02
In the event of a30% production volume reduction (from May 1,1997 levels); amalgamatlon/permanent closure of plant, or department thereof; or automation; causing a regular employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employees severancepay at their regular rate of pay as follows:
•	one week of pay per year of service for all employees with
less than ten years’ continuous service;
•	two weeks per year of service for ail employees with ten years’ or more continuous service to amaximum of 40 weeks.
10-a J *■1
An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms
hereof may elect to receive his severance pay as soon as possible or he
may elect to be placed on a recall list, subject to recall in accordance with
the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee
elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing ■ IO.E.I
employment or at anytime during the recall period, he shall forfeit any
claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be
placed on a recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months,
shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost
his employment.
Article 24-AUTOMATION:
24.01	Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new
technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
Article 25 -JURYDUTY:
25.01	An employee who is required to serve on a jury will be paid the difference
between his regular rate of pay and the fees received franthe Court for his service as a juror. Such employee shall be required to report to work on any days he is not required to sit on ajury or remain in the courtroom.
Article 26 -BENEFITS:
26,01
26,02
26.03
Weekly Indemnity
indemnity will be provided to all employees eligible for the health and welfare plan based on 100% of individual weekly earnings exclusiveof overtime. The duration of the weekly indemnity benefit will be 26 weeks. <«> 5/m/vi
Long Ifem Disability
The benefit level of the Long Term Disability plan will cover 50% of the employee's current weekly rate exclusiveof overtime to a monthly maximum of 51,000.00 effective July 1, 1997 and to a monthly maximum of $1,500,00 effective July 1,1998,
Group Life Insurance shall be $28,000 for all employees. \*^) • ^ * ' /jsx
m
26.04
26.05
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
As soon as it can be arranged, the present Basic Dental Insurance Plan will be amended to provide for denture insurance. Effective jy	5
May l, 1989 the Plan C plan will be implemented with increased 3	'
costs above the current Plan B to be borne 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
Dental Insurance coverage shall be based on one hundred per cent (1 00%) of the prevailing fee schedule.
Effective July 1,1977, all new employees, as soon as they become eligible, shall enroll in the Dental Insurance Plan.
All present employeeswith Dental Insurance coverage shall remain in the Plan.
EffectiveMay 1, 1978, all employees not enrolled in the Dental Insurance Plan shall be given the opportunity to do so.
Effective May 1, 1995, the yearly maximum benefit shall increase to $1,500,
4

The Corapany/Employee premium cost splitwill be 75% - 25% for health and welfare benefits which will include life insurance, weekly indemnity, dental plan, medical and hospital plaris,	.

The Compaay/Employee premium cost split will be 50% • 50% for the
long term disability benefit.	(m)
26.06
26.07
26.08
no
Should the Manitoba Government reintroduce a hospitalization and Medicare premium plan paid by individuals, the Company agrees to cover 100% of the cost for all employees eligible for the full benefits program.
Pension contribution rates
fa) Contribution rates for employees hired on or before Mav 17,1997
Effective July 1, 1997, the contributions will increase to SI 7.72 per day. Contributions will increase to the following levels effective January 1 of .each subsequent year:
1998	$19,54 per day
1999	S21J6perday
2000	S23.18 per day
2001	$25,00 per day
fb) Contribution rates for employees hired after Mav 17.1997
All employees hired after May 17,1997 will be eligible for the Bakers Pension Elan
A at the $4,6448 contribution rate upon completing three months’ service.
Contributions will increase to the following levels effective January 1
of each subsequent year:
1998	$5,0021/day
1999	S5J594/day
2000	S5.7167/day
Old ay
(c) Pension contribution increases after January 1, 2001 will be governed by the COLA clause (19.05).
The Company provides an eye care plan that provides a maximum of h.n-i $ 100 per employee and eligible dependents to defer the cost of	—-——
prescription eye wear. The benefit is available once eveiy two years.	hi
The Company and the Union agree that no changes to the current benefit level, plan texts and benefit carriers will occur without consent of both parties.
The following employees are eligible for benefits:
• full time employees who work 36,5 hours per week, after three months of employment;
• call-io employees who have worked an average of three shifts per week for 12 consecutive weeks.
Students will not be eligible for the benefit plan.
If an employee islaid-offand does not work for a period of 30 days, their benefits will be terminated. Upon recall, benefits will be reinstated immediately.
Call-in employees who restrict their availability to work scheduled ^ hours without a valid reason, (thevalidity ofthe reason shall be determined by thejoint labour-management committee), 'will have their benefits terminated within 30 days. Employees must work an average of three shifts per week over a 12 week period or fbelr benefits will terminate 30 days from the end of the twelve week period. An employee whose benefits have been terminated must re^qualify for benefits per the requirements above.
Article 27 • WESTERN CANADA EMPTOYEE TRANSFER PROGRAM
All employees covered under this agreement will be given the opportunity to transfer to other Weston Bakery facilities in Western Canada based on the followingguidelines:
a)	Id all transfer situations agreement must be reached between the Company and the respective Business Agents ofthe BC&T and/or other trade union locals.
b)	Employees cannot maintain their current wage rate and will move to the wage rates in accordance with the collective agreement in force at the time of the transfer to the transferred facility.
c)	Senioritywill only be maintained for purposes of calculating vacation entitlement and the applicable wage progression rate.
d)	Transferred employees will be able to participate in full benefits coverage immediately upon starting at the facility transferred to.
An employee vi» moves to a new facility will have full seniority rights in the applicable collective agreement
Article 28 • ALTERNATIVE WORK COMPLETION
25
It is not the intention of the Company to replace the bargaining unit employees with temporary or contract personnel. However, should business conditions make it necessary, the Company may implement alternative work programs,
The Company will provide two months notice to the Union prior to implementing any alternative work programs that would eliminate jobs in the facility. This notice period will serve to provide the employees an opportunity to work with management to develop alternatives that would keep the work within the bargaining unit.
Should the union and management be unable to develop viable alternatives, the Company may proceed with its announced plans, Every attempt will be made to provide affected employees with comparable employment elsewhere in the Winnipeg facility. Should no opportunities exist locally, the Company will endeavor to find other employment through the Western Canada Job Transfer Program. Moving Costs to relocate to another facility in Western Canada will be covered to a maximum of S1 (000 •
Displaced employees must demonstrate the requisite skills and abilities to perform any new positions assumed and agree to participate in a training period if required.
In the event that no position can be found or the employee chooses not to accept the new position the following severance provision will apply:
(a) 3 weeks pay per year of service with a minimum severance amount of 310,000 to a maximum of 350,000,
Should the Union not accept the results of the application of this clause, it retains the right to “open” the entire collective agreement for purposes of negotiating a new agreement. The Union must provide thirty days written notice of its intention to open the agreement under the terms of this provision. Should the Union open the agreement, the Company will not proceed with the changes until such time that the new agreement is ratified.
Article29 - TERMINATION:
29.01	This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties from the
date hereof, until the 30th day of April, 20 06 and shall continue in effect ffomyearTB ytJUfTnWJiifWf, unless noiiwof termination or of revision
thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty (30) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the natural expiration of same, in which case either party may, on ten (10) clear days' notice, in writing, require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of the Agreement within the same period, and both of these notices shall contain an itemized list of all requested changes and these shall be the only items which shall be considered.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed these present and all employees hereby agree to cany out the rules and regulations as laid down by the Company frcmtime to time, to be loyal to the Company, to promote its interests and to support any effort the Company may make to develop and extend its business.
SIGNED AT WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, THIS	DAY OF	, 1997.
FOR THE UNION
27
CANADIAN RAKFRY AND CONFECTIONERY TTNTON AND INDUSTRY PENSION FI JND
APPENDIX 1
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CT.ATTSF.
The undersigned Employer and Local Union represent that the only agreement between the said Local Union and Employer regarding pensions or retirement for employees J j covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is as follows:
1
(a)
Commencing with the 20th day of September 1970, and for the duration of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement, between the saidLocal Union and Employer and any renewals or extensions thereof, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Canadian Bakeiy and Confectioneiy Union and the Industry Pension Fund for each employee working injob classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
For each day or portion thereof for which an employee subject to the collective bargaining agreement receives pay, the employer shall make contributions Id the above named Pension fund in accordance with the following schedules:
Effective Date	Daily Contributions	Weekly Maximum
Julvl. 1997	$17,72	$88.60
Januarv 1. 1998	$19.54	S§?:7§
Januarv 1. 1999	$21,36	$106,80
Januarv 1. 2000	$23.18	$115,90
Januarv 1:2001	$25.00	$125,00
January 1,2002 - 06	(in accordance with COLA clause 19.05)	(daily contribution multiplied by Five)
Effective Date	Dailv Contributions	Weekly Maximum
Julv 1. 1997	$4,6448	$23,22
Januarv 1. 1998	$5.0021	$25.01
January 1, 1999	$5.3594	$26.80
January 1, 2000	$5.7167	$28,58
Januarv I. 2001	$6.0740	$30.37
Januarv 1, 2002 - 06	(in accordance with COLA clause 19.05)	(dailv contribution multiplied by five.)
28
For the purposes of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of employees after three months of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or fill-time or part-time employees and regardless of whether or not they are members ofthe Union. It is further understood that each day paid for, including days of paid vacation, paid holidays, and other days for which pay is received by the employee in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be counted as days for which contributions are payable.
(b)
The Employer hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, September?, 1970, establishing the said Canadian Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Pension Fund, and agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of said Agreement, a copy of which is to be hereafter annexed hereto and made a part hereof. The Employer.further agrees irrevocable to designate as its representatives on the Board of Trustees ofthe Fund such Trustees as are named in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in the said Agreement, and agrees to be bound by all action taken by the said Employer Trustees pursuant to the said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
(c)	It is agreed that the said Pension Plan shall be such as will qualify for approval by the appropriate Canadian Government Departments so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
(d)	It is agreed that all contributions shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Trustees require; and the Trustees shall have the authority to have an independent Chartered Accountant audit the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributionsto the Pension Fund.
(e)	Employer fails to make contributions to the Pension Fund after the
date required by the Trustees, the Local Union, in addition to any rights • the Trustees may have, shall have the right to take whatever steps are available to it under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and applicable law to secure compliance with this Article. The Employer shall be liable for all costs incurred in collecting the payments due hereunder, together with all legal fees and costs and such penalties as may be assessed by the Trustee.
29
2.	The Parties agree and represent that there is no other agreement between
them regarding pensions, other than this Article, presently in effect, The Parties further agree that no agreement regarding pension benefits other than this Article shall be effective during the period covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement, except with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
3.	The expiration date of the present Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Local Union and the Employer is April 30, 2006, Copies of any renewal or extension agreements will be promptly furnished to the Pension Fund Office and, if not consistent with this standard Collective Bargaining Clause, can be used by the Trustees as the basis for termination ofparticipation of the Employer.
4.	This Article shall be binding upon the Parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors, and assigns. In the event that the Employer sells, leases, or transfers this Company or any part thereof, or is taken over by assignment, receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, the successor shall be bound by the terms and conditions of this Article for the life thereof. The Employer shall give notice of the existence of this Article to any purchaser, transferee, leasee, assignee, or other successor in interest. Such notice shall be in writing, with a copy to the Trustees, not later than ten
(1 0) days prior to the effective date of the transaction. The Employer agrees that its failure to so notify its successor and the Trustees will operate to continue its obligations under this Article,
SIGNED AT WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, THIS DAY OF	, 1997.
30
June 16,1994
Mr. H. Marx
Business Manager BC&T Local 389 Winnipeg, Manitoba
Dear Mr, Marx: .
RE: STUDENTS
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement confirms the following
understanding reached at negotiations regarding the status of summer students.
(1)	Summer studentswill be noted on the shift scheduleby an "S”,
(2)	Summer studentswill only accrue seniority against other summer students.
(3)	Summer students are not eligible for benefits, excluding pension.
(4)	If a summer student works past September 15 he will no longer be considered a summer student and his seniority will revert back to his first day hired for that summerperiod.
(5)	Seniority for summer students shall be based on previous summers’ employment and they shall have seniority rights over mo rejunior summer students i.e. firstyear students who commence work prior to the return of a more senior returning student.
(6)	Summer studentshave no seniority versus call-in personnel. First year students seniority shall be based on their date of availability in the current year.
Sincerely,
JimDiotte
Director, Human Resources Weston Bakeries, Western Canada
JD/km
31
June 16,1994
Mr. H. Marx
Business Manager BC&T Local 389 Winnipeg, Manitoba
Dear Mr, Marx:
RE; I IMl REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN SHIFTS
This letter which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement confirms the understanding reached at negotiations that call-in employees may waive this right to 12 hours offbetween shifts. It is understood that there must be a minimum of 10 hours offbetween the termination of one shift and the commencement of the next.
Sincerely,
Jim Diotte
Director, Human Resources Weston Bakeries, Western Canada
JD/km
BC&TLTR
32
November 6, 1997
Mr, H, Mar-Business Manager BC&T Local 389 Winnipeg, Manitoba
Dear Mr, Marx;
RE: PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
This letter which is separate and apart fern the Collective Agreement confirms the following practices for Public Holidays.
All call-in employees (not including students)will receive public holiday pay if they work two or i	in the week on which the public holiday occurs.
d)
(2) All students will	holiday pay if they have worked ten days in the
three weeks ]	Wh week of the statutory holiday.
Sincerely,
\
vf

Bill Van Oije sirector, Human Resources
/eston Bakeries, Western Canada
33
November 6, 1997
Mr. H. Marx
Business Manager BC&T Local 389 Winnipeg, Manitoba
Dear Mr. Marx:
RE: Floating Public Holiday
This letter which is separate and apart firm the Collective Agreement confirms the following agreement regarding the floating public holiday referenced in clause20,01.
New Year's Day will be designated as the one "floating" public holiday for all eligibleemployees. However, if future business needs necessitate operating the plant onNew Year's Day, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss options for selecting a different floating public holiday in accordance with clause20,01.
Sincerely,
November 6, 1997
Mr. Herb W. Marx Business Manager
Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union Local 389
Winnipeg, Manitoba Dear Mr, Marx,
This letter, which is separate firm the collective agreement, confirms that The Company recognizes the Bakeiy, Confectioneiy and Tobacco Workers International Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all Weston Bakeries Limited owned or operated facilities in Manitoba. This agreement assumes that the union remains in its current structure affiliated with the BC & T International or becomes independent. Should the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union merge with anothertrade union, voluntary recognition will not apply.
Sincerely,
m Van ©ije
Director, Human Resources
Canada