COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
BETA BRANDS LIMITED LONDON, ONTARIO
AND
The BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242G
INDEX
A
ABSENTEEISM REPLACEMENTS AND
CALL-INS....................  36
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM......106
ARBITRATION..................22
B
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE BULLETIN BOARDS.
50
65
C
CHECK-OFF njj ................9
CLOTH I ml m ^PiXANTf MFLO YE ES... 72
COMPLAINTS ANETt^lEV^DES.....18
CREW^D^...f..g.;w.....y.....100
DISCH*tf*aE_&ND DISCIPLINE...24
DISCRIMINATION::::-...........7
E
ESTABLISHED WORK PRACTICES...95
G
GENDER......................7
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE........15
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN.......56
H
HOURS OF WORK.............66
J
JOB CLASSIFICATIONAND WAGE
RATES.......................90
JOB SECURITY..................60
JOB SKILLS INVENTORY..........46
JOB SKILLSTRAINING............47
JURY DUTY.....................51
L
LAY-OFFS...............
LEAVE OF ABSENCE.......
LOSS OF SENIORITY......
M
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT RIGHTS......
N
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE..
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS...
O
OVERTIME PARAMETERS....
OVERTIME RATES.........
OVERTIME REGULATIONS...
38
48
37
74
I O
..14
..10
78
85
84
2
P
PART TIME EMPLOYEES.........103
PAY WEEK.....................73
PERSONAL CONTACT INFORMATION. 38
PLANT VISITATIONS............64
POLICY GRIEVANCES............23
POSTING. JOB VACANCIES AND
TRAINING....................41
PRODUCTION SHUTDOWN.........108
PURPOSE.......................5
R
RATES OF NEW HIRES.......
RECALL TO WORK...........
RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS......
RELATIONSHIP.............
RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT TO
LONDON PLANT............
REPORTING ALLOWANCE......
RESCHEDULING OF VACATIONS.,
REST PERIODS.............
RETURN TO WORK...........
..44
..86
..69
..16
116
..87
..77
..74
113
S
SAFETY.......................53
SCHEDULING GENERAL...........28
SCOPE AND RECOGNITION.........7
SENIORITY....................27
3
SEVERANCE PAY..............52
SHIFT PREMIUM..............69
STEWARDS...................15
T
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION...6
TERMINATION ON 24 MONTH ABSENCE
.............................38
TRAINING ADMINISTRATION.......47
TRAINING PERIODS..............42
U
UNION ELECTIONS..............63
UNION MEMBERS TEMPORARILY
ASSIGNED TO NON UNION JOBS..111
UNION SECURITY...............8
V
VACATION PLAN
75
W
WEEKEND SCHEDULED OVERTIME.... 81
WEEKLY SCHEDULED OVERTIME...81
WORK PERFORMANCEAND
EFFICIENCY.................93
WORKING CONDITIONS..........72
4
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
BETA BRANDS LIMITED LONDON, ONTARIO (Hereinafter referred to as “the Company”)
AND
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCOAND
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242G
(Hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
Article I - PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to promote the mutual interest of the Company and its employees, to provide orderly collective bargaining relations, to provide a procedure for the prompt disposition of grievances, and to develop and maintain 5
mutually satisfactory hours, wages, working conditions, efficiency and safety.
TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION
1.02	(a) This Agreement, which
supersedes all other, written, express or implied, will continue in effect until December 31st, 2005 - (3 year agreement) and will continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice of its intention to terminate or to seek amendments to this Agreement within a period of not more than ninety (90) days prior to the date of expiry.
(b) In the event that either party gives notice seeking amendments, negotiations will commence within twenty (20) days after receipt of such notice and if as a result of such negotiations, the parties fail to negotiate a new Agreement or modification of the present Agreement prior to the date of termination, then this Agreement will terminate on that date.
6
(c) It is understood that during any negotiations following upon notice of termination or notice of amendment, either party may bring forward counter proposals arising out of or related to the original proposals.
GENDER
103 (a) Except where clearly indicated otherwise, reference to the masculine pronoun shall refer to either sex.
DISCRIMINATION
(b) It is agreed that the provisions of this agreement shall be applied to all bargaining unit employees without discrimination in regard to race, colour, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin. Such employees who claim that he/she has been discriminated against with regards to rights guaranteed by this agreement, may grieve as provided in Article 10.
Article 2 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of 7
all employees of the Company at its London Plants, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, plant nurses, office and sales staff, and watchmen.
2.02	A full-time employee is one who is hired to normally work forty (40) hours per week.
Article 3 - UNION SECURITY
3.01	All employees covered by the terms of this Agreement will be required to become and remain members in good standing in the Union as a condition of continued employment.
3.02	All employees will pay Union dues after three days of work. This payment of Union dues will not be refunded, but will in no way change the new employee’s status as a probationary employee. All new employees will become and remain members in good standing in the Union upon completion of sixty (60) working days of service as defined in section
14.02	of Article 14, as a condition of continued employment. The Company
8
will notify new employees of his condition of employment at the time of hiring and will require a signature on the "Application Form” at that time. A partial shift does not constitute a day worked if the absence is a result of the employee.
3.03	CHECK-OFF
The company will, for the term of this Agreement, deduct Union dues, sums collected from weekly dues will be forwarded along with a record showing for whom the deductions were made, to the Financial Secretary no laterthan the last day of each week (bi-weekly effective July 1,1998). When an employee has been off on weekly indemnity and returns, no more than 1week union dues of back premiumswill be taken off any one pay. Initiation fees will also be deducted after sixty (60) working days and submitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union. A partial shift does not constitute a day worked if the absence is a result of the employee.
Article 4 - STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees during the term of this Agreement.
4.02	The Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production, deliveries or services, and that if any such collective action should be taken, it will instruct its members to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and to return to or resume work and perform their duties in the normal manner.
Article 5 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	Management of the business of the Company, the direction of its working forces, the securing of efficient operation of the plant, the schedules and quantities of production and methods, processes and means of production and distribution are the exclusive functions of the managerial and supervisory staff of the Company.
10
5.02	Management shall determine the kinds of products to be manufactured, processed and/or distributed by the Company. The equipment, materials and processes shall be those deemed by Management most suitable for its requirements.
5.03	Management shall maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
5.04	Subject to the limitations of this Agreement, Management will hire, promote, transfer or demote employees and suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause, subject to the right of the employees to enter into the grievance procedure as contained herein. The Union recognizes the right of the Company to institute and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, a copy of which will be given to all employees. Any changes to or any new rules will be discussed with the Union prior to being posted on the bulletin boards. Copies if changed, or new rules, will be given to the Union.
11
5.05	The Company will not contract out any work which is normally performed by members of the bargaining unit, contracts in force as of the effective dates of this Agreement excepted. When outside contracts are necessary, the Union will be notified in writing at least forty eight (48) hours before any work commences, in order that representation may be made to the Company. Before contracting out any work, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee or appropriate union steward to explain to them work to be contracted, why it is necessary to contract any such work, and the approximate time that will be required to perform the work. It is the Company’s and Union’s understanding and intent to co-operate in performed by members of the bargaining unit, contracts in force as the case of emergencies or unusual circumstances.
Outside contracting will be effected in the best interest of the company. The issue of contracting out will be referred to the panel in situations
12
where contracting out Is in excess of $10,000. per annum.
In the event of a dispute between the union and the company on the issue of contracting out, a panel of 5 persons will be organized with each of the union and the company selecting 2 membersandthe four (4) members appointing an independent fifth member who shall serve as voting chairperson.
In such case, the Union and the Company shall instruct the panel to make a determination with five (5) days from the date of appointment.
5.06	(a) Employees will not be required
to, or be penalized for, refusing to cross a picket line where a legal strike is in process.
(b) The Company will not knowingly purchase or use material from a Company where a legal strike is in progress, if it is able to secure such material from other sources without unreasonable delay.
13
(C) The Company agrees that it will not knowingly manufacture, process or package any product normally produced by another Company where a legal strike is in progress for the purpose of assisting the employer to maintain operations or market.
(d) The Union agrees to meet with the Company in an attempt to work out a satisfactory solution to the above-mentioned problems which is acceptable to both parties.
Article 6 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE:
6.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee of not more than seven (7) employees, and will deal with the said Committee on such matters as are properly the subject of negotiation during the term of this Agreement, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
6.02	International Representatives of the Union may be present at any meeting
14
held under this provision if their presence is requested by either party hereto.
Article 7 - STEWARDS
7.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the appropriate supervisor. A list of such stewards and areas within which each one is to normally function will be a matter of record between the Company and the Union. The Company will not be obliged to recognize any steward until notified, in writing, cf their name and classification in which the steward is to normally function.
7.02	Stewards may act as alternates in the event of absence for the elected steward in that classification.
Article 8 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
8.01	The Company recognizes the right
of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Grievance Committee of not more than four (4) Union officers plus one (1) steward as observer and other 15
stewards concerned to be called in singly as necessary.
Article 9 - RELATIONSHIP
9.01	It is mutually agreed that employees will not be eligible to serve as stewards or members of any committee established under this Agreement, until after they have served their probationary period in the employment of the Company.
9.02	Officers and stewards, required to be absent from their regular duties for the purpose of investigating and processing grievances and complaints will notify their supervisor, who will arrange the necessary relief as soon as possible. It
is understood that only under emergency conditions shall a supervisor refuse to grant permission to stewards to leave their job(s) for necessary steward’s duties. It is agreed that stewards will only absent themselves from their duties for the length of time necessary to investigate or adjust a complaint or grievance and will report to their supervisor immediately upon their return 16
to their job. The Local Union President will be assigned to work on day shift.
The same absence from work for Union business regulations as govern other Local Union officials will apply to the President.
9.03	The Company agrees to permit stewards and committee members, including the negotiating Committee, reasonable time off from regular duties to attend to matters properly coming under the provisions of the Agreement and that in accordance with this understanding, will compensate them at regular rates of pay for time allowed off during regular working hours.
9.04	The Union agrees to keep the Company currently informed, in writing of the names of the stewards and committee members. The Company will not be asked to recognize any steward or committee member until such notification from the Union has been received.
17
Article 10 - COMPLAINTS AND
GRIEVANCES
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees will be resolved as quickly as possible. It is understood that a formal grievance may not be filed until the employees have contacted their supervisor giving them an opportunity to adjust the complaint or answer the question within the next regular workday, or any longer period which may be mutually agreed upon by the employee and supervisor concerned. Employees may be assisted by their Steward.
10.02	Employees will be allowed reasonable time off to register complaints or questions during working hours after securing permission from their supervisor.
10.03	Failing satisfactory adjustment or answer, the following steps of the Grievance Procedure may be invoked in order, provided the grievance is reduced to writing within three (3) working days of the answer to the supervisor and within
18
ten (10) working days of the time the facts giving rise to the grievance became known to the employee.
10.04	The following procedure shall be followed in a sincere effort by both parties to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement.
STEP 1
(a)	The written grievance will be signed by the employee and the steward and be delivered to the supervisor concerned.
(b)	The supervisor concerned will state a decision in writing, with appropriate reasons and return the grievance and signed statement to the employee, with a copy to the steward and the Local Union President within three (3) working days.
(c)	Failing settlement, the grievance may, within two (2) working days following the decision of the supervisor, be referred to and dealt with under the following Step 2.
19
(d)	Grievances may be registered during regular working hours at the reasonable convenience of the supervisor during that shift. NOTE: The term supervisor shall not include any bargain unit personnel.
STEP 2
The steward and the aggrieved will meet with the appropriate manager (and Industrial Relations Manager on request), or their designate within five (^working days. The President of the Union or his/her designate will be present at Step 2 meetings. A written answer to the grievance will be given by the appropriate Company official within two (2) working days following this meeting.
If no settlement is reached at this stage, the grievance will be referred to a meeting of the Grievance Committee and Management cf the Company.
STEP 3
(a) If the reply of the appropriate manager is not satisfactory to the aggrieved, the grievance shall be referred, within three (3) 20
working days following the date of the manager’s reply, to the appropriate Director. The Director and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the Union Grievance Committee within a further five (5) working days to discuss the grievance. The Director or his designate will give a reply to the grievance, in writing, within five (5) working days after the said meeting has been held.
(b) Failing settlement within a period of five (5)working days following the meeting, at the request of either party, the grievance may be referred to arbitration as provided hereinafter.
10.05	Any of the time limits provided in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union in writing.
10.06	If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, the party requesting arbitration will do so within ten (10) working days after receipt of the other party’s answer at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Nothing in the grievance
21
procedure will prevent representatives from either party from reviewing matters and trying to reach an agreement before going to arbitration.
Article 11 - ARBITRATION
11.01	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, they will make such request in writing, addressed to the other party, after the grievance has been dealt with in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure and at the same time will suggest the name of sole arbitrator. The other party will have ten (10) working days to accept or to suggest the name of another arbitrator.
If the parties cannot agree on the sole arbitrator within the above ten (I0) working days, the party requesting arbitration will request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint the sole arbitrator.
11.02	Each party will jointly and equally bear the expense of the sole arbitrator.
11.03	No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly
22
carried through all appropriate steps of the grievance procedure.
11.04	The sole arbitrator will not be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement, nor to deal with any matter not covered by this agreement.
11.05	In suspension or discharge cases, the arbitrator will have authority to deal with such matters properly before it in any manner which it deems just and equitable in the circumstances of the case. All reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the arbitrator to fully investigate all the circumstances relating to the grievance.
11.06	The proceedings of the arbitrator will be expedited by the parties hereto. The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
Article 12 - POLICY GRIEVANCES
12.01	Eitherthe Company or the Union Executive Committee may file a policy grievance over any dispute alleged 23
violation arising out of an interpretation of a section of the collective agreement, which will be presented in writing, dated and signed by the aggrieved party to the other party. A meeting, as set out in Step 3 will be held between the parties within five (5) working days after receipt of the grievance. Failing settlement, the matter may be referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee as set out in 10.06 above.
12.02	International Union representatives may be present at any meeting held under the provision of this Article, if their presence is requested by either party.
Article 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	(a) Verbal warnings will be given in the presence cf a steward. A copy of the written warning notices will be given to the affected employee and the employee’s regular work unit steward.
(b) Any employee permanently demoted or transferred from their job posting will be considered a special grievance and will be 24
treated as in Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
13.02	(a) A claim by a suspended or discharged permanent employee that the suspension or discharge from employment is unjust will be considered a special grievance and will be treated as in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. Any discharged or suspended employee will have the right to- be represented by the Union President, designate or any other union official or steward that is on shift at that time of the discipline. The president will be provided with a written copy of the discipline for their record. An employee returning to the plant on the matter of a grievance will report to the Sr. Human Resources Manager before entering the plant proper. Such grievances will be lodged with the Sr. Human Resources Manager, in writing, within three (3) working days from the date of the suspension or discharge. Such grievances will be heard by the appropriate Sr.
Manager or his/her designate within a further three (3) working days. At this hearing, employees will be accompanied by their steward and the President of the Local 25
Union, or his/her designate, if the employee so desires, and the matterwill be treated as in Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Such grievances may be settled by confirming the Company’s action in suspending or dismissing the employee, or by reinstating the employee without the loss cf seniority with full compensation for the time lost, or by any other arrangement which is mutually considered just and equitable by the parties. If the suspension or discharge is confirmed by the Director or his designate, then the matter may be referred to arbitration as provided in Article
11.
(c)	Personnel files will be kept intact, however, for disciplinary actions, records will be disregarded after 18 monthsfrom the incident until January 1,2005 after which records will be disregarded after 12 months from the incident. Employees who wish to have access to their own personal file, under supervision of management, must submit the request in writing to the Sr. Human Resources Manager. Request will
26
be granted (unless abused) within a
reasonable period of time.
Article 14-SENIORITY
14.01	Seniority will provide employees with security based on their continuous employment with the Company dating from the employee’s most recent date of hire.
14.02	Employees having less than sixty (60) working days of service will be considered probationary employees and will have no seniority rights during this probationary period, except that such employees will be given the opportunity to return from layoff before new employees are hired. It is understood, however, that part-time employees will not accumulate any seniority rights. A partial shift does not constitute a day worked if the absence is a result of the employee.
14.03	Seniority lists cf permanent employees will be maintained by the Company and revised every six (6) months. All seniority lists will be posted
27
on the bulletin boards of the Company and a copy supplied to the Union President, Union Executive and Stewards.
14.04	SCHEDULING 1) General Principle
(i)	Senior employees who are qualified will be scheduled for work according to the operations’ requirements.
(ii)	Schedulingwill be weekly.
Procedure
A.	Emploveeswill be scheduled by seniority.
B.	All employees will rotate on a three-shift basis, two-shift basis or single shift depending on how many shifts are operating on a weekly basis. Shift seniority is not applicable. All employees will be expected to rotate with their shift on a weekly basis.
28
C.	Shift schedule for the following week will be posted no later than 2:30 p.m. on Thursday for the following week.
D.	Departmental Seniority no longer exists (Pay rates are paid at the job they are performing).
E.	Sanitation positions will remain with a steady midnight crew. Day and afternoon shifts will rotate as per the collective agreement. Employees cannot bump out of their original selection unless a vacancy occurs.
F.	Maintenance employees will rotate as they are presently doing. This will be adjusted based on the technical needs of the business or as production processes warrant.
2.	Departmental seniority no longer exists. (No Departments, No Work Units)
Shift seniority is not applicable. All employees will be expected to rotate with their shift (skill balance) on a weekly basis.
29
Employees will be assigned to A, B or C shift.
Employees will be scheduled weekly according to production requirements. Employees will first be placed on their current classification if the employee has the seniority to work.
Employees whose classifications are not running will be placed on the highest classification they are qualified to perform and will displace the junior employees in that classification.
In the event that an employee’s classification is running but the positions are all filled due to seniority, the above paragraph still applies.
Employees will exercise the above language until the most junior employees are laid off, or all employees are scheduled to a job classification.
Employees will be placed in job based on seniority utilizing their existing job posting first if seniority warrants it. When their 30
positions are not available they will be placed in the next highest position based on their currentjob skills inventory. This process will ensure that the most senior posted employees will be performing available work in the highest classification that their seniority and ability will warrant.
In the event of a large recall from layoff, the operating teams will revert back to their original rotation based on availability.
3.	From the date of signing, for the next three months (90 days), this fiscal of 2003, Midnight shift will be offered on a voluntary basis first (in packaging only). Those signing for midnights will be first guaranteed that shift for a period of three months, if production warrants it. The company reserves the right-to implement shift changes to employees if there are insufficient qualified people to run the jobs. (Shift change is for the week). After three months (90 days) from ratification date packaging will be subject to rotate on all shifts as every other employee.
31
4.	Employees will be assigned the job in their classification on each shift that their seniority warrants. Every employee will be expected to rotate to ensure familiarization on all processes and reduce repetitive strain injuries.
5.	Vacancies
Employees on midnights will only change their shift during the week as a last resort (Placing People). Employees called in from layoff will be assigned to the first vacant position on the available shift.
14.05	SWITCHING SHIFTS
14.05	(a) Employees will be allowed to switch shifts with another employee for an appointment or personal reason only when they have received a signature approval from their supervisor and the supervisor of the employee they are switching with as well as the Process Manager and providing the person they are switching with has the same skill, merits and ability (qualifications) to perform the required function. Shift changes are for the week and must be
32
approved the week prior. If for any reason, either party cannot perform the required work, the switch will be cancelled and both employees will be expected to report to their regular shift. In no way will a switch shift result in a payment of overtime, nor will it result in an employee working more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, for safety reasons.
When an emergency shift change b necessary (change of shift during the current week), the employee must obtain the approval of the Vice President Operations and/or his designate and this day will be switched, if the employee is able to find someone agreeable to make the switch, however, if they are unable, this absence can betaken as an E.S.A day if the employee has any remaining.
Employees requesting this will be required to contact the Scheduling Department immediately to advise them of the change.
14.05	(b) If employees have their shift changed by the company without notice on the prior working day and they have a prearranged commitment, then the 33
supervisor will make arrangements to relieve the employee for such commitment.
14.05	(c) An employee reporting for work more than 15 minutes late without just cause and who has not called in prior to his/her start time, may not be placed if he/she has been replaced. If the employee has been replaced, then available work will be at the discretion cf the supervisor.
14.05	(d) An employee who calls in and notifies his/her supervisor or the scheduler prior to the start of his/her shift will be placed if he/she reports within one hour of the start of his/her shift.
14.05	(e) If a steward secures a change with another employee on an alternate shift and each are qualified to do the other’s job, permission will be given to change in order to attend steward’s meetings. Stewards are expected to use the weekly shift change process 14.05(a) in order to attend the scheduled Stewards meetings.
34
14.05	(f) The Administration Office has complete seniority listing which can be referred to by the Union.
14.05	(g) Employees on layoff who are scheduled to work will be called by the scheduler. Personal contact must be made in all cases acknowledging the scheduled shift. When personal contact is not made and the employee does not call by 12:00 noon of the day prior to the scheduled shift, the scheduler will schedule the next senior qualified employee.
14.05	(h) When scheduling changes occur after the schedule has been posted, employees will be moved to affect the least number of changes.
14.05	(i) Employees who may no longer have the physical requirements to perform the job will be considered not qualified for the job.
35
14.06	ABSENTEEISM REPLACEMENTS AND CALL-INS
a)	Employees returning to work must call in priorto 12:00 noon the day before returning from an absence in order to be placed the next day. Daily scheduling procedures will apply.
b)	Vacancies due to a call-in from a scheduled worker will be replaced by another worker who has been called in for the day. If the process is required to run while waiting for the worker to come in or there is not a worker available to come in (skills, abilities, qualifications), the Company will retain the right to remove a worker from another position who possesses the skill and ability and place them in that position to cover for the duration of that absence. It is understood that the mostjunior qualified available employee will be used to replace that worker, when this occurs.
c)	Workers called in to replace an absent worker will be placed in the vacant spot. However, supervisors will place the worker
36
at their discretion as to qualifications and seniority.
d)	Employees being called in by telephone for each shift day of work will be administered by seniority. If employees cannot be contacted (no answer, repeated busy signal, answering machine, [3 times]), they shall be by passed for the next person on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 14.07 LOSS OF SENIORITY
Seniority status, once acquired will be lost and employment terminated only for the following reasons:
a)	Voluntary resignation
b)	Discharge for just cause
c)	Layoff in excess of one (1) year
d)	Layoff in excess of eighteen months for employees with five (5) or more years of seniority.
37
e)	Failure to return to work after a layoff within seven (7) working days after proper notification by registered mail has been sent to the employee at the last address appearing on the records of the company.
f)	Employee who is scheduled for work fails to report for work or call in for 3 consecutive days, unless the employee was totally incapacitated to do so for just cause.
g)	Absence from work for sickness or accidentfor a period of 24 months.
Article 14.08 - PERSONAL CONTACT INFORMATION
Correct phone numbers and addresses are the responsibility of the employees, who must keep the Human Resources Department informed.
Article 15 LAY-OFFS
15.01	When employees are scheduled to be laid off from the plant, such lay-offs will be in order of reverse seniority.
38
15.01	(a) It is the employee’s responsibility to exercise their bumping rights and advise their Supervisor.
15.02	(a) When an employee is scheduled or displaces another through the exercise of seniority, this may be done when that employee has the ability and qualifications to do the job without training. (i.e. Capable of performing the job safely and efficiently after a maximum of one (1) hour.)
This article is applied to all cases of displacement by seniority except where otherwise specifically indicated in another part of the agreement (example: 22.04 Job Elimination).
b) Employees who may not possess the physical requirements (whether inherent or arising out of illness or injury) and who have enough seniority to hold a job will be deemed not qualified in jobs which they no longer have the physical abilities to perform (article 16.05 [b]) and will exercise their seniority on jobs they are qualified as per 15.02 (a).
39
15.03	Should there be a cutback in production within two (2) hours from the completion of the scheduled shift, then seniority will not apply except that parttime and probationary employees would be displaced by permanent employees in accordance with seniority.
15.04	Not withstanding their position on the seniority list, Union Officers (President, Vice-president, Recording Secretary, Financial Secretary-Treasurer) will have top seniority throughout the Company’s operation in the event of layoff and recall.
15.05	Employees assigned to jobs other than their own for the convenience cf the Company shall receive the rate of the job or their regular rate, which ever is the greater. When an employee works on a higher rated job for four (4) hours or more, that employee will receive the higher rate for that shift.
40
15.06	The company will give the Union President a written notice as soon as possible regarding a major plant layoff which is expected to be in excess of five (5) consecutive days of work. A notice will be posted on the bulletin boards in the department concerned.
ARTICLE 16 - POSTING, JOB VACANCIES AND TRAINING
16.01	(a) When a job vacancy occurs or a new classification is created, a notice of job vacancy including the job classification rate, title, summary job write-up, and effective date will be posted plant wide for five (5) regular work days.
(b)	Applications will be considered by seniority. The successful applicant will have the greatest seniority and be capable to perform the work or be given a fair trial period of up to ten (I0) working shifts to determine if he/she wishes to continue the training period. If the employee chooses to continue with this training period he/she forfeits the right to his/her previous position, except in the case of layoff or elimination of 41
position, wherein the employee would have thirty (30) days to return to their previous positi on.
If the successful applicant determines that he/she does not wish to continue the training period at/but not greater than ten (10) working days, he/she will be returned to their previous position. Training periods will be determined by the company, and the length of each period will be determined by the skill set necessary for the task or function. Upon completion of a training period the employee will be subject to an evaluation of competent or non-competent as per the current training policy.
An employee that is unsuccessful in completing his/her training period will bump the person that replaced them in their previous classification.
(c)	The name cf the successful applicant along with the award date and effective date will be posted three (3) working days from the close of bidding.
42
(d)	It will not be necessary to re-post a job in the case of an applicant returning to his former job within 30 working days, under this article and applications will be considered from among the original bidders.
(e)	An employee who is successful on a job posting will not be eligible to bid on other postings for a 12 month period from the effective date, unless no other internal applicants qualify. An employee will not be allowed to bid into anotherjob and later return to his original job more than twice (2) in any one year.
If an employee is unsuccessful in completing or does not complete two (2) training opportunities in one year for a job posting they will forfeit their ability to apply for another year from the most recent training program date.
(f)	Employees who elect to withdraw or are returned to their former job will not be deemed to have qualified for the job.
(g)	A successful applicant will be paid his own rate during the trial/training period as
43
indicated in schedule I. He will receive the rate of the new job once he qualifies at the end of the trial/training period or earlier should supervision establish that he qualified before the end of that period.
(h)	A new employee who is successful on a job postingwill receive the probation rate (exceptfor groups 7, 8, 9) for the first sixty (60) days. Followingthe probationary period Of sixty (60) days the employee will receive the rate of the job provided he has qualified.
16.02	Employees absent from work due to illness, vacations, leave of absence or layoff and who are eligible to bid on openings are expected to contact the company about any posting notices. The Company executive will be allowed to apply for those individuals who grant them permission, however; in no way will the company be subject to double training costs. The absent employees who apply must be returning to work within a two-week period, who apply for the posting. During this interim period, the company will be allowed to pull from the employee job skill inventory to fill the 44
vacancy during the interim period (of not more than two weeks).
Employees who may not possess the physical requirements (whether inherent or arising out of illness or injury) and have enough seniority to hold a job will be deemed not qualified in jobs where they no longer have the physical abilities to perform and will exercise their seniority on jobs they are qualified for.
If no applicants are received, the company may fill the vacancy from outside.
16.03	Skilled trades jobs will be posted factory wide and will be considered by seniority providing the employees have the required skill, qualifications, merit and ability to fill the position.
If no applications are received for a posted job, or if of the applicants, no employee has the required certificate, the Company may hire a new employee.
45
16.04	JOB SKILLS INVENTORY
(a)	In order for employees to identify skills for which they are qualified under the Skill Inventory they must meet one of the following criteria:
■	currently hold the job posting
■	must have done the job in the last two (2) years.
(b)	Employees will be listed as being skilled on group 3 and 4 jobs requiring one hour or less training provided they are physically capable of doing the job.
(c)	Employees who have not done a job for two (2) years will be marked retrain and they will bump and be given a trial as in article 15.02 (a).
(d)	Employees will be responsible for updating their J.S.I. with newly acquired skills in writing by means of a J.S.I. update form. Before amending the J.S.I. update forms must be approved by the Production Manager.
46
(e)	The J.S.I. will be kept in the Human Resources Office and will be updated on an ongoing basis. Whenever a change is made to an employee’s J.S.I. a revised copy will be forwarded to the employee.
16.05	TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
(a)	Training will be administered by any employee within the Company that possesses the highest skill and ability to perform the required function as selected by the Company. In the case where two employees are evaluated equally, the most senior employee will prevail. The trainer’s rate is identified in the job classification and wage section of the collective agreement.
JOB SKILLS TRAINING
(b)	Priority for training will be given to posted employees. Senior employees who will be laid off on an ongoing basis, will have the option upon request to be trained in the position held by the most junior employee in their group or in a lower group in the plant, provided they are qualified to be trained.
47
In exceptional circumstances the union and management may agree to training in a higher grouping.
Article 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01	(a) The Company may grant Leave of Absence to any employee for humanitarian reasons.
Such leave of absence will be requested in writing with detailed reasons for the leave request. Proof of reasons will be requested as back up. Seniority will continue to accumulate as though the employee were actually at work on approved Leaves of Absence.
Twenty-five (25) year service employees will be granted Leave of Absence during, June, July, August and September on one occasion only.
(b) Leaves of Absence and vacations granted under the 25 year of service leave may not exceed a total of 8 weeks during the period June 1st through September30th (3 weeks of which must be vacation).
48
(c)	Leaves of absence of 5 days or more must be approved by the appropriate manager.
17.02	Company will grant Leave of Absence to Union Officers and no more than four (4) other employees at one time delegated to attend Union conferences and conventions, provided one weeks notice is given to their production manger.
17.03	The Company agrees to grant Leave of Absence to BCTGM Officers to accept a full-time Unionjob with the BCTGM with retention of seniority rights.
17.04	(a) Employees applying for a leave of absence will be required to use their vacation before Leave of Absence is granted, if Leave of Absence is requested outside the vacation period.
(b) Anyone being granted a leave cf absence will be given a written copy by the appropriate supervisor or manager.
49
17.05	Any employee engaging in
employment other than that referred to in 17.03 above during a leave of absence or extension thereof, may be subject to immediate dismissal.
Article 18- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
18.01	In the event cf a death in the employee’s current immediate family (parents, including legal adoption) sister, brother (including legal step-sister and step-brother) spouse or children, father-in-law or mother-in-law, employees will be entitled to be absent from work for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive regular working days, or, in the case of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, or grandchildren, one (1) day off with pay when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral, provided acceptable proof is shown where requested. During such absence, employees will be compensated for their straight time regular rates. Company to provide for (Iday with pay for an
50
employee acting as pall bearer for a fellow employee.
18.02	In the event of the death of an employee’s mother or father outside of the country, an employee will be entitled to be absent from work for one (1) day with pay on a scheduled work day falling immediately prior to, after or on the date of the funeral. Such payments will be made at the employee’s regular straight time rate, provided acceptable proof is shown where requested.
Article 19-JURY DUTY
19.01	The Company agrees to pay a full day’s pay at the straight time hourly rates for each day an employee is required to serve and does serve on any jury, provided employees would have worked on the day or days actually served on the jury. Employees, however, will be required to turn in to the Company the jury duty fees in order to receive the compensation above provided. Employees subpoenaed as witnesses, except in their own defense, 51
will be compensated in the same manner as those qualifying for jury duty Pay-
Article 20 - SEVERANCE PAY
20.01	In the event an employee is terminated as a direct result of the closing of the Plant, that employee will be paid severance pay as follows:
a)	Five (5) years or more continuous service - 1 weeks pay per year of service to a maximum of 26 weeks.
b)	Five (5) years or less df continuous service - 1 weeks pay. (A weeks pay to be the regular weekly hours multiplied by the employee’s regular hourly rate.)
20.02	No employee will qualify for severance pay if they are offered employment elsewhere in the Company, or if the closing results from or during a strike at the Beta Brands Limited. London Plant.
52
20.03	An employee who accepts severance pay will have no further claim to employment with the Company.
20.04	An employee qualifying for severance pay under the terms of this Article who may also become entitled to severance pay in lieu of notice under Government legislation, will receive either the severance pay provided herein, or the severance provided by legislation, whichever is greater, but not both.
20.05	In the event of the plant closing, wages owing the employees shall take preference, as required by law.
Article 21 -WELFAREAND SAFETY
SAFETY
21.01	(a) All work related accidents no matter how minormpst be reported to the supervisor in charge: Employees injured at work while performing their assigned duties and who leave the Plant premises for medical treatment, will be paid for the 53
balance of that shift, providing they report to, or telephone, the Human Resources Office or supervisor following such treatment.
(b)	In the interest of any employee sustaining any incapaciting injury or illness, as certified by a doctor, the Company and the Union will confer to offer alternative and suitable employment, if such is available, without violating the rights and seniority of any other employee.
Where there is a disagreement between the Company’s and the employee’s doctors, a specialist will be consulted on mutual agreement of the doctors. If further disagreement, the whole matter will be returned to the modified work committee.
(c)	All notes from the doctors should be delivered to the supervisor or the Administration Office.
(d)	Any injured employee requiring medical aid will be provided transportation to the treating facility by the Company.
54
(e)	Any job site where a critical accident occurs cannot be started up, or cleaned up, until the site has been inspected by a union and management Joint Health and Safety Committee representative and if necessary, the OHS Inspector from the Ministry of Labour. Please also remember that the area must not be disturbed in any manner (except to relieve human suffering or prevent further damage) or machinery may not be started up until approval is given by the M.O.L. inspector.
(f)	When a new employee is hired the Company will make sure that they are given a copy of the Safety Rules and Regulations and that such is fully explained to them in the presence of a Union Designate.
(g)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee will consist of no less than two (2) nonbargaining unit members and five (5) bargaining unit members including the cochairperson.
(h)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall designate a Worker Representative and a Company Representative to inspect
55
once a year the plant's physical conditions and unsafe work practices, inspecting at lease part of the workplace each month as established by the JHSC.
(i)	A maximum of one (1) unionized Safety Committee representative will be allowed for each department (max. 5 for the plant).
21.02	The Company will continue to administer the Company group insurance plan which includes:
a)	Life Insurance for active employees will be equal to annual earnings with a minimum of $19,000.00 on a basis of $500.00 incrementsto a maximum of $27,000.00 effective November^ 1995. Effective May 1, 1992 a paid up $2,000.00 policy for future retirees.
b)	Weekly Indemnity coverage of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the employee's regular weekly earnings {forty (40) hours at base rate on regular group} to the current E.l. maximum. There shall be a 1-1-4-26 payment formula. Income Tax to be deducted at source.
56
The Company will prepay up to four (4) weeks equivalent weekly indemnity for employees off for reasons of pregnancy, if the employee claims and qualifies for Employment Insurance Commission benefits. Such advance will be repaid when the E.l. benefits are received.
Employees undergoing outpatient surgery in a hospital will qualify for benefits from the first day provided they have a Doctor’s certificate of incapacity to work.
c)	Extended health plan paying for 90% of specified medical expenses after annual deductibles often dollars ($10.00) for single and twenty dollars ($20.00) for family coverage. The maximum lifetime benefit will be $50,000 effective May 1, 1992.
DEFINITIONOF DRUGS/MEDICATION COVERED UNDER HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
The cost of medication which is necessary for treatment and which can only be obtained on medical prescription by a 57
physician and provided by a pharmacist (medically coded “PR”, “C” or“N” in the Compendium of Pharmaceutical and Specialties)
In addition, medication used for the treatment of severe illness with or without medical prescription and part of the following categories is also refundable.
•	Bronco-dilators
•	Vaso-dilators Vaso-pressors
•	Anti-arthritics
•	Anti-arhythmics
•	Anti-spasmodic
•	Anti-convulsive
•	Insulin and tools necessary for its injection
•	Anti-coagulants
•	Anti-anginous
•	Anti-inflammatories
Drug Plan reimbursement remains at 90%. Deductible is replaced by dispensing fee (paid by employee). Drug Plan Card is used to reduce administration costs and employee outlay of cash.
58
d)	The Company will pay 70% of the premium costs of a Dental Plan equivalent to Blue Cross #7, the previous years ODA schedule. The plan will contain a $25.00 deductible with co-insurance on a 100% basis for preventative services, 80/20 for basic services, 50/50 basis for restorative services, 50/50 basis for dentures, to be in effect August 1st, 1990.
(e) Eye Care Plan
To provide $125.00/2 years ($100.00/ yr for children under 18 years of age) towards prescription glasses or contact lenses effective March 14th, 2003.
21.03	The Company will pay eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per calendar year effective March 14th, 2003 towards the cost of safety shoes as approved by the Company for those employees required by the Company, to wear safety shoes, or by Government Dictate. This subsidy will be eligible to be carried over one year. If required and approved by company an additional pair may be purchased within the same year.
59
In addition, the Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of prescription safety glasses, Company to determine supplier, for employees on jobs where the Company thinks the lenses are necessary.
Article 22 - JOB SECURITY
22.01	One (1) month’s notice will be given to the Union to advise of any significant technological change.
22.02	If the context of any job should be changed during the term of this Agreement to a sufficient extent that either an increase or decrease in the job rate should be considered, or a new job established, it will be subject to negotiation with the Union Grievance Committee. If agreement is not reached, the Company will assign a rate and the Union may grieve under Article
12.	Any rate agreed to or awarded at arbitration will be retroactive.
60
22.03	a) When a job is to be eliminated, the Company will meet with the Union Executivesten (10) days priorto the proposed elimination, in order that other alternatives can be considered. Failing an agreement, the affected employee and the Union President will be given thirty (30) days prior notice of job elimination in writing.
b)	When a job is eliminated the former incumbent will retain his former rate of pay or the rate of the new job, whichever is greater, for a twelve (12) month period from the time of elimination.
The former incumbent will also keep bidding rights in his former classification for twelve (12) months. Should the employee bid and qualify on another job within that year, bidding rights will stop.
22.04	When a job is eliminated the following applies:
a) The affected employee with sufficient seniority will be entitled to bump the 61
mostjunior employee in the same classification or lower classification. Failing this the employee may bump the mostjunior employee in a higher classification if the employee is already qualified. If there isn’t a junior in the classification, then bump the mostjunior in the plant same or lower grouping.
A fair trial period of up to thirty (30) working days will be given the affected employee to establish competency.
Failing the trial period, the employee will be laid-off and will apply seniority according to Article (14.04).
b)	Employees being displaced as a result of job elimination will exercise the same options as in (a) above.
c)	Employees who become redundant by the reassignment of duties will exercise the same option as in (a) above.
62
d)	Affected employees or displaced employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they will become assigned.
22.05	When a re-organization occurs and jobs are transferred to another classification, the job incumbents will transfer to the new classification.
The employee will also keep bidding rights in his former classification for twelve (12) months. Should the employee bid and qualify on another job within that year, bidding rights will stop. If the employee requests to remain in his/her own classification, 22.04 will apply.
Article 23 - UNION ACTIVITIES
UNION ELECTIONS
23.01	In order to assist the Union during the term of this Agreement to obtain a truly representative vote of employees by secret ballot for the election of Union officers, the Company will provide facilities on its property for the annual 63
election of such officers, outside of working hours, in accordance with present practice. Arrangements for the election will be made between the Company and the Union Executive Committee prior to the date of the election, but it is understood that the vote will be conducted by a Union Election Committee.
PLANT VISITATIONS
23.02	The business representative of the Union will be granted admission to all properties covered by this Agreement during working hours to interview members cf the Union after first receiving permission from the Vice President cf Operations, or his designate, and with the understanding that there will not be any interruption or curtailment in production. This clause shall also apply to the Local Union President during their off-shift hours.
64
BULLETIN BOARDS
23.03	For the convenience of the Union, the Company will provide bulletin boards on which may be posted notices cf the Union activities. Such notices will be subject to the approval of the Vice President cf Operations or Human Resource Manager before posting.
Article 24- SCHEDULES
24.01	The following schedules are hereby annexed to and form part of this agreement:
(1)	A schedule of Job Classifications, Wage Rates See Attached
(2)	A schedule of Work Performance and Efficiency.
(3)	A schedule of EstablishedWork Practices.
(4)	A schedule of Part-Time Employees.
(5)	Letters of Intent and Understanding.
(6)	Trades Training
65
Article 25 - USE OF PART-TIME HELP
25. 01 It is necessary to employ both regular (referred to as "full-time employees”) and part-time employees.
Article 26 -GENERALWORKING
CONDITIONS
26.01	HOURS OF WORK
1.	No Guarantee
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours, unless so specifically provided for herein.
2.	Hours of Work
a)	Regular Shifts
Shift No. 1: Commencing between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Shift No. 2: Commencing between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.
66
Shift No. 3: Commencing between 10:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
b)	HOURS OF WORK All employees:
The regular work week consists of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty (40) hours, Sunday midnight through Saturday midnight. (No split shift).
All Work on Saturday will be voluntary.
c)	By exception, some employees in the processing classifications will schedule starting times of their shifts to accommodate regular shifts. Their regular work week will consist of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts for a total of forty (40) hours which may start on a Sunday (no split shift).
d)	Rotating shifts will be weekly
e)	Shift No 3 starts on Sunday (considered Monday shift) except for sanitation which starts on Monday.
67
f)	Any changes to the above when conditions warrant will be subject to negotiations between the Union’s Executive Committee and the Company.
a)	An employee may be required to change from one shift to another in order to meet unexpected changes in production schedules. However, such change may not be made more than once weekly and in such cases, a break of at least seven (7) hours will be allowed between shifts. A shift change is defined as: a change from one shift to the opposite shift. This does not apply in the case of a layoff, or as a result of an individual remaining in their classification.
h) a) Employees scheduled on the production work week (Sunday 11-7 to Friday 3-11) who are required to change to the Sanitation work week in order to obtain work will not be eligible for overtime rate on the Friday 11-7 shift. The employee bumping will start on the appropriate working day on the sanitation schedule.
68
b)	Time and one-half will only be paid to an employee (other than a sanitation employee) on Friday 11-7 if requested to work in sanitation where he/she otherwise would have had seniority to work on 7-3 or 3-11 on that Friday, unless this employee began his/her week in sanitation.
3.	OFF-SHIFT PREMIUM
c)	A shift premium of .30 cents will be paid for hours worked during the 2nd ' shift.
A shift premium of .50 cents will be paid for hours worked during the 3rd shift.
d)	Employees working through from shift 3 to shift 1 will receive shift premium for all hours worked in shift I. Shift premiums are not subject to overtime premiums.
26.02	RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
a)	All permanent employees will be reimbursed for wages lost by reason
69
of the plant being closed on any or all of the ten (10) recognized holidays, provided they have worked their scheduled shift prior to and following the holiday, unless excused by the Administration Office, in writing.
When absence is due to illness or injury and provided the employee works sometime in the week in which the holiday occurs or the following week, Administration Office will also excuse.
Permanent employees who are laid off within two (2) weeks prior to the holiday or who are recalled after layoff within two (2) weeks following the holiday, will be entitled to holiday pay.
b)	An employee working on a higher rate of pay before and after a holiday for the convenience of the Company, will receive the higher rate for the holiday.
c)	An employee required to work on a recognized holiday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 %) for all
70
hours worked on the holiday, in addition to the holiday pay, at straight time. Employees working beyond eight (8) hours will be paid two and one-half (2 V2) times the regular rate for all hours worked over eight (8).
If a recognized holiday is observed during the vacation period of an employee, the employee will be paid for the recognized holiday in addition to the vacation allowance, or an extra day cf vacation in lieu thereof at the wish of the employee, provided the extra day vacation is so requested before vacation begins.
The reference to at the wish of the employee refers to the choice of pay or an extra day of vacation. Management must approve when that extra day can be taken off.
d)	Holidays recognized under this provision are as follows:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Good Friday	Labour Day
71
Easter Monday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
e)	Recognized holidays falling on a Saturday or Sunday will be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
f)	Also, arrangements may be mutually made annually to substitute Saturdays worked at regular rates prior to Christmas as paid off in order to extend the Christmas holiday break.
26.03	WORKING CONDITIONS
a)	CLOTHING FOR PLANT EMPLOYEES
Uniforms will be provided by the company, free of charge, provided the employee does not alter, change, or deface uniforms in any manner. Employees will be responsible for the replacement cost for any missing or altered uniforms. Upon termination or resignation, all uniforms must be returned to the company in an unaltered 72
state, before the employee’s final pay is processed. AH employees will be provided with seven (7) uniforms to utilize on a rotating basis. Additional clean uniforms will be provided at the discretion of the supervisor.
b)	PAY WEEK
It is the intent of the company to have direct deposit for employee paychecks as soon as possible.
For payroll purposes, the work week commences at the start of the 7-3 shift Saturday morning and finishes at the end of the 11-7 shift Friday night. Payment will be made each Thursday, except when a recognized holiday falls on Friday, when payment will be made on Wednesday.
A bi-weekly payroll will be in effect by July 1,1998, 26.03 b) will be amended to reflect these changes.
73
c)	REST PERIODS
All employees will be allowed two (2) rest periods, each often (10) minutes duration, one in each half of the working day or shift, at regular rate. Lunch period of one-half (112) hour will be established.
d)	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Subject to it’s prior approval of the tools involved, the Company will credit an employee’s account with an annual tool allowance in the amount of $160. (Applies to new or upgraded tools) to those employees who are required by the Company to provide their own set of tools. The purpose of this allowance is to replace the employee’s existing tools that become broken or damaged in the performance of the employee’s job. If specialized tools are required, they will be supplied by the Company, and such tools will remain the property of the Company. Unused portion of allowance in any year may be carried over into the next year only. All tools provided to 74
employees by the company are the responsibility of the employee to keep in an acceptable working condition.
Should a tool be damaged, the employee is responsible to report the damage to management immediately. Should the tool become lost or defaced, it is the employee’s responsibility to replace the tool at their own cost.
Article 27 VACATION PLAN
27,01 a) Vacations will be earned in the previous year from January 1st to December31st. The rate at which vacation pay is earned will determine the number of vacation weeks for the following year. The rate of vacation pay (2% for each week) will be changed on the employee’s anniversary.
b) The schedule of earned vacation will be as follows:
After one year of service 2 weeks After five years of service 3 weeks After twelve (12) years of service 4 weeks
75
Effective January 1, 2001 employees who have twenty-five (25) years or more of service will receive 5 weeks of vacation
27.02	Preference of vacation dates will be recognized by May 1st in order cf seniority provided that such preference is indicated to the Company prior to April 15m in the vacation year and that the exercise of such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules. Employees will be entitled to take three (3) consecutives weeks vacation between June 1st and September 30th. The fourth and fifth weeks of vacation are to be taken at other times, subject to operational requirements of the vacation year.
27.03	In the event that continuity of service with the Company is broken, an employee re-entering the service of the Company at a later date will be considered a new employee in respect of the Vacation Plan.
76
27.04	Employees who are laid off but who have not severed their employment with the Company will not be paid for any vacation credit at the time of layoff, but such employee vacation credits will be determined and paid at the employee’s request during the vacation year as of the employee’s anniversary date of hire in the vacation year.
27.05	Employees leaving the Company during the vacation year will be entitled to receive credit, calculated to the day of leaving, by direct deposit in accordance with the plan.
27.06	All deductions normally made from an employee’s regular pay will be deducted from the vacation pay.
27.07	Vacation pay will be paid on a separate deposit with all normal deductions to cover the vacation period.
27.08	Rescheduling of Vacations
i)	Employees may only cancel vacations with a minimum 7 days notice from the date of departure.
77
ii)	Employees who become disabled due to illness or injury during their vacation may only cancel full weeks of vacation provided they are certified disabled by a doctor.
iii)	Employees who are off on Worker’s Compensation or weekly indemnity during a scheduled vacation period must cancel their vacation and reschedule them upon their return to work.
In all cases if the employee has already received his/her vacation pay, an unpaid vacation will be scheduled upon his/her return to work.
Article 28 - OVERTIME PARAMETERS
28.01 SATURDAY/S UNDAY/STATUT ORY HOLIDAYS
a)	Employees who volunteer for overtime and fail to report will be subject to discipline as per the Company’s Attendance Policy. At the supervisor’s 78
or manager’s discretion, employees may be granted permission to be off the Friday prior to the overtime, which will not disallow them to work the overtime.
If the employees do not have permission and are absent on the Friday, they will not be allowed to work the overtime.
b)	i) Overtime opportunity will be taken down by 8:00 am. Thursday prior to the overtime and posted by 1:00 p.m. Thursday (11:00 p.m. Sanitation).
ii) Unless advised of errors by 8:00 a.m. Friday, the overtime posted schedule will be deemed free of error and not subject to the grievance procedure. Any error reported to the scheduler prior to 8:00 am. Friday that is not corrected will be compensated at the appropriate rate. Once the complaint has been lodged, the employee would be advised cf its’ disposition by the close of the day on Friday.
79
c)	Employees on holidays cannot work the Sunday of the week their holidays start or the Saturday of the week their holidays end.
d)	Overtime will be offered on a classification first.
e)	If an employee’s name is posted on the overtime list after volunteering, it is understood that the employee has made a commitment to work the overtime and will be expected to report for work. In an emergency situation where an employee cannot attend, the employee will be expected to use an E.S.A. day and provide supporting documentation. Regardless of reason, if an employee is unable to attend an overtime shift, the employee must call in the Attendance Line a minimum of one hour prior to the shift start to provide the company with enough time to call in another employee to fulfill the customer commitment.
f)	Employees laid off for more than 30 days will not volunteer for this overtime.
80
g)	Employees are required to notify their supervisor before 8:00 a.m. on Friday if they will not be available for work on Saturday or Sunday. Employees accepting work on a Saturday or Sunday, who fail to report for the assigned work, will forfeit his/her right to be scheduled on the next occasion for Saturday/Sunday work.
28.02 OVERTIME SCHEDULING
a)	WEEKEND SCHEDULED OVERTIME
Saturday, Sunday and Statutory Holiday overtime will be followed on separate rotating lists, starting with the senior employee in the classification on January 1st of each year.
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people in the classification, not necessarily by job postings, in orderto accommodate as many people as possible in the rotation.
b)	WEEKLY SCHEDULED OVERTIME
81
Overtime will be offered on a rotating list starting with the senior employee in the classification as per 16.04.
Positions will be placed by senior qualified people and not necessarily theirjob postings. Overtime will only be offered to the shift on which it is scheduled.
c)	NON-SCHEDULED WEEKLY OR WEEKEND OVERTIME OR SCHEDULEDOVERTIMEOF FOURf4) HOURS OR LESS
Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work in the production/process line first on a voluntary basis. Failing sufficient response, the overtime will then be offered to the senior qualified person regardless cf job posting.
d)	NON-SCHEDULED WEEKLY OR WEEKEND CALL-IN OVERTIME DUE TO ABSENTEEISM OR UNSCHEDULED PROGRAM CHANGE WHERE SUFFICIENT TIME WAS NOT AVAILABLE TO POST
82
Overtime will be offered to the people performing the work on the production/process line four hours each from the opposite shifts on a voluntary basis. Failing a response, the senior qualified person will be offered the overtime regardless of job posting. If a production line is not running, senior qualified person will be asked. All employees will notify their supervisors if they wish to be called in, this list will be kept in Scheduler’s office and it will be the employee’s responsibility to keep the list updated regarding their status and correct phone listing. Off-shifts will have access to this list via shift supervisor.
New weekend overtime requirements will become known after 1:00 p.m. Thursday and before 4:00 p.m. Friday will be assigned to employees who have signed up. This overtime will be offered to the first qualified person on the list. If no one is available from the sign up, weekend overtime will be assigned according to 28.02 (d).
83
28.03 OVERTIME REGULATIONS
a)	All overtime work in excess of five (5) hours per week in a regular work week will be voluntary. The five hours will not necessarily be continuous. Overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays will be entirely voluntary except in cases of emergency, such as fire, flood, power failure or Acts of God. Overtime will be distributed on a seniority basis, by rotation starting with the most senior qualified employee. Notice cf Saturday, Sunday or Holiday overtime will be given on Tuesday if possible. Employees will work the shift wherever their seniority falls.
b)	A paid relief period of twenty (20) minutes when working in excess of two (2) hours, overtime and an additional paid relief period of ten (0) minutes when working in excess of three (3) hours overtime following the regular shift will be allowed.
Employees working more than five (5) hours on Saturday, Sunday and
a4
Holidays will be given a one half hour paid lunch period. Overtime records will be made available to the responsible Steward if requested.
c)	On one occasion, per calendar year, non-accumulative, an employee may be required to perform a shift of overtime work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. It is understood, that this requirement will only be used by the Company in the case of extreme need for product, when enough volunteers are not available.
d)	OVERTIME RATES
i)	All Regular Production Shifts Employees will be paid for overtime work at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift in any one day, Monday through Saturday.
ii)	AII hours worked in excess c£ 40 hours per week on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half. All hours
85
worked on Sunday will be paid at a rate of double time (2).
iii)	Continuous production shifts will receive one and one-half (1 V2) times the regular hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in one day, or forty (40) in one week.
iv)	All hours worked on the seventh (7th) day of a scheduled work-week will be paid at the rate of double time (2).
e)	It is understoodfor Maintenance Personnel Employees, that if a job is started either during regular or overtime hours, that job will be completed if the company requires it to be completed by the trades person on the job, or another qualified replacement, if one can be obtained.
RECALL TO WORK
An employee recalled to the plant to perform overtime work in the event of an emergency will be paid for not less than
86
the equivalent of four (4) hours time at the applicable rate.
When an employee is recalled to work overtime and has not had eight (8) hours unbroken free time since completing the last regular scheduled shift, such employee will not be required to continue working into the next regular shift except in the case of extreme urgency.
g) REPORTING ALLOWANCE
Employees reporting to work who have not been advised in advance to the contrary, will be given work for at least four (4) hours at regular rate, or if no work is available, will be paid for four (4) hours at regular rates in lieu of work.
Where lack of work is due to circumstances such as fire, flood, power failure, or Acts of God, this obligation shall not prevail. An employee on lay off who is called in to work less than four (4) hours prior to the commencement of the shift will receive one (lljour straight time. This clause assumes 87
commencement of work at the requested time. This hour bonus b not to be calculated as time worked.
88
Signed at London, Ontario DATE: January 1, 2003
FORTHE COMPANY
George Harrison Ted Melissen BobPavey Chief Financial Officer VP, ManufacturingMgr.,Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
Ralph Moxley	Doug Crew Linda Whitford
President-Local 242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager Treasurer
Tom Wheatley Phil Tobin Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team
Sean Kelly	Karl Walker
VP International	International Organizer
89
ouncuuLCi
JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE
GROUP	CLASSIFICATIONS	CURRENT	12-Mar 2003	1-Jan 2004	1-Jan 2005
1	Probationary (60 days)	$9.00	$9.54	$9.73	$9.93
3	Trucker	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
3	Candy Processor	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
3	Packer	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
3	Time Keeper Relief	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
3	Time-Keeper	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
3	Janitor	$14.00	$14.84	$15.14	$15.44
4	Sanltor	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Palletizer	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Trucker	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Wrapper	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Candy Processor	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Machine Operator	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Trucker/Tray Wash	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Grinder/T rucker	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
4	Elevator Operator	$14.10	$14.95	$15.24	$15.55
5	Verticle Form &FIII	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
5	Sander/Oiler Operator	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
OWflCUULC 1
JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE
GROUP	CLASSIFICATIONS	CURRENT	12-Mar 2003	1-Jan 2004	1-Jan 2005
5	Mogul Trucker	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
5	Mould Maker	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
5	Candy Processor	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
5	Candy Maker	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
5	Machine Operator	$14.22	$15.07	$15.37	$15.68
6A	Material Handler	$14.38	$15.24	$15.55	$15.86
6A	Machine Operator	$14.38	$15.24	$15.55	$15.86
6A	Candy Maker	$14.38	$15.24	$15.55	$15.86
6A	Material Handler	$14.38	$15.24	$15.55	$15.86
6A	Votator Operator/Janitor	$14.38	$15.24	$15.55	$15.86
6B	Set Up/Cleaner/Relief	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Machine Operator Set Up	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Lab Attendant	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Nut Roaster	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Top Candy Maker	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Machine Operator	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Material Handler	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
6B	Point of Use	$14.58	$15.45	$15.76	$16.08
	SCHEDULE 1 JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE				
GROUP	CLASSIFICATIONS	CURRENT	12-Mar 2003	1-Jan 2004	1-Jan 2005
6C	Mogul Operator	$14.38	$16.00	$16.32	$16.65
6C	Dough Mixer/Baker | Combined	$14.58	$16.00	$16.32	$16.65
6C	Machine Operator/Bakery	$14.58	$16.00	$16.32	$16.65
6C	Candy Maker	$14.58	$16.00	$16.32	$16.65
7	Building Maintenance	$16.14	$17.11	$17.45	$17.80
8	Apprentices	$17.97	$19.05	$19.43	$19.82
9	Technician	$18.45	$20.68	$21.52	$22.37
11	Stationary Engineer	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Refrigeration Mechanic	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Plumber/Pipefitter	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Millwright	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Electrician	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Welder	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11	Carpenter	$19.77	$22.00	$22.84	$23.70
11A	Non-ticketed Transperson	$20.96	$0.00	$0.00	$0.00
	Trainlng/Crew Leader Rate	$1.00 per hour greater than wage			
SCHEDULE II
WORK PERFORMANCE AND EFFICIENCY
1.	Employees will perform any and all reasonable duties to which they may from time to time be assigned and it is understood that the Company is entitled to receive a fair day’s work from each employee. It is understood that employees will not be required to perform any work assignment which violates either the established Company rules and regulations or safety rules or which, because of certified medical reasons, is liable to cause or aggravate injury. An employee having a complaint concerning a work assignment other than as referred to herein will nevertheless perform the same, after which such complaints may then be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
2.	Complete production standards will be available for review in each department. The Union recognizes that the right of
93
the Company to establish fair standards of production is granted by Article 5 of this Agreement. New standards will be established by the Company. Results reflecting the efficiency will be available. The Union agrees to work with the Company to promote efficiency. The employees affected by a new time study will be told beforehand with an explanation of what is being attempted.
94
SCHEDULE III
ESTABLISHED WORK PRACTICES
(This replaces all prior letters of understanding, Labour-Relations minutes or other past practices).
Any new established work practices, letters of intent and understanding, agreed to will be distributed to all employees monthly during the life of this agreement.
1,	Supervisors of employees who leave early will advise the Labour Scheduler to telephone those employees and inform them of the time to report for work on the next day that work is available.
Employees returning from absence due to sickness are to telephone the Labour Scheduler in the morning. The Labour Scheduler will notify the Supervisors to list them for work on the next day that work e available.
95
2.	All employees must call the company at least thirty (30) minutes prior to the commencement of their shift when unable to report for work.
3.	All employees must call in priorto 12:00 p.m. the day before returning to work after an absence.
4.	i) Employees called in by telephone for that day of work will be taken strictly in order from the seniority list. If employees in turn cannot be contacted, including repeated busy signals, they shall be by-passed for the next in turn. Employees knowing they were bypassed may contact the Scheduler to inquire if work b available for them.
ii) Employees authorizing the use of the answering machine in order to be called in for their scheduled shift on the following day or following week will be subject to all company rules and regulations as if they had been personally contacted to report to work.
96
5.	When a steward is absent, the President or his/her designate will substitute.
6.	The Administration Office has complete listings of classification/plant seniority which can be referred to by the Union.
7.	100% of back dental premiums are due upon return to work.
a. Notice will be given the relevant steward and Financial Secretary when the Administration Department is first notified that an employee has completed the probationary period.
9.	Yearly statements on RRSP contributions will be distributed at an early date. All company RRSP contributions will be locked-in.
Employees unable to estimate their benefits will be assisted by the Administration Office. All company contributions match employee contributions to a maximum of 1.5%.
10.	The Company will make every effort to have employees who are responsible for
97
cleaning their immediate area not switch between areas of contrasting temperature.
11.	Employees wishing to transfer to another classification must register their request in the Administration Office. A transfer request is only valid during the calendar year in which it b requested. The transfer register will be used to fill permanent vacancies before new employees are hired, and employees will be selected on a seniority basis. Written requests of employees wishing to transfer will be given to the local Union President. Employees are only entitled to transfer once during the term of this agreement.
12.	The Company will give the Union President a written notice as soon as possible regarding a major plant layoff which is expected to be in excess of five (5) continuous days of work. A notice will be posted on the Bulletin Board.
13.	The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of all fees and required
98
textbooks upon successful completion of a technical course which has been assigned or approved by the Company prior to the commencement of that course.
14.	The Company will pay employees who have permission to be off work on Union business and to bill the Union for such sums.
15.	When any equipment breaks down during the 1 , 2nd and 3rd shifts, no management personnel will perform any work that could normally be done by the bargaining unit personnel except in the case of:
1.	Emergency
2.	Training
3.	Experimentations and quality control
4.	Assisting in repairs
5.	Maintaining safety
6.	When regular employees are not available to do the work,
Maintenance personnel will be called as soon as possible.
99
16.	Trades people will, during the probationary period, present their license or certificate to the Department Steward and the Union President.
17.	A Crew Leader/Relief is defined as follows:
a)	Crew Leader/Relief will be selected by a Joint Union-Management selection committee of six (6) (3 Management and 3 Union) and be appointed on a needs basis. They can be deemed as the competent person in charge as required under the Ontario Health and Safety Act.
The designated Crew Leader/Relief will be assigned on a rotation basis as required and will be noted on the classification schedule with a copy to the union executive.
b)	Crew Leader/Relief will be required to have working knowledge of various job skills in the classifications and be able to communicate effectively written and oral. This knowledge will be used to: trouble shoot, ensure smooth start ups, provide assistance to employees
100
regarding operational procedures, health and safety practices.
c)	Crew Leader/Relief will be required to relieve, fill in when needed and do necessary clerical functions.
d)	Administration and discipline with regards to the collective agreement will be dealt with by supervision and is not a function of the Crew Leader/Relief.
e)	Appointed Crew Leader/Relief are not given any additional seniority rights or privileges whatsoever.
18.	Tools for Sanitation will be provided as determined by the Company.
19.	An employee working in a higherjob classification for seventy-five percent (75%) of his working time in a calendar year will be paid that rate for the year. Seventy-five (75%) will equal 175 days.
20.	An employee accepting a position within the Company outside the bargaining unit will have six (6) months to confirm his
101
decision to remain outside the bargaining unit and the Company will have six (6) months to assess said employee(s) acceptability in such position. During such period his seniority shall be retained and accumulated. At the expiration of such period, the employee’s seniority shall be • cancelled.
It is understood and agreed that either the employee or the Company may make a decision to change or rescind their initial decision at any time during the six (6) month period.
102
SCHEDULE IV
PART TIME EMPLOYEES (INCLUDING STUDENTS)
1.	Part-timers, including summer students, may be hired under the following conditions:
a)	these employees do not benefit from the collective agreement except for this schedule.
b)	from April 1st to October 31st,
these employees will work 40 hours or less per week.
c)	from November 1st to March 31st,
these employees may not work more than 24 hours per week, will not be assigned on jobs of group 4 or more and as much as possible will be scheduled on the 2nd and 3rd shift.
d)	these employees are to pay union dues after 3 days of work.
103
e) At any time, these employees, as much as it is possible and feasible, will not be assigned fojobs higherthan group 3.
Part-time employees who are successful on job postings will be considered newly hired employees.
104
SCHEDULEV
LETTERS OF INTENT & UNDERSTANDING
1.	Plant Shutdowns (as amended)
2.	Temporarily assigned to non union jobs
3.	Return to Work
4.	Relocation of equipment to London Plant
5.	Termination of Employment- 24 months absence
105
SCHEDULE VI -APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The Company will provide an Apprenticeship Program in the Maintenance Department during the term this Agreement, as follows:
A)	Qualifications:
1.	An employee applying to be an apprentice, must be certified medically fit by the Plant Physician.
2.	The employee must pass an aptitude test established by the Company.
3.	The employee must possess Grade 12 diploma or equivalent.
B)	Procedure:
Vacancies for the Apprenticeship Program will be posted on the Plant Bulletin Boards. Selection will be made on the basis of seniority, amongst those who apply and qualify 106
under A above. If no qualified applicants apply for the job, then the Company will hire candidates from outside.
C)	Administration:
An apprentice will be removed from the Program if the standards established by the Company are not met by the apprentice.
The company is under no obligation to place someone in this program.
107
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PRODUCTION SHUTDOWN
The Company may shutdown production for two (2) weeks preceding the civic holiday.
Employees are required to take 2 weeks vacation during the shutdown. Preference of vacation dates will be recognized in order of seniority/classification provided that such preference is indicated to the company priorto April 15th in the vacation year and that the exercise of such seniority will not disrupt production or work schedules and is in accordance with the following additional rules during shutdown:
-	3 consecutive weeks (including the 2 weeks shutdown) may be scheduled by seniority failing this;
-	2 other consecutive weeks outside the shutdown, between June 1st and September 30th, by seniority.
108
During the term of this letter employees with 5 years of seniority or more will receive vacation pay of at least 50% of their regular weekly earnings in the reference year for each week of the shutdown.
Notice of production shutdown shall be posted on the bulletin boards no later than March 31st.
This letter of understandingwill be in effect for the term of the Collective Agreement. Each year in October union and management will meet to review the shutdown.
While in effect this letter replaces clause 27.02.
109
FORTHE COMPANY
George Harrison	TedMelissen BobPavey
Chief Financial Officer VP, Manufacturing Mgr.,Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
Ralph Moxley	Doug Crew Linda Whitford
President-Local242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager Treasurer
Tom Wheatley PhilTobin Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team
110
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
BETA BRANDS LIMITED and
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242G
Unionized employees may be temporarily assigned to non union jobs (special projects and modified work assignment) without the loss of unionized status.
111
FOR THE COMPANY
George Harrison	TedMelissen BobPavey
Chief Financial Officer VP, Manufacturing Mgr., Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
Ralph Moxley	Doug Crew Linda Whitford
President-Local 242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager	Tom Wheatley	PhilTobin
Treasurer	Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team
112
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
BETA BRANDS LIMITED and
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL242G
RETURN TO WORK
Individuals affected by Occupational, Non Occupational or diminished capacity injury of illness, may return to work by a fair consistent system using the following criteria.
(1)	Employees abilities (not disabilities) as given by a Medical Practitioner are considered in order to return the individual to meaningful work as soon as possible.
(2)	The priority will be to return the individual to his/her regularjob first.
113
(3)	However, in order to accommodate abilities, the employee may be assigned any suitable work, union or non union without loss of seniority or benefits for an assigned period of time.
(4)	Employees on the return to work program may displace the mostjunior employees to them on a job he or she is able to perform for a determined period. Employees being displaced will maintain their rate of pay.
The above will be used as guidelines by the committee as indicated in articles 21 (b) and (d).
114
FORTHE COMPANY
George Harrison	TedMelissen BobPavey
Chief Financial Officer VP, ManufacturingMgr.,Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
RalphMoxley	Doug Crew LindaWhitford
President-Local 242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager	Tom Wheatley	PhilTobin
Treasurer	Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team
115
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
BETA BRANDS LIMITED and
BAKERY, CONFECTIONARY, TOBACCO AND
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL 242G
Relocation cf equipment to London Plant
Six months following the establishment of efficient operations (of the equipment relocated to the London Plant), the Company will be required to post the jobs higher than the entry level jobs which are relocated. The seniority of employees transferring with the equipment at the London Plant will become effective date of sale.
116
FOR THE COMPANY
George Harrison	TedMelissen BobPavey
Chief Financial Officer VP, ManufacturingMgr., Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
Ralph Moxley	Doug Crew Linda Whitford
President-Local 242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager Treasurer
Tom Wheatley PhilTobin Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team
117
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
BETA BRANDS LIMITED and
BAKERY, CONFECTIONARY, TOBACCO AND
GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL242G
In reference to article 14.07 (g) -terminations will only occur when it is established that the employee is incapable of performing the essential duties of the job, after taking into account the duty to accommodate.
118
FOR THE COMPANY
George Harrison	Ted Melissen BobPavey
Chief Financial Officer VP, ManufacturingMgr., Human
Resources
FOR THE UNION
Ralph Moxley	Doug Crew Linda Whitford
President-Local 242G Vice President Recording
Secretary
Maureen Sager	Tom Wheatley	PhilTobin
Treasurer	Negotiating	Negotiating
Team	Team