AGREEMENT CALGARY PLANT
NOVEMBER 29, 1993 - JUNE 30. 1996
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, of the City of Calgary,
Alberta
Hereinafter referred to as "The Company"
AND:	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS'
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 252, of the City of Calgary, in the Province of Alberta
Hereinafter referred to as "The Union"
The general purpose of this agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to promote their mutual interests, to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and establish and maintain satisfactory wages, hours of labour, and general working conditions,
ARTICLE 1 - UNION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees, with the exception of office workers, and others not included in the wage article of this Agreement.
1.02	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful union activity, or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be requested to go through any lawfully established picket line.
1.03	Recognized supervisors and foreman will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	When performing development or experimental work,
(b)	When checking production on any operation,
(c)	When employees are not available for work, due to being late for work or absent from the plant,
(d)	In cases of emergency.
1.04	Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any unforeseen circumstances occurring which is beyond the control of the Company. Whenever an emergency occurs, the Company shall take all reasonable steps to alleviate the situation as soon as practicable.
1.05
1.06
ARTICLE
2.01
2.02
ARTICLE
3.01
3.02
2
The Company agrees to permit the Union representative of the Union to enter the various departments of the Company’s plant, during working hours, in order that he may attend to the business affairs of the Union, provided, however, that he does not unduly take up the time of the employees at work and that he will, as a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Superintendent on entering the plant.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Regular full-time employee(s) 11 shall mean those employees who work the number of regular weekly hours as set out in the Article relating to Hours of Work and Overtime.
2 - UNION SECURITY
All new employees will be given an application for membership in the Union, on the first day of employment and shall become a member in good standing of the Union, within
thirty (30) working days from date of employment and shall be informed of the provisions of this Article, when hired. The union will be provided with a list of new employees each month.
The Union will not question the dismissal of a new employee, with less than forty-five (45) days of employment.
3 - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
Should it be the desire of the members of the Union to have their Union dues, fines and assessments, deducted from their earnings, and remitted to the Union, an authorization card, duly signed, shall be presented to the Company, and such dues, fines and assessments, shall be deducted each month, and remitted to the proper Union official. Any cancellation of the above arrangements by employees shall be in writing to the Union and the Employer.
All Union dues, fines and assessments must be in the hands of the Secretary on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month.
3
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The management of the bakery and direction of its working
force, and the right to hire and discharge is vested wholly in the Company, and the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' Union, Local 252, shall not abridge this right except when a union employee has been discharged and feels himself aggrieved by such discharge, in which case he shall be entitled to take the matter up through the regular channels allowed for in the grievance article of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCES
5.01	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion,
between the Company and the Union, or any employee covered by this Agreement, which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance, Any grievance which is not presented within fourteen (14) days following the event giving rise to such grievance shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The procedure for adjustment of grievances shall be as follows:
(a)	The aggrieved employee, or the Union shall take the matter up with the foreman or superintendent in charge, at which time the employee may be accompanied by a member of the grievance committee, it being clearly understood that all employees must carry out the orders of the foremen pending settlement of any dispute.
^ If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) hours, a signed copy of the written grievance shall be delivered to the Plant Manager or his representative who shall, within three (3) days following receipt thereof, meet with no less than three (3) members of the grievance committee, and attempt to settle the grievance. At this meeting, the Union Representative or Secretary of the Union may be present, at the request of either party. The Plant Manager or his representative shall, within five (5) working days give his decision in writing to the Union. This five (5) day period may be extended by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE
6.01
ARTICLE
7.01
7 . 02
7.03
7.04
4
6 - ARBITRATION
Should the parties fail to reach agreement under the above grievance procedure, either party may then refer the matter to arbitration as provided under the Alberta Labour Code, and the provisions of the said Code shall govern all proceedings, in the same way, as though they were set out in full in this Agreement.
7 - TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
Except in cases of emergency, regular full-time employees who are laid off or discharged shall receive notice of one (1) week. If the notice is not given, then employees so affected will receive a week's pay in lieu thereof. Where an employee is retained one (1) week or more beyond the expiry date of the notice, then a further week's notice shall be given. No employee will be terminated without just cause. Should an employee be terminated for cause, they shall not be entitled to notice set out herein, this does not preclude any grievance being submitted in connection with such discharge.
Regular full-time employees will give one (1) week's notice when terminating their employment, or forfeit one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof.
The Union agrees to impress upon its members the importance of advising the Company, as far as possible in advance of the shift, in cases where due to illness or other causes, they are unable to report for work. If, upon investigation, it is found that an employee has no legitimate reason for being absent, the Company may take appropriate disciplinary action.
The Union will receive copies of reprimands and other disciplinary action. However, failure to receive these notices will not impact upon the above-noted grievance procedure. Reprimands and other written notice of disciplinary action will be removed from an employee's file after a period of 2 4 months, providing no incidents of a related, or similar nature have occurred during this period.
- 5 -
ARTICLE 8 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
8.01	The wage rates specified herein are minimum, and no employee shall have his or her wages reduced as the result of the signing of this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the paying of a higher rate of pay at the discretion of the Company.
All full-time employees who were hired on or before September 1, 1993 shall receive a $500.00 lump sum payment on a separate cheque in the December l, 1993 pay period. Part-time employees who were active on September l, 1993 and continue to be employed on December 1, 1993 shall receive a lump sum payment not to exceed $500.00 pro-rated based on hours worked versus hours available between May l, 1993 and December 1, 1993.
8.02	Classifications and rates of pay to be as follows:
Weekly Rates Effective:
sept. 1/92_Mar 1/94 Mar 1/95
Doughman, Ovenman, Cake Baker $662.32	$672.32	$687.32
Divider, Moulder, Benchman,
Pan-o-Mat Operator	658.82
General Production Helper	655.32
Bread Shipper, Bread Checker,
Receiver	653.32
Bread Wrapping Machine Operator (In Charge)
Wrapping Machine Operator
Maintenance (Machine)
Janitor - Cleaner
Helper - Benchwork	642.32
Checker, Packer, Bread Wrapper	639.32
Finishing, Liners, and Box	Making 639.32
Thrift Store Employees employed at
Plant Location	622*32
668.82
665.32
663.32
678.82
663.32 708.61
661.32
652.32
649.32
649.32
632.32
683.82
680.82
678.32
693.82
688.32 723.61
676.32
667.32
664.32
664.32
647.32
(a) Progression Rates
All new employees hired on or after April 11, 1987 will begin employment at the following progression rates:

1st year of service - 75% of the base weekly wage 2nd year of service - 80% of the base weekly wage
Summer help, hired or recalled for work, from May 1 to September 3 0 will earn 7 5% of the base rate.
Anyone hired before May 1, or retained beyond September 30th will have their full service contribute towards their eligibility to the next progression level. Anyone hired specifically for the summer period will not have this time contribute to their progression eligibility>
(b)	sification shall be defined as any employee required to do Bench work, bread, buns and cakes.
(c)	Lead Hands:	In addition to such regular job duties as time
will permit, a lead hand shall be responsible for assisting in scheduling and assigning work to employees he is required to lead, and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. A lead hand shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees, or to exercise any disciplinary action. He shall, however, report to his Foreman on the ability, progress and conduct of employees he is required to lead.
A lead hand regularly employed and designated as such by the Company, will be paid not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) per week above the rate of the highest classification at the same progression level he is required to lead. Effective September 1, 1992, the rate shall increase to twenty dollars ($20.00). Where the rate of a lead hand is presently higher than referred to herein, his rate shall not be reduced to conform with the amount set out above. Lead hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
8.03	(a) Jobbers or part time workers employed on an hourly or
daily basis, shall be paid ten (10) cents per hour over the regular single hourly rate of weekly employees, according to the job classification performed. Such regular single hourly rate shall be determined by dividing the wage of the weekly employees by the weekly number of hours.
(b) When the consecutive number of hours worked by a
jobber or part-time employee is less than four (4) hours, the jobber or part-time employee shall be paid for four (4) hours, at the rate set out above, notwithstanding that the time employee is called in for a specified number of hours, such employee shall be provided with work for the number of hours specified, or, if work is not provided, he shall receive pay in lieu thereof.
8.04	Any employee required to work at a classification entitled to a higher or lower rate of wages than he is receiving,
7
after one (1) days of work in such classification (for which he shall be paid his regular rate of wages), shall be paid the applicable wage at the same progression level.
8.05	An employee who is doing regularly more than one job, for one hour or more, and is moved from one classification to another, will be paid that proportionate of the various classifications performed at the rate applicable for the progression level.
8.06	NIGHT PREMIUM:	Extra compensation of forty cents (40) per
hour shall be paid for all work performed between the hours of 6:00 p.ra. and 6:00 a.m.
8.07	The parties agree to establish an apprenticeship program as per the guidelines set out by the Province of Alberta. It is agreed the company will compensate an apprentice for lost wages and benefits while attending the necessary educational courses.
ARTICLE 9 - H0UR8 OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The hours of work for all employees covered by this Agreement shall be thirty-six and one-half (36 1/2) hours per week, daily maximum eight (8) hours, divided into five
(5) working days, the Company to decide the days of work. When the fifth (5th) day of a holiday week is worked, that day shall be paid for at time and one-half, in addition to the holiday pay.
9.02	It is agreed that employees will work five (5) days per week, if required, regardless of statutory holidays. In agreeing to the five (5) day week, it is clearly understood that Management will be under no restriction regarding days off, shift schedule or days of plant operation.
Effective within thirty (30) days after the Collective Agreement is signed, shifts for production employees will be
so arranged that employees will be entitled to two (2) consecutive days off each week which will be either Friday and Saturday, Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday.
The intent of this clause is that employees will normally be provided with fifty-two (52) hours off between the end of one work week and the start of the next work week.
The Company will consider any employee suggestion that accommodates consecutive days off as long as they do not affect customer service or the efficient operation of the bakery.
9.03	Any work performed in excess of the scheduled hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate. The Company and the Union agree to the principle that overtime is to be avoided as far as possible. The Company will determine the schedule of working hours for each
R
employee, and the Union agrees that the schedule may be changed from time to time at the discretion of the Company. Shift schedules will be posted one (1) week in advance of the time such schedules become operative. Except in case of emergency, the said shift schedules will not be changed once they become operative without forty-eight (48) hours notice.
Where it is necessary to change starting times, in addition to posting such changes, employees affected will be personally notified, provided they are available to be contacted.
Employees will be notified as far ahead as possible when
overtime is required and will be given a minimum of two (2) hours notice of such overtime except in cases of emergency. Also, except in cases of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing management can get another qualified employee to perform the work required.
9.04	If an employee is required to work on his regular holiday, this shall be paid for at time and one-half, in addition to regular pay when one day off in lieu thereof is not allowed.
9.05	There shall be no split shifts.
9.06	Four day-shift will be established in the following manner:
(a)	Voluntarily by the employee
(b)	Nine and one half (9.5) hours maximum per day
(c)	No more than two (2) hours overtime for any reason
(d)	Sick days paid according to scheduled shifts missed
(e)	Statutory Holidays - work week reduced by nine and one-quarter (9.25) hours for each holiday - fourth day paid/banked at time and one half (1.5)
(f)	Pension - All hours worked over:
8 - two days credit 16 - three days credit 24 - four days credit 32 - five days credit
ARTICLE 10 - LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
10.01	No employee shall be required to go for lunch before completing three (3) hours work, nor shall any employee be required to exceed four and one-half (4 1/2) hours work without a meal period. Meal periods shall be for thirty
(30) minutes, without pay.
10.02	Two (2) ten minute rest period shall be allowed, with pay, as near mid-shift of the first half, and as near mid-shift in the second half, of each normal daily work schedule.
10.03	Only two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed on any daily shift, except in case of emergency. Should the said overtime exceed one (1) hour’s duration, a ten (10) minute rest period shall be allowed, and paid for at overtime rate,
q
before commencing same. Should overtime exceed two (2) hours, the rest period will be twenty (20) minutes before commencing overtime.
10.04	Except for shift changes and emergencies each regular fulltime employee shall be allowed a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive hours of work in each seven (7) day calendar period. Except in cases of emergency, the break period between the end of one shift and the start of another shall be not less than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 11 ~ PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
11.01	The Company will allow to each of its employees governed by this Agreement, the following Public Holidays, with pay, or any other day proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Boxing Day
Dominion Day Labour Day Civic Holiday Family Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
11.02	No employee shall be requested to work on Christmas Day. No employee will be required to start before 2:00 p.m. on New Year's Day, it being understood this will affect the schedules for the balance of the week.
11.03	In the week in which a public holiday occurs, the work week will be reduced by one-fifth of the weekly hours as set out in Article 9.01.
11.04	These holidays are granted on the understanding that to quality for a public holiday, with pay, the employee must work the full scheduled working day proceeding his or her holiday, and the full scheduled working day after the holiday.
11.05	After working thirty (3 0) days from date of employment, employees who are working on other than a regular full-time basis shall be paid for the number of hours they would normally have worked on a holiday. The method of determining the normal hours work for payment shall be by averaging the hours worked on such days during the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
ARTICLE 12 ~ ANNUAL VACATIONS
12.01	The Company shall allow up to two (2) weeks vacation with pay to each of its employees governed by this Agreement, who have one (1) or more years continuous service with the Company.
12.02	Employees with three (3) or more years continuous service
)0
10
with the Company, shall be granted an additional weeks vacation with pay.
12.03	Employees with eight (8) or more years continuous service with the Company, shall be granted a fourth (4 th) week of vacation with pay.
12.04	Employees who attain thirteen (13) years of continuous service will be eligible for five (5) weeks vacation.
However, if such employee wishes, he may limit his vacation to four (4) weeks and will then become eligible for an additional two percent (2%) of his previous year's earnings.
12.05	Employees who attain eighteen (18) years of continuous service will be eligible for six (6) weeks vacation.
12.06	Employees who attain twenty-three (23)years of continuous service will be eligible for seven (7) weeks vacation.
12.07	Employees with fifteen (15) years of continuous service may, if they so desire, take three (3) weeks of vacation consecutively during the period from May 1st to October 1st.
12.08	When an employee wishes to take all of his vacation between November 1st and March 3 1st, he may take three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation together depending on the amount of vacation to which he is entitled. Preference for winter vacations will be in accordance with seniority and will be scheduled.
Winter vacation period shall be defined as the period from October 1st to April 30th and will be for scheduling vacation entitlements in excess of two (2) weeks.
12.09	Annual holidays shall be allowed (as near as practical) between May 1st and October 1st of each year, unless changed by mutual agreement. Seniority shall govern in the choice of dates.
12.10	If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he may elect to receive a day's pay in lieu thereof. The arrangement for the extra day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacation.
12.11	Absence from work due to illness or accident shall not affect the amount of an employee's vacation pay, except where such absences exceeds a total thirty (30) working days in the vacation year.
12.12	Vacation Schedules will be posted on the main bulletin board.
ARTICLE
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
11
13 - SENIORITY
A new employee will not have any seniority standing until after he has completed forty-five (45) working days. His seniority will then date back forty-five (45) working days. During this period he shall be considered on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off by the Company without any recourse to the grievance procedure. The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
Part-time employees shall not have seniority over regular full-time employees unless they were reduced to part-time from full-time status.
Within thirty (30) days after the signing date of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and post on the bulletin boards a seniority list showing the names and seniority dates of employees. Seniority lists will be posted each six (6) months and will show the classification of employees at the time of posting. A copy of the seniority list will be sent to the Union office.
Qualifications being sufficient amongst employees, seniority will be the governing factor in:
(a)	all cases of lay off due to lack of work,
(b)	displacing the junior employees in the plant in order to obtain up to full weekly hours and the request does not qualify him for overtime,
(c)	recall to work following lay-off,
(d)	promotion to any other classification.
Seniority so exercised shall be on a plant wide basis and include a trial/training period up to ten (10) working days to be determined solely by management. This trial period is not applicable to (b) above.
Employees who have completed the probationary period and who are laid off due to lack of work will retain seniority and the right to be recalled to work, as follows:
(a)	Up to six (6) months -seniority at the time lay off	for a period of six (6) consecutive months
(b)	Over six (6) months -seniority at the time of lay off	for a period equal to his seniority but not exceeding twelve (12) consecutive
months
An employee being recalled to work following lay off shall
13.06
13.07
ARTICLE
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
ARTICLE
15,01
12
return to work within ten (10) days after the date of recall or forfeit any claim to re-employment by the Company.
A recall to work which is not possible to make by telephone, shall be by registered letter or telegram, addressed to the last address recorded in the Company records.
Qualified employees in the employ of the Company who have completed the probationary period will be given preference for promotion to any other classifications before new employees are hired.
14	- JOB POSTING
A notice of any regular full-time job which becomes vacant will be posted on the plant bulletin boards within five (5) working days after such vacancies occur, for five (5) working days. During this period employees who have completed the probationary period may make application, in writing, for transfer to the posted vacancy. Qualifications being sufficient, seniority shall be the governing factor in making transfers under this clause.
For the purposes of job posting, a regular full-time job shall be considered as one which it is expected will last beyond thirty (30) working days.
An employee who receives a transfer through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
The Company may fill any vacancy on a temporary basis until the posting procedure contained herein has been fulfilled.
A job shall not be considered as vacant for posting where an employee is on vacation, is absent due to illness or leave of absence, or where an employee has been laid off and can be recalled to a job.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which transfer was made will be posted. Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted but will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 13.03.
An employee who receives a job through the posting procedure shall be given up to twenty (20) working days trial period including up to ten (10) working days of training to be determined solely by management. If he is not satisfactory he shall revert to his former job, i.e. the one he held at the time he applied for the posted vacancy.
15	- NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
Classifications, titles, and rates thereof for any new
13
classifications or position that may thereafter be established, shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union, and a supplementary agreement shall be executed in respect to any such new positions or classifications.
ARTICLE 16 - UNION SHOP CARDS
16,01	The Company agrees that it will display in its
establishment, the designation of a "Union Shop", as supplied by the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union.
ARTICLE 17 - INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
17.01	It is mutually agreed that the Union and Management will cooperate in bringing the Industrial Standards Schedule for the Baking Industry as established by the Province of Alberta up-to-date.
ARTICLE 18 - SAFETY COMMITTEE
18.01	There shall be a safety committee composed of two (2) members selected by the Company and two (2) members selected by the Union which shall meet as often as necessary, but not more often than monthly. This committee shall discuss questions of safety, make recommendations to management and assist in enforcing safety rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	(a) Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted to not more than two (2) employees at a time to attend Union conventions and functions. The total accumulation of such leave shall not exceed thirty
(30) working days in any twelve month period.
(b)	An employee who is selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union will be granted leave of absence without pay and seniority will accumulate for a period of forty-eight (48) consecutive months. This period may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Leave of absence granted in accordance with (a) and (b) above shall be in writing.
19.02	Leave of absence, without pay, and without loss of seniority, may be granted to any employee by the Company for personal reasons. In such cases the Company will supply a statement in writing, to the Union, the Employee and one copy for the Company's files.
ARTICLE 20 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
14
20.01	Each full-time employee who has completed three (3) months of consecutive service will be allowed three (3) days leave of absence, with pay, in the event of the death of his Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Spouse, Child, Grandmother or Grandfather. Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral. Only that portion of three (3) days that would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. As used herein, the terras "Father" and "Mother" shall be deemed to include "Stepfather" and "Step-mother". Part-time employees who are scheduled to work less than three days shall be eligible for one day paid bereavement leave.
20.02	Where a death involves a Father-in-Law or Mother-in-Law, one
(1) working day off will be allowed, with pay, to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 21 - SANITARY CONDITIONS
Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. Within thirty (30) days following the signing of the Agreement, the Company will supply and launder uniforms for all inside employees.
All employees shall, at all times, leave benches and machinery and floors around benches cleaned, and, (except in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiners repairs) in condition for immediate resumption of work.
It shall be the duty of the employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utensils and conveniences of the plant in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them, and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
The Company and the Union agree that the use of tobacco in any form, in any part of the Bakery where products are produced or handled is prohibited, and that breach of this rule shall be cause for instant dismissal. Bottled drinks shall be consumed only in the Lunch Room and Dressing Room.
21.01
21.02
21.03
ARTICLE 22 - SEVERANCE PAY
22.01	In the event of amalgamation, permanent closure of plant, or department thereof, or automation, causing a regular fulltime employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employee's severance pay, at his or her regular rate of pay, as follows:
(a)	over two (2) years and up to ten (10) years of
continuous service - one week's pay for each full two
15
(2) years of such service.
(b)	over ten (10) and up to twenty (20) years of
continuous service - one (l) week for each full year of continuous service in excess of ten (10) years to a maximum of twenty (20) full years of service
The foregoing shall be in addition to the regular week's notice or week's pay in lieu thereof, to which they may be entitled.
22.02	An employee who loses his employment in accordance with the terms hereof may elect to receive his severance pay as soon as possible or he may elect to be placed on a recall list subject to recall in accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on the recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
ARTICLE 23 - AUTOMATION
23.01	Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
ARTICLE 2 4 - WELFARE
24.01	The Company shall continue to make its Welfare Plan
available to eligible employees. The Company will pay up to $68.00 per month for a single employee, $90.00 per month for a married employee and $100.00 per month for a married employee with dependents towards the premiums for the employee benefits (Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity, Dental Plan, Medical and Hospital Plans) and the employee will pay the balance. Effective September 1, 1991, the rate for Single will increase to $73.00, $95.00 for married employees and $105.00 for married employees with dependents.
Effective June 1, 1994 the rate for single will increase to $83.00, $105 for married employees and $115 for married employees with dependants. Effective June 1, 1995 the rates will increase to $98.00, $120 and $130 respectively.
Part-time employees who work a minimum of three shifts per week for twelve consecutive weeks shall be eligible for benefits.
24.02
24.03
24 . 04
24.05
24.06
24.07
ARTICLE
25.01
25.02
16
Life Insurance shall be twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). Effective June l, 1994, it shall increase to twenty-eight thousand ($28,000) .
Weekly Indemnity shall be three hundred and fifty dollars ($375.00) per week. Effective June 1, 1994, it shall increase to three hundred and eighty-five ($385.00) per week. Effective June 1, 1995 it shall increase to four hundred ($400.00).
The employer will top up UI benefits to equal normal W.I. benefits for an additional 15 weeks.
The present basic Dental Insurance Plan will be improved to include dentures. Crowns ft bridges will be covered at 50% effective June 1, 1995.
The Company will introduce a vision care plan effective June I, 1994. Each employee and their eligible dependents shall be entitled to up to $100 to assist in payment for prescription eye wear. This benefit is available once every two years per eligible plan member.
The Company will introduce a long term disability plan effective June 1, 1994 at a benefit level of $700.00 per month. The employees will have the option to purchase additional coverage up to $1,000 on June 1, 1995.
Part-time employees who are eligible for benefits will be disqualified if they fail to report for their scheduled shifts or if they are laid-off.
25 - SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Regular full-time employees, after three (3) consecutive months of service, will be allowed sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each full month worked thereafter, to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second (2nd) and third (3rd) working day of any absence due to illness but should the absence due to illness exceed five (5) working days, then the first (1st) day of such absence will be paid, provided there are sufficient benefits credited to the employee. In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and the monies received from Weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay. Employees will be eligible to be paid on their first day of absence if they have three sick days "banked". The Union agrees that this benefit may be withdrawn if current rates of attendance begin to decline. Withdrawal of the benefit will not occur without full discussion at a Joint Labour Management meeting.
The Company shall, upon request, be provided with
-	1 7	-
verification of illness of the employee in the form of an authentic medical certificate.
25.03	Any employee found abusing the above privilege, shall be
disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefits of said employee, or terminate his employment.
ARTICLE 26 - JURY DUTY
26.01	A regular full-time employee who has completed the
probationary period and who is required to perform jury duty or witness duty where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions.
(a)	Such employee shall be required to report for work on any days or half days he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the Court room but shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
^ Such employee shall furnish the Company with such earnings as the Courts may provide.
ARTICLE 27 - PENSION PLAN
27.01	APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE__(CANADA)
It is hereby agreed to provide pension and retirement benefits as follows:
(a)	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound as a party by all the terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated June 6, 1972, as amended, establishing the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) and said Agreement is made part hereof by reference.
(b)	(1) Commencing with the 1st day of January, 1991, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industrial International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $3.28 to the above-named Pension Fund, but not more than $41.40 per week for any one employee.
(2) commencing with the 1st day of September, 1991, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery, Confectionery and
18
Tobacco Workers' Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $9.04 to the above-named Pension Fund, but not more than $45.20 per week for any one employee.
Commencing with the 1st day of September, 1992, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery, Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $9.30 to the above-named Pension Fund, but not more than $49.00 per week for any one employee.
For the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of the employees from the first day of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. The term "employees" does not include a selfemployed person, corporate officer, owner or partner.
(c)	The payments made in accordance with (b)	(l) above shall be
allocated as follows:
$3,23 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (Plan A and Plan C).
The payments made in accordance with (b)	(2) above shall be
allocated as follows:
$9.04 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (Plan A and Plan C),
The payments made in accordance with (b)	(3) above shall be
allocated as follows:
$9.80 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (Plan A and Plan C) ,
It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall be such as will qualify for approval by the appropriate Canadian Government Departments, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
19
(e) Contributions provided for herein shall be paid monthly and shall be accompanied by a completed remittance report. Both payment and report are due on the tenth day of the month following the month covered by the report. In the event the employer fails promptly to pay amounts owed the, employer shall pay such collection costs, including court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees, as the Pension Fund shall incur, and shall pay interest at such rate as the Trustees shall fix from time to time.
j The payments so made to the Fund shall be used by it to provide retirement benefits for eligible employees in accordance with the Pension Plan of said Fund, as determined by the Trustees of said Fund, to be applied to the eligible employees based on the amount of employer contribution.
(g) This clause encompasses the sole and total agreement between the Employer and the Union with respect to pension or retirement.
ARTICLE 28 - PENSION BENEFIT LEVEL
28.01	The payments referred to in the pervious Article includes
Plan "C" to become effective January l, 1990 at the $650.00 per month level.
The pension benefit level will increase to the following, effective:
(a)	September l, 1991 - $700.00 per month
(b)	September l, 1992 - $750.00 per month
(c)	September 1, 1993 - $800.00 per month
(d)	July l, 1994 - $850.00 per month
(e)	July l, 1995 - $900.00 per month
Note:	The Union may request that any or all of the 1994 or
1995 wage increases be applied to the pension plan.
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the
parties from _____) ^	r —7- ^/n A	until June 30,
1996 and shall continue in effect from year to year Ehereafter, unless notice of termination or notice of revision thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty (30) days and not more than sixty (60) days immediately prior to the natural expiration date of same.
DATED AT CALGARY, ALBERTA this

SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE UNION
21
16 December 1993
Gilbert
Business Agent Bakery, Confectionary
& Tobacco Workers' Union Local 252
205, 7907 Flint Rd. S.E, Calgary, Alberta T2H 1G3
Dear Mr. Gilbert:
This letter, which is separate and apart from the Collective Agreement confirms the agreement of the parties that a Labour -Management committee will be established composed of three representatives each party (the Union representatives will be selected by the Union). The committee shall meet as often as necessary, but not more frequently than twice monthly. The committee will discuss issues of concern in the plant. A full t: representative of the Union will attend at the request of either party.
Yours truly,
hi Van Patter President Western Canada