AGREEMENT CALGARY BAKERS
MARCH 1, 1987 - AUGUST 31, 1990
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT ASSUMED BY WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED MAY 1, 1989
00562 (03)
E t-3 -sjQj
I N D E X
APTTf-T.F.S OF AGREEMENT MCGAVIN FOODS LIMITED
PAGE	1	ARTICLE	1
PAGE	2	ARTICLE	2
PAGE	3	ARTICLE	3
		ARTICLE	4
		ARTICLE	5
PAGE	4	ARTICLE	6
		ARTICLE	7
PAGE	5	ARTICLE	8
PAGE	7	ARTICLE	9
PAGE	9	ARTICLE	10
		ARTICLE	11
PAGE	1 0	ARTICLE	12
PAGE	1 1	ARTICLE	13
PAGE	13	ARTICLE	14
UNION RECOGNITION
UNION SECURITY
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES MANAGEMENT RIGHTS GRIEVANCES
ARBITRATION
TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
LUNCH AND REST PERIODS PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
ANNUAL VACATIONS
SENIORITY
JOB POSTING
PAGE' 14	ARTICLE 15
ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19
PACE 15	ARTICLE 20
ARTICLE 21
NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
UNION SHOP CARDS
INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
SAFETY COMMITTEE
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
BEREAVEMENT PAY SANITARY CONDITIONS
PAGE 1 6
ARTICLE 22	SEVERANCE PAY
PAGE 1 7
ARTICLE 23	AUTOMATION
ARTICLE 24	WELFARE
PAGE 1 8
ARTICLE 25	SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
ARTICLE 26	JURY DUTY
PAGE 19
ARTICLE 27	PENSION PLAN
ARTICLE 28
Article 29
.PENSION BENEFIT LEVEL DURATION OF AGREEMENT
COLLECTIVE
A G R E E M ENT
1
BY AND BETWEEN:
MCGAVIN FOODS LIMITED, of the City of Calgary, Alberta
Hereinafter referred to as "The Company"
AND:	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS'
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 252, of the City of Calgary, in the Province of Alberta
Hereinafter referred to as "The Union"
The general purpose of this agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between che Company and its employees, to promote their mutual interests, to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and es£.£.blish and maintain satisfactory wages, hours of labour, and., general working conditions.
ARTICLE 1 - ONION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees, with the exception of office workers, and others not included in the wage article of this Agreement.
1.02	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful union activity, or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be requested to go through any lawfully established picket line.
2
1.03	Recognized supervisors and foremen will not perform work that is performed by regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	When performing development or experimental work,
(b)	When checking production on any operation,
(c)	When employees are not. available for work, due to being late for work or absent from the plant,
(d)	In cases of emergency.
1.04	Where used in this Agreement, the term "emergency" shall be defined as any unforeseen circumstances occurring which is beyond the control of the Company, Whenever an emergency occurs, the Company shall take all reasonable steps to alleviate the situation as soon as practicable.
1.05	The Company agrees to permit the Union Representative of the Union to enter the various departments of the Company's plant, during working hours, in order that he may attend to the business affairs of the Union, provided, however, that he does not unduly take up the time of the employees at work and that he will, as a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Superintendent on entering the plap;t.
1.05	As used in this .Agreement, the term "Reguiaf iuxj.-i-j.mo employee(s)" shall mean those employees who work the number of regular weekly hours as set out in the Article relating to Hours of Work and Overtime.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION SECURITY
2.01	All new employees will be given an application for membership in the Union, on the first day of employment and shall become, a member in good standing of the Union, within thirty (30) working days from date of employment and shall remain a member in good standing for the life of this Agreement. New employees shall be informed of the provisions of this Article, when hired.
2.02	The Union will not question the dismissal of a new employee, with less than forty-five (45) days of employment.
3
ARTICLE 3 - DEDUCTION OF ONIOH DOES
3.01	Should it be the desire of the members of the Union to have their Union dues, fines and assessments, deducted from their earnings, and remitted to the Union, an authorization card, duly signed, shall be presented to the Company, and such dues, fines and assessments, shall be deducted each month, and remitted to the proper Union official. Any cancellation of the above arrangements by employees shall be in writing, to the Union and the Employer.
3.02	All Union dues, fines and assessments must be in the hands of the Secretary on or before the fifteenth
(15th) day of each month.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The management of the bakery and direction of its working force, and the right to hire and discharge is vested wholly in the Company, and the Bakery8 Confectionery and Tobacco Worers 1 Union, Local 252, shall not abridge this right except “h*>n a union employee has been discharged and feels himself aggrieved by such discharge, in which case he shall be entitled to take the matter up through the regular channels allowed for in the grievance article of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCES
5.01	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion, between the Company and the Union, or any employee covered by this Agreement, which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance. Any grievance which is not presented within fourteen (14) days following the event giving rise to such grievance shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The procedure for adjustment of grievances shall be as follows:
(a)	The aggrieved employee, or the Union shall take the matter up with the foreman or superintendent in charge, at which time the employee may be accompanied by a member of the grievance committee, it being clearly understood that all employees must carry out the orders of the foremen pending settlement of any dispute.
ARTICLE
6.01
ARTICLE
7.01
7.02
7.03
4
{b) If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) hours, a signed copy of the written grievance shall be delivered to the Manager or his representative who shall, within three (3) days following receipt thereof, meet with not less than three (3) members of the grievance committee, and attempt to settle the grievance. At this meeting, the Union Representative or Secretary of the Union may be present, at the request of either party..
6 - ARBITRATION
Should the parties fail to reach agreement under the above grievance procedure, either party may then refer the matter to arbitration as provided under the Alberta Labour Act, and the provisions of the said act shall govern all proceedings, in the same way, as though they were set out in full in this Agreement.
- TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
Except in cases of emergency, regular full-time employees who are laid off or discharged shall receive notice of one (1) week.	If the notice is not given,
then employees so affected will receive a week's pay in lieu thereof. Where an employee i<5 retained one (1) week or more beyond the expiry date of the notice, then a further week's notice shall be given. Any employee who is discharged for cause shall not be entitled to the notice set out herein. However, this shall not preclude any grievance being submitted in connection with such discharge.
Regular full-time employees will give one (1) week's notice when terminating their employment, or forfeit one (1) week's pay, in lieu thereof.
The Union agrees to impress upon its members the importance of advising the Company, as far as possible in advance of the shift, in cases where due to illness or other causes, they are unable to report for work. If, upon investigation, it is found that an employee has no legitimate reason for being absent, the Company may take appropriate disciplinary action.
5
ARTICLE 8 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
8.01	The wage rates specified herein are minimum, and no
employee shall have his or her wages reduced as the result of the signing of this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the paying of a higher rate of pay at the discretion of the Company.
8.02
Classifications and rates of pay to be as-follows:
Doughman, Ovenman, Cake Baker Divider, Moulder, Benchman,
Pan-0-Mat Operator General Production Helper Bread Shipper, Bread Checker, Receiver Bread Wrapping Machine Operator (in charge)
Bread Wrapping Machine OpeiaLox Maintenance (Machine)
Janitor - Cleaner Helper - Bench Work
Machine Operator (other than above). Scrambler Operator Checker, Packer, Bread Wrapper (loading and unloading)
Finishing, Liners and Box Makers Thrift Store Employees employed at Plant Location
$ 561.32
$ 557.82 $ 554.32 $ 552.32
$ 557.82 $ 552.32 $ 561r32 $ 55CU32 $ 541.82 $ 541.32 $ 541.32
$ 538.32 $ 538.32
$ 521.32
$ 576.32
$ 572.82 $ 569.32 $ 567.32
$ 572.82 $ 567.32 $ 576.32 $ 565.32 $ 556.32 $ 556.32 $ 556.32
$ 553.32 $ 553.32
$ 536.32
$ 591.32
$ 587.82 $ 584.32 $ 582.32
$ 587.82 $ 582.32 .$ 591.32 $ 580.32 $ 571.32 $ 571.32 $ 571.32
$ 568.32 $ 568.32
$ 551.32
(a} Progression Rates
All new employees hired on or will begin employment at the rates:
after April 11, 1987 following progression
1st year of service - 75% of the base weekly wage 2nd year of service - 80% of the base weekly wage
Summer help, hired or recalled for work, from May 1 to September 30 will earn 75% of the base rate.
Anyone hired before May 1, or retained .beyond September 30th will have their full service contribute towards their .eligibility to the next progression level. Anyone hired specifically for the summer period will not have this time contribute to their progression eligibility.
(b)	Benchman classi f icaiton shall be defined as any employee required to do Bench Work, bread, buns and cakes.
(c)	Lead Hands :	In addition t6 such regular job
duties as time will permit, a> lead hand shall be responsible for assisting i*n scheduling and assigning work to employees he is required to lead, and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. A lead hand shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees, or to exercise any disciplinary action. He shall, however, report to his Foreman on the ability, progress and conduct of employees he is required to lead.
A lead hand regularly employed and designated as such by the Company, will be paid not less than ten dollars ($10.00) per week above the rate of the highest classification at the same progression level he is required to lead. Where the rate of a lead hand is presently higher than referred to herein, his rate shall not be reduced to conform with the amount set out above. Lead hands shall not be granted any seniority preference over other employees.
7
8.03
8.04
8.05
8.06
(a)	Jobbers or part-time workers employed on an hourly or daily basis, shall be paid ten (10) cents per hour over and above the regular single hourly rate of weekly employees, according to the job classification performed. Such regular single hourly rate shall be determined by dividing the wage of the weekly employees by the weekly number of hours.
(b)	When the consecutive number of hours worked by a jobber or part-time employee is less than four (4) hours, the jobber or part-time employee shall be paid for four (4) hours, at the rate set out above, notwithstanding that the time employed is called in for a specified number of hours, such employee shall be provided with work for the number of hours specified, or, if work is not provided, he shall receive pay in lieu thereof.
Any employee required to work at a classification entitled to a higher or lower rate of wages than he is receiving, after one (1) days work in such classification (for which he shall be paid his regular rate of wages) , shall be paid the ''applicable wage at the same progression level.
An employee who is doing regularly more than one job, for one hour or more, and is moved from one classification to another, will be paid that proportionate of the various classifications performed at the rate applicable for the progression level.
NIGHT PREMIUM:	Extra compensation of forty cents (40)
per hour shall be paid for all work performed between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The hours of work for all employees covered by this
Agreement shall be thirty-six and one-half (36-1/2) hours per week, daily maximum eight (8) hours, divided into five (5) working days, the Company to decide the days of work. When the fifth (5 th) day of a holiday week is worked, that day shall be paid for at time and one-half, in addition to the holiday pay.
9.02
9.03
9.04
8
It is agreed that employees will work five (5) days per week, if required, regardless of statutory holidays. In agreeing to the five (5) day week, it is clearly understood that Management will be under no restriction regarding days off, shift schedule or days of plant operation.
Effective within thirty (30) days after the Collective Agreement is signed, shifts for production employees will be so arranged that employees will be entitled to two (2) consecutive days off each week which will be either Friday and Saturday, Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday. The intent of this clause is that employees will normally be provided with fifty-two (52) hours off between the end of one work week and the start of the next work week.
Any work performed in excess of the scheduled hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate. The Company and the Union agree to the principle that overtime is to be avoided as far as possible. The Company will determine the schedule of working hours for each employee, and the Union agrees that the schedule may be changed ffom time to time at the discretion of the Company. Shift schedules will be posted one (1) week in advance *-of the time such schedules become operative. Except in case of emergency, the said shift schedules will not be changed once they become operative without forty-eight (48) hours notice.
Where it is necessary to change starting times, in addition to posting such changes, employees affected will be personally notified, provided thay are available to be contacted.
Employees will be notified as far ahead as possible when overtime is required and will be given a minimum of two ( 2 ) hours notice of such overtime except in cases of emergency. Also, except in cases of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing management can get another qualified employee to perform the work required.
If an employee is required to work on his regular
holiday, this shall be paid for at time and one-half,
in addition to regular pay when one day off in lieu thereof is not allowed.
9.05 ARTICLE 10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
ARTICLE 1 11.01
11.02
9
There shall be no split shifts. 1 0 - LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
No employee shall be required to go for lunch before completing three (3) hours work, nor shall any employee be required to exceed four and one-half (4-1/2) hours work without a meal period. Meal periods shall be for thirty (30) minutes, without pay.
Two (2) ten minute rest periods shall be allowed, with pay, as near mid-shift of the first half, and as near, mid-shift in the second half, of each normal daily work schedule.
Only two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed on any daily shift, except in case of emergency. Should the said overtime exceed one (1) hour's duration, a ten (10) minute rest period shall be allowed, and paid for at overtime rate, before commencing same. Should overtime exceed two (2) hours, the rest period will be twenty (20) minutes before commencing overtime.
Except for shift changes and emergencies each regular full-time employee shall be allowed' a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive hours off work in each seven (7) day calendar period. Except in cases of emergency, the break period between the end of one shift and the start of another shall be not less than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
1 - PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
The Company will allow to each of its employee governed by this Agreement, the followng Public Holidays, with pay:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day
Dominion Day Labour Day Civic Holiday Boxing Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day
No employee shall be requested to work on Christmas Day. No employee will be required to start before 2:00 p.m. on New Year's Day, it being understood this will affect the schedules for the balance of the week.
11.03
11.04
11.05
ARTICLE
12.01
12.02
12.03
12.04
12.05
12.06
1 0
In the week in which a public holiday occurs, the work week will be reduced by one-fifth of the weekly hours as set out in Article 9.01.
These holidays are granted on the understanding that to qualify for a public holiday, with pay, the employee must work the full working day preceding, the holiday and the full working day after the holiday. This clause has reference to absentee employees only.
After working forty-five (45) days from date of employment, employees who are working on other than a regular full-time basis shall be paid for the number of hours they would normally have worked on a holiday. The m'ethod of determining the normal hours work for payment shall be by averaging the hours worked on such days during the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
12 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
The Company shall allow up to two (2) weeks vacation with pay to each of its employee governed by this Agreement, who have one (1) or more years continuous service with the Company.
Employees with three (3) or more years continuous service with the Company, shall be granted an additional weeks vacation wth pay.
Employees with eight (8) or. more years continuous service with the Company, shall be granted a fourth (4) week of vacation with pay.
Employees who attain thirteen (13) years of continuous service will be eligible for five (5) weeks vacation. However, if such employee wishes, he may limit his vacation to four (4) weeks and will then become eligible for an additional two percent (2%) of his previous year's earnings.
Employees who attain eighteen (18) years of continous service will be eligible for six (6) weeks vacation.
Employees who attain twenty-three (23) years of continuous service will be eligible for seven (7) weeks vacat ion.
12.07
12.08
12.09
12.10
12.11
ARTICLE
13.01
1 1
Employees with fifteen (15) years of continuous service may, if they so desire, take three (3) weeks of vacation consecutively during the period from May 1st to October 1st.
When an employee wishes to take all of his vacation between November 1st and March 31st, he may take three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation together depending on the amount of vacation to which he is entitled. Preference for winter vacations will be in accordance with seniority and will be scheduled.
Winter vacation period shall be defined as the period from October 1st	to	April 30th	and will be	for
scheduling vacation	entitlements in	excess of two	(2)
weeks.
Annual holidays shall be allowed (as near as practical) between May 1st and October 1st of each year, unless changed by mutual agreement. Seniority shall govern in the choice of dates.
If a public or statutory holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be entitled to one ( 1 ) extra day	of	vacation p;r	he may elect	to
receive a day's pay	in	lieu thereof,	The arrangement
for the extra day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacation.
Absence from work due to illness or accident shall not affect the amount of an employee's vacation pay, except where such absences exceeds a total thirty (30) working days in the vacation year.
SENIORITY
A new employee will not have any seniority standing until after he has completed forty-five (45) working days. His seniority will then date back forty-five (45) working days. During this period he shall be considered on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off by the Company without any recourse to the grievance procedure.
Part-time employees shall not have seniority over regular full-time employees unless they were reduced to part-time from full-time.status.
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
12
Within thrity (30) days after the signing date of this Agreement, the Company will prepare and post on the bulletin boards a seniority list showing the names and seniority dates of employees. Seniority lists will be posted each six (6) months and will show th classification of employees at the time of posting. copy of the seniority list will be sent to the Union office.
Merit and qualifications being equal amongst employees, seniority will be the governing factor in:
(a)	all cases of lay off due to lack of work,
(b)	-displacing the junior employees-in the plant in order to obtain up to full weekly hours and the request does not qualify him for overtime,
(c)	recall to work following lay off,
(d)	promotion to a higher paying classification.
Seniority so exercised SiiCLX x be on a plant wide basis and include a trial period up to 10 working days. This trial period is not applicable to (.]}) above.
Employees who have completed the probationary period and who are laid off due to lack of work will retain
for a period of six
(6) consecutive months
- for a period equal to his seniority but not exceeding twelve (12) consecutive months.
to work following lay off shall return to work within ten (10) days after the date of recall or forfeit any claim to re-employment by the Company.
A recall to work which is not possible to make by telephone, shall be by registered letter or telegram, addressed to the last address recorded in the Company records.
follows:
(a) Up to six (6) months seniority at the time of lay off
(b) Over six (6) months
seniority at the time of lay off
An employee being recalled
> fl>
13.07
ARTICLE
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
13
Qualified employees in the employ of the Company who have completed the probationary period will be given preference for promotion to higher paying classifications before new employees are hired.
14 - JOB POSTING
A notice of any regular full-time job which becomes vacant will be posted on the plant bulletin boards within five (5) working days after such vacancies occur, for three (3) working days. During this period employees who have completed the probationary period may make application, in writing, for transfer to the posted vacancy. Merit and qualifications being equal between applicants, seniority shall be the governing factor in making transfers under this clause.
For purposes of job posting, a regular full-time job shall be considered as one which it is expected will last beyond thirty (30) working days.
An employee who receives a transfer through the posting procedure shall not be permitted to apply, again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
The Company may fill any vacancy on», a temporary basis until the posting procedure contained herein has been fulfilled.
A job shall not be considered as vacant for posting where an employee is on vacation, is absent due to illness or leave of absence, or where an employee has been laid off and can be recalled to a job.
Only the original vacancy and the job from which transfer was made will be posted, Any vacanies created beyond the second posting will not be posted but will be filled in accordance with the terms of Article 13.03.
An employee who receives a	through the posting
procedure shall be given up to	X0)
trial period. If he is not satisfactory he shall revert to his former job, i.e. the one the held at the time he applied for the posted vacancy.
14
ARTICLE 15 - NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
15.01	Classifications, titles, and rates thereof for any new classification or position that may thereafter be established, shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union, and a supplementary agreement shall be executed in respect to any such new positions or classifications.
ARTICLE 16 - UNION SHOP CARDS
16.01	The Company agrees that it will display in its establishment, the designation of a "Union Shop", as supplied by the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union of America.
ARTICLE 17 - INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS SCHEDULE
17.01	It is mutually agreed that the Union and Management will co-operate in bringing the Industrial Standards Schedule for the Baking Industry as established by the Province of Alberta up-to-date.
ftRTTCT.E 18 - SAFETY COMMITTEE
18.01	There shall be a safety committee composed of two (2)
members selected by the Company and two (2) members selected by the Union which shall meet as often as necessary, but not more often than monthly. This committee shall discuss questions of safety, make. recommendations to management and assist in enforcing safety rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01
(a)	Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted to not more than two (2) empoyees at a time to attend Union conventions and functions. The total accumulation of such leave shall not exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve month period.
(b)	An employee who is selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union will be granted leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority for a period of forty-eight (48) consecutive months.
(c)	Leave of absence granted in accordance with (a) and (b) above shall be in writing.
15
19.02	Leave of absence, without pay, and without loss of
seniority, may be granted to any employee by the Company for personal reasons. In such cases the Company will supply a statement in writing, to the Union, the Employee and one copy of the Company's files.
ARTICLE 20 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
20.01
20.02
Each full-time employee who has completed three (3) months of consecutive service will be allowed up to three (3) days leave of absence, with pay, in the event of the death of his Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Spouse, Child, Grandmother or Grandfather. Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral. Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been time worked will paid. As used herein, the terms "Father” and "Mother” shall be deemed to include "Step-Father" and "Step-Mother".
Where a death involves a Father-in-Law or Mother-inLaw, one (1) working day off will be allowed, with pay, to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 21	- SANITARY CONDITIONS
21.01	Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. Within thirty (30) days following the signing of the Agreement, the Company will supply and launder uniforms for all inside employees.
21.02	All employees shall, at all times, leave benches and machinery and floors around benches cleaned, and,
(except in the case of necessity for mechanical or joiners repairs) in condition for immediate resumption of work.
21.03	It shall be the duty of the employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utensils and conveniences of the plant in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them, and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
16
22.04	The Company and the Union agree that the use of tobacco
in any form, in any part of the Bakery where products are produced or handled is prohibited, and that breach of this rule shall be cause for instant dismissal. Bottled drinks shall be consumed only in the Lunch Room and Dressing Room.
ARTICLE 22 - SEVERANCE PAY
22.01	In the event of amalgamation, permanent closure of
plant, or department thereof, or automation, causing a regular full-time employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employees severance pay, at his or her regular rate of pay, as follows:
(a) over two (2) years and up to ten (10) years of continuous service - one (1) week's pay for each full two (2) years of such service.
(b) over ten (10) and up to twenty (20) years of continuous service - one (1) week for each full year of continous service in excess of ten (10) years to a maximum of twenty '-(20) full years of service.	j.?
*,
The foregoing shall be in addition to the regular week's notice or week's pay in lieu thereof, to which they may be entitled.
22.02	An employee who loses his employment in accordance with
the terms hereof may elect to receive his severance pay as soon as possible or he may elect to be placed on a recall list subject to recall in accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing employment or at any time. during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on the recall list and who is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pay to which he was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
ARTICLE
23.01
ARTICLE
24.01
24.02 24 . 03
24.04
17
23 - AUTOHATION
Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
24 - WELFARE
The Company shall continue to make its Welfare Plan available to eligible employees. The Company will pay up to $68.00 per month for a single employe, $90.00 per month for a married employee and $100.00 per month for a married employee with dependents towards the premiums for the employee benefits (Life Insurance, Weekly Indemnity, Dental Plan, Medical and Hospital Plans) and the employee will pay the balance.
Life Insurance shall be twenty thousand dollars
($20,000).
Weekly Indemnity shall be two hundred and seventy-five dollars ($275.00) per week.
This	benefit level shall	increase to the following:
(a)	effective	September	1,	1987	-	$300.00	per	week
(b)	effective	September	1,	1988	-	$325.00	per	week
(c)	effective	September	1,	1989	-	$350.00	per	week
The present basic Dental Insurance Plan will be improved to include dentures.
ARTICLE
25.01
25.02
25.03
ARTICLE
26.01
18
25 - SICK LEAVE BENEFITS
Regular full-time employees, after three (3) consecutive months of service, will be allowed sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each full month worked thereafter, to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second (2nd) and third (3rd) working day of any absence due to illness but should the absence due to illness exceed five (5) working days, then the first (1st) day of such absence will be paid, provided there are sufficient benefits credited to the employee. In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and the monies received from Weekly Indemnity exceed a regular's day pay.
The Company shall, upon request, be provided with verification of illness .of the employee in the form of an authentic medical certificate.
Any employee found abusing the above privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefits of said employee, or terminate his employment.
26 - JURY DUTY
A regular full-time employee who has completed the probationary period and who is required to perform jury duty or witness duty where subpoened to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of normal wages thereby, subject to the following conditions.
(a) Such employee shall be required to report for work on any days or half days he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the Court. room but shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
(b) Such employee shall furnish the Company with such earnings as the Courts may provde.
ARTICLE 27
PENSION PLAN
27.01
19
APPROVED STANDARD COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CLAUSE
(CANADA)
It is hereby agreed to provide pension and retirement
benefits as follows:
(a)	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound as a party by all the terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated June 6,	1972, as
amended, establishing the Bakery Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union and Industry International Pension Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) and said Agreement is made part hereof by reference.
(b)	(1) Commencing with the 1st day of March, 1987,
the Employer .agrees to make payments to the Bakery Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as follows:
r
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject tot- the Collective Bargaining Agrement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $6.50 to the above-named Pension Fund, but not more than $32.50 per week for any one employee.
(2) Commencing with the 1st day of September, 1987, the Employer agrees to make payments to the Bakery Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union and Industry International Pension Fund for each employee working in job classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement as- follows:
For each day or portion thereof, for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agrement, receives pay, the Employer shall make a contribution of $6.84 to the above-named Pension Fund, but not more than $34.20 per week for any one employee.
20
For the purpose of this Article, it is understood that contributions shall be payable on behalf of the employees from the first day of employment, whether said employees are permanent, temporary or seasonal, or full-time or part-time employees, and regardless of whether or not they are members of the Union. The term "employees” does not include a self-employed person, corporate officer, owner or partner.
(c)	The payments made in accordance with (b)	(1) above
shall be allocated as follows:
$6.50 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (Plan A and Plan C) .
The payments made in accordance with (b)	(2) above
shall be allocated as follows:
$6.84 per day to provide coverage for a Normal, Reduced, Early Retirement and Disability Pension (Plan A and Plan C).
(d)	It is agreed that the Pension''Plan adopted by the Trustees of the said Pension Jfpnd shall be such as will qualify for approval by the appropriate Canadian Government Departments, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
(e)	Contributions provided for herein shall be paid monthly and shall be accompanied by a completed remittance report. Both payment and report are due on the tenth day of the month following the month covered by the .report. In the event the Employer fails promptly to pay amounts owed, the Employer shall pay such collection costs, including court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees, as the Pension Fund shall incur, and shall pay interest at such rate as the Trustees shall fix from time to time.
(f)	The payments so made to the Funds shall be used by it to provide retirement benefits for eligible employees in accordance with the Pension Plan of said Fund, as determined by the Trustees of said Fund, to be applied to the eligible employees based on the amount of employer contribution.
21
(g) This clause encompasses the sole and total agreement between the Employer and the Union with respect to pension or retirement.
ARTICLE 28 - PENSION BENEFIT T.KVEL
28.01
The payments referred to in the previous Article includes Plan "C" to become effective March 1, 1987, at the $525.00 per month level.
The pension benefit level will increase to the following, effective:
(a)	September	1,	1987	-	$550.00	per	month
(b)	September	1,	1988	-	$575.00	per	month
(c)	September	1,	1989	-	$600.00	per	month
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon
t-hp parties_from the first .day of Mar-dn__1987 ,_until
____August 31,	1990 jnd shaJ 1 . continue in effect from year
to year thereafter, unless notice of termination or notice of revision thereof is given i-by either party, in
(30) days prior to
"the natural expiration date of same.
writing, by registered mail, at le|L^t thirty and not more than sixty (60) days immediately
DATED AT CALGARY, ALBERTA, this