AGREEMENT EDMONTON BAKERS
APRIL 1.1996 TO MARCH 31.1999
nmjnj
:!l > 9 'dSii
00564 (05)
INDEX
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
FOODS ED
PAGE1 ARTICLE 1 PAGE2 ARTICLE2 PAGE3 ARTICLE3 PAGE5	ARTICLE 4
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT UNIONSECURITY SENIORITY JOB POSTING
PAGE5	ARTICLE 5	ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
PAGE6	ARTICLE 6	BOARD OF ARBITRATION
ARTICLE7	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ARTICLE 8	UNION REPRESENTATIVE
PAGE7	ARTICLE9	SECONDARY EMPLOYMENT
ARTICLE 10	CLASSIFICATION CHANGES
ARTICLE? I	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
PAGE8 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13
SANITARY CONDITIONS- UNIFORMS LEAVE OF ABSENCE
PAGE 9 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15
PAGE12 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17
MISCELLANEOUS HEALTHAND WELFARE
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS ANNUAL VACATIONS
PAGE14	ARTICLE 18
PAGE16	ARTICLE 19
PAGE17 ARTICLE20 PAGE21 ARTICLE 21
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME REST, LUNCHAND BREAK PERIODS WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS NIGHTWORK PREMIUM
PAGE21 ARTICLE22 ARTICLE23 ARTICLE24
PAGE22 ARTICLE25
PAGE 23	ARTICLE 26
SEVERANCEPAY SAFETY COMMITTEE PENSIONPLAN
ROLL LINE
EFFECTAND TERMINATION
PAGE24
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: EMPLOYEEMANAGEMENTCOMMITTEE
1
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:	MCGAVIN FOODS LIMITED,of the City of Edmonton, in the Province
of Alberta, hereinafterreferredto as:
"THE COMPANY Party of the First Part
AND:	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION, Local 252, of the City of Edmonton, in the Provinceof Alberta, hereinafterreferredto as:
THE UNION"
Party of the Second Part
WHEREAS:	The Company and the Union desire to co-operate in establishing and
maintaining satisfactory conditions which shall promote harmonious relationshipbetweenthe Company and the employees covered by this Agreement, and for the providingof methods for the fair and amicable adjustments of disputes which may arise between them, and whereas both parties are pledgedto assist in the operation of the Bakery under methods that will promote safety and efficiency,to the fullest extent.
NOW
THEREFORE:	The Company and the Union mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
101	The Company recognises the Unionas the exclusive bargaining agentfor all
employees employed in its plant at Edmontonas described in the bargaining unit certified by the Boardcf Industrial Relations.
1.02	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful
Union activity, for serving on a Union committee, or reporting any alleged violation cf any of the provisionsof thisAgreement.
2
103	Superintendents and/or Foremenshall not performwork that is performed by
regular employees, within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	When performing development and experimental work.
(b)	When checking productionofany operation.
(c)	When employees are not available for work, due to being late or absentfrom the Plant.
(d)	When training personnelonthejob.
(e)	Incase of emergency.
NOTE:For the purpose of this Article "emergency" will be defined as any circumstance beyond the control of the Company. Whenever an emergency occurs the Company shall take all reasonable steps to alleviatethe situation as soon as possible.
ARTICLE2- UNION SECURITY
2.01	The parties agree that all employees employed in the above bargaining unit, shallfrom the date of this Agreement, orwithin thirty (30) days of employment become and remain a member in good standing of the Union, for the life cf this Agreement.
2.02	All new employees shall make applicationfor membership in the Unionwithin two (2) weeks of first employment and, if found by the Union to be worthy of membership, shall become members cf the Union within thirty (30) days cf employment. If found not worthy of membership in the Union, such employees shall be replaced at once. New employees shall be informed of the provisions of this Article by the Company when hired.
2.03	Upon receipt of written authorization from the employees, the Company shall deduct from any wages due, and pay over to the Financial Secretary of the Union, any dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments levied in accordance with the Union's By-Laws, owing by them to the said Union. The Financial Secretary shall receive same together with a list of employees from whom deductions have been made, on or before the first (1st) Saturday of each month. The Company will at the same time supply the Unionwith the names of all new employees, and those having left the service of the Company.
ARTICLE3-SENIORITY
3
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
The Company will prepare a seniority list of all employees each six (6) months. it shall be posted in the Plant or otherwise made available far examination by any employee, and a copy shall be forwarded to the Union. Seniority lists will show employees name, classificationand seniority date of all employees.
A new employee will not have seniority standing until after completion of forty-five (45) working days. During this period employees shall be on probation and the Union will not question the dismissal or lay off of any employee and the employee will not have recourse to the Grievance Procedure.
Seniority of employeeswho have completed the probationaryperiod shall be from the most recent date of hire.
Part-timeemployees shall not have seniority over regularfull-time employees unless they were reducedto part-timefrom full-time status.
Qualificationsbeing sufficient, seniority will bethegoverningfactor in:
(a)	AH cases of lay off due to lack of work.
(b)
(c)
(«0
Displacingthe junior employees in the Plant in order to obtain up to full weekly hours and the request does not qualify himfor overtime.
Recallto work following lay off.
Promotionto anotherclassification.
(e)	Selectionof applicants for posted positions.
Seniority so exercised shall be on a Plant wide basis and include a trial/training period up to ten (10) working days. This trial/training period is not applicable to (b) above. It is understoodthat ability will be determined afterthe trial/training period has been provided.
An employeewishing to exercise Clause (b) must notify managementforty-eight (48)hourspriorto the start of the shift.
3.05
3.06
4
Seniority shall terminate as of the date an employee is:
(a)	Dischargedfor cause, and is not reinstated under Article 5 of this Agreement.
(b)	Voluntarily leaves the service of the Company.
absentfrom work (otherthan illness or authorised leave of absence) without reason satisfactoryto the Company.
(d)	fan employee is laid off, seniority shall continue for a periodofsix(6)
months, but if within seven (7) days of written notice to do so the employee does not return to work, any claim of seniority or reemployment isforfeited, exceptwhere he notifies the Company within three (3) days of the noticeto returncf inabilityto do so by reason of illness.
A recalltoworkwhich isnotpossibleto make by telephone shall be by registered letter, addressed to the last address recorded in the Company records.
Employees shall be considered to be casual if the Company is unable to schedule them in accordance with production requirements and their seniority. Casual employees shall accrue seniority on the basis <£ shifts actually worked and shall be placed on a separate call in list and contacted bv accumulated seniority if regular (unrestricted) employees are not available.
Casual employees may become regular employees bv requesting such change inwritina. Such employees will betransferredto the regular seniority list in accordance with seniority accumulatedwhile employed as a casual employee.
Regular employees mav request to become casual bv notifying the Company in writing specifying the reasonswhv. Such reguestswill not normally be made more frequently than once per year and will not be unreasonably denied.
Casual employees will possess seniority rights for purposes of Job Posting Article 4.
ARTICLE4-.T0B POSTING
5
4.01	Where a vacancy occurs the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancy on the bulletin board within five (5) working days for three (3) working days. Eligible employees may make application for the job by signing the said posting during the posting period.
Qualifications being sufficient, seniority will be the governing factor in selecting the successful applicant.
4.02	The positionvacatedby the successful applicant shall be posted and applied for in accordance with this procedure. There shall be no further postings beyond the second posting. Vacancies created beyond the second posting will befilled in accordancewithclause3,04.
4.03	An employee who receives a job through the posting procedure, shall be given up to ten (I0) working days trial/training periodduring which time ability shall be determined. Ifhe/she is not satisfactory, he/she shall return to his/her formerjob.
4.04	If a previously full-time position becomes vacant it will not be replaced by part-time hours if the position still requires an employee for five (5) days a weekand36.5 hoursaweek.
Part-timevacanciesare not requiredto be postedunder this Article.
ARTICLE 5 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Any complaint, disagreement, or difference of opinion, between the
Company, the Union, or any employee covered by this Agreement which concerns the interpretationand/or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance.
Any grievance which is not presented within thirty (30) days following the event giving rise to such grievance shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The procedure for adjustment of disputes or grievances shall be as follows:
(a) By a discussion between the employee and his immediate superior. The employee may request to have a shop steward present at the meeting. If a satisfactorysettlement cannot be reached:
6
Then the immediate superior shall give his decision within three (3) days to the Shop Steward, and if agreement is not reached:
Then the Union Representative or Representatives shall submit the grievance in writing which shall clearly set forth the issues and contentions of the aggrieved parties to the Company official designated by the Company to handle such matters. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached through this step, the matter shall be referredto a Board of Arbitration, to be establishedas follows:
ARTICLE 6- BOARD OF ARBITRATION
If the Union and the Company representativescannot reach an adjustment, then upon request of either party, the grievance shall be referredto a Board of Arbitration, as provided in the Labour Code of the Province of Alberta. If mutually agreed by the both parties, a single Arbitrator can be appointed to handle the grievances.
ARTICLE7 - MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
7.01	The Union agrees that the management of the Company has the right to plan, direct and control plant operations: The directing of the working force, the discharge of employees, and these matters requiringj udgement as to competency of employeesare the sole right and function of the employer.
7.02	The parties agree that the foregoing as set above shall not be deemed to exclude any other recognizedfunctions of management not specifically set forth. The employer therefore retains all rights not otherwise specifically covered inthis Agreement.
7.03	The exercise of the foregoing shall not alter any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE8 - UNION REPRESENTATIVE
8.01	The Union Representativecf the Union shall have access to the bakery at
any hour to attend to Union business, provided he will, as, a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Superintendent on entering the plant, and he shall not loiter or interferewith busy workers.
7
8.02
8.03
It is agreed that the Employer shall not enter into any verbal agreement with any employeewhich violates this Agreement.
The privileges of stewards to leave their work station without loss of basic pay (if on their shift) to attend to Union business is granted on the following conditions:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Such business must be between the Union and Management or betweenthe UnionandtheGrievor.
Such businesswill beconducted as quickly as possible.
Permissionto leave the work stations must first be obtained and every attemptwill bemadeto grant such requests.
The Company may limit or defer such business if the time is felt to be excessive or productionoperationswould be adversely affected.
ARTICLE9 - SECONDARY EMPLOYMENT
9.01	No employee regularly employed shall be permittedto accept paid secondary
employment, except by mutual consent between the Company and the Union. This Article does not apply to part-time employees.
ARTICLE 10 - CLASSIFICATIONCHANGES
10.01	When new classifications are created or existing classifications changed in the character of duties and responsibilities, as deemed necessary or advisable by the Company, the Unionshall be advised, thereof. After a sixty (60) day trial period, if the Union deems the rate to be unsatisfactory, the matter shall be discussed with Management, and if no settlement can be arrived at, the matter shall be dealt with by the Union under the grievance procedureof this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
1101 The Company will advise the unionof written warnings, suspensionsor terminations. However,failure to so advise the unionwill not affect the grievance procedureorhavethe effect of negating the discipline in subsequent disciplinary actions.
a
11.02	When dischargingan employee, the Company agrees to give one (1) week‘s notice, or one (l)eeks pay in lieu thereof except in case of discharge for iust cause. Where the discharge is for ius cause the Company shall, if requested, supply a generalstatement of the reasontherefor.
11.03	Ail employeeswillgivethe Company one ^Iv^eek's notice beforeterminating employment, orforfeit one (1)week's pay in lieuthereof.
ARTICLE 12-SANITARYCONDITIONS-UNIFORMS
12.01	The Bakery shall be kept clean and sanitary. All employees shall keep their person in a clean and sanitary manner. The Company shall provide for the convenience of the employees, toilets, washrooms and lockers.
12.02	Suitable Whites and/or Uniforms shall be supplied and maintained by the Company for all employees covered by this Agreement.
12.03	Wearing apparel supplied by the Company shall not be taken outside cf the plant by any employee.
12.04	It is a conditionof employmentthat all hair must be covered at all times while in the bakery. Where required, the necessary headdress shall be supplied by the Company, however it is understoodthat such head dress must meet the satisfactionand safety rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 13 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	The Company agrees to give necessary time off without pay, and without discriminationor loss of seniority to one employeefrom each Department, but not more that two employees from the plant, for maximum period of three (3) months, for the purpose of attending a Union Convention, or serving in an official capacity on Union business, provided the Company is notified in sufficient time to permit it to secure a suitable replacement for the job involved.
13.02	Any employee shall be granted up to three (3) working days off, without loss of pay, in the event of death in the immediate family, to make arrangements for or attending the funeral. Considerationwill also be given to travel time. The term “immediate family” shall mean:
parents, child, spouse, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, grandmother and grandfather.
9
An employee shall bearanted oned) working day off, without loss of pay in the event of death of a grandchild,
13.03	An employee who is selected to work on a full-time basisfor the Unionwill be granted leave of absence without pay or loss of seniority for a period of forty-eight (48) consecutivemonths.
13.04	Employees who haveaualifiedfor benefit coverage and who are called upon to performiurv duty or witness duty where subpoenaed to appear in a court of law, shall not suffer any loss of wages for hours that they normally would haveworked had they not been called to Jury Duty subject to the following conditions:
Such employee shall be required to report for work on any days, or halfdays, he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the Court room, but shall not be requiredto reportforwork if less than two (2) hours of their normalshift remainsto be worked.
Such employee shall furnish the Company with such earnings as the Courts may provide.
ARTICLE 14- MISCELLANEOUS
14.01	Only Bakers shall be employed inthe handling of unfinished bakery products. No other person shall be permitted to handleany product until it has reached its final stage.
14.02	Drivers, sales people, or other miscellaneous help, shall not, at any time, be allowedto do anycf the work covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 - HEALTHANDWELFARE
15.01	Employees will qualify for benefit coverage on the basis of shifts worked
between January land December31 as follows:
Qualificationfor benefits	170 or more shifts
Qualificationto remain on benefits	150 or more shifts
Disaualificationfrom benefits	less than 150 shifts
Requalificationfor benefits	or more shifts
15.02
15.03
15.04
10
The srmin	of shifts	a in the previous calendar year n II in jde
davs of absence in which____fc_____are____M____oav 1___to WCB. \Nl.
\_______, Stati j v lolida' paid sick leave and approved leave of absence
i accordance with I 13.01. 13.02. and 13.04.
The Company shall continue to make its Welfare Plan available to eligible employees. The Company will pay up to $65,00 per month for a single employee and $90.00 per month for a married employee and $100.00 per monthfor a marriedemployeewith dependantstowardsthe premiumsfor the employee benefits (Life Insurance, Dental Plan, Extended Health Care and ProvincialMedical Plans) and the employeewill pay the balance.
EffectiveApril 1.1997 the Company will oav up to $95.00 per monthfor a sinale employee. $120.00 per month for a married employee and $130,00 per monthfor a marriedemplovee with dependants.
EffectiveApril 1.1998 the Company will oav up to $125,00 per monthfor a single employee. $150.00 per month for a marriedemplovee and $160.00 per monthfor a marriedemplovee with dependants.
Life Insurance shall be twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars for each insured employee.
Weekly Indemnity will be four hundred ($4001 dollars per week. Effective April 1. 1997 the benefit level will be increased to four hundred and twenty f$420\ dollars per week. EffectiveApril 1. 1998 the benefit level will be increased to four hundred and forty tS440.Q01 dollars perweek.
Effective December 1. 1996 employees who are paid on progression in accordance with clauses 20.02 and 26.03 will be eligible for a weekly indemnity benefit level of three hundred and fifty <^S3501 dollars perweek.
Emploveeswill pav the full premium tor Weekly Indemnity.
Weekly Indemnityshall be payableon and from the fourth (4th) day of illness, and from the first (1 st) day of accident, and payablefor not less than twenty-• six (26) weeks of any one illnessor accident.
15.05
15.06
15.07
15.08
11
The Basic Dental Insurance Planwill include dentures. Crowns and bridges will be coveredeffective January 1,1994.
EffectiveApril 1.1997 orthodonticcoverags will be implemented providing for fifty (50%) percent of the cost for dependent children up to aae 17 with a lifetime maximum of one thousand two hundredand fifty ($1.250) dollars.
EffectiveApril 1,1998 a Long Term Disability planwill be established that providesfor the following:
Waiting period Fortv-one (41) weeks (or less ifUIC regulations change
Duration '_________ToSixtv-five (65) years of age
Eligibility____• Disabledffom anv occupation from first dav
Offsets____________Direct offset of employees CPP plus ororationof other
income
Benefits___________Fifty (50%)percent of income to maximum of eight
($800) dollarsper month
Employees will pay full premiumfor Long Term Disability.
Employees who Qualify for benefits shall, after three (3) months consecutive service, be entitled to accumulate sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half 11/21dav's oav for each month of employment, up to a maximum of six (6) days. Such sick leave benefits shall apply from the first dav of illness.
An employee with two or less incidents of illness in a calendar year will receivesick leave benefits starting the first dav of illness. An employee with three (3) or more incidents of illness during a calendarvear will receive sick leave benefits for the second (2nd) and third (3rd) dav of illness in the following calendarvear. Sick leave credits shall apply to the first (1st) dav of illnesswherethe illnessextendsbeyond five (5) consecutive working days if a five (5) day week or four (4) consecutive working days if a four (41 dav week.
Sick leave credits shall not apply where payments are made under Workers' Compensationor days not considered to be the employee's regularworking days.
The Extended Health Care plan will include prescription glasses up to a maximum of $100 once every two years for employees effective January 1, 1994.
12
15.09	The Company will pav tin to ten (£10.00) dollars for medical information
requested by the company provided it is submitted on fully completed forms acceptable to the Company.
ARTICLE 16- PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
16.01
16.02
All employees shall be allowed the following statutory holidays with pay or one day in lieuthereofwith pay:
Day	Dominion Day	RemembranceDay
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
and any other statutory holiday proclaimed by Federal or Provincial Government. If an employee is required to work on a day which would normally be his holiday, it shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Employeeswill not be requiredto work Christmas Day.
worked perdav in the previousfour weeks as follows:	
over30 hours	full davs nay
21 to30 hours	• 6 hours pay
16 to 20 hours	hours pay
under16 hours
Employment Standards
ARTICLE 17 -ANNUAL VACATIONS
17.01	All full-time employees with one (I) to three (3) year’s service with the Company shall be granted two (2) weeks vacation with pay each year.
17.02	All full-time employees with three (3) to eight (8) year’s service with the Company shall be grantedthree (3) weeks vacation with pay each year.
17.03	All full-time employees with eight (8) to thirteen (13) year’s service with the Company shall be grantedfour (4) weeks vacation with pay each year.
17.04	All full-time employees with thirteen (13) to eighteen (18) year’s servicewith the Company shall be grantedfive (5) week’s vacation with pay each year.
13
17.05
17.06
17.07
17.08
17.09
17.10
All full-time employees with eighteen ( 18) to twenty-three (23) year's service with the Company shall be granted six (6) weeks vacation with pay each year.
All full-time employees with twenty-three (23) or more year's service with the Company shall be granted seven (7) weeks vacation with pay each year.
The option for four (4)weeks plus2% of previousyear's earnings (asperT4 form) ratherthanfive (5)weeks vacation at the time hetakesthe majorpartof this vacation or he may take a fifth (5th) week vacation with pay during the winter vacation periodwill remain available.
Forthe purpose of determining vacation allowance in clauses 17.01 to 17.06 inclusive, a full-time employee means an employee who has worked 170 shifts in accordancewithclause 15,01.
Time off due to WCB is considered as time worked to a maximumof six (6) months.
Employees who have not attainedfull time status to be paid vacation pay in accordancewith the Alberta Employment Standards Code-
Employees who work less than 170 shifts will be proratedfor dollar amounts butget creditfor service.
Upon reaching full time status the employees vacation date will be determined bv prorating the shifts worked from date of hire to the date cf obtaininnfull time status based on 260 shifts pervear as follows;
less than 40% cf days worked	no credit
40% to 60% of days worked	50% credit
over60% of davs worked	full credit
Employees must take their vacations when allocated, with seniority being given the choice of dates.
Employees with more than two (2) weeks vacation may not be permittedto take more than two (2) weeks in the summer period.
Summer vacations shall be run from April 1st to September 30th in each year unless otherwise agreed to between the Company and the employee affected, the summer vacation list shall be posted not laterthan March 1 st in eachyear and should a holiday periodbecome vacant after the holiday list
17.1	I
17.12
17.13
ARTICLE 18
18.01
18.02
18.03
14
has been posted, such vacancy shall be re-posted immediately. Employees with fifteen (15) years of continuous service may, if they so desire, take three (3) weeks cf vacation consecutively duringthe periodApril 1st to September 30th.
Winter vacations shall be granted between October 1st and March31st in each year unless otherwise mutually agreed upon. The winter vacation list shall be posted not later than September 1st in each year.
It is understood that vacations of persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not interferewith the scheduling of vacations of employees covered by this Agreement.
If a Public Holiday occurs duringthe period of an employee's annual vacation such employee shall be entitled to one day extra in lieuthereof, the said days to be arrangedwith the Foreman before the vacation istaken.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The hours of work for all employees covered by this Agreement will bethirty-six and one-half (36-112) hours perweek, or less, divided into four (4) or five (5) working days. When the fourth or fifth day of a holiday week is worked, that day shall be paidfor at time and one-half. Daily maximum shall be eight fSJhourson a five day week and nine and one-half (9-112) hours on a four day week.
If a shift arrangement ischanaed from a four (4) to a five (51 day week or from a five to a four (4) day week employees affected may exercise their seniority to displace a junior employee to retain the same or similar shift arrangements.
It is agreed that employees will work scheduled days perweek, if required, regardless cf Public Holidays. It is clearly understoodthat managementwill be under no restriction regarding shift schedules, or days cf Plant operation. The work week in which a Public Holiday occurs shall be reduced by seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours if a five day week and by nine and onequarter (9-1/4) hours if a four day week. No employees will be requiredto report for work on consecutive days without a rest periodof twelve (12) hours.
Shifts for production employees will be so arranged that employees will be entitled to two (2) consecutive days off each week which will be either Friday and Saturday. Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday, The intention of this clause is that emploveeswill normally be providedwith fifty-two
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
15
f521hours off between the end of one work week and the start of the next work week.
Shifts for all other employees shall be so arranged to allowfor a total of forty-eight M8^ hours rest even/ seven (7) dav period.
All work performed in excess of the scheduled hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate. The Company and the Union agree to the principlethat overtime is to be avoided as far as possible.
Overtimewill first be offered on a seniority basis to employees who have the ability to perform the jobs. If there are not sufficient employees to fulfil the requirements of the Company, the Company will schedule overtime on a reverse seniority basis provided such employees have the ability to perform the fobs.
As much notice as is practical shall be given to the Shop Steward and employees concerned when overtime is required. Except in cases of emergency, employees requiredto work overtime will be given a minimum of two hours notice. Also except incase of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing Management can get another qualified employeeto performthe work required.
Only two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed on any daily shift, except in case of emergency. An emergency is defined in Article 1, Section3 of this Agreement.
A maximum of two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed on a daily shift in a four dav workweek.
When Management requests an employee to work on his sixth (6th) day cf actual work in a calendarweek, he shall only do so in cases of emergency or when additional productionshifts are scheduled.
16
18.08
18.09
The Company shall determine and post the schedule of working hours and starting times for each employee and agrees, except in case of emergency, to give at least fortysight (48) hours notice of any change in the employee's schedule of daily working hours.
Hoursworked on a four day shiftAvork week shall be credited on the following basisfor pensionpurposes:
All hoursworked over8_________two days credit
All hoursworked over16	three davs credit
All hoursworked over24	fourdavs credit
All hoursworked over32	five davs credit
ARTICLE19- REST. LUNCHAND BREAK PERIODS
19.01	All employees shall be allowed a ten (10) minute rest period, with pay, as near midway as possible during the first and second half of each shift, the time of these rest periods to be arranged by the Foreman in charge. Should an employee be called upon to work one (1) hour or more overtime on any day he shall be granted an additional ten (I0) minute rest periodwith pay priorto commencing such overtimework.
19.02	One-half (112) hour shall be allowed for lunch as near mid-shift as possible and not earlier than three and one-half (3-112) hours or later than four and one-half (4-1/2) hours after the start cf the shift. There shall be no split shifts permitted.
19.03	Where it is possible in the interest of efficiency, night and day shifts shall be given the opportunity to alternate.
19.04	Dividermen: Normally the Dividermen shall not start his work shift between midnightand 4:00 am except on one shift each week. This provision does not apply whenever Management schedules a three shift operation. In the event cf changes in the plant operations or delivery schedules making the foregoing provision inoperative, the Union agrees that Management may change Dividermanwork schedules as necessary. However, the Company agrees to discuss them with the Union prior to doing so.
17
ARTICLE20 -WAGESAND CLASSIFICATIONS
20.01
Group #1
Doughmen,Ovenmen & Cake Bakers Holiday/Relief
Group #2
Benchand Machine Hands
Shippers
Receivers
BreadWrappingS Machine Operators Group #3
Assistant Shippers Assistant Receivers Checkers
Bread Shop Helpers
Group #4
Bread Packers, Rackers & Janitors
Group#5
JOURNEYMAN
, . MaintenanceMen-1 ticket
(a)
0-6 monthsexperience 6-12 monthsexperience 12-18 monthsexperience 18-24 monthsexperience Journeyman rate (over3 years)
Effective April 1/96 per week
710,29
686.75
686.75
686.75
686.75
677.45
677.45
677.45
677.45
672.45
669.45
675.05
681.25
687.25 720.89
MaintenanceMen- 2 tickets
0*6 monthsexperience 6-12 monthsexperience 12-18 monthsexperience 18-24 monthsexperience Journeyman rate (over2 years)
Group #6
JOURNEYMAN -Auto Mechanic
0-6 monthsexperience 6-12 monthsexperience 12-18 monthsexperience 18-24 monthsexperience Journeyman Rate (over2 years)
Group #7
MAINTENANCE
(a)	General Helper
(b)	Garage Serviceman
Group #8
Effective April 1/96 per week
674.45
680.05
686.25
692.25 725.89
659.45
665.05
671.25
677.25 710.89
672.80
672.80
Maintenance Apprentices to be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
First Year Apprentice Second Year Apprentice Third Year Apprentice FourthYear Apprentice
75% cf applicableJoumeyman rate 80% of applicable Journeyman rate 85% of applicableJoumeyman rate 90% of applicable Journeyman rate
19
Effective April 1/96 perweek
Group#9
CakeWrapping. & Machine Operator	666.25
Doughnut Machine Operator	666.25
Packaging& Invoice	666.25
Labelling& Cake Shop Helpers	662.55
20.02	Progression Rates
Effective April 1, 1987, the following progression rates will apply to all new hires in Groups 12,3,4,7 and 9:
1 st year of service 75% of the base weekly wage 2nd year of service 80% of the baseweekly wage 3rd year of service 90% of the base weekly wage
Laid off employeeswill be recalledat the applicable rate they were earning at the time of lay-off.
20.03	Summer Rate
Employees hired to work during the summer period (Aprill 5 to September15 inclusive)will beconsidered casual and paidten ($10.001 dollars per hourfor all hours worked.
Casual
s hi red to work during the summer periodwho do not
at ’ > end o the immer period may become regular employees iri accordance with clause 3.06 arid be paid for all hours wmked between Septembers id< 14 i____________i_______j. with I o li 1wages
and rogi
schedules in;vit
and 26. Such
shall not
be id tl jmm rate of pay f
w worked in subsequent summer
periods provided I remain a regular emplo up to
in 1 ii April 14
of the next
are availablefor work while classified as a
regular
Lead Hands
20
20.04
20.05
20.06
20.07
20.08
Lead Hands shall be defined as any employee regularly employed and designated as such to direct the work of others, who shall be paid not less than $10.00 per week above that of the highest classification in their department It is understoodthat the Company retains the uncontested right to appoint Lead Hands.
This does not apply to an employee earning wages as outlined in Section 20.02. The employee shall earn $10.00 per week above the highest classification he is required to lead at the rates that are applicable for the same progressionyear the Lead Hand is in.
Leadhandswho are removedbv the Company mav exercise their seniority in accordance with Articled Job Posting, If a Lead Hand position is eliminated the affected Lead Hands mav exercise their seniority in accordance with Article 3 Seniority.
When an employee performs work in a higher rated classification than his ownfor more than one-half (1/2) a shift, he or she shall receivethe applicable rate cf pay cf the higher classification. When an employee is temporarily assigned to a lower rate classificationfor less than one (I)week, he or she shall not have his or her pay reduced. Where Management schedules an employee to a higher rated classification the Employer agrees to continue that employee on that job as long as is required during the employee's shift.
It is understoodthat this shall not apply when impracticalbecause of overall plant scheduling.
Jobbers rates shall be ten (10) cents per hour above the prevailing rates. Jobbers and extra help working less than (5) hours on a shift shall receive time and one-half. Jobbers working the full week shall receivethe prevailing applicable wages. (A jobber shall be defined as any member working less than the regular shifts, less than five (5) consecutive days in any calendar week, except when laying off voluntarily.)
Relief Hand: Any employee employed in the capacity of Relief Hand shall receive an additional five dollars ($5.00) per week over the applicable rate of pay.
responsiblefor placing trailers at loading ramp shall receive an additional twelve dollars ($12.00) perweek.
21
ARTICLE 21 - NIGHT WORK PREMIUM
21.01	All work performed betweenthe hours of 7:00 PM and6:00 am an additional night premiumofthirty-seven (37) cents perhourshall be paid.
21.01	A shift premium of seventy-five (75) cents perhourshall be paidfor all.hours worked on Sunday (12:01 am-11:59 PM).
ARTICLE 22 -SEVERANCE PAY
22.01	In the went of amalgamation, permanent closure of plant, or department thereof, or automation causing a regularfull-timeemployeeto lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employee severance pay at his or her regular rate of pay as follows:
Consecutive service up to two (2) years - One (I) week
Overtwo (2)years consecutive service- One (1)week for each year of fulltime service to a maximum of twenty (20)weeks
The foregoing shall be in addition to the regular week's notice or week's pay in lieuthereof, to which they may be entitled.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY COMMITTEE
23.01	There shall be a Safety Committee composed of two (2) members selected by the Company and two (2) members selected by the Union which shall meet as often as necessary, but not more often than monthly. This committee shall discuss questions of safety, make recommendations to Management and assist in enforcing safety rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 24 - PENSION
24.01	The company agrees to contributeto the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Canadian Pension Fundthefollowins contributions which the parties have been advised by the trustees of the fund is sufficients fund the pension benefits stipulated:
Effective January 1,1997 a contribution in the amount of $7.7352 perday to a maximum of $38.68 per week for each eligible employee to provide an estimated benefit level of $925 per month (plan A andC.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:	CANADA BREAD COMPANY LTD, EDMONTON
AND:	BAKERY CONFECTIONERY& TOBACCO WORKERS,
INTERNATIONALUNION, LOCAL252
RE:	PENSION
In view of the current litigation actions, or legal responses thereto, by and between the trustees of the Bakery, Confectionery & Tobacco Workers’ International Pension Plan, various employers including Canada Bread Company Limited, and various locals including Local252, it is agreed that;
By signing this Collective Agreement neither party prejudices it’s position in the above mentioned litigation between the parties, the trustees and others;
The Company does not prejudice its position respecting the validity of the 1992 Pension Trust Agreement; and’
Ifthe Employer is required by the Plan trustees to execute the "BLUES” it shall do so on a without prejudice basis.
Signed and dated this . n dav Qf	, 1998 by and between:
FOR THE EMPLOYER