AGREEMENT CALGARY PLANT June 30.1QQ6 -_7Q. 7006
00562 (06)
BETWEEN:
Alberta
- 9 -
COLLECT! VE-AflR BEM ENT WESTON BAKERIES LIMITED, of the City of Calgary,
Hereinafter referred to as "TheCompanv"
AND:	BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS'
INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 252, of the City of Calgary, in the Province of Alberta
Hereinafter referred to as "The Union"
The general purpose of this agreement is to maintain satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to promote their mutual interests, to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and establish and maintain satisfactory wages, hours of labour, and general working conditions. ’
ARTICLE! • UNTON RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all
employees, with the exception of office workers, and others not included in the wage article of this Agreement.
1.02	No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for any lawful union
activity, or for serving on a Union committee, or for reporting the violation of any provision of this Agreement. No employee shall be requested to go through any lawfully established picket line.
1.03	Recognized supervisors and foreman will not perform work that is performed by
regular employees within the bargaining unit, except:
(a)	When performing development or experimental work,
(b)	When checking production on any operation,
(c)	When employees are not available for work, due to being late for work or absent from the plant,
(d)	In cases of emergency.
1.04	Where used in this Agreement, the term ''emergency" shall be defined as any
unforeseen circumstances occurring which is beyond the control of the Company.
3
Whenever an emergency occurs, the Company shall take all reasonable steps to alleviate the situation as soon as practicable.
1.05	The Company agrees to permit the Union representative of the Union to enter the
various departments of the Company's plant, during working hours, in order that he may attend to the business affairs of the Union, provided, however, that he does not unduly take up the time of tfiteemployees at work and that he will, as a matter of courtesy, contact the Manager or Superintendent on entering the plant.
1.06	As used in this Agreement, the term "Regularfull-timeemployee(s)" shall mean those employees who work the number of regular weekly hours as set out in the Article relating to Hours of Work and Overtime.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION SECURITY
2.01

All new employees will be given an application for membership in the Union, on the first day of employment and shall become a member in good standing of the Union, within thirty (30) working days from date of employment and shall be informed of the provisions of this Article, when hired. The union will be provided with a list of new employees each month.
2.02	The Union will not question the dismissal of a new employee, with less than forty-five (45) days of employment.
ARTICLE 3 • DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
3.01	Should it be the desire of the members of the Union to have their Union dues, fines and assessments, deducted from their earnings, and remitted to the Union, an authorization card, duly signed, shall be presented to the Company, and such dues, fines and assessments, shall be deducted each month, and remitted to the proper Union official. Any cancellation of the above arrangements by employees shall be in writing to the Union and the Employer.
3.02	All Union dues, fines and assessments must be in the hands of the Secretary on or before the fifteenth (1 5 th) day of each month.
ARTICLE 4 ■ MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
4 -
4.01	The management of the bakery and direotiori of its working force, and the right to hire and discharge is vested wholly in the Company, and the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' Union, Local 252, shall not abridge this right except when a union employee has been discharged and feels himself aggrieved by such discharge, in which case he shall be entitled to take the matter up through the regular channels allowed for in the gowance article of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 • GRIEVANCES
5.01	Any complaint, disagreement or difference of opinion, between the Company and the Union, or any employee covered by this Agreement, which concerns the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement, shall be considered a grievance. Any grievance which is not presented within fourteen (14) days following the event giving rise to such grievance shall be forfeited and waived by the aggrieved party. The procedure for adjustment of grievances shall be as follows:
The aggrieved employee, or the Union shall take the matter up with the foreman or superintendent in charge, at which time the employee may be accompanied by a member of the grievance Committee, it being clearly understood that all employees must carry out the orders of the foremen pending settlement of any dispute.
If the grievance is not settled within forty-eight (48) hours, a signed copy of the written grievance shall be delivered to the Plant Manager or his representative who shall, within three (3) days following receipt thereof, meet with no less than three (3) members of the grievance committee, and attempt to settle the grievance. At this meeting, the Union Representative or Secretary of the Union may be present, at the request of either party. The Plant Manager or his representative shall, within five (5) working days give his decision in writing to the Union. This five (5) day period may be extended by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 6 • ARBITRATION
5
6.01	Should the parties fail to reach agreement under the above grievance procedure, either party may then refer the matter to arbitration as provided under the Alberta Labour Code, and the provisions of the said Code shall govern all proceedings, in the same way, as though they were set out in full in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT
7.01	Except in cases of emergency, regular full-time employees who are laid off or
discharged shall receive notice of one (1) week. If the notice is not given, then employees so affected will receive a week’s pay in lieu thereof. Where an employee is retained one (1) week or more beyond the expiry date of the notice, then a further week1 s notice shall be given. No employee will be terminated withoutjust cause. Should an employee be terminated for cause, they shall not be entitled to notice set out herein, this does not preclude any grievance being submitted in connection with such discharge.
7.02	Regular full-time employees will give one (1) week’s notice when terminating their
employment, or forfeit one (1) week’s pay in lieu thereof.
7.03	The Union agrees to impress upon its members the importance of advising the
Company, as far as possible in advance of the shift, in cases where due to illness or other causes, they are unable to report for work. If, upon investigation, it is found that an employee has no legitimate reason for being absent, the Company may take appropriate disciplinary action.
7.04	The Union will receive copies of reprimands and other disciplinary action. However,
failure to receive these notices will not impact upon the above-noted grievance procedure. Reprimands and other written notice of disciplinary action will be removed from an employee’s file after a period of 24 months, providing no incidents of a related, or similar nature have occurred during this period.
7.05	Schedule“A“ Employees Terminated by Employer
Within one week of terminating an employee in pay schedule “A” for cause, the employer will promote the senior employee in schedule“B” to schedule “A” in his/her current classification.
6
ARTICLE 8 ■ WAGES AND CLASSTFTC ATTONS
8.01	The wage rates specified herein are minimum, ana no employee shall have his or her
wages reduced as the result of the signing of this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the paying of a higher rate of pay at the discretion of the Company,
A lump sum retroactive payment will fumade to all full time employees in the amount of $400.00 for employees on the 100% rate, $320.00 for employees on the 80% rate and $300.00 for all employeesonthe 75% rate. Part time employeeswill receive a pro rated lump sum payment based on hours worked versus hours available between May 01,1996 and December 01,1996.
Students will not be eligible for the lump sum payment.
8.02	Class 1 Definition: Production Relief, Divider, Moulder, Pan-0-mat Operator, Bread Shipper, Shipper/Receiver, Machine Operator (Wrapping, Ovenfeed, Model K, Stackers/Unstackers, Scrambler).
Class 2 Definition: Sanitation, Packer, Rack Off,400 line Panfeed/Rackoff, Thrift Store Personnel.
8.03	Employees hired on or before January 17,1997
(a) Classifications and rates of pay to be as follows:
Year 1	Effective July 01,1996
75%	80%	100%
Class 1 Class 2
$14.25
$13.87
$15.20
$14.80
tM)
$19. $18.50
Lead Hand -Production	$21.00
Maintenance	$21.00
Lead Hand ■ Maintenance	$23.00
Year 2 Effective July 01,1997
Class 1 Class 2
Lead Hand -Production Maintenance
Lead Hand - Maintenance
75%
$14.06
80%
mnr
$15.00
100%
$18.75
$21.25
$21.00
$23.00
7
Year 3 ■ No Increase Year 4 • No Increase ~
Year 5 and every other year of the contract • COL^Snll be applied to all jobclassifications
bl COLA Clause
section 1

\\


Subjectto article 27, the wage rale set out above shall be adjusted on January 1,2001 (and on January 1 of each succeedingyear), in accordance with the year-over-year-percentage change of the Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index (all items) for Calgary for theyear ended September30, 2000 (and fortheyear ended September30 in succeeding years).
Thecost of living percentage increase will be calculated from and applied towages and pension contributions only.
Section 2 Should the Consumer Price Index be discontinued or modified during the term of this Agreement, the parties shall meet to agree on a substitute mechanism for the annual wage adjustment. Failing agreement, the difference shall be resolved by arbitration.
c) Progression Rates
Employees hired before January 17,1997 will receive the following progression rates:
lstyear of service - 75% of the base weekly wage 2nd year of service • 80% of the base weekly wage 3rd year of service • 100%-of the base weekly wage
Summer help, hired before January 17,1997 and recalled for work, from May 1 to September30 will earn 75% ofthe base rate.
Anyone hired before May 1, or retained beyond September 30th will have their full service contribute towards their eligibility to the next progression level. Anyone hired specifically for the summer period will not have this time contribute to their progression eligibility.
Lead Hands: In addition to such regularjob duties as time will permit, a lead hand shall be responsible for assisting in scheduling and assigning work to employees he is required to lead, and for seeing that such employees produce the quantity and quality of work required by the Company. A lead hand shall not have any authority to hire or discharge employees, or to exercise any disciplinary action. He shall, however, report to his Foreman on the ability, progress and conduct of employees he is required to lead.
8
8,04	New Hire (Employees Hired after Jan. 17,997)	\'
^ Classifications and rates of pay to be as follows:
Progression	Class 1	Class2
Maintenance
Year 11	$11.00
Year 2	$11.50
Year 3	$12.00
Year 4	$13.00
Year 5	$14.00
Year 6	$15.00
-$10.00	$21.00
$10.50	$21.00
$11.00	$21.00
$11.50	$21.00
$12.00	$21.00
$13.00	$21.00
(b) Employees hired prior to July 1 of any calendar year will receive their rate increases on January 11 of the followingyear and each year thereafter. Employees hired on or after July 1 will receive their increases on January 1, two calendar years after their year of hire.
(V)	Student Rates:
The student wage rate will be $9,00 per hour. An extra $1.00 per hour will be paid to students should they remain from the date of hire until August 31 of eachyear as an incentive for completing the full summer work commitment.
(th	COLA Clause
Section 1	Subjectto article the wage rate set out above shall be adjusted once the
employee has completed six years of employment and on January 1 of each succeeding year, in accordance with the year-over-year percentage change of the Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index (all items) for Calgary.
The cost of living percentage increase will be calculated from and applied to wages and pension contributions only.
Section 2	Shouldthe Consumer Price Index be discontinued or modified during the
term of this Agreement, the parties shall meet to agree on a substitute mechanism for the annual wage adjustment. Failing agreement, the difference shall be resolved by arbitration.
9
8.05	When the consecutive number of hours worked by ajobber orpart-time employee is
less than four (4) hours, thejobber or part-time employee shall be paid for four (4) hours, at the rate set out above, notwithstanding that the time employee is called in for a specified number of hours, such employee shall be provided with work for the number of hours specified, or, if work is not provided, he shall receive pay in lieu thereof.
8.06	Any employee required to work at a classification entitled to a higher or lower rate of
wages than he is receiving, after one (l) days of work in such classification (for which he shall be paid his regular rate of wages), shall be paid the applicable wage at the same progression level.
8.07
Job Rotation
Employeesmdy be rotated for training purposes between Class 1 and Class 2 positions within the bakery and will receive the applicable rate based on the position being performed. This will allow employees an opportunity to be trained on Class I positionsand increase internal opportunitiesfor posted positions in the skilled category. For employees who rotate to a Class 2 positionfor training purposeswill remain at Class 1 rate.
The Team Leader will be responsible for the monitoringand recording of applicable hours worked through the job rotation program.
8.08 The parties agree to establish an apprenticeship program as per the guidelines set out by the Province of Alberta. It is agreed the Company will compensate an apprentice for lost wages and benefits while attending the necessary educational courses.
ARTICI F 9- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
hours of work for all employees covered by this Agreement shall be thirty-six and one-half (36 l/2lhours per week, daily maximum eight (8)hours, divided into five (5) working days, the Company to decide the days of work. When the fifth (5th) day of a holiday week is worked, that day shall be paid for at time and one-half, in addition to the holiday pay.
In the week in which a general holiday occurs, the work week will be reduced by one-fifth of the weekly hours.
9.01 The
Four day-shift will be established in the following manner:
(a) Voluntarily by the employee
Nine and one half (9.5) hours maximum per day No more than two (2) hours overtime for any reason Sick days paid accordingto scheduled shifts missed (d)	'
10
Statutory Holidays ■ work week, reduced by nine and one-quarter (9.25) hours for each holiday ■ fourthly paid/banked attime and one half (1.5) Pension ■ All hours worked over:
8 • two days credit 16 - three days credit 24 - four days credit 32 • five days credit •
9.03	It is agreed that employees will work 36,5 hours per week, if required, regardless of general holidays. In agreeing to the five (5) day week, it is clearly understood that Management will be under no restriction regarding days off, shift schedule or days of plant operation.
Effective within thirty (30) days after the Collective Agreement is signed, shifts for production employees will be so arranged that employees will be entitled to two (2) consecutive days off each week which will be either Friday and Saturday, Saturday and Sunday, or Sunday and Monday. The intent of this clause is that employees will normally be provided with fifty-two (52) hours off between the end of one work week and the start of the next work week.
The Company will consider any employee suggestion that accommodates consecutive days off as long as they do not affect customer service or the efficient operation of the bakery.
9.04.	Any work performed in excess,ofthe scheduled hours shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate. The Company and the Union agree to the principle that overtime is to be avoided as far as possible. The Company will determine the schedule of working hours for each employee, and the Union agrees that the schedule may be changed from time to time at the discretion of the Company. Shift schedules will be posted one (I) week in advance of the time such schedules become operative. Except in case of emergency, the said shift schedules will not be changed once they become operative without forty-eight (48) hours notice.
Where it is necessary-to change starting times, in addition to posting such changes, employees affected will be personally notified, provided they are available to be contacted.
Employees will be notified as far ahead as possible when overtime is required and will be given a minimum of two (2) hours notice of such overtime except in cases of emergency. Also, except in cases of emergency, employees may not be required to work overtime providing management can get another qualified employee to perform the work required.
9.05.	If an employee is required to work on his regular holiday, this shall be paid for at time and one-half, in addition to regular pay when one day off in lieu thereof is not allowed.
9.06.	There shall be no split shifts.
- 11
ARTICLE 10 • LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
10.01	No employee shall be required to go for lunch before completing three (3) hours work,
nor shall any employee be required to exceed four and one-half (4 1/2) hours work without a meal period. Meal periods shall be for thirty (30) minutes, without pay.
10.02	Two (2) ten minute rest period shall be allowed, with pay, as near mid-shift ofthe first
half, and as near mid-shift in the second half, of each normal daily work schedule.
10.03	Subjectto clause 9,02, only two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed on any daily shift,
except in case of emergency. Should the said overtime exceed one (I) hour’s duration, a ten (10) minute rest period shall be allowed, and paid for at overtime rate, before commencing same. Should overtime exceed two (2) hours, the rest period will be twenty (20) minutes before commencing overtime.
10.04	Except for shift changes and emergencies each regular full-time employee shall be
allowed a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive hours off work in each seven (7) day calendar period.. Except in cases of emergency, the break period between the end of one shift and the start of another shall be not less than twelve (1 2) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 11 ■ GENERAL HOLIDAYS
11.01	In lieu of payment or premiums as described in clauses 11.02 or 12,06 for general holidays (excluding Christmas Day), employees will be eligible for two weeks of paid time off to be taken outside prime time. In addition, employees will be eligible for two “floating” general holidays, which may be taken in prime time. All time off must be taken by December 31 of the year in which it was earned.
In the event that employees receive compensation for the general holiday but have not yet earned the general holiday and are no longer employed by the Company by either voluntary o r involuntary reasons, the general holiday (s) will be treated as vacation days and deducted accordingly from the employee’s vacation entitlement on termination from the Company payroll system,
This program will discontinue and the contract will return to its original state should the Labour Board ora Court determine that this does not meet or exceed Statutory Requirements, or should this provision not be cost neutral to
the Company versus previous practice. The Union will be notified by November30, if the Company intends to discontinue the practice in the following year.
12
The Company will allow to each of its employees governed by this Agreement, the following general holidays, with payr-or any other day proclaimed by the Federal or Provincial Government:
New Year's Day Dominion Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Civic Holiday	Christmas Day
Boxing Day	Family Day
11.03	No employee shall be requested to work on Christmas Day. No employee will be ,
required to start before 2:00 p.m. onNew Year's Day, it being understood this will affect the schedules for the balance of the week.
11.04	These holidays are granted on the understandingthat to qualify for a general holiday,
with pay, the employee must work the full scheduled working day preceding his or her holiday, and the full scheduled working day after the holiday.
11.05	A fter working thirty (30) days from date of employment, employees who are working
on other than a regular full-time basis shall be paid for the number of hours they would normally have worked on a holiday. The method of determining the normal hours work for payment shall be by averaging the hours worked on such days during the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
ARTICLE 12 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
12.01	The Company shall allow vacation with pay to each of its employees governed by this Agreement in accordance with the following schedule:
S
ir
Years of continuous set lice	entitlement
1 to2	2
3 to 7	3
8 to 12	4
13 to 17	5
18 to 22	6
or more	7 .
i 5 3
5 - 3
4	" €
5	- O
The vacation entitlement for employees hired after January 17,1997 will be as follows:
Years of continuous service	Weeks ofvacation entitlement
lto-2	2
3 to 7	3
8 to 12	4
or more	5
12.02
Employees who attain 13 years of continuous service will be eligible for five weeks' vacation. However, if such employeeswish, they may limit their
13
vacation to four weeks and will then become eligible for an additional two percent of their previous year's earnings.
12.03	Employees with fifteen (1 5) years of continuous service may, ifthey so desire, take
three (3) weeks of vacation consecutively during the period from May 1 stto October 1st.
12.04	When an employee wishes to take all of his»wcation between November lstand March
31 st, he may take three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation together depending on the amount of vacation to which he is entitled. Preference for winter vacations will be in accordance with seniority and will be scheduled.
Winter vacation period shall be defined as the period from October 1st to April 30th and will be for scheduling vacation entitlements in excess oftwo (2) weeks.
12.05	Annual holidays shall be allowed (as near as practical) between May 1 st and October 1 st
of each year, unless changed by mutual agreement. Seniority shall govern in the choice of dates.
12.06	If a general holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee shall be
entitled to one (1) extra day of vacation or he may elect to receive a day's pay in lieu thereof. The arrangement for the extra day's vacation or pay in lieu thereof shall be made with the employee's foreman before the employee commences his vacation.
12.07	Absence from work due to illness shall not affect the amount of an employee's vacation pay, except where such absences exceed a total of 30 working days in the vacation year. Absence from work due to a Worker’s Compensationcase will be credited vacation time up to a maximum of6 months from the date of injury.
12.08	Vacation Schedules will be posted on the main bulletin board.
ARTTCT E13 ■ SENIORITY
13.01	New employees will not gain any seniority standing until they have completed 30 days of work. Seniority will then date back to the date of hire. During this period they shall be considered on a trial basis and may be discharged or laid off by the Company without any recourse to the grievance procedure.
The probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
13.02	Within thirty (30) days after the signing date of this Agreement, the Company will
prepare and post on the bulletin boards a seniority list showing the names and seniority dates of employees. Seniority lists will be posted each six (6)months and
14
will show the classification of employees at the time of posting. A copy of the seniority list will be sentto the Unionnffice,
13.03	Qualifications being sufficient amongst employees, seniority will be the governing factor in:
all cases of lay off due to lack of work,
displacing thejunior employees in the plant in order to obtain up to full weekly hours and the request does not qualify him for overtime,
recall to work following lay-off;
promotion to any other classification. training
Seniority so exercised shall be on a plant wide basis and include a trial/training period up to ten (10) working days to be determined solely by the Calgary Plant Training Team. However, if no training team exists, the sole decision will rest with Management. This trial period is not applicable to
(b)	above exceptwhere the employee is bumping into that position on a permanent basis. Employees who wish to exercise (b) above must provide 48 hours notice.
\° ^ (a)
\0W) (b)
(°)
(d)
(e)
13.04	Employees who have completed the probationary period and who are laid off due to lack of work will retain seniority and the right to be recalled to work, as follows:
, . Up to six (6) months • seniority at the time lay off
(b) Over six (6) months • seniority at the time of lay off
for a period of six (6) consecutive months
for a period equal to his seniority but not exceeding twelve (1 2) consecutive months.
13.05	An employee being recalled to work following lay off shall return to work within ten
(1Q days after the date of recall or forfeit any claim to re-employment by the Company,
13.06	A recall to work which is not possible to make by telephone, shall be by registered letter
or telegram, addressed to the last address recorded in the Company records.
13.07	Qualified employees in the employ of the Company who have completed the
probationary period will be given preference for promotion to any other classifications before new employees are hired.
ARTICLE 14 - JOB POSTING
1 5
14.01	A	iny regular full-timejob which becomes vacant will be posted on the plant
bulletin boards within five (5) working days after such vacancies occur, for five (5) working days. During this period employees who have completed the probationary period may make application, in writing, for transfer to the posted vacancy. Qualifications being sufficient, semori^ shall be the governing factor in making transfers under this clause.
For the purposes ofjob posting, a regular full-timejob shall be considered as one which it is expected will last beyond thirty (30) working days.
14.02	An employee who receives a transfer through the posting procedure shall not be
permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed.
14.03	The Company may fill any vacancy on a temporary basis until the posting procedure
contained herein has been fulfilled.
14.04	A job shall not be considered as vacant for posting where an employee is on vacation, is
absent due to illness or leave of absence, or where an employee has been laid off and can be recalled to ajob.
14.05	Only the original vacancy and thej ob from which transfer was made will be posted.
Any vacancies created beyond the second posting will not be posted but will be filled in accordancewith the terms of Article 13.03.
14.06	An employee who receives ajob through the posting procedure shall be given up to twenty (20) working days trial period including up to ten (10) working days of training to be determined solely by management. If he is not satisfactory he shall revertto his formerjob, i.e. the one he held atthe time he applied forthe posted vacancy.
ARTICLE 15 - NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
Classifications, titles, and rates thereof for any new classifications or position that may thereafter be established, shall be subject to negotiation between the Company and the Union, and a supplementary agreement shall be executed in respect to any such new positions or classifications.
ARTICLE 16 • I INTON SHOP CARDS
16.01	The Company agrees that it will display in its establishment,the designation of a "Union Shop", as supplied by the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers' International Union.
16
ARTICLE 17 - EQUIPMENTALLOWANCE
17.01	In January of each year, employees classified in a trades category in the
Maintenance Departmentwill be entitled to a $600.00 equipment allowance. Employees will be reimbursed funds from this allowance upon providing proof of purchase to the plant manager for the necessary tools and equipment to be used in the plant. Reimbursement shall be made to employees in a timely manner. There will be no carryover of this entitlement from year to year.
ARTICLE 18 - SAFETY COMMITTEE
18.01	There shall be a safety committee composed of two (2) members selected by the
Company and two (2) members selected by the Union which shall meet as often as necessary, but not more often than monthly., This committee shall discuss questions of safety, make recommendations to management and assist in enforcing safety rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 19 • LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	(a) Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted to not
more than two (2) employees at a time to attend Union conventions and functions. The total accumulation of such leave shall not exceed thirty (30) working days in any twelve month period.
(b) An employee who is selected to work on a full-time basis for the Union will be granted leave of absence without pay and seniority will accumulate for a period of forty-eight (48) consecutive months. This period may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Leave of absence granted in accordance with (a) and (b) above shall be in writing.
19.02	Leave of absence, without pay, and without loss of seniority,may be granted to any
employee by the Company for personal reasons. In such cases the Company will supply a statement in writing, to the Union, the Employee and one copy for the Company's files.
ARTICLE 20 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Each full-time employee who has completed three (3) months of consecutive service will be allowed three (3) days leave of absence, with pay, in the event of the death of his Father, Mother, Sister, Brother, Spouse, Child, Grandmother or Grandfather.
Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral. Only that portion of three (3) days that would otherwise have been time worked will be paid. As used herein, the terms "Father" and "Mother" shall be
17
deemed to include "Step-father" and "Step-mother", Part-time employees who are scheduled to work less than three days-shall be eligible for one day paid bereavement leave.
20,02 Where a death involves a Father-in-Law or Mother-in-Law, one (1) working day off will be allowed, with pay, to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE21- SANITARY CONDITIONS
Baking premises shall be kept clean and sanitary throughout. All employees shall keep their persons in a clean and sanitary manner. Within thirty (30) days following the signing of the Agreement, the Company will supply and launder uniforms for all inside employees.
All employees shall, at all times, leave benches and machinery and floors around benches cleaned, and, (except in the case of necessity for mechanical orjoiners repairs) in condition for immediate resumption of work.
It shall be the duty of the employees to co-operate and assist in maintaining the utensils and conveniences of the plant in good order, and to refrain from misusing or defacing them, and to refrain from any conduct which would tend to depreciate or render unsanitary any such utensils or conveniences.
The Company and the Union agree that the use of tobacco in any form, in any part of the Bakery where products are produced or handled is prohibited, and that breach of this rule shall be cause for instant dismissal. Bottled drinks shall be consumed only m the Lunch Room and Dressing Room.
ARTTCFF, 22- SEVERANCE PAY
In the event of amalgamatlon/permanent closure of plant, or department thereof, or automation, causing a regular full time employee to lose his or her employment, the Company hereby agrees to pay such employee's severance pay, at his/her regular rate of pay as follows:
(a)	one week of pay per year of service for all employees with 9 years or less
(b)	two weeks for every year ofservice for all employees with 10 years or more to a maximum of40 weeks.
22.02 - Volume Reduction
In the event a 30% production volume reduction occurs and results in permanent layoffs the following severance provision will apply:
(a)	one week of pay per year of service for all employees with 9 years or less
(b)	two weeks for every year of service for all employees with 10 years or more to a maximum of 40 weeks.
22.01
21,01
21.02
21.03
21,04
18
22.03	An employee who loses his employment m accordance with the terms of this article may elect to receive his severance pay-as-soon as possible or he may elect to be placed on a recall list subject to recalbfh accordance with the terms of the seniority provisions of this Agreement. If the employee elects to receive his severance pay as soon as possible after losing employment or at any time during the recall period, he shall forfeit any claim to employment with the Company. An employee who elects to be placed on the recall list andwho is not recalled within twelve (12) months, shall be paid the severance pa^to-which he was entitled at the time he lost his employment.
ARTICLE 23 ■ AUTOMATION
23.01	Where the Company introduces automatic equipment or any new technology which may cause regular full-time employees to lose their employment, the Company will meet with and advise the Union as far in advance as practicable of the particular situation and its expected implications.
ARTICLE 24 .RENRF1TS
24.01
Premium Cost Split
The Company/Employee premium cost split will be 75% >25% for Health and Welfare benefits which will include life insurance, weekly indemnity, dental plan, medical and hospital plans.
The Company/Employee premium cost splitwill be 50% • 50% forthe Long (3 a.. /	Term Disability benefit.
Part-time employees who work a minimum of three shifts per week for twelve consecutive weeks shall be eligible for benefits. Part-time employees who are eligible for benefits will be disqualified if they fail to report for their scheduled shifts or if they are laid-off

24.02	Life Insurance shall be twenty-eight thousand dollars ($28,000).
24.03
Weekly Indemnity will be providedto all employees eligible for the Benefits Plan based on 100% of individualweekly earnings exclusive of overtime. The duration of the Weekly Indemnity Benefit will be for a 26 week period.
24.04	The basic Dental Insurance Pian will include dentures. Crowns & bridges will be <13.*. ^lcovered at50%,
\S-o-
24,05	Each employee and their eligible dependents shall be entitled to up to $100 to assist in payment for prescription eye wear. This benefit is available once every two years per eligible pian member.
- 19
24,06	The benefit level of the Long Term Disability plan will cover50% of the
employee's current weekly rate exclusive of overtime to a monthly maximum of $1,000.00 effective February 01,1997 and to a monthly maximum of $1,500.00 effective February 01,1998.
Prescription Card will be provided to all employees who are eligible for the Benefits Plan. One card will be prcm^*d for employee's covered under single coverage and two cards will be provided for employee's covered under family and family plus coverage. Additional-cards will be at a costto the employee of $25,00 each
24.07 A


24.08	The Company and the union agree that no changes to the current benefit level,
plan texts and benefit carriers will occur without consent of both parties.
24.09	A basic health and welfare plan including dental, prescriptions and provincial health will be offered until age 65 to employees who retire. The cost split willbe75% employer and 25% employee.
ARTICLF.25 . SICK LEAVE BF.NF.F1TS
25.01
Itegular full-time employees, after three (3) consecutive months of service, will be allowed sick leave benefits at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each full month worked thereafter, to a maximum of nine (9) days. Sick leave pay will only be paid for the second (2nd) and third (3rd) working day of any absence due to illness but should the absence due to illness exceed five (5) working days, then the first (1st) day of such absence will be paid, provided there are sufficient benefits credited to the employee. In no event shall the wages paid by the Company and the monies received from Weekly Indemnity exceed a regular day's pay. Employees will be eligible to be paid on their first day of absence if they have three sick days "banked". The Union agrees that this benefit may be withdrawn if current rates of attendance begin to decline. Withdrawal of the benefit will not occur without full discussion at a Joint Labour Management meeting.
25.02	The Company shall, upon request, be provided with verification of illness of the employee in the form of an authentic medical certificate.
25.03	Any employee found abusing the above privilege, shall be disciplined by the Employer. The Employer may discontinue or reduce the benefits of said employee, or terminate his employment.
ARTICLE26. JURY DUTY
26.01	A regular full-time employee who has completed the probationary period and who is required to perform jury duty or witness duty where subpoenaed to appear in a
20
court of law, shall not suffer any loss oj' nomial wages thereby, subjectto the following conditions.
Such employee shall be required to report for work on any days or half days he is not required to sit on a jury or remain in the Courtroom but shall not be required to report for work if less than two (2) hours of their normal shift remains to be worked.
Such employee shall furnish the Company with such earnings as the Courts may provide.
ARTICLE 27 . PENSION PLAN
27.01	Contribution Schedules
The Company agrees to increase pension contributions in accordance with the followingtables. The tables outline employer contributions based on the 1994 Pension Plan Rate Table.
Table 1 - For Employees Hired OnorBeforeJanuarv 17,1997
Daily Daily Daily Total Daily Year Rate Rale Rate ( (mti ilnitinn Plan A Plan C Plant.’
r $7.2800	$1.2552	$8.5352
I	$8.2216	$1.3807	$9.6023
$9.2256	$1.5062	$10.7318
I	$10.5752	$1.6631	$12.2383
,	$11.4224	$1.7573	$2.6432	$15.8229
I	$12.5520	$1.8828	$2.8320	$17.2668
$13.7448	$2.0083	$3.0208	$18.7739
,	$15.0000	$2.1338	$3.2096	$20.3434
$16.0664
$17.1336
$2.2594
$2.3849
$3.3984
$3.5872
$21.7242
$23.1057
The contribution rate increases to $8.5352 per day effective February 1, 1997 and increases each year as defined in Table 1 above. The cost to improve the plan in the year 2001, as identified under “Daily Rate Plan G” in Table 1, will be paid by the Company but will be excluded from the COLA calculation in that year.
21
Table 2 - For Employees Hired After-January 17,1997
Year Daily Rate	Daily Rale	Total Daily
Plan A	Plan C	Contribution
i $4.2677 $4.6442 $5.0836 $5.5229 $5.9312 $6.3384 $6.8096 $7.2800
$7.7512	$1.3180
$8.2216	$1.3807
The cost to improve the pian in the year 2005, as identified under “Daily Rate Plan C” in Table 2, will be paid by the Company but will be excluded from COLA in that year.
27.02	COT A Clause
Section 1 The wage rate set out in article 8 shall be adjusted on January 1,2001 (and on January 1 of each succeeding year), in accordance with the year= over-year percentage change of the Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index (all items) for Calgary fortheyear ended September 30,2000 (and for the year ended September 30 in succeeding years).
Wage and Pension contribution increases will be limited to the CPI calculated as above. Should the CPI not accommodate the increased pension contributions set out in Tables 1 and 2, the company and union will agree as to a financial remedy. Failing agreement, the difference shall be resolved by arbitration, as identified in Article 5,
$4.4850
$4.8300
$5.1750
$5.5200
$5.9312
$63384
$6.8096
$7.2800
$9.0692
$9.6023
- 22 -
COLA Illustration
1.	Determine consumer price index (CPI),
2.	Calculate the net increase amount by multiplying CPI times the sum of previous year's hourly pension contribution and hourly wage.
3.	Apply the net increase amount firstly to pay pension contribution increases called for in Table 1 or Table 2.
4.	Apply the balance (if any) of the net increase amount to increase hourly wage.
Date	Jan.	1,2001	Jan.	1,2002
Change in Consumer Price Index (CPI)	2.0%		1.0%	
Projected Total Hourly Pension Contribution (from Table 1)	$	1.68	$	2.17
Hourly Wage	$	19.25	$	19.54
Hourly Pension Contribution Cost Plus Hourly Wage	$	20.93	S	21.71
Increase Amount	$	0.42	$	0.22
Increase Amount Applied to Hourly Pension Contribution*	S	0.13	$	0.20
Balance of Net Increase Amount Applied to Hourly Wage	$	0.29	$	0.02
Hourly wage after COLA	$	19.54	s	19.56
*Forthe year 2001 only, pension contributions for "Daily Rate Plan G" are excluded from the calculation and application of COLA.
Section2 Should the Consumer Price Index be discontinued or modified during the term of this Agreement, the parties shall meet to agree on a substitute mechanism for the annual wage adjustment. Failing agreement, the difference shall be resolved try arbitration, as identified in article 5,
27.03	General Provisions
(a)
(b)
The Employer hereby agrees to be bound as a party by all the terms and provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated September 13, 1993, as amended, establishingthe Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Canadian Pension Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) and said Agreement is made part hereof by reference.
The Employer agrees to make payments in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 above to the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry Canadian Pension Fund for each employee working injob classifications covered by the said Collective Bargaining Agreement.
For each day or portion thereof for which an employee, subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, receives pay, tjie Employer shall make a contribution to the above-named Pension Fund
23
(c)	It is agreed that the Pension Plan adopted by-the Trustees of the said Pension Fund shall
be such as will qualify for approval by the appropriate Canadian Government Departments, so as to enable the Employer to treat contributions to the Pension Fund as a deduction for income tax purposes.
(d)	Contributions provided for herein shall be-aakhmorUhly and shall be accompanied by a
completed remittance report. Both payment and report are due on the tenth day of the month fo I lo wi ng the month covered by the report. In the event the employer fails promptly to pay amounts owed the, employer shall pay such collection costs, including court costs and reasonable attorneys’fees, as the Pension Fund shall incur, and shall pay interest at such rate as the Trustees shall fix from time to time.
(e)	The payments so made to the Fund shall be used by it to provide retirement benefits for
eligible employees in accordance with the Pension Plan of said Fund, as determined by the Trustees of said Fund, to be applied to the eligible employees based on the amount of employer contribution.
(0 This clause encompasses the sole and total agreement between the Employer and the Union with respec'i to pension or retirement.
ARTTCT.F, 28 . AI .TERN A TIVF, WORK COMPI.F.TION
It is not the intenuon of the Company to replace the bargaining unit employees with temporary or contract personnel. However, should business conditions make it necessary, the Company may implement alternative work programs.
The Company will provide two months notice to the Union prior to implementing any alternative work programs that would eliminatejobs in the facility. This notice period will serve to provide the employees an opportunity to work with management to develop alternatives that would keep the work within the bargaining unit.
Should the union and management be unable to develop viable alternatives, the Company may proceed with its announced plans. Every attempt will be made to provide affected employees with comparable employment elsewhere in the Calgary facility. Should no opportunities exist locally, the Company will endeavor to find other employment through the Western Canada Job Transfer Program. Moving Costs to relocate to another facility in Western Canada will be covered to a maximum of $1,000.
Displaced employees must demonstrate the requisite skills and abilities to perform any new positions assumed and agree to participate in a training period if required,
24
In the event that no position can be found or the employee chooses not to accept the new position the followingl-severance provision will apply:
\0^
(a)	3 weeks pay per year of service with a minimum severance amount of $10,000 to a maximum of$50,000,
Should the Union not accept the resMts-ef the application of this clause, it retains the right to “open” the entire collective agreement for purposes of negotiating a new agreement. The Union must provide thirty days written notice of its intention to open the agreement under the terms of this provision. Should the Union open the agreement, the Company will not proceed with the changes until such time that the new agreement is ratified.
ARTICLE 29 • WESTERN CANADA EMPLOYEE TRANSFER PROGRAM All employees covered under this agreement will be given the opportunity to transfer to other Weston Bakery facilities in Western Canada based on the following guidelines:
(a)	In ail transfer situations agreement must be reached between the Company and the respective Business Agents of the BC&T and/or other trade union locals.
(b)	Employees cannot maintain their current wage rate and will move to the wage rates in accordance with the collective agreement in force at the time of the transfer to the transferred facility.
(c)	Seniority will only be maintained for purposes of calculating vacation entitlement and the applicable wage progression rate.
An employee who moves to a new facility will have full seniority rights in the applicable Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 30 ■ DURATION OF AGREEMENT
30.01 This Agreement shall take effect and be binding upon the parties from June 30,1996
—untiLJune-29,2006 and shall continuein effect from year to year thereafter, unless notice of termination or notice of revision-thereof is given by either party, in writing, by registered mail, at least thirty (30) days and not more than sixty (60) days immediately prior to the natural expiration date of same.
- 25 -
DATED AT CALGARY, ALBERTA this
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY	SIGNED ON BEHALF OF T HE UNION