CAWwTCA
CANADA
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
NESTLE ENTERPRISES LIMITED CONFECTIONERY DIVISION
and
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA)
and its LOCAL 252
March 1,19B9 — February 28,1992
00574 (03)
INDEX
ARTICLE		PAGE
1	Purpose	1
2	Recognition and Scope	1
3	Union Dues	2
4	No Strikes or Lockouts	2
5	Reservation of Management Rights	3
6	Negotiating Committee	3
7	Representation	3
	List of Stewards	4
	Steward Rights	5
8	Complaints and Grievances	6
	Definition	6
	Step 1	7
	Step 2	7
	Step 3	7
9	Arbitration	8
10	Discharge	10
11	Company Grievances	10
12	Seniority	11
13	Lay-offs and Recalls	12
	Lay-offs	12
	Recall	14
14	Loss of Seniority	14
15	Leave of Absence	15
16	Bereavement Leave with Pay	16
17	Jury Duty	17
18	Job Posting	17
19	Health and Safety	20
	Safety Committee	20
	Safety Shoe Allowance	21
20	Bulletin Boards	21
21	Weekly Hours of Work and Overtime	21
	Hours of Work	21
	Lunch Periods	22
	Overtime	23
INDEX
ARTICLE		PAGE
22	Plant Holidays	26
23	Vacation	29
24	Benefits	31
	OHIP	32
	Weekly Indemnity	32
	Dental Plan	33
	Vision Care	33
	Life Insurance	33
25	General/Miscellaneous	34
	Dress Requirements	34
	Tool Allowance	34
	Work Performed by Supervisors	35
	Technological Change	35
26	Maintenance Grading System	35
	Qualifications:	36
	Mechanic	36
	Machinist	36
	Electrician	37
	Electronic Technician	37
	Pipefitter	38
	Building Trades	38
	Lubricator	39
	Rowntree Mackintosh Testing	39
27	Wage Rates, Job Classifications	
	and Grades	42
	Production	42
	Maintenance	43
	Apprentices	45
	Trades Apprentices	45
	Lead Hands	46
	Receiving Department	47
	Wage Rate Progression	48
	Shift Premiums	48
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
C.O.L.A.	48
Job Classifications and Grades	49
Chocolate Making	49
Bean Preparation	50
Crumb Plant	50
Cream	50
Biscuit	51
Toffee	51
After Eight	52
Smarties	52
Enrober	52
Moulding	53
Bar Packing	53
Assortment Packing	53
Service	54
Cleaning and Sanitation	54
Flavour Room	55
Receiving	55
Shipping	55
Sample Room	55
28 Termination or Modification of Agreement 55	
Letters of Understanding	57
1 Permanent Part-time Employees	57
2 Temporary Employees	58
3 Substance Abuse	59
4 Contracting Out	60
5 Pension Plan	61
6 Electronic Technician	62
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees, to provide the machinery for prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish hours of work and wage rates for all employees who are subject to the provisions herein.
1.02	The use of masculine gender in this agreement shall be considered to include the feminine, as the sense of the clause dictates.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as Bargaining Agent for all its employees in Metropolitan Toronto and at 1610 Champlain Avenue in the city of Whitby save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office, clerical and sales staff, laboratory staff, operating engineers, refrigeration mechanics and students employed during the school vacation period.
2.02	All employees who are members of the Union as afthe effective date of this'agreement will be required to continue to be members of the Union during the lifetime of this agreement.
2.03	All employee(s) hired subsequent to theeffective date of this agreement sjhgll.become a member of the' Union within thirty (30) days of hiring and will be required to continue to be a member of the Union during the lifetime of this agreement.
2.04	The Company agrees that there will be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company, or by any of its representatives, with respect to any employee because of his/her membership in, or connection with, the Union, and that membership in the Union by employees who are eligible to join will not be discouraged.
2.05	The Union agrees that there will be no intimidation, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised upon employees of the Company by any of its members or representatives, and that there will be no solicitation for membership, collection of dues or other Union activity on the premises of the Company during an employee’s working hours, except as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE 3 — UNION DUES
3.01	The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee who is a member of the Union the monthly dues, initiation fees and other assessments authorized by the constitution of the Union.
3.02	For all other employees within the bargaining unit, the Company will deduct the monthly dues for general Union purposes as authorized by the constitution of the Union. As a condition of employment, such employee is required to authorize the Company to make such deductions,
3.03	All sums so deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union not later than the 10th day following the end of the month in which deductions were made.
3.04	In the case of new employees, the deduction of union dues shall commence on the first regular check-off after the employee has been employed with the Company thirty (30) calendar days.
ARTICLE 4 — NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockouts of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strikes or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production during the term of this contract or any extension thereof.
2
ARTICLE 5 — RESERVATION OF
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
5.01	The Union acknowledges that the administration and management of all the affairs of the Company is the sole function of the Managers and Officers of the Company save only as restricted herein.
5.02	While it is the sole function of the Management of the Company to maintain discipline, order and efficiency, to hire, discharge, transfer, promote or demote employees, to make, enforce and alter reasonable rules and regulations, a claim of discriminatory or unjust promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim of discharge or discipline without reasonable cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. Any change in rules and regulations to be observed by employees shall be negotiated by the parties.
ARTICLE 6 - NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
6.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select a Negotiating Committee consisting of not more than five (5) employees, one of whom shall be the Plant Chairperson and one of whom shall be a member of the skilled trades group. Such committee to be selected from the steward body.
6.02	Meetings of the Negotiating Committee with the Company shall be held whenever the Committee or Company submits an agenda of the business to be transacted and gives forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of the meeting. The said Committee will co-operate with the Company in the administration of the agreement.
ARTICLE 7 — REPRESENTATION
7.01	(a) The Company acknowledges the right of the
3
Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards, who shall be permanent employees with seniority, employed in the department or departments they represent. The Company further agrees to recognize alternate stewards who will only be recognized in the absence of the designated steward.
(b)	For the purpose of continuity of representation, the Plant Chairperson shall be full-time and assigned to the day shift. Wages shall be paid by the Company based on the grade held at the time s/he assumed the duties of Plant Chairperson.
7.02 Steward representation shall be	as	follows:
CHOCOLATE MAKING	1	STEWARD
MOULDING	1	STEWARD
ENROBING & ASSORTMENT PACKING	1	STEWARD
TOFFEE, HIGH BOIL, CREAM & FLAVOUR ROOM	1	STEWARD
SERVICE DEPARTMENT	2	STEWARDS
SHIPPING, RECEIVING & SAMPLE ROOM	1	STEWARD
CLEANING & SANITATION	1	STEWARD
AFTER EIGHT	1	STEWARD
BISCUIT	1	STEWARD
BAR PACKING	1	STEWARD
SMARTIES	1	STEWARD
AFTERNOON SHIFT	2	STEWARDS
MIDNIGHT SHIFT	1	STEWARD
PLANT CHAIRPERSON
7.03	The Union will supply the Company with a list of Stewards showing the zone for which each is responsible. The Company will be notified, in writing, each time a Steward resigns or is appointed, and will not be required to recognize any employee as a Steward whose name does not appear on the list.
7.04	The Union acknowledges that, with the exception of the Plant Chairperson, Stewards have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, and that such persons will not leave their regular duties without obtaining permission of their Immediate supervisor and when resuming their regular duties they will report to their supervisor and will give a reasonable explanation which may be required with respect to their absence. Stewards will be excused from regular duties for a period of two (2) hours quarterly. The Company will provide adequate meeting facilities upon receipt of two (2) weeks prior notification of the request for a Stewards meeting.
7.05	It is agreed that a Union Steward, or Committeep-erson will not enter a department with a view to conducting Union business therein, without the permission of the Supervisor of the department.
7.06	It is agreed that no employee will leave his/her work station to register a complaint or grievance with his/her Zone Steward, or otherwise to engage in Union business, without the permission of his/her Supervisor. Where, in the opinion of his/her- Supervisor, it is necessary or advisable for the employee to remain at his/her work station at time of asking, permission will be granted at the earliest possible time.
7.07	While attending meetings with Management, Stewards shall receive normal compensation of wages equal to their regular working hours, but not exceeding eight (8) hours in a day. This provision shall also apply to the Union Negotiating Committee during meetings with Management for renewal of the Agreement, (c
7.08	The Company shall convene a meeting with the Plant Chairperson and not more than two (2) Stewards upon receipt of an agenda of all matters to be discussed. Such meetings shall take place within two
(2) weeks from receipt of the agenda. The Union also recognizes that the Company may introduce matters for discussion.
7.09	During periods of approved leave of absence requested by the National Union Office, the Company agrees to continue payment of wages for employees who are excused from regular duties with the understanding that the Union shall reimburse the Company for any and all monies paid. Any such request for leave of absence must be forwarded in writing to the attention of the Manager, Industrial Relations.	ip.p'
ARTICLE 8 — COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties that employees’ complaints are settled as quickly as possible. A complaint shall be defined as concerning any subject that affects general working conditions or that falls within the terms and conditions of this agreement.
8.02	A grievance shall be defined as concerning any complaint that falls within the terms and conditions of this agreement.
8.03	If it is believed that a contravention of this agreement has occurred, the employee must discuss the complaint with his/her immediate Sueprvisorwithin three (3) working days of the alleged incident. When making a complaint, the employee may be accompanied by his/her Zone Steward. If the complaint is not resolved within one (1) working day, the grievance procedure may be invoked by reducing the complaint to writing on a form supplied by the Company and presenting same to the Manager, Industrial Relations as a formal grievance within three (3) working days following the rendering of the Supervisor’s answer.
STEP 1
8.04	The Manager, Industrial Relations shall convene a meeting with the appropriate management representative together with the aggrieved employee, the Zone Steward and Plant Chairperson within two (2) working days of the presentation of the formal grievance. The management representative involved must reply in writing to the grievance within two (2) working days of the hearing at Step 1. If the answer is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee then the matter may be referred immediately to the Manager, Industrial Relations who shall forward the grievance to the appropriate department head.
STEP 2
8.05	Within two (2) working days of the presentation of the grievance at this step, the department head shall convene a meeting with the aggrieved employee, the grievance committee and such other persons as management may desire. The department head will respond in writing to the grievance within two (2) days of the hearing at this step. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the grievance will be submitted to the Manager, Industrial Relations at any time within three (3) working days following the rendering of the department head’s answer.
STEP 3
8.06	A meeting will be convened within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance with the grievance committee, the grievor, National Union Representative or President of the Local, together with such other persons as Management may desire. The Management shall render its decision in writing within three (3) working days following the hearing at Step 3.
8.07	If the grievance is not settled as a result of this meeting, then at the request of either party the grievance may be referred to Arbitration.
8.08	If Arbitration is to be invoked, the request for Arbitration must be made within fifteen (15) working days after the grievance has been dealt with at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
8.09	Any time limits mentioned in Article 8 may be extended to a mutually agreed and specified date.
8.10	Nothing in this article is to be interpreted as restricting the number of witnesses that may be requested by either the Company or the Union.
8.11	Failure by the Union to observe its time limitswill constitute withdrawal of the grievance, while failure of the Company to observe its time limits will result in the granting of said grievance, provided it properly arises under this section and provided further that the circumstances giving rise to the alleged incident occurred or originated not more than five (5) days before the filing of the grievance at Step 1.
ARTICLE 9 -ARBITRATION
9.01	(a) When either party requests that a grievance
be submitted to Arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party. All grievances submitted to Arbitration will be handled by a sole arbitrator selected in accordance with the following.
(b)	A panel of arbitrators will be mutually agreed to by the parties, Empanelled arbitrators may be removed by mutual agreement between the parties and vacancies will also be filled by mutual agreement.
(c)	An arbitrator will be selected from the mutually agreed to panel In the following manner. Each arbitrator will be called upon to act on a rotating basis and the arbitrator will be contacted to determine
8
his/her availability. If that arbitrator is not available within sixty (60) days but is available at a later date, the parties may agree to accept that date or will proceed to the next arbitrator in order of rotation in the same manner until a mutually acceptable date is agreed.
(d)	In the event that no mutually agreed arbitrator is empanelled, or if there is no agreement in accordance with 9.01(c), the party serving notice of intent to arbitrate may request the Ministry of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint an impartial arbitrator.
9.02	No person may be appointed Arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to settle the grievance.
9.03	The parties will jointly bear the expense of the Arbitrator.
9.04	No matter may be submitted to Arbitration which has not been properly carried through all steps of the Grievance Procedure.
9.05	The Arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement nor alter, modify, or amend any part of this agreement.
9.06	In reaching his/her decision, the Arbitrator shall be governed solely by the provisions of this agreement.
The proceedings of the Arbitration will be expedited and the decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties.
9.07	At any stage of the Grievance Procedure, including Arbitration, the parties may have the assistance of the employee or employees concerned, and any necessary witnesses or relevant records, and all reasonable arrangements will be made to permit the parties to view disputed operations and to have access to the Plant.
9
ARTICLE 10 — DISCHARGE
10.01	The Union acknowledges that Probationary Employees may be dismissed for reasons less serious than would justify the dismissal of an employee on the Seniority List, and will not question the dismissal of any employee within sixty(6Q)_working days from the date on which s/he first commences to work for the Company.
10.02	A claim, by other than a Probationer, that s/he has been unjustly discharged from his/heremployment shall be treated as a grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within five (5) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. Such grievance will be submitted at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
10.03	Such special grievances may be settled confirming the Company’s action in dismissing the employee, or reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the parties.
10.04	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, s/he shall have the right to interview his/her Zone Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises, at a place designated by his/her immediate Supervisor.
10.05	In the event the Company requires to interview an employee concerning events the result of which could lead to disciplinary action, then the employee may request the attendance of his/her Steward during the interview.
ARTICLE 11 — COMPANY GRIEVANCES
11.01	It is understood that the Company may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union Grievance
10
Committee, any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its Officers, Committeepersons, or Stewards as such, and that if such complaint by the Company is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to Arbitration in the same way as a grievance of an employee.
ARTICLE 12 — SENIORITY Probationary Employees
12.01	An employee will be considered on probation, and will not be placed on a Seniority List until after s/he has worked for a total of sixty (60) days within a period of twelve (12) months.
Temporary Employees
12.02	(a) Employees hired to work specifically on the production of seasonal items will be considered temporary employees. A temporary employee who is continuously employed by the Company for longer than twenty-six (26) working weeks will be considered a Permanent employee and the individual’s seniority date will be twenty-six (26) weeks prior to the date on which s/he became permanent, For the purposes of the foregoing and applicable to temporary employees with at least twenty (20) working weeks of continuous employment, unlimited interruptions of one (1) week or less and one (1) interruption in continuous employment of more than one (1) week but no greater than four (4) weeks will not be considered as interruptions in continuous employment.
(b)	Employees hired under the provisions of this clause will be advised at the time of hiring of their temporary status.
11
Seniority Lists
12.03	Seniority Lists based upon the date on which employees commence to work for the Company shall be established quarterly for each department. Copies of these lists will be lodged with the Union and posted on the Plant Bulletin Board quarterly.
ARTICLE 13 — LAY-OFFS AND RECALLS Lay-Offs
13.01	(a) Where it becomes necessary to reduce the
working force, employees within the classifications, shift and department affected will receive notice of lay-off in ascending order of seniority provided remaining employees are qualified by virtue of skill and ability to perform the work required. Employees laid off indefinitely will be provided with a minimum of one^,t weeks’ notice in writing.
(b)	At the time of receiving notice of lay-off, employees will be permitted to indicate their choice of accepting lay-off or of exercising their seniority by displacing another employee as described in Clause 13.02. Employees failing to make a choice will be laid ,p1j( off.
(c)	Employees who choose to displace will be advised of the job into which they can displace prior to the displacement being effectd and will be given a final opportunity to accept lay-off.
(d)	The Company will not be obligated to follow the above or Clauses 13.02(a) and(b) when lay-offs are due to breakdown or other emergency for the rest of the day, or shift on which such breakdown or emergency occurs, except where the Company has information the day prior. Probationary and Temporary employees in the affected department will be laid off first in these lay-off situations.
12
(e)	Employees alleging that they have been laid off improperly must do so in writing not later than five (5) working days following the effective date of lay-off. Such written statement will be submitted directly to the Manager, Industrial Relations at that time and will be treated as a grievance and dealt with at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Bumping Procedures
13.02	(a) Employees who elect to displace who have sufficient seniority and skill and ability to perform the work shall displace the most junioremployee within the same wage rate classification and department in the first instance.
(b)	Failing to claim a job in the same wage rate classification in his/her own department the above process will be repeated in successively lower wage rate classifications until s/he either finds a job open to him/her by application of seniority or becomes subject to lay-off from that department.
(c)	Failing to claim a job in his/her department by application of seniority, and in the case of indefinite lay-off (in excess of 13 weeks) only, regular employees will be permitted to apply their seniority on a plant-wide basis in the same manner as described in (a) and (b) above.
(d)	Failing to claim a job in his/her department by application of seniority, and in the case of temporary lay-off (in excess of 2 days but not greater than 13 weeks), regular employees will be permitted to apply their seniority by displacing “temporary” employees on a plant-wide basis in the same manner as described in
(a)	and (b) above.
(e)	An employee who displaces will receive the Maximum Rate of pay for the new job.
13
(f)	Temporary employees are excluded from the above procedure and rights to claim a job are restricted as outlined in Letter of Understanding No. 2.
Recall
13.03	(a) At the time of lay-off, employees will be entitled to Indicate a second choice of recall to another department, shift or job which will be in addition to the department, shift and job they held at the time of lay-off.
(b)	Employees will be recalled from indefinite lay-off') ~l-by registered letter, in order of seniority, to the.f;. department, shift and job they held prior to being / placed on lay-off or, subject to their having sufficient ' seniority and skill and ability to perform the work, to their second choice of recall. An employee who declines recall to their second choice will not be offered such recall again.
(c)	An employee who is recalled to their second choice will receive the Maximum rate of of pay for the new job.
(d)	Employees who displace or are recalled into another job will be recalled, in order of seniority, to the department, shift and job held priortothedisplacement or lay-off.
(e)	Recall of employees will be actioned prior to any job posting.
Super Seniority — Plant Chairperson	Zi'-Z ^
13.04	In the event of a lay-off, the Plant Chairperson shall have super seniority.
ARTICLE 14 - LOSS OF SENIORITY
14.01	The seniority of an employee may be considered broken, all rights forfeited and there shall be no obligation to rehire when s/he:
14
(a)	Voluntarily leaves the Company’s employ
(b)	Has been out of the Company’s employ for a period of two (2) years due to lay-off.
(c)	Fails to return to active employment not later than twelve (12) days from date of mailing (by registered letter) of recall notice.
(d)	Has been absent without leave or overstays leave of absence for three (3) consecutive working days, or more, unless excused by satisfactory proof.
(e)	Has been discharged
(f)	Has been on medical leave for a period not exceeding two (2) years or the length of service whichever is shorter.
(g)	Accepts other employment while on leave of absence (except medical leave) without permission from the Company.
ARTICLE 15 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	(a) The Company may grant leave of absence in writing to any employee for legitimate reasons, and any person absent with such written permission shall not be considered laid-off. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during the leave of absence.
I (b) Pregnancy leave shall be as provided for under the Ontario Employment Standards Act. Such leave upon mutual agreement of the parties maybeextended as a result of certified medical complications. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during the pregnancy leave and extension.
15.02	An employee returning from leave of absence, including medical leave of absence, shall be reinstated in the same job grade as that held immediately prior to the start of the leave of absence, provided s/he has complied with all the conditions of the leave
absence. Such reinstatement will be made provided there isa jobopening in thesamejobgrade.orthereisa less senior employee in the same job grade, or there is a less senior employee in the same job grade within the same department and provided the returning employee has sufficient skill and ability to perform the work.
Paid Education Leave
15.03	(a) The Company agrees to pay into a special - )( fund fourteen thousand dollars ($14,QQ0) on March
1990	and two cents ($.02) per hour per employee for all ) compensated hours effective and following March 1,
1991	for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Said paid education leave will be for the purpose of upgrading the employee’s skills in all aspects of Trade Union functions. Such monies will be paid into a trust fond established by the National Union, CAW and sent by the Company to the following address: CAW Paid Education Leave program, P.O. Box 897, Port Elgin, Ontario NOH 2C0. Effective March 1. 1991. such payments will be made on a quarterly basis
(b) The Company further agrees that members of the bargaining unit selected by the Union to attend such courses, will be granted a leave of absence without pay for twenty (20) days of class time, plus travel time where necessary, said leave of absence to be intermittent over a twelve (12) month period from the first day of leave. Such leaves will not exceed two (2) employees per PEL session with additional leaves granted subject to the agreement of the Company. Employees on said leave of absence will continue to accrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
ARTICLE 16 — BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITH PAY
16.01	This article applies only to employees who have completed their probationary period and is to be used
16
for the purposes of attending the funeral. In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, child or step-child of an employee, the Company will grant up to a maximum of three (3) days leave of absence with pay. Only one (1) day leave of absence with pay will be granted where because of distance or other reason, the regular employee does not attend the funeral of the deceased relative. Only days which would otherwise have been working days will be paid for under the provisions of this article.
ARTICLE 17 — JURY DUTY t 1 ' |
17.01	The Company will pay an employee his/her regular day’s pay for every scheduled workday that s/he is attending iury duty. However, any pay that s/he may receive for his/her jury service, from other sources, shall be signed over to the Company. It is expected that an employee will report for work if jury duty is not required on a normal workday. This section shall also apply to an employee who is subpoenaed as a Crown Witness provided the employee is not the accused.
^ARTICLE 1a - JOB POSTING AND TRANSFERS
18.01	(a) In the event that new jobs are created or
\ vacancies occur in jobs other than in the E-Various
classification, or in any temporary job in these classifications expected to last for more than three (3) weeks, the Company will-post such new jobs or vacancies for a period of tfuee (3) working days to allow employees to apply.
(b) Vacancies within the E-Various classification expected to last for more than three (3) weeks will be filled through a “Roster” system. An employee in this classification who wishes to transfer from his/her shift and/or job to another shift and/or job within the
E-Various classification will complete a “Request for Transfer* form in triplicate. A copy shall be given to the Plant Chairperson, the Personnel Department and s/he shall retain a copy for file. Requests for transfer will be handled in accordance with Clause 18.03 except that an employee may not fill more than three (3) temporary vacancies in a twelve (12) month period except by mutual agreement between the Plant Chairperson and the Manager, Industrial Relations.
(c)	Probationary employees will not be permitted to apply for vacancies. Temporary employees will not be permitted to apply for vacancies but will have preference by department for permanent full-time positions prior to the Company recruiting from outside.
18.02	The Company may temporarily secure a person
for the vacant job.	•j/' r?*
18.03	Vacancies will be filled by the. senior applicant provided s/he has sufficient skill and ability to-perform the work. In filling new jobs, preference will be given to applicants from the department with the new job and failing to fill the vacancy from within that particular department, applicants from other departments will be considered. Management reserves the right to hire outside help when no applicant has sufficient skill and ability to perform the work. Unsuccessful applicantsfor permanent posted jobs will be notified by the Company as soon as practical after a decision is made.
18.04	It is agreed that successful applicants for permanent jobs will not be permitted to re-apply for a period of nine (9) months. This restriction shall not apply to applicants for temporary jobs.
18.05	When a vacancy is posted, only two (2) further vacancies arising out of the original posting will be posted.
18
18.06	A successful applicant for a posted job, required to remain on his/her present job, will be paid at the higher of the minimum rate for the posted job or his/her present rate, from the fourteenth (14th) working day from his/her date of acceptance.
18.07	(a) When an employee is transferred from one group or department to another, his/her seniority shall be transferred when s/he has satisfactorily completed a probationary period of sixty (60) working days in the
.new department and the transfer becomes permanent.
'In the event an employee fails to complete the probationary period s/he shall be returned and any other employee transferred will also be returned to their previous position.
(b)	An employee transferred to a higher wage rate classification will receive the Minimum Rate of pay for the new job and the principle of Clause 27.08(a) will apply. However, if the employee becomes proficient on the new job earlier, s/he will receive the Maximum Rate of pay.
18.08	An employee who successfully applies for a temporary job shall return to his/her own job upon completion of the temporary assignment. Temporary as referred to in this section shall not exceed a period of twenty-six (26) working weeks in most cases, however, this period may be extended due to unforeseen circumstances, upon mutual agreement of the parties.
(7 18.09 Any new jobs created during the lifetime of this Agreement will be negotiated with the Union.
Temporary Transfer for Company’s Convenience 18.10 (a) A temporary transfer for the convenience of the Company is one which is initiated by the Company in employing personnel to meet work priorities or emergencies and could be up to three (3) weeks in duration.
19
(b)	An employee transferred for a temporary period from one job to another for the convenience of the Company shall receive his/her regular rate of pay or the Maximum Rate of pay for the temporary job, whichever is the greater.
ARTICLE 19— HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.01	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the health and safety of employeesduring the hours of their employment. A first aid station with a full-time attendant during the day shift shall be maintained. On other shifts there shall be a full-time attendant or employees trained in first aid work available to aid employees. Protective devices and other equipment which the Company deems necessary to protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. (This shall not be construed to include items as Safety Shoes, which become an employee’s personal property.)
19.02	The Company agrees to post a list of qualified First Aid practitioners who may be called in case of an accident.
Health and Safely Committee
19.03	In addition to the above, the parties agree to set up a Health and Safety Committee. The Committee, / shall be composed of five (5) members appointed byu?<^ the Union, five (5) members appointed by the''! Company, one of whom shall be appointed Chairper- ' son. Terms of reference for the Committee shall be drawn up and reviewed from time to time.
Plant Health and Safety Representative
19.04	At the request of the Plant Chairperson, the Plant Health and Safety Representative for the Union will be assigned to theday shift. Alternatively,and atthe
20
request of the Plant Chairperson, the Plant Health and Safety Representative’s assignment to the day shift may be delayed pending a vacancy in his/her classification on the day shift in which case the assignment will be made notwithstanding the provisions of Article 18, Following the assignment to the day shift, the representative will remain on that shift as long as s/he remains in the position of Plant Health and Safety Representative.
Safety Shoe Allowance
19.05	Effective March 1, 1989, the Company will contribute sixty dollars ($60.00) and effective March 1, 1990, the Company will contribute sixty-five dollars ($65.00) in each year of this Agreement towards the cost of safety shoes for all permanent employees who provide proof of purchase.
ARTICLE 20 — BULLETIN BOARDS
20.01	The Company will provide Bulletin Boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the Plant for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity. Such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the local Union and submitted to the Company for approval before posting.
20.02	Upon approval from the Manager, Industrial Relations the Union will be entitled to make use of the Electronic Bulletin Board.
ARTICLE 21 — WEEKLY HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Hours of Work
21.01	The following clauses define the normal hours of work and do not constitute a guarantee to provide work to any employee for regularly assigned hours or for any other hours.
21
(a)	The normal work week for regular full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours per week comprised of five (5) eight (8) hour days Monday through Friday. Regularly assigned hours of work for all employees will be posted and agreed to by both parties.
(b)	The daily hours of work and the number of days prescribed in the schedule for each individual may be altered from time to time for the operation and improvement of the business. The Company will provide affected employees with as much advance notice as possible of such alterations.
(c)	It is the intention of the Company to schedule the work week so that the starting point of the first shift in any work week will fell between Sunday midnight, and Monday midnight, inclusive. If, in the interest of efficient operation, it should become necessary to schedule a work week other than above, the Company agrees to communicate to, and discuss with the Union any such change at least one week before the change becomes effective.
(d)	(i) Skilled Tradespersons in any or all of Groups 1,2,3, and 4, who are hired after October7,1985, will be hired on condition they rotate shifts when appropriate schedules are arranged by Management.
(ii)	Any other Tradesperson may volunteer to rotate shifts but in so doing will not lose the right to apply for a permanent shift.
(iii)	The shift rotation will be 6 weeks unless an alternative period is agreed.
Lunch Periods
21.02	(a) The standard lunch period is thirty (30) minutes without pay.
22
(b)	When considered appropriate, the Company may authorize a twenty (20) minute paid break for designated employees.
(c)	The lunch period will be scheduled as close as is reasonably possible to the mid-point of each shift.
(d)	In association with the deletion of the option of 45 minute lunch breaks, changes to the shift hours in the Moulding Department were agreed to with the following provisos:
(i)	Permanent employees currently employed in the Moulding Department will not be affected unless they request a change.
(ii)	When appropriate, new employees will be hired for relieving purposes according to the proposed shift hours change.
Rest Periods
21.03	(a) The Company agrees to grant a rest period of ten (10) minutes during each half shift or overtime shift where work will continue for four (4) hours or more.
(b) The time for the above rest periods will be assigned by each Supervisor as close as is reasonably possible to the mid-point of the half shift or overtime shifts.
Overtime Regulations
21.04	(a) The Company may require employees to perform work in excess of their regularly assigned hours.
(b)	If overtime is required, it is the Company’s intention to utilize on the overtime the same employees as normally perform the jobs required, unless an alternative agreed system is in operation.
23
(c)	Overtime shall be voluntary in the first instance, however, if sufficient volunteers do not make themselves available, the Company shall then appoint employees by ascending order of seniority. ^-|
Overtime Requirements
21.05	Overtime rates will be paid to regular full-time employees for:
(a)	All hours worked in excess of the number of hours scheduled for that day.
(b)	All hours worked immediately prior to his/her regular starting time.
(c)	All hours worked on Saturday or Sunday except where, as outlined in an employee’s schedule, the shift begins or ends on a Monday through Friday.
(d)	All hours worked on the sixth (6th) day or seventh (7th) day as outlined in the employee’s schedule.
Overtime Payments
21.06	Where overtime is required, regular full-time employees will be compensated as follows:
(a) One and one-half (1VS) times their regular rates for the first four (4) hours of overtime worked in excess of the number of'hours scheduled for the day or hours worked immediately prior to his/her regular starting time, and two /2) times their regular rates for all consecutive overttfne worked in excess of four (4)
■ Z1-'
U(
hours overtime in that day.
(b) One and one-half (1 VS) times their regular rates for the first eight (8) hours worked on Saturday or their sixth (6th) day, and two (2) times their regular rates for D) all hours worked in excess thereof on that day.
(c) Two (2) times their regular rates for all hours worked on Sunday or their seventh (7 th) day. _ ,
Jr,’
24
Overtime Meals
21.07	(a) An employee required to work in excess of two (2) hours beyond normal quitting time, and who has not been warned before commencing work on that shift that overtime is required, will be granted a meal ticket by the company.
(b) An employee required to work Iwo (2) hours or more of overtime immediately following his/her normal shift will be allowed a paid meal break before commencing the overtime period. This paid break may be twenty (20) minutes at straight time or ten (10) minutes at time and a half at the option of the employee, or where the employee is a member of a group or team, at the option of the majority of the members of the team or group. Employees who decline the meal break are not entitled to payment in lieu thereof.
!	(c) The amount of the meal allowance is $4.50. The
meal allowance will be review&by the Company twice |. per year in March and September, and will be amended at these times to reflect current prices in the Company Cafeteria.
No Accumulation of Overtime Premium
21.08	There shall be no accumulation of overtime premiums or payment of double premiumsforthesame hours, but the highest single premium shall apply.
Reporting Allowances
21.09	It is recognized that, as required by their daily schedules, regular employees expect to start work and finish work at given times exclusive of overtime provisions.
21.10	Where an employee is instructed to report late by the Company, and is required to work beyond his/her scheduled quitting time, one and one-half (Vh)
times his/her regular rate will be paid for all hours worked after his/her scheduled quitting time. The principle of Clause 21.06(a) will apply.
21.11	An employee who reports for work at his/her regular time and is sent home because no .work is available, shall be paid for three-quarters, (3/4)^the number of hours regularly assigned on that shift or day. This provision shall not apply in cases of fire, lightning, power failure, or like causes of work stoppage beyond l the Company’s control.
21.12	An employee, who has clocked out and gone
home and who is recalled to perform emergency work, shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at overtime rates, and in addition shall be paid for one (1) hour travelling time at overtime rates.	ij
P,
(P
ARTICLE 22 — PLANT HOLIDAYS
22.01 Permanent employees with proper seniority standing will be paid for the following Plant Holiays regardless of the day on which they fall:
Good Friday	Toronto Civic Holiday
Easter Monday	Labour Day
Victoria Day Canada Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christmas 1989	Christmas 1991
December 25-29	December 25-27
inclusive	inclusive
January 1, 1990	December 30 and 31 January 1, 1992
Christmas 1990	
December 25-28	inclusive P P 26
December 31	
January 1, 1991	
The above Christmas holidays include the Plant Holiday (floater) previously celebrated on the second Monday in November, plus two (2) additional plant holidays (floaters).
If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Company reserves the right to pay for the Friday or the Monday, all provided that:
(a)	The employee is not absent from work on his/her regularly scheduled shift immediately before and after the holiday.
(b)	The employee, at the discretion of the Company has been granted special leave of absence in writing, and this leave of absence does not exceed ten (10) working days before or after the holiday such time to include the holiday.
(c)	Any employee refused permission for leave of absence in respect to the day before or the day after a holiday, can report the matter to the Plant Chairperson. The Company, thereupon, will state its reasons for refusing permission.
(d)	The employee was not laid off more than ten (10) working days immediately preceding the holiday or was recalled within ten (10) working days immediately after the holiday.
(e)	An employee can prove that s/he was sick or that it was impossible for him/her to attend work. In case of doubt, then the employee’s attendance record will be the governing factor. Any borderline cases will be discussed and settled by the Management and the Plant Chairperson. In the case of an extended illness, which is proven, payment will be made for all plant holidays falling within and up to a limit of six (61 calendar months from the commencement of said absence. If the employee receives Worker’s Compensation or Weekly Indemnity Benefits for this day, the
27
Company will pay only the difference between the daily benefit and the employee’s daily base'earnings.
(f)	Employees called to work during the summer holiday shutdown period and laid off on Civic Holiay will be paid for that day at basic pay rates provided they work on their properly assigned hours on the working days previous to and succeeding the Civic Holiday, and subject to foregoing Clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e), in which case the Monday following the shutdown will be for them a regular working day paid at regular rates.
(g)	Employees not celebrating Civic Holiday during
shutdown will	do	so	on	the Monday	following	the
shutdown, and	will	be	paid for that day	at basic	rates
subject to the foregoing Clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), and
(e).
(h)	Days counted as working days include Monday to Friday with the exception of days recognized as Statutory Holidays, namely,
Good Friday	Labour Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving	Day
Canada Day
and days falling during the Christmas periods outlined in Clause 22.01.
Rate of Pay for Plant Holiday not Worked
22.02	The rate of pay for the (or a) holiday designated in Clause 22.01 and not worked, shall be one (1) day’s regular assigned hours multiplied by the employee’s basic rate.
Rate of Pay for Plant Holiday Worked
22.03	(a) Any work performed on a holiday designated in Clause 22.01 will be considered overtime work. When such holidays are observed on a normal working day, the rate of pay shall be two (2) times an employee’s
28 /
basic rate, multiplied by the number of hours worked; this is in addition to the one (1) day’s pay provided for employees who do not work the statutory holiday.
(b)	When the holiday is observed on a day which is not a normal working day, payment for any work performed will be made according to the regular overtime regulations.
Public Holiday for Shift Workers
22.04	In determining the shift which shall be considered the public holiday for shift workers, the following formula shall be used:
(a)	Where any of the hours of a scheduled shift fall on the calendar day of a public holiday, that day shall be considered the public holiday, except where any hours of two (2) scheduled shifts fall on the calendar day of the holiday, that shift having the bulk of its hours falling on the calendar day of the public holiday shall be considered as the public holiday.
(b)	It is recognized that, depending on the day of the week observed as the public holiday, the application of Clause (a) could cause hardships for employees or be impractical for production purposes. Where this happens, the Company may reschedule an adjoining regular shift to some other day of the week and regular rates of pay shall apply.
ARTICLE 23 — VACATION
23.01	Entitlement to vacation with pay for regular employees will be in accordance with the following chart. Entitlement for employees who will complete two (2) or more years of service within the calendar year is based on the employee’s anniversary date.
29

Continuous Service."''’		Entitlement	Pay
(ayeat- July 1st) q j	<£>'2	2 weeks	4%
5 years (') ' ■>'	O V	■ 3 weeks	6%
20 years , years _ 1 •	(	. 4 weeks	8%
	C ’3 '■	■"5 weeks	10%
30 years	at	, 6 weeks	12%
Effective March 1,1990			
Continuous Service		Entitlement	Pay
1 year (as of July 1st)		2 weeks	4%
5 years		3 weeks	6%
10years (O'		4 weeks	8%
20 years		5 weeks	10%
30 years		6 weeks	12%
23.02 (a) Vacation pay	shall	be calculated at 2% of	
earnings for the twelve (12) month period			immediately
preceding July 1st for each week of vacation entitlement. Earnings include straight time, overtime, shift premium and vacation pay.
(b)	Regular employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of Juiy 1st shall receive 4% of their earnings preceding July 1st.
(c)	Vacation pay on a separate cheque will be issued when vacation is taken, subject to normal deductions.
(<d\ If for any reason the employment of an employee is terminate, s/he will be entitled to receive vacation pay in accordance with his/her vacation entitlement at the date of termination.
23.03 Vacations will be scheduled in such a manner that satisfies the needs of the business and recognizes the wishes of the employees in accordance with the following:
(a)	The Company may close the Plant, or any part of it, for vacation purposes at any time convenient to it between July 1 and August 31, in any year. The Company will give employees not less than thirty (30) days notice of the date of the vacation shutdown.
(b)	The Company reserves the right to ask any employee to take his/her vacation at a time convenient to the Company other than the period in which the Plant is shutdown.
(c)	Employees may request to take vacation at any time during the year and such requests will require mutual agreement by the Company.
(d)	Regular employees shall be permitted to take two (2) consecutive weeks of vacation time off between the 3rd week of June and the 1st week of September. Where the needs of the business permit, an additional week of vacation will be added to this two (2) weeks.
(e)	Entitlement to vacation time off must be taken prior to December 31st.
23.04	Where an employee shows proof of hospitalized sickness during the course of his/her previously scheduled vacation, the period of hospitalization and Weekly Indemnity Benefit shall not count towards the employee’s vacation and will be rescheduled toanother mutually agreeable time.
23.05	Vacation entitlement for temporary employees shall be governed by the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 24 - BENEFITS
The provisions of Clauses 24.01 to 24.04 shall not apply to Probationary and Temporary employees except that O.H.I.P. premiums will be reimbursed to Probationary employees on successful completion of their probationary period.
31
O.H.I.P.
24.01	(a) The Company agrees to pay 100% of the
Ontario Health Insurance Plan (O.H.I.P.) Single Rate Premium.
(b) The Company will pay 100% of the O.H.I.P. Family Rate Premium, provided it is satisfied that the employee is the head of the household.
Weekly Indemnity
24.02	(a) The Company agrees to pay 100% of the Weekly Indemnity Plan and 100% of the.Group Medical Plan. New employees quality for the Weekly Indemnity Plan and the Group Medical Plan membership after three (3) months of continuous active service, and subject to the applicable group insurance regulations.
(b)	The Weekly Indemnity Plan will provide a benefit
of 66 2/3% of regular weekly earnings, up to the Unemployment Insurance Commission maximum benefits. For the purpose of Weekly Indemnity, “regular weekly earnings” shall be defined as the normal weekly hours times the employee’s hourly base rate at straight' time.	i
(c)	The Weekly Indemnity Benefit will commenceVn the first (1st) calendar day of absence due to accident, or the fourth (4th) calendar day of absence due to sickness, and will continue during the period of eligible disability, but for a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks. Effective March 1,1990 the maximum period of benefit will be increased to 72 weeks. Payment of benefit for weeks 27-41 (inclusive) is subject to the employee initiating a claim for U.I.C. Sickness Benefit to cover wholly or in part, benefit for weeks 27-41 inclusive. An employee who provides proof of hospitalization for sickness will qualify for Weekly Indemnity from the first (1st) day of such hospitalization.
32
(d)	The benefits provided under this Clause are accepted by the Union in full satisfaction of the employee share of Unemployment Insurance premium rebates, which rebates will then become payable to the Company.
(e)	Effective June 1, 1989, the Company will pay for all employees with one (1) or more years of continuous service 100% of the premiums on the Dental Plan. The
features on the nlan are-
1991, the plan will be upgraded to 1990 ODA rates,
— Basic Plan — 100% coverage ($1,000 maximum per
— Major Restorative — 50/50 co-insurance ($1,000 hf ( maximum per year)
y'L — Perio/Endo — 50/50 co-insurance ($1,000 maxi-fl. mum per year)
(f)	The Group Medical Plan will include. “Vision |/ ,u Care" at a level of $75.00 every two (2) years, and is '?) subject to the Carrier's requirements. The plan will . V) provide for a $25.00 deductible, 100% on drugs and the ' " ’ balance of the plan at 80%/20% co-insurance. Effective March 1,1990 the 80/20 co-insurance will be upgraded to 100% benefit.
' ' (g) The Company shall continue its practice , concerning the supply of “Prescription Safety Glasses” •’ ‘ as a requirement of the job.
Life Insurance
24.03	On completion of six (6) months continuous service, all employees who are under sixty-five (65) years of age at completion of such period of service will be covered by Group Life Insurance as follows:
year)
33
(a)	Life insurance of $25,000.	>
(b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insu- r, ance t o $25,000.
(c)	A paid-up Life insurance Policy of $1,000.00 at age sixty-five (65) or earlier retirement. Effective March 1, 1990, the payment will be increased to $1,500.00.
24.04	All Group Life Insurance premiums are payable in full by the Company, except for the paid-up Life Insurance policy. Group Life Insurance coverage ceases when an employee reaches sixty-five (65) years or age, or on the date of retirement, if earlier.
ARTICLE 25 — GENERAL/MISCELLANEOUS
Dress Requirements
25.01	(a) All employees will be provided with one (1) clean uniform and suitable hair covering each week. Additional uniforms will be supplied as necessary. Uniforms are the property of the Company and must not be taken from the premises.
(b) Employees required to perform outside work during the winter months will be supplied with duffle coats. Such coats are and remain Company property, and their issue shall be subject to such regulations as may, from time to time, be required.
Tool Allowance
25.02	(a) Tradespersons are required to have the complete set of tools specified by the Company for their trade. ^Apprentices- are required to have the complete set of tools specified by the Company for their trade by the end of each year of their apprenticeship. The Company may verify that Tradespersons and Apprentices tool kits are complete and in serviceable condition but not more than twice in any calendar year.
34
(b)	Tool Allowance will be $200.00 per year and shall be paid out on the first pay in September of each year.
Work Performed by Supervisors
25.03	Supervisors, Technical Staff and those above that rank shall not perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit except under the fallowing conditions:
^ (a) In case of emergencies.
' (b) When regular employees are not available due to absenteeism, provided no other hourly rated employees suitably qualified are available to fulfill that position.
(c)	For instruction
(d)	When it is necessary to improve new or existing processes or procedures.
Technological Change
25.04	In the event of a reduction in the number of jobs as a result of technological change or the introduction of major capital equipment, the Company agrees to discuss such changes with the Union prior to the
/; introduction of such change. The Company further /agrees to minimize the dislocation to the greatest I extent possible and will review all possibilities for alternative employment.
ARTICLE 26 — MAINTENANCE GRADING SYSTEM Grading
26.01 The payment of Merit Maximum Rate is dependent on the employee meeting the requirements for advancement of grade. This system provides a higher rate for proven qualifications. The Company has removed the ceiling on the number of vacancies in each
35
grade so that once a Tradesperson qualifies, s/he will receive the higher rate. Probation period will now be considered as sixty (60) working days which is in line with the Plant.
Qualifications
26.02 Trade MECHANIC Start	Requirements Ontario Millwrights License or approved apprenticeship. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
Before completion of Demonstrate a basic know-probation, to Job Rate ledge of pneumatics, basic
To advance to Merit Maximum	welding skills, basic machining skills. One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman. Advanced pneumatics. Avanced welding. Avanced machining. Rownlree Macintosh written and practical test.
MACHINIST Start	Approved apprenticeship. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
Job Rate	On completion of probation period.
	36
To advance to Merit Maximum	One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman. Advanced machining skills. Advanced welding skills. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
ELECTRICIAN Start	Ontario license.
Job Rate	Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test. On completion of probation period.
To advance to Merit Maximum	Ontario license. Basic knowledge of electronics, electrical theory and practice. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test. One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman.
ELECTRONIC TECHNICIAN
Start	C.E.T. or equivalent.
Job Rate	Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test. On completion of probation period.
	37
To advance to Merit Maximum	One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman. Demonstrate a knowledge of advanced electronics. Rowntree Mackintosh written
and practical test.
If any employee is awarded the position of Electronic Technician by virtue of “Equivalent” qualifications, then the management will advise the Maintenance Steward.
PIPEFITTER Start	Ontario Steamfitters license. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
Job Rate To advance to Merit Maximum	On completion of probation. Ontario Steamfitters license. Ontario Gasfitters license. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test. One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman.
BUILDING TRADES (CARPENTER/MASON/PAINTER) Start	Ontario license or approved
apprenticeship.
Before completion of Demonstrate a basic know-Probation, to Job Rate ledge of his/her trade.
Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
38
To advance to Merit Maximum
LUBRICATOR
Start
To advance to Job Rate.
One (1) year Rowntree Mackintosh experience as a Journeyman/woman. Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test.
Rowntree Mackintosh written and practical test of mechanical comprehension.
On completion of probation.
Rowntree Mackintosh Testing
26.03 (a) The Company will pay test fees, if any, for the initial tests for advanced grading. Subsequent fees will only be paid for by the Company for successfuly completed tests.
(b)	The Company will allow time off with pay to take the test for the first attempt only. Subsequent tests due to failure will be on the employee’s own time.
(c)	Tests will be carried out on Rowntree Mackintosh premises, with invigilation and assessment by the Apprentices Training Supervisor.
(d)	The Tradesperson will be advised of the marks for his/her tests and will be given the opportunity to discuss his/her results with Management. In the event of a dispute over the marking, the test will besubmitted to an outside marker for re-evaluation. Any fees will be paid by the Tradesperson if the resultsare upheld, or by the Company if they are found at fault.
(e)	Re-examination in a failed test will be allowed after a lapse of twelve (12) weeks.
39
(f) A Tradesperson who has successfully completed his/her Apprenticeship with Rowntree Mackintosh Canada Limited will move to Job Rate. The date that an Apprentice will be considered a full Journeyman/ woman, will be either the date of his/her successful completion of the license examination, or the date s/he completes his/her time requirements, whichever comes first.
(g) Advancement to Merit Maximum will be under the existing rules for his/her trade.
O f~) r
Trades Apprentices	x
26.04 (a) The Company agrees that, pririrto the final selection of Apprentices, the candidates will be reviewed with the Union to ensure an understanding of the criteria used in the selection as compared to the candidates. Additionally, the Union will be consulted with respect to the criteria and tests used in the selection of Apprentices generally.
(b)	Trades Apprentices will carry out the job of Trades Helper, and will be allowed leave of absence to cover the classroom instruction required under the Apprentices' and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. Trades Apprentices will be familiarized with materials, tools and principles needed in the trade by a qualified Tradesperson nominated by the Company, and will come under all other contract provisions except as provided in 26.04(c).
(c)	For job posting, lay-off, transfers to avoid lay-off and recall purposes into a skilled trades job in the Maintenance Department, the seniority date of an employee who has successfully completed his/her RMC apprenticeship, shall be considered as the day s/he becomes a Joumeyman/woman.
(d)	All hours worked by an an apprentice within his/her trade will be included against the apprenticeship qualifying hours.
Trade Licenses
26.05 The Company will pay the cost of annual trade licenses for trades in which the employee performs work provided that the employee has completed his/her probationary period. To be eligible for this allowance, the employee must produce the relevant trade license.
ARTICLE 27 — WAGE RATES, JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND GRADES 27.01 PRODUCTION GRADES
$ $ $
	Eff. Mar.	1,1989	Eff.	Mar4JL990	Eff. Mar. 1,1991	
	Start	Merit Max Start		vJYIerit Max Start		Merit Max
E-Various D1	•''9 10.42	10.54 10.81	HT5f	,11.62 11.46	rT37	11.92 11.76
D2 /-C1 u	10.81		11.46	1T6'9'>	11.76	
	11.03	11.10	11.68	'TilS	11.98	12.05
C2	11.06	11.17	11.71	11.82	12.01	12.12
B1	11.36	11.47	12.01	12.12	1281	12.42
B2	11.43	11.52	12.08	12.17	1288	12.47
Al	11.56	11.67	1221	1282	1251	12.62
A2	11.86	11.99	’42.51	12.64	12.81	12.94
Eff. May 30,1989						
		Merit Max				
E-Various	Vii®-)	10.97				
27.02 MAINTENANCE
$
Eff. Mar. 1,1989
Merit
	Start	Job	Max
Gardener	15.17	15.76	16.18
Group 1 Carpenter	''1567)	16.26	16.68
Cement Mason	15.67	1656	16.68
Painter	15.67	16.26	16.68
Group 2 PiDe-	16.68	17.27	17.87
fitter/Steamfitter			
Group 3 Mechanic		17.37	18.55
Packaging Machinist	Mechanic		
Electronics	Technician		
Electrician
$ $
Eff.Mar.1,		1990	Eff. Mar. 1,		1991
Start	Job	Merit Max	Start	Job	Merit Max
15.92	16.51	16.93	16.37	16.96	17.38
-"'X ’1642) T6.42	17.01 17.01	17.43 17.43	& 16.87	17.46 17.46	17.88 17.88
16.42	17.01	17.43	16.87	17.46	17.88
17.43	18.02	18.62	17.88	18.47	19.07
16.93/ 18.12	19.30 J738' 18.57
19.75
Group 4
Electrical/	18.12	18.94	19.49
Electronic Technician
18.87	19.69	2024
19.32	20.14	20.69
		$		$		$
	Eff. Mar. 1,1989		Eff. Mar. 1,1990		Eff. Mar. 1,1991	
	Start	Merit Max Start		Merit Max	Start	Merit Max
Lubricator	13.50	13.92	14.15	14.57	14.45	14.87
Maintenance General	12.82	1327	13.47	13.92	13.77	1422
Maintenance Dept. Helper	10.42	10.81	11.07	11.46	11.37	11.76
Receiver Maintenance Stores	11.95	12.03	12.60	12.68	12.90	12.98
Storeskeeper	12.40	12.51	13.05	13.16	1335	13.46
Wicket Attendant	11.95	12.03	12.60	12.68	12.90	12.98
27.03	APPRENTICES
$
Eff. Mar. 1,1989
$
Eff. Mar. 1,1990
S
Eff. Mar. 1,1991
Start Rate 2nd Year 3rd Year 4th Year
12.01
13.05
14.10
15.13
12.76
1350
14.85
15.88
13.21
14.25
15.30
16.33
Trades Apprentice Wage Rates
27.04	The hourly rates paid will be as follows:
(a)	During his/her first (1st) period s/he will be paid the Trade Apprentice Start Rate.
(b)	During his/her second (2nd) period s/he will be paid the Trade Apprentice Start Rate plus 25% of the difference between Trade Apprentices Start Rate and Tradesperson Start Rate.
(c)	During his/her third (3rd) period s/he will be paid the Apprentice Start Rate plus 50% of the difference between the Trade Apprentice Start Rate and Tradesperson Start Rate.
(d)	During his/herfourth (4th) period s/he will be paid the Apprentice Start Rate plus75%of the difference between the Trade Apprentice Start Rate and Tradesperson Start Rate.
27.05	Any one of the three (3) schools (Basic, Intermediate, Advanced) may be heldatatime which overlaps two (2) periods. If this occurs, the Trade Apprentice’s Rate will be increased at the normal changeover time but will remain at the newest rate indefinitely until the appropriate schooling has been successfully completed.
27.06	LEAD HANDS
$ $ $
Eff. Mar. 1,1989 Eff. Mar. 1,1990 Eff. Mar. 1,1991
Level 1
Moulding Various	11.88	12.53	12.83
(off shifts)
Assortment Packing Coffee Crisp Wrapping Bar Packing Conveyor Warehouse Toffee (off shifts)
Level 2
After Eight Enrober	12.51	13.16	13.46
Operator
Assortment Enrober Conform Line Cream Manufacturing Crumb Plant Flavour Room Moulding Manufacturing Toffee High Boil Wafer Department II inp nnoratArt
-g
Receiving
Shipping
Warehouse Transfers Cleaning and Sanitation Smarties
Moulding Various (Days)
Sample Room Toffee (Days
Level 3
Wafer Department	13.10	13.75
General
Chocolate Manufacturing (1st Floor)
Chocolate Making (Mixing Section)
Aasted
27.07	RECEIVING DEPARTMENT
$ $ $
Eff. Mar. 1,1989 Eff. Mar. 1,1990 Eff. Mar. 1,1991
Start Merit Max Start Merit Max Start Merit Max
11.78	12.13	12.43	12.78	12.73	13.08
Truck Driver
Wage Rate Progression
27.08	(a) Employees will progress from minimum in Factory Grades within a period of not more than ninety (90) working days for Grade “A” and sixty (60) working days for all other Production Grades.
(b) In the Maintenance grades, employees will progress from Start Rate to Job Rate in not more than ninety (90) working days. In the skilled trades, employees may progress from Job Rate to Merit Maximum after one (1) year’s service, provided they meet current qualifications. U M
, . .- ( ,<.
Shift Premiums	.:	&VM
27.09	Shift workers will receive the following premiums:
Effective May 30, 1989 forty-one cents ($0.41) per hour on an Afternoon Shift and fifty-five cents ($0.55) per hour on a Night Shift.
Effective March 1, 1991 forty-six cents ($0.46) per hour on an Afternoon Shift and sixty cents ($0.60) per hour on a Night Shift.
Cost of Living
27.10	Effective March 1, 1991 and thereafter during the term of this Agreement, each employee will receive a cost of living allowance as set forth in this clause.
The amount of cost of living adjustment (COLA) shall be determined in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index on the base 1981 =100, hereafter referred to as the "1981 Consumer Price Index” or "1981 CPI”. In determining the three (3) month average of the indexes for a specified period, the computed average shall be rounded to the nearest .1 index point — i.e. .05 and greater rounded upward and less than the .05 rounded downward.
48
The COLA shall be computed using the three (3) month average of the 1981 CPI for August, September and October, 1990 as the base period. Cost of living adjustments will be made on a quarteriy basis at the following times:
Effective Date of Adjustment:
First pay period beginning on or after March 1, 1991 and at three (3) calendar month intervals thereafter to March 1, 1992.
Based upon Three (3) Month Average of the 1981 CPI for:
November, December 1990 and January 1991 and at three (3) calendar month intervals thereafter to November, December 1991 and January 1992.
One cent ($.01) adjustments in the cost of living shall become payable for each .2 change in the Consumer Price Index.
For the purposes of this Agreement, any paid COLA shall be treated as if it were incorporated into the base rate.
In the event Statistics Canada ceases monthly publication of the Consumer Price Index, or changes the form or the basis of calculating the Index, the parties agree to ask Statistics Canada to make available, for the life of this Agreement, a monthly Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index for February, 1991.
27.11	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND GRADES Job Title	Grade
CHOCOLATE
Trucker	D2
Chocolate	Control	A2
49
Utilityperson	Cl
Concher	B1
Concher’s Helper	Cl
H.M.S. Concher Operator	A2
Buss/H.M.S. Melanaeur Operator	A2
Refiner Rolls Operator	A2
Refiner’s Helper	Al
Cocoa Butter Melter Lead Hand Chocolate Making	D2
(Ground Floor)	—
Department Cleaner	D2
Factory Checker/Recorder	Cl
BEAN PREPARATION	
Bean Cleaner	Cl
Nibber	B1
Roaster	Al
Liquor Grinder	Cl
Mixer (Rough Ingredients)	B1
Department Helper	D2
Sugar Grinder Lead Hand Chocolate Making (Mixing)	C2
CRUMB PLANT	
Trucker	D2
Crumb Department Helper	C2
Lead Hand Crumb Plant	—
Braithwaite Operator	A2
Scott Operator	A2
CREAM	
Department Helper	D2
Mogul Feed and Take Off	D1
Cream Maker	A2
Cream Maker’s Helper	C2
50
Sugar Grinder	C2
Fondant Maker	Al
Nut Blanching, Make Invert Syrup, Jam Processor	Cl
Jelly Tot Boiler	Al
Jellv Tot Boiler’s Helper	Cl
Mogul Operator	A2
Sugar Rubber	B2
Sugar Rubber’s Helper	Cl
Sugar Sifter	Cl
Lead Hand Cream Manufacturing	
BISCUIT	
Department Helper	D2
Checkweigher	B2
Lead Hand Coffee Crisp Wrapping	—
Enrober Operator	A2
Oven Operator	A2
High Speed Wrapping Machine Operator	C2
Batter Maker	B1
Cleaning/Set-Up Man	B1
Lead Hand Wafer Department	—
Factory Checker/Recorder	C1
Enrober Feeder	C1
Wrapping Section Helper	C1
Department Cleaner	D2
TOFFEE	
Trucker	D2
Toffee High Boiler	A2
High Boiler Processor	B2
Conform Line Helper	D2
Checkweigher	B2
Sugar Boiler	A2
Sugar Boiler’s Helper	02
Trim Pan and Bag	D1
51
Montelimar/Caramel Boiler	Al
Montelimar Slab Processor/Helper	B1
Cherry Processor Lead Hand Toffee Hlah Boil	A2
Lead Hand Toffee Department	—
Cherry Remelt & Deposit Operator	Al
Department Cleaner	D2
AFTER EIGHT	
Trucker	D2
Utilityperson	C2
Cream Maker	A2
Depositor Operator	Al
Enrober Operator	A2
Checkweigher	B2
Cream Maker’s Helper	C2
Schubert Filler Operator Lead Hand After Eight Enrober Operator	B2
Department Helper	D2
SMARTIES	
Department Helper	D2
Soft Coat - Finish Coat Operator	C2
Checkweigher	B2
Smarties Syrup Boiler	Al
Smarties Blend and Polish Operator	D2
Centre Rub Down	D2
Nalle Plant Operator Lead Hand Smarties Department	A2
ENROBER	
Trucker	D2
Lead Hand Assortment Enrober	—
Checkweigher	B2
Enrober Operator	A2
52
Factory Checker/Recorder	C1
Utilityperson	Cl
Utility Operator	A2
Department Cleaner	D2
MOULDING	
Trucker	D2
Department Helper	D2
Checkweigher	B2
Factory Checker/Recorder	Cl
Moulding Machine Operator	A2
C & M Shell Line Operator Lead Hand Moulding Manufacturing	Al
Lead Hand Moulding Various	—
Process Moulding Operator Moulding Department Lead Hand	D2
Department Cleaner	D2
BAR PACKING	
Trucker	D2
Department Helper	Cl
Stockkeeper High Speed Wrapping Machine	C2
Operator	C2
Factory Checker/Recorder	Cl
Stapler Operator - Warehouse	Cl
Transwrap Machine Operator	B1
Lead Hand Family Packing Lead Hand Bar Packing Lead Hand Conveyor Packing Lead Hand Warehouse Transfers	
Department Cleaner	D2
ASSORTMENT PACKING	
T rucker	D2
Department Helper	D2
53
i Stockkeeper	C2
Lead Hand Assortment Packing Factory Checker/Recorder	CI
Second Cost Storekeeper	D2
Department Cleaner	D2
SERVICE
Carpenter
Painter
Maintenance Department Helper Machinist Fitter Electronics Electrician Electrician
Electronics Technician Electrician/Electronic Technician Mechanic
Packaging Mechanic Pipefitter-Steamfitter Lubricator
Receiver, Maintenance Stores Electrician Apprentice Cement Mason
Pioefitter-Steamfitter Apprentice
Maintenance Department General
Storeskeeper
Gardener
Wicket Attendant
Mechanic Apprentice
CLEANING AND SANITATION
Elevator Operator	D2
Ladies Washroom Attendant	D2
Production Cleaner	D2
Mechanic Floor Washer Operator	Cl
Men’s Locker-Room Attendant	D2
Salvage and Garbage Collector	C2
Lead Hand Cleaning and Sanitation	—
Recorder/Storeskeeper	C2
54
FLAVOUR ROOM
Lead Hand Flavour Room Flavour Room Dispenser’s Helper Department Helper Trucker
Flavour Room Dispenser
Al
Cl
D2
A2
RECEIVING
Warehouse Stock Controller Warehouse Cleaner Truck Driver Forktruck Operator Receiver
Lead Hand Receiving
B1
Cl
Al
Al
B1
SHIPPING
Warehouse Cleaner Order Processor Feeder Grade 1 Shipper
Forktruck Operator Lead Hand Shipping
Cl
B1
B2
Al
Al
SAMPLE ROOM Lead Hand Sample Room Sample Room Assistant
C2
ARTICLE 28 -TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This agreement shall be.eifecjive March 1,1989 at 12:01 a.m., and continue in effect until Febmarv 28 1992, at midnight.
28.02	Further, this agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless either party gives notice, in writing, of its intent to terminate or seek
55
*
amendment to this agreement, which notice shall be given not more than ninety (90) days and not less than sixty (60) days before the termination date.
28.03	In the event that either party gives notice seeking amendments and subsequent to negotiations a new agreement is not reached, this agreement shall expire at the current expiry date, or upon completion of conciliation procedures as prescribed by law, whichever shall last occur.
28.04	It is understood that during any negotiations following upon notice of termination or amendment, either party may bring forward counter-proposals out of or related to the original proposals.
Retroactivity
28.05	The Company will pay all employees who were in its employ on the date of ratification, or who retired on or between March 1, 1989, and the date of ratification, the negotiated general increase in the hourly rates of pay for all hours compensated from March 1, 1989 to the date of ratification.
Legal Limitations
28.06	It is recognized that nothing in this contract is intended, or shall anything be construed to require either party to contravene the laws of the Government of Ontario or the Government of Canada. Where any clauses may run counter to such laws, the provisionsof the law shall apply where necessary.
DATED AT TORONTO, ONTARIO, THIS 23rd DAY OF NOVEMBER, 1989
FOR THE COMPANY J.L. De Souza L. Corbin A. Harkins
FOR THE UNION G. Spencer	J. Lillie
B. Lines	M. Jerome
B. Rodrigues
May 30,1989
Mr. G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr. Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1 RE: PERMANENT PART-TIME EMPLOYEES All reference to permanent part-time employees shall be deleted from the Collective Agreement with the understanding that they shall be considered Remanent full-time employees with full seniority credits back to the date of hire or rehire in the case of broken service. Furthermore, it is understood and agreed that those employees (P.P.T.) who were previously transferred to permanent full-time status shall also be credited with full seniority back to their date of hire on the same basis as described above.
It is further understood and agreed that the existing working conditions shall remain as is, without change, with reference to actual hours of work per day or per week or rest and lunch breaks, etc.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
57
May 30,1989
Mr. G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr. Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2 RE: TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
In accordance with our agreement reached during negotiations, temporary employees following completion of sixty (60) working days shall have seniority standing on a “temporary employee seniority list” on a departmental basis.
The lay-off and or recall of temporary employees shall be on a seniority basis within their home department. Except as provided for in clause 12.02(a), temporary employees accepted as a permanent full-time employee shall have seniority standing effective from the date of actual transfer to the permanent full-time position. For the purpose of clarification, seniority credits as a temporary employee will not be transferred to the full-time position.
A temporary employee will be permitted to apply temporary seniority status outside of their home department before new temporary employees are hired.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
58
May 30,1989
Mr. G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr. Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3 RE: SUBSTANCE ABUSE
It is clearly the Company’s intention to continue its past practice with reference to the above matter and in so doing, it further agrees that in all cases the Union will have direct involvement in attempts to rehabilitate the individual(s) concerned.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
2
I
59
May 30,1989
Mr. G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr. Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. A RE: CONTRACTING OUT
The Company agrees that the use of outside contractors shall not result in the lay-off or delays in recall from lay-off of any member of the skilled trades group, either directly or indirectly, provided the laid off employee has sufficient skill and ability to perform the work. This provision shall not apply in cases of emergency.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
60
May 30,1989
Mr. G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr. Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5 RE: PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees that a Pension Committee will be formed within sixty (60) days of the ratification of this Agreement. The Union will be entitled to have a representative on this Board.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
61
May 30,1989
Mr, G. Spencer National Representative CAW-Canada 205 Placer Court North York, Willowdale Ontario M2H 3H9
Dear Mr, Spencer:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6 RE: ELECTRONIC TECHNICIAN
If any employee is awarded the position of Electronic Technician by virtue of equivalent qualifications then the management will advise the maintenance steward.
John De Souza
Manager, Industrial Relations
62