COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WILLIAM NEILSON LTD./LTfiE.
AND
UNITED FOOD
AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL P529A
NOVEMBER 30, 1992 — DECEMBER 4, 1994
O057L6S
SUBJECT
A.D.& D. PLAN
APPLICATION OF RATE
ARBITRATION
BEREAVEMENT
BULLETIN BOARDS
CALL-IN PAY
CHECK-OFF
CLOTHING
DAILY TRANSFERS
DENTAL PLAN
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HOURS OF WORK
INJURY SHIFT GUARANTEE
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
JOB (LINE) POSTINGS
JOB POSTING PROCEDURE
JOB POSTINGS - TRAINING
JOB RE-APPRAISAL
JURY DUTY
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE
LEAVE-OF-ABSENCE
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
OVERTIME
INDEX
PAGE	SUBJECT	PAGE
2 6	OVERTIME MEAL & ALLOWANCES 14
24	PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS	29
7	PENSION PLAN	30
12	PERSONAL CLEAN-UP	14
13	PREGNANCY LEAVE-OF-ABSENCE 13
15	RATE PROTECTION	24
3	RECALL PROCEDURE	10
13	REST PERIODS	14
25	SAFETY GLASSES	14
27	SAFETY SHOES	13
16	SENIORITY	7
26	SEPARATION ALLOWANCE	30
5	SHIFT PREMIUMS	20
17	STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS	3
15	SUMMER STUDENTS	31
20	SUPERVISORS WORKING	2
32	TRADES TOOL ALLOWANCE	17
11	TRUCK	DRIVERS	32
33	UNION	RECOGNITION	1
25	UNION	REPRESENTATION	4
12	UNION	SECURITY	3
9	VACATION ENTITLEMENT	27
12	VISION CARE PLAN	27
26	WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN	25
26
2
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WILLIAM NEILSON LTD./LT22,
TORONTO, ONTARIO
(HEREINAFTER CALLED "THE COMPANY")
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFFILIATED WITH THE A,F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.
ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL P 5 2 9 A
(HEREINAFTER CALLED "THE UNION")
ARTICLE I GENERAL PURPOSE
1.	Q! The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Union and to provide a procedure for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and to establish and maintain working conditions, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
1,02	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered to include the feminine as the sense of the clause dictates.
ARTICLE 2 RELATIONSHIP
2.	pi The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination, interference or coercion exercised or practised by them or any of their representatives or aaents with respect to any employee because of membership or lack of membership in, or activity on behalf of, the Union.
2.02	The union agrees that there will be no Union activity on plant premises during working hours except that which is necessary as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE 3 UNION RECOGNITION
3.	Th'	E any r<	z	gr z	th CJnio:	s Me bargaining agent of	all
e ji aloyees of	illiam	U	iluo	Ltd./Ltee.	in Metropolitan Toronto	d
Georgetown, s	ve and	e	ce] it	supervisors	nd assistant supervisor
persons above	the rank	of assistant supe	visors and supervisors,	office
and sales staff aid persons covered by a subsisting Collective Agreement with ■ h« International Union ol Operating Engineers :
796
The Coirpany agrees that supervisors and those above the rank of supervisor shall not perform work usually performed by members of the Bargaining Unit except when such performance:
(a)	Is for the purpose of overcoming production difficulties caused
by the absence of an employee up to one (1) day. In such cases the Company will obtain suitable replacements as soon as reasonably possible.
(b)	Is in the maintenance operation or such other areas as may be agreed subject to Article (d) below. The Company agrees not to expand on the number of supervisors directly responsible for the supervision of hourly-rated employees beyond those on staff as of 4 December 1981* Further, in the event of a lay-off, supervisory staff will be reduced by the same ratios as applied to the Bargaining Unit personnel and minimal work will he done by supervisory staff.
(c)	Is limited to occasional work, negligible in amount.
(d)	It is understood that supervisors or those above the rank of supervisor will not replace an available qualified Bargaining Unit employee on an overtime shift.
3.03
what
The Company shall not contract out Bargaining Unit work beyond is currently contracted out.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union recognizes that it Is the exclusive function of the
company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause or contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	manage the industrial enterprises in which the Company may be from time to time engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of buildings, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing, and rpminerafion, the schedules of production, M e kinds and locations of machines/and tools to be used, the processes of manufacturing and assembling, the engineering and designing of its product, the control of materials and the parts and/or materials to be incorporated in the products produced.
3
ARTICLE 5
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
5«01 The conpany agrees that it will not cause or direct any lock-out of its employees and the Union and the employees in the Bargaining Unit agree that there will be no strikes or other collective action which will stop or interfere with production during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof.
5,02 "Strike" and ""lock-out"" shall have the meaning given those terms in the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 6 UNTON SECURITY
6,01	The company agrees that all employees, covered by this Agreement, shall, as a condition of employment, become and remain members of the Union.
6f02 It is further provided that all new employees hired by the Conpany shall pay dues providing they have worked at least thirty five (35) hours in the week or weeks prior to the check-off date.
5.03	An employee will be considered a member of the Union as long as he ’continues to pay his regular Union dues and assessments as prescribed by the Local and International Constitutions.
6.04	The Company agrees to provide the Local with private office "accommodation on the Gladstone premises.
ARTICLE 7 CHECK-OFF
7.01	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay due an employee, who authorizes such deduction in writing, the regular weekly Union dues. The conpany further agrees to transmit the amounts so deducted to the financial secretary of the Local Union on or before the last day of each month together with a list of the employees from whom such deductions are made. The Union agrees to notify the Company of the amount of the regular Union dues.
7.02	Special assessments if levied in accordance with the Constitution and by-laws of the Union will be deducted from the members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
- 4 -
ARTICLE 8
UNTON REPRESENTATION
3, pi The Union agrees that employees shall not be eligible to serve as officers, stewards or members of any union committee until after they have been placed on the seniority list.
8,0	2	The Union acknowledges that officers, Stewards and members of
committees have duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that such persons will not leave their assigned duties without obtaining the permission of their immediate supervisor; who will not withhold such permission unreasonably and will report back to the supervisor on completion of union business.
8,03	It is clearly understood that Union officers, stewards, and members of committees will not absent themselves unreasonably in order to deal with grievances and/or negotiations and in accordance with this understanding the Company will compensate such employees for time spent in dealing with such grievances or negotiations with the Company Representatives at the employees applicable rate of pay.
ARTICLE 9
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
____ The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or
otherwise select a negotiating committee of not more than five (5) regular employees, and will recognize and deal with this committee with respect to the negotiation of amendments to this Agreement when timely.
9,02 Meetings of the negotiating committee with management shall be held whenever the committee or management submits an agenda of the /business to be transacted and gives forty-eight (48) hours notice of the meeting. A representative of the International Union may participate in such negotiations if requested to do so by either party. The said committee will co-operate with the company in the administration of this Agreement.
9. Q3 It is clearly understood that the negotiating committee is a separate entity from the grievance committee and will deal with only such matters as are properly the subject of negotiations, including proposals for the renewal or modification of this Agreement at the proper time.
The Union will provide the Company with the names of the members of the negotiating committee and will inform the Company of any changes in the said committee.
ARTICLE 10 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.0	L	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or
otherwise select a reasonable number of stewards to assist employees in presenting their grievances to the representatives of the Company. The number of such stewards and the zone within which each one is to function shall be determined from time to time through joint negotiations. The Union shall keep the Company informed of the names of the Stewards and the Zones they represent.
10.02	The Company will recognize and deal with a grievance committee composed of the Local President, Vice President, Chief Steward, Assistant Chief Steward, and Recording Secretary. It is understood that members of the committee shall be employees of the Company who have attained seniority. The Company agrees to designate two (2) Company representatives with the authority to deal with grievances at the third stage.
10.03	Should differences arise between the Union and its members and the Company as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including whether or not the difference is arbitrable, an earnest effort will be made to settle all matters promptly in the following manner.
Stes #1
The aggrieved employee, with or Without his Steward, shall present his grievance orally to his immediate supervisor within five (5) working days of the incident from which the grievance arises. If the matter is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned within two (2) working days, or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed upon at the time, then Step #2 may be involved.
Step #2
The Chief Steward and the Zone Steward after presenting the grievance in writing shall meet with the employee's immediate supervisor and manager in an attempt to resolve the difference. If the matter is not settled within two (2) working days of the answer at Step #2 or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed upon at the time, then Step #3 may be invoked.
6
Step #3
The grievance committee will meet with the representatives of the company designated for this purpose, within five (5) working days of the answer in step #2. At this meeting an International Representative of the Union and/or counsel for the Company may participate if reguested to do so by either party. If the grievance is not settled within five (5) working days, or within any longer period of time which may be mutually agreed upon at the time, then at the reguest of either party the grievance may be referred to arbitration provided such reguest is made within ten (10) working days.
The grievor, if reguired by either party, may attend any of the foregoing steps in the grievance procedure and his regular rate of pay for such time, if during his regular working hours and provided he is not on lay-off, suspension or discharge, shall be paid by the Company.
10.04	STEWARD REPRESENTATION
The Company agrees that a Steward or Chief Steward be present at meetings where disciplinary action is a likely consequence. If such disciplinary action is decided upon, due to circumstances which develop during a meeting, the Steward or Chief Steward will be invited to join the meeting prior to the decision being rendered. (If the employee is a Steward, he shall have the right to have the attendance at the meeting of another Steward or Chief steward.)
If an employee is dismissed for any reason whatsoever and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with he may promptly notify his Steward or the Chief Steward who shall, if any grievance is to be filed, notify the Plant Superintendent in writing within five (5) working days from the date of dismissal. All preliminary -steps of the grievance procedure prior to step #3 will be omitted in such cases:	Such special grievance
may be settled by maintaining management's position, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties, or in the opinion of an arbitration board if the matter is referred to such board.
10.05	A grievance of the employer or a policy or group grievance of the Union which is distinguished from an individual employee's grievance, must be sent by registered mail or be personally delivered to the Manager or the Union, as the case may be, within fifteen (15) working days after the occurrence of the matter which is the subject of the grievance. The parties shall meet to discuss any such grievance within the said ten (10) working days. Then, if the matter is not resolved, either party may notify the other party in writing within a further period of five (5) working days that it intends to proceed to arbitration and shall contain details of the grievance, a statement of the exact matter in dispute, and a statement of the relief sought from an arbitration board.
10.06	Time lapse as spelled out in Article 10 may be changed only by mutual agreement of both parties.
10.07	The company agrees to forward copies of documented disciplinary action to the Union. Further, all entries which relate to disciplinary action for reasons other than fighting or sabotage shall be withdrawn two(2) years after the date of issue. All entries relating to fighting or sabotage shall be withdrawn three (3) years after the date of issue provided the employee was not again disciplined for fighting or sabotage within that same three(3) year period.
ARTICLE 11 ARRTTRATTON
H.01 When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement within ten (10) days from the date the grievance was dealt with m Step #3 and at the Same time shall nominate its representative to the arbitration board and shall state the issue in dispute and the article or articles of the Agreement which are alleged to have been violated.
11. o2 The recipient of such notice shall within five (5) days thereafter nominate its representative to the arbitration board who, in turn, will contact the other party's nominee to the arbitration board in an attempt to choose a Chairman within five (5) days. Failing agreement, then either party may request the Minister of Labour for Ontario to appoint a Chairman. when agreement between the two (2) parties exists, a single arbitrator may be appointed to nile on an issue in dispute.
The single arbitrator shall be chosen jointly by the parties. Time limits applicable to a Board shall also apply to single arbitrators.
11.03	Each of the parties hereto will Dear the expenses of its nominee to the arbitration board and the parties will jointly bear the expenses and fees of the Chairman of the arbitration board or of the single arbitrator.
H. Q4 The arbitration board or single arbitrator shall not be "authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement but shall base its or his decision on the contractual rights of the parties as stated in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12 SENIORITY
12.01	Seniority shall mean accumulated service in the Bargaining Unit. Where an employee within the Bargaining Unit accepts a position outside of the unit, his plant seniority shall cease effective the date on which the transfer takes place.
In an application of seniority that involves employees with equal seniority, the employee with the lowest clock number shall be considered the most senior.
The company shall meet with the Union to discuss any change in
departments which will affect seniority prior to the change taking place. /	*
12,02	An employee hired into a permanent position will be considered Sa{,0 probationary and shall have no seniority until he has been on the	-j
company's Payroll for a period of sixty (60) days worked (ninety(90) daj4f worked if hired in a maintenance position) . Upon completion of his probationary period he shall be granted seniority which will be backdated to his original hire date.
12.03	Seniority lists shall be posted by the Company by the Cafeteria. Plant seniority lists shall be brought up-to-date every month. The Union will be given a copy of the seniority list, and a list showing the paid rate of each employee once a month.
12.04	During their apprenticeship period, apprentices shall accumulate&-'
plant seniority only. In lay-off situations, apprentices shall be	^
considered most junior within their department. Following completion of the -apprentics-ship programs, apprentices shall be deemed to have full seniority rights.
12 , P'S Employees shall lose seniority and seniority rights and employment terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(f)
If the employee quits his employment with the company.
If the employee is discharged and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
If the employee is laid-off and fails to return to work within two (2) consecutive working days after being notified by the Company to do so by telephone, registered mail, or both, to the employee's last known address as recorded on the Company's records. Should an employee not be able to return for valid reasons, an extension to the two (2) days will be considered. Approval for such an extension must be authorized by the Company.
If the employee is laid-off for a period of two (2) years or more.
If the employee overstays a leave-of-absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave.
If the employee retires under the terms of the Pension Plan.
(g) Has an unreported absence for five (5) consecutive working days without a reason satisfactory to the Company.
9
22.06	Employees shall maintain and accumulate seniority if they are
absent due to sickness or accident subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Those employees who have completed their probationary period but have less than two (2) years of service shall continue to accumulate seniority for up to one (1) year.
(b)	Those employees who have two (2) years of service or more shall continue to accumulate seniority for a period equivalent to half his service but not in excess of four (4) years.
(c)	It is agreed that an employee who is absent due to sickness, accident or leave-of-absence and providing he returns to work within the specified time as defined in (a) or (b) above shall be placed on the job previously held or one of an equal rate if that job is not available providing the employee is medically qualified to perform the assigned work.
(d)	An employee who cannot return to work within the specified time [as defined in (a) or (b) ) by reasons of sickness or accident and who is subsequently declared fit to return to work shall be given credit for past service up to the time limits [as defined in (a) or (b) ) , In such cases, the employee will be returned to the work available provided he can learn the job in a reasonable amount of time. A rate equal to the previous rate cannot be guaranteed.
12.07	LAY-OFF PROCEDURE
Except by agreement with the Chief Steward, whenever there is a reduction in staff in any job classification the following procedure shall apply:
(a)	Probationary employees shall be laid-off first providing those employees entitled to remain can perform the required work.
(b)	The most junior of the employees in the job classifications in the
department affected shall then displace the most junior employee in ££ all other departments on the same shift provided he can learn the job in a reasonable amount of time.
(c) Those employees who eventually become surplus after (a) and (b) above shall displace the most junior employee regardless of the shift excepting that those employees placed on the surplus list shall be offered their choice of shift, providing it is available. Shift choice shall be offered to surplus employees in order of seniority. Notwithstanding this, employees shall have the right to accept lay-off rather than an inter-shift transfer and such employees will not be entitled to the lay-off notice or work week guarantee.
(30. /Ehpl'eyees shall be given notice of lay-off on the basis of two (2) (L/' working day's notice for each completed six (6) months service, but a \y with a minimum of two (2) working days, subject to the
yy	of thfe ERplopmmfc Stand'a-rdfe- Act, to a maximum of
l\ twenty five(25) working days.
(e)	Employees when laid-off shall be entitled to their weekly guarantee as set out in Schedule 8.01 for the week in which such notice is given and for each full week of notice required.
- 10 -
(f)	Subject to 8.01/ the guarantee for less than full weeks shall be that fraction of thirty-eight (38) hours which the number of days of lay-off notice is of their normal work week.
(g)	The Chief Steward shall be furnished with the name, department, and clock # of each new employee and employees to be laid off at the time lay-off notice is issued.
00 A formal letter describing contractual rights shall be presented to each employee affected by the lay-off and this letter shall be signed by the employee.
(i)
Employees at the time of lay-off shall be given the opportunity to request recall according to seniority and qualifications for casual or temporary work if and when such work is available. Acceptance or refusal of such work shall not affect any right to recall according to Article 12.08. Employees who accept recall for such casual or temporary work shall not be entitled to the provisions of (d) above and Schedule B. 01.
CO?
RECALL PROCEDURE
(a) Employees who are actually laid-off shall be placed on an overall recall list in order of seniority.
opportunities for re-employment shall be offered to persons on this recall list, the first preference given to the most senior, providing he can learn the job in a reasonable amount of time.
It is understood that an employee with plant seniority may decline recall up to a maximum of six (6) months for shift reasons only when there are other employees eligible for recall. It is agreed that employees who refuse recall for shift reasons must provide one (1) week's notice to the Company of their intention to return to work.
(b) An employee recalled under this Clause shall, subject to the reguirements of Articles 12.07 and 12.08, he returned to regular status after working in excess of four (4) consecutive weeks of work provided he has the seniority over those on lay-off. If not, then the most senior person on the recall list shall be recalled. An employee recalled under this Clause who meets all reguirements of Schedule "F" shall be entitled to plant holiday pay and benefits after working two (2) consecutive weeks.
(c)	During recall to a regular job, employees on lay-off, those wishing a transfer to a different shift, those who have accepted a different shift as a result of the lay-off process, and those who are not in their normal department, shall comprise a recall list in order of seniority.
The most senior person on the list shall be recalled to the regular job opening.
The Union shall be notified of any employees recalled to either temporary or permanent positions.
- 11 -
12.09 JOB POSTING PROCEDURE

r
vacancies of a permanent nature will be posted, in accordance with schedule K, for three (3) working days throughout the plant, but will be filled from within the department first. Copies of such postings, as well as the successful applicants, shall be forwarded to the Union.
Vacancies of a temporary nature will be posted in accordance with the above procedure provided the vacancy will last in excess of four(4) consecutive weeks.
It is agreed that a temporary job will not last more than six (6) months. Only the smpio/eo's prior rate shall be subject to rate protection and the employee need not necessarily be returned to his prior job.
Subject to Schedule L, applications received will be evaluated based on the employee's seniority, qualifications, and ability to learn the job. It is agreed the Company may fill the vacancy temporarily pending the outcome of the posting.
Wien an employee has successfully applied for a job posting, a minimum of five (5) working days on the new job shall be established before the transfer becomes official. During this period, the employee will have the right to return to his previous job.
Truck drivers shall have the right to bid on job vacancies within their Department prior to general posting. Seniority and qualification requirements must be observed. The Company also agrees to provide upgrading training to drivers who successfully apply to job postings. ^ '
Once selected for promotion or transfer to a permanent position,	*
employees will not be eligible for future job competition for a period of six (6) months except that an employee can apply on a job posting for a promotion within a six (6) month period. In such case, he will not be eligible for future job competition for promotion or transfer for a further period of nine (9) months.
0
Employees selected to a temporary position will not be eligible for other temporary position competitions until the temporary job they currently fill has expired.
ARTICLE 13
LEAVE-OF-ABSENCE. BEREAVEMENT. JURY DOTY. PREGNANCY LEAVE
LEAVE-OF-ABSENCE.
q'he/<5ojnpany will n
VRISR businejs,
cij>al, Provincial, or Federal Government, or _ is _ elected to
ot unreasonably deny a lea-or, in the event an employe® is
(a)	.
pav^f:
MKnicip'a 1, ....______,	__ ________ ___________, ________________ ..
Xfiiiiatias position with the Union or C.L.C. seniority will be maintained and accumulated during this leave-of-absence.
(b) An employee with two (2) or more years of seniority shall be entitled to a period of leave-of-absence without pay to total no more than one (1) month during a four (4) year period. Prior notice to the Company of three (3) months is required and such leaves-of-ahsences must be taken in conjunction with the employee's vacation.
Further, it is agreed that:
(i)	Bo more than five percent (5%) of the staff within a department may be on a leave-of-absence at one time.
(ii)	Unless leaves-of-absences are for emergency purposes, the departmental vacation schedule must take precedence.
(iii)	Employees may request leaves-of-absences for emergency purposes.
(c) Requests for leaves-of-absencesto augment summer vacations shall not be approved until March 1, at which time the vacation schedule for the individual department will be finalized and approved.
13.02	BEREAVEMENT
In the event of the death of an employee's spouse, child, sister or brother, parents, parents-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren, bereavement leaves of up to a maximum of three (3) days with pay will be granted for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral and shall terminate no later than two (2) days following the funeral. One day's bereavement pay will be granted an employee who is unable to attend the funeral due to time and distance considerations.
The Company will pay an employee his regular day's pay attendance for jury duty, or appears as a witness when crown. The employee will turn over to the company all received as a juror or a witness.

for every day in subpoenaed by the fees that may be
/
13

Employees who become pregnant will be entitled to a leave-of-absence as per the Employment standards Act of Ontario.
The Company will provide bulletin boards in mutually satisfactory locations throughout the plant for the convenience of posting notices of Union activities. All such notices must be signed by the President of the Local Union and must have the approval of the Company. The Company agrees to maintain the bulletin boards in good condition provided they are not subject to abuse.
14,02	SAFETY SHOES
The Company will contribute up to seventy-five dollars ($75) once a year for safety shoes. Safety shoes may be purchased through payroll deduction at a minimum of two dollars ($2.00) per week. Amounts less than three dollars ($3.00) owing will be paid by the employee at the time of purchase.
All employees will be required to wear safety shoes excepting those employees with shoe-related afflictions and then Only when this is supported by medical documentation. This latter Clause shall not apply to maintenance or warehouse personnel.
14 , 02	CLOTHING
The Company will be responsible for the supplying and laundering of uniforms. Uniform change schedules will be published separately and will allow for turn-in of soiled uniforms at the end of Friday workday and pick-up at the start of Monday workday. In addition, the company will supply jackets and winter clothing where required. Employees experiencing problems with their uniforms may seek redress through the complaint procedure.
Each employee shall be provided with one (1) new uniform each year (to be available by June). This clause does not apply to Truck Drivers, whose clothing agreement is covered separately. Sanitation employees will receive clean uniforms daily.
ARTICLE 14 GENERAL CONDITIONS
14 . 01
BULLETIN BOARDS
SAFETY GLASSES
14
14.04
The Company will supply safety glasses to maintenance engineering personnel. Replacement costs shall be paid on a frequency of one (1) pair per year. It is further agreed that maintenance engineering personnel are required to wear safety glasses provided during all operations likely to produce injury to the sys(a). In other areas, designated by the Company, safety glasses will be supplied on the same basis as above.
14.05	REST PERIODS
The Company will grant a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes in the first half and fifteen (15) minutes in the second half of each shift, the time of the period to be allotted by the Supervisor. Rest periods, as a general rule, will be granted as close to the middle of the half shift as possible.
When an employee is instructed to report to work late, the entitlement to rest breaks shall apply.
The Company agrees to provide employees with five (5) minutes personal clean-up time prior to their scheduled quitting time. Scheduled quitting time is defined as that time when employees finish either a normal shift or normal shift plus overtime.
Employees will be allowed to leave their work areas five (5) minutes prior to scheduled quitting time, punch out, and then proceed to the chanqe areas.	__ \	,
^ *7 ) A~t C>
14.07	flWRTTMT! MR&T. BITO AT J.OTa7ANCF._______ _______________-
Employees, including Tractor/ Trailer drivers, work.	2(9) hours or
more on a shift, exclusive of the meal break, will receive a meal allowance of four dollars and thirty one cents ($4.31), paid through the employee payroll system, and allowed one half (1/2) hour with pay (computed at straight time rates) in which to eat a meal.
An additional rest period of t'i£teen(l5) minutes shall be granted two and one half (2 L/2) hours following normal shift end.
14.06 PERSONAL CLFAN-UP
- 15 -
There will be a joint Committee for the purpose of reviewing the Cafeteria operation.
1.4^08	CALL-IN-PAY	'A
An employee called in to do emergency work after having completed his regular schedule shift and left the plant premises, or on his regular day off, will be given a minimum of four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at his appropriate rate.
14 . 08	TNJURY SHTFT GUARANTEE,
An employee injured while working in the plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the regular hours he would have worked but were necessarily lost on the day on which the accident occurs.
On occasions where an employee is required to lose time for post treatment of the accident, he will be allowed up to three (3) visits at a maximum of two (2) hours per visit, at the employee's regular rate. Doctor's appointments of this nature must be reported to the Plant Nurse to ensure payment.
ARTICLE 15 SCHEDULES
15.pi Attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement are the following schedules:
sctfrcnriT.E		PAGE
Schedule "A"	- Tool Allowance	17
Schedule "B"	- Hours of Work, Overtime, Shift Premiums, Wages, and Job Rates.	17
Schedule "C"	- Application of Rate	24
Schedule "D"	- Benefit Plans	25
Schedule "E"	- Vacations	27
Schedule "F"	- Paid Plant Holidays	29
Schedule "G"	- Pension Plan	30
Schedule "H"	- Separation Allowance	30
Schedule " X "	* Summer Students	31
Schedule "J"	- Truck Drivers	32
Schedule "K"	- Job (Line) postings	32
Schedule "L"	- Job Postings - Training	33
- 16 -ARTICLE 16
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
16.01	This Agreement shall take effect on the 30th day of Novettber^
1992/ and shall continue in effect until the 4tii H&V 61'	.
unless either party gives notice in writina to the other partvtna^^^ amendments are required or that the party intends terminating-the Agreement, then it shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter.
16.02	Notice that amendments are reguired, or that either party intends to terminate the Agreement, mist be given not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement.
16.03	The parties hereto agree to meet for the purpose of negotiations within fifteen (15) days after the giving of such notice or within a further period if nutually agreed to.
Dated at Toronto, Ontario this , ? J
day of July, 1993
WILLIAM NEILSON LTD./LTEE,

I. Khanna
Director, Manufacturing
Director, Logistics
____________
A. Saith
Production Group Manager
UNITED FOOD AHD COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL P529A
Chief Steward

C. Seagrave r Assistant Chief Steward
L. ’smith
Business cell Leader
Recorder
D. Stevens
Manager, Employee Relations
C. Bonello Business Agent
- 17 -
SCHEDULE "A" SKILLED TRADES TOOT, ALLOWANCE
TRADE
Lubrication Mechanic	$9 0.00
Electronic Technician	$203.00
Tinsmith
Packaging Mechanic Electrician Building Maintenance Machinist
Maintenance Mechanic
Pipefitter
Lift Truck Repair
Maintenance Utility Apprentices
Such allowances will be payable in December in arrears and will be pro-rated for individuals with less than the full year's service.
Wrapping Systems Operators shall have their required tools supplied and/or replaced as necessary.
SCHEDULE "B"
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME. SHIFT PREMIUMS
3.01	HOURS OF WORK
subject to (f) below, the Company agrees to guarantee each employee thirty-eight (38) hours of work or pay in lieu thereof in each week, subject to the following conditions:
(a]	An employee reports for work at his scheduled starting time and does not decline the work to which he is assigned.
(b)	An employee reporting late for work unless instructed to by the Company shall lose that amount of time from the weekly guarantee.
(c)	Employees who are hired or recalled or who return to work from sickness, accident, leave-of-absence or pregnancy leave after the commencement of the work week shall only be entitled to one-fifth (1/5) of the weekly guarantee for each day remaining in their work week.
18
{d) It is understood that pay received for bereavement, jury duty or public holiday can be used towards the weekly guarantee, but not the hours actually worked in the event an employee works on the public holiday.
(e)	An employee who is dismissed or suspended and such dismissal or suspension is not reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedure will not be entitled to that fraction of the guarantee that is remaining in the work week.
(f)	Twice each calendar year, the Company can declare a work week guarantee of thirty si;<(36) hours, or pay in lieu thereof.
B.02 The normal hours of work shall consist of five (5) eight days, and shall constitute the normal working week of forty (40)
(8) hour hours.
S. Oji The schedules of hours, setting forth the daily shift schedules of •j:	hours for every department and individuals (that is. starting and
quitting times) shall be given to the President of the Union. A copy of these schedules of hours shall be posted on the bulletin boards.
B.04 Notice of change to the departmental schedules of hours referred to m Clause B.02 shall be given to the President of the Union one (L) week prior to such change and, if the change is to be permanent, the change will be made on the bulletin boards. Notice of changes to individual schedules must be given to the employee affected e	(13)
hours in advance of such change. If such notice, in writing, is not given, all hours worked outside the normal schedule must he paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) and the employee must he guaranteed his normal shift hours, unless the change is mutually agreed to between the employee and the Company.
Except where shift rotation is practised, employees shall be transferred from one (1) shift to another according to seniority (so that the employee with the least seniority shall be the first to be transferred), provided that such employee is qualified for the job to which he is transferred.
B.05	OVERTIMF
A.
f/-
All overtime will be voluntary, but under no circumstance will the Company have to shut down a line or delay a changeover due to ■cvavaiLability of bargaining unit workers for overtimework. in the ®vent overtime is required on Saturday or Sunday, Department Managers Will advise the Department Steward of the requirement.
All time worked in excess of eight ($) hours per shift hut under twelve (12) hours per shift shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at time and one-half (1 1/21 the employee's regular rate. All time in excess of twelve (12) hours per shift shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid double (2x) the employee's regular rate. All time in excess of fifteen (15) hours per shift shall he considered as overtime and shall be paid for at triple (3x) the employee's regular rate.
19
Overtime will be offered firstly to the employee who normally performs the job. In the event the incumbent declines the opportunity, it will be offered on the basis of seniority to those qualified to do the work. It is not the intent that senior employees be offered all the opportunities but that overtime will be shared on an equitable basis.
In compiling the overtime participation list, probationary employees Shall not be entitled to work overtime until all regular employees at the pay level (s) required for the overtimework have been requested to work the overtime first.
Overtime scheduled on the weekends for probationary employees will be offered first to regular employees at the same pay level. Probationary staff will be allowed to work weekend overtime only if regular staff cannot satisfy the manpower requirement.
In the event it becomes necessary to run a shift in addition to an "A" shift, that overlaps in excess of two (2) hours, all time worked in excess of and including the two (2) hours shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's regular rate.
B. 06 fa) All time worked on Saturday shall be paid for at time and one-half (1 l/2x) the employee's regular rate and in addition all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours shall be paid for at the rate of double (2x) the employee's regular rate. All time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours shall be paid for at the rate of triple (3x) the employee's regular rate.
(b) All time worked on Sunday shall be paid for at double (2x) the employee's regular rate and in addition all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours shall be paid for at the rate of triple (3x) the ” employee's regular rate.
'A
(c) For the purpose of defining when a shift worker will receive overtime premium for Saturday and/or Sunday, it is understood that the day of the shift will be that in which the shift commences.
20 -
All time worked on a paid plant holiday, up to eight (8) hours, will be paid for at double (2x) the employee's regular rate and all time worked in excess of sight (S) hours shall be paid for at the rate of two and one—half (2 l/2x) tiroes the employee's regular rate.	>
b,^	sHira
(a) Employees working on other than the day shift will receive a premium of forty-two cents ($0.42) per hour for the second shift and sixty-three cents ($0.63) per hour on the third shift.
(bj Hours worked prior to 6:00 a.m. will he paid at a premium rate of three dollars and ninety-nine cents ($3.99) per hour. This will apply to MA" shift personnel only.
PRODUCTION:
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
MOV 30, 1992	Dec 6, 1993
PLA	$14.51	$14.76
C600 Carle Plant Operator C1000 Carle Plant Operator C650 Carle Plant Operator chocolate Distribution Operator WiLlo-Pak Operator Crunchie System operator Natural Bar Operator crispy Process Operator Compound Coating Operator Back Up Operator, Chocolate Petsholts conching Operator Buehler Operator Alysynchro Operator
PI	$14.16	$14.41
I	Roaster Operator
Enrober Operator *	National Operator
Crunchie 3yrup/$awroom operator
Crumb Tote & Supply operator
Jersey System Operator
Mini Egg Plant Operator
Kitchen Process Operator
Sortex operator
stock (Control) Operator
Back Up Operator
Caramel $ Rice Crispy Coater
21
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
Nov 30, 1992	Dec 6, 1993
P2	$13.89	$14.14
Recovery Process Operator Pep Centre Maker/Fondant Maker Yorkshire Operator Fresswhip & Nougat Operator
$13,64
$13,89
Malted Milk Utility Operator Nougat Mixer Operator Centres Cooker Extruder Operator Holberger operator Refiner Operator Stock Operator Roaster Helper Slitter Operator
Assistant Bauer Roaster operator Caramel Extruder Operator Pep/Coconut Operator Biscuit Cutter
Sweet Marie Sxtruder/Gui1lot ins Operator
P4A	$13.42	$13.67
Wrapping Machine Attendant Cherries
P4	$13.22	$13.47
Bag Dump & Supply Operator Feeder Ooerator Wrapping'Machine Attendent Hayssen Operator Cherry Feeder Line Service Operator Case Packer/Palletizer Dispensary Operator
P5	$13.22	$13,47
Wrapping Machine Operator
Packer
crispy Scrambler Pre-Enrober Separator Nut sorter
EFFECTIVE NOV 30, 1992
EFFECTIVE Dec 6, 1993
C3	$13.30	$13.55
Would-Plague washer operator Seamstress
Wrapping Machine Cleaner
Belt & Line cleaner
Overhead Light Fixture operator
C4	$12.96	$13.21
Equipment washer Compactor Operator Vacuum and Floor Cleaner Mould-Plaque Washer Helper Office and General Cleaner
TRAFFIC;
T2	$16.89	$17.14
Tractor Driver
Note:	Tractor Drivers shall not be authorized to load or unload their
trailers.
MAINTENANCE:
23
EFFECTIVE Nov 30, 1992
EFFECTIVE Dec 6, 1993
MO	$21-68	$21.93
Mechanic Operator
MIA	$21.19	$21.44
Electronic Technician
Ml
$20.63
$20.93
Packaging Mechanic Maintenance Mechanic Pipefitter Building Maintenance Lift Truck Repair Tinsmith Electrician Machinist
Apprentice Fate shall be:
62.5%	of established trade	rate
75%	"	•'	»
85%	»	"	«
95%	"	'»	»
1st year 2nd ” 3rd •'
4th
M2
$17.3
$17.58
Maintenance Utility Operator Mechanic Lubrication Mechanic
M3	$14.16	$14.41
Building Maintenance Helper
WAREHOUSING:
W1	$14.55	$14.80
Bulk Materials Operator Shipper
Fork Lift Operator Receiver
W2	$14.10	$14,35
General Warehouse
- 24 -
SCHEDULE "C" APPLICATION OF RATE
C.01 The employee shall be registered at the new rate as soon as the qualification requirement has been satisfied.
C.02 Qualified shall be defined as having the ability to perform to standards without assistance or excessive supervision.
c. 03 In the case of new employees it is agreed that the rate of the job performed will be paid upon completion of the probationary period, but in the event an employee is qualified prior to the completion of the probationary period, the job rate will be paid. The Company will implement an effective job training programme.
C.04 An employee transferred or recalled to a job carrying a different rate shall not suffer a loss in rate for a period, of one(L) year from the time of transfer or recall adjusted to take into account applicable general wage increases, except if the transfer is to a lower position and at the request of the employee or the employee is unable by reason of sickness or inability to perform the job to required standards. In such cases, the employee will receive the rate for the job to which the employee is transferred to.
C.05 When, as a result of the introduction of new equipment or methods, at jote or jobs are eliminated or a reduction of staff results or there is an increase in the number of jobs, the Company undertakes to advise the Union thirty (30) days or as soon as reasonably possible, prior to the anticijse.tt©3i move of the facts and agrees to meet with the union to discuss what effect it will have on the eTQployee(s) affected, keeping in mind the provisions of this Agreement.
C. 06 An employee who is temporarily transferred to a job carrying a higher rate shall receive the higher rate for the time worked on the job subject to C.01 and C.0 2 above.
c.07 An employee transferred to a job by reason of a promotion will be paid a rate equal to his pre-transfer rate or a rate one (l) level lower than the job to which he has been promoted, whichever is the higher. The rate for the job will be paid as soon as the employee establishes his ability to do the job as defined in C.02 above.
DAILY TRANSFERS
(a)	In the event that a line cannot be started or must be shut down due to equipment failure, a shortage of materials, or manpower requirements, those employees working on the line affected shall be transferred to work available regardless of seniority, excepting that if jobs are available within the Department, these shall be assigned to the most senior of the employees affected by the line shutdown. Senior displaced employees shall not, however, be entitled to hump out junior employees posted to a line, unless they are being transferred out of the department.
(b)	Notwithstanding Schedule K, employees posted to a line will assist the Company in filling unexpected shortages of gualified personnel and training needs of either themselves or others by accepting assignments away from their regular position and/ or line, on the same shift. In the event, however that line posted employees decline, the Company agrees to reassign qualified employees in reverse order of seniority.
,,, However, if it is known that a line will not run the day prior to shift start-up, the required transfers will be based on seniority and ability (that is, the employee with the least Seniority shall be transferred out of the department, if necessary).
C.	09	JOB RE-APPRATSAT,
The Company reserves the right to re-appraise any job where industrial engineering standards are not maintained. The union shall be notified of any such re-appraisals being conducted.
C ■ 10 The Company agrees that the Union can request a re-appraisal of any job, should there be a question as to the paid rate, or a significant change in the job content. The job evaluation process shall be completed and a written report submitted to the Union within thirty (30) days of . the formal request. A copy shall also be forwarded to the employee(s) / concerned.	,	- '
The company agrees to pay weekly indemnity equal to seventy percent (70%) of the employee's regular rate. The maximum weeks coverage under the weekly indemnity programme shall be six (6) weeks on an annual basis.
(a)	For illness, benefits to start on the third day of illness or on the first day of hospitalization.
(b)	For accidents, not covered by Workers' Compensation. benefits start with the first full day of lost time.
(c)	Benefits will not be paid unless supported by a doctor's statement on a form provided by the company.
(3) Benefits will not be paid until the employee becomes eligible
through seniority and has completed the Sick Benefit Application Form.
Benefits will be covered for the 1st and 2nd week of sickness and benefits for the 3rd through to 17th week will be covered under the unemployment Insurance Commission.
If employees with one (1) year of service or more are denied U.I.C, sickness Benefits because of initial benefit problems, the Company pays the benefit for such period, i.e. a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks benefit at the rate normally produced in the plan.
Pregnant employees will be eligible to collect weekly indemnity for sickness related to pregnancy, as per the weekly indemnity provisions, but not during the period of time eleven (11) weeks prior and six (6) weeks after the date of birth.
The company will provide to an employee upon reguest, a letter reguesting the hospital to bill "Mutual Life” directly for semi-private or private hospital accommodations.	_ j\	..
v O'/ -O	4	___
roa
The established L.T.D. Plan covering employees unable to return to work following absence of seventeen (17) consecutive weeks is structured so as to provide L.T.D. benefits of sixty-six and two thirds percent (66^Z/3%) normal earnings for a period of total disability up to age ;y-five (65) .
^The Company shall pay the premiums for employees receiving Long Term disability for Extended Health care and Life Insurant
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
Life Insurance coverage will be provided by the Company to a level of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) .
A.D. & D. PLAN
56
Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance coverage will be provided by the Company to a level of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000).
D.05 The Company agrees to provide a three thousand dollar ($3,000) paid-up policy to those retiring within the limits of the Pension Plan.
D. 06	EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN	^	"
The Company agrees to continue to provide an Extended Health Benefit k program at no cost to the employee. The Plan will provide for payment of one hundred percent (100%) of the gualifying expenses.
DENTAL PTAN
D ■ 07
The Company will provide, on a 80 - 20% co-insurance basis, a basic Dental Plan incorporating the following features:
(a)	Coverage will apply to employees and dependents.	—
The current Fee Schedule will apply effective February 25, 1901,	‘
c) The maximum annual dental claim will be fixed at $1500.00
(d)	Dentures will be insured at 100% by the Company to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per employee.
(e)	Orthodontics, crowns, and bridges will be insured subject to $3,000 maximum lifetime and all claims shall be subject to a 75-25% co-insurance feature
-jOtG
D , 0$	VISION CARE PLAN	—
The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan paying up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) towards prescription eye glasses or contact lenses for employees and dependents, once every twenty-four (24) months
P.09 For the purposes of dependent coverage under any of the benefit plans, dependents shall be defined as:
Unmarried financially dependent children between the ages of 14 days and 21 years. Coverage continues beyond age 21 to age 25 for a dependent child who is a full-time student. Coverage also continues beyond age 21 for a dependent child who is mentally or physically handicapped, provided the child was insured before age 21.
SCHEDULE "E"
vacations
E.Ol Vacation will be based on service computed to 30th June in the year in which the vacation is to be taken. Vacation pay is to be based on gross earnings, including vacation pay. Each employee shall become entitled to a vacation with pay on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with less than five (5) years of service as of 30th
June in any year shall be paid in the following manner:	p
1. Those employees with less than one (1) year's service
as of 30th June in any year shall be paid four percent (4%) of their gross earnings.
2
(b)
Those employees with more than one (1) year's service but less than five (5) years as of 30th June in any year will receive twlJ weeks vacation with pay computed at four percent (4%) of their V ‘	^
gross earnings.
Employees with five (5) years of service as of 30th June in any 0£T-<33 year but less than ten (10) years of service will receive three "
(3) weeks vacation with pay computed at six percent (6%) of their gross earnings.
- 28
Employees with ten (10) years of service as of 30th June in any year but less than nineteen (19) years of service, will receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay computed at eight percent (8%) of their gross earnings.
Employees with nineteen (19) years of service or more as of 30th June in any year will receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay computed at ten percent (10%) of their gross earnings.
Employees with twenty-seven (27) years of service or more as of 30th June in any year will receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay computed at twelve percent (12%) of their gross earnings.
Employees who, after 30th June and prior to fist December in that _	reach the service required to qualify them for an additional week
of vacation will be granted that week at two percent (2%) of their gross earnings during the vacation year. This additional week must be taken at the convenience of the Company but before 3 1st December in the year.
S' 0 3	PLANT SHUTDOWN
(a)	Plant shutdown will occur during the weeks commencing Monday, July 5, and Monday, July 12, 1993. Employees will return to work on Monday, July 19, 1993.
(b)	Vacation pay will be paid on the Thursday prior to the waek(s) of vacation being taken each year.
(c)	subject to E.10 below, employees will be granted up to £our(4) weeks vacation between July and August. More than (four(4) weeks vacation will be granted upon the mutual agreement of the company.
E.	04 Employees who leave the Company shall be paid any earned vacation pay at the time of leaving according to the aforementioned provisions.
E.	05 Every employee shall take his vacation in the vacation year in which he becomes eligible for it and the vacation period shall not he accumulated from year to year.
5^06 It is understood and agreed that employees will be paid for their vacations during the week prior to the week vacations are to be taken.
The vacation pay will be determined by the number of weeks of vacation to be taken at that time.
p Q7 It is understood and agreed that the vacation entitlement or parts thereof will not be used to avoid Lay-off,
E. 08 In the event of problems arising through the scheduling of holidays. seniority shall be the deciding factor.
io~4yio)
(41-
rf-t S
(e)
zr?-ol
E. 02
year,
29
E.09 The company agrees that refusai of the requested vacation time shall not be arbitrary and decisions shall be subject to review should the employee so desire. Should the time frame originally requested by the employee subsequently become available, employees will be reconsidered in order of seniority.
E. 10 It is understood that scheduling of vacations will be done in accordance with the efficient operation of the business. In no event will the company have to shut down a line because of the unavailability of qualified employees.
SCHEDULE "F"
PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS
F.	01 The following paid plant holidays shall be observed:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
The Day Before Christmas Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
One (1) Floating Holiday to be used as "Heritage Day", if and when proclaimed. Otherwise it will be used during the Christmas Holiday Period.
One (1) Floating Holiday to be used in December.
Each employee shall, for each of the holidays listed above, be paid his regular rate for the number of hours he would have worked, if the time lost had not been declared a holiday, provided:
(a) He has completed his probationary period.
(b)	He completes his assigned shift before and after the holiday.
(c)	An employee may further qualify for holiday pay if his absence from the assigned shift before and /or after the holiday was due to a death in the immediate family as described in Article 13.02. Or, the employee is absent on either day by reason
of a certifiable sickness, i.e, * those who have qualified for sick pay, Workers' Compensation, or those on Union Business.
(d)	If a paid plant holiday falls within an employee's vacation period he shall receive an extra day off with pay. The day off shall be taken at the end of the vacation period in which the holiday occurs.
Employees receiving a higher rate on a temporary basis will receive the higher rate for the paid plant holiday.
30
F.	02 On Remembrance Day, two (2) minutes silence will be observed at 11:00 a.m.
F.	03 All time worked on a Saturday or Sunday which falls weekend in which a paid plant holiday occurs shall be paid ~	' times the employee' s regular rate of pay.

SCHEDULE "G"
during a long at the rate of
G.01 Employee required contributions shall be based on regular earnings only.
G.	02 The Company agrees to provide a Pension Plan financial statement.
SCHEDULE "H" SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
H.01 If it becomes necessary to close the plant. or^a.jmai-or unit such as a department and it is not expected that those affected will be re-employed, a separation allowance will be paid to employees subject to the following:
(a)	They have one (1) or more years seniority.
(b)	They are actively employed with the Company and accumulating seniority or have been laid-off within a thirteen (13) week period preceding the day of notice of closing. Employees on leaves-of-absence and employees receiving Workers' Compensation or off sick will be eligible, provided they have not been off work in excess
of the time limits corresponding to seniority as set out in Article 12.06.
(c)	They have not refused an offer of employment by the Company at the same location.
(d)	They have not refused an offer of employment the requirements of which are not substantially different from the work previously performed and provided they cannot be reasonably expected to perform the offered work satisfactorily.
(e)	They have not been granted retirement on pension.
(f)	They have not been transferred to another plant.
(g)	The Company shall not be deemed ta be in default with respect to non-performance on any obligation hereunder, if so long as its nonperformance is due, in whole or in part, to any cause beyond its reasonable control, such as fire. explosion, etc.
(h)
(i)
In order to qualify for separation allowance, employees will continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
The scale of separation allowance shall be as follows:
YEARS OF COMPLETED SERVICE	AHOUKT/YEAF
11 - 19
20 - Upwards
1 Week
1	1/2 Weeks
2	Weeks
Example:	Employees with 25 years service
First 10 years service Next 9 years service Next 6 years service
10 Weeks Pay 13 1/2 weeks Pay 12 Weeks Pay
25 years total service
35 1/2 Weeks Pay
Employees who accept separation pay under the provisions of this clause shall on so doing terminate their seniority and employment relationship with the Company and shall have no further rights under this Agreement or under any other Agreement between the signing parties.
Pay in lieu of notice as outlined in Article 12.07 shall not apply when payments are made under this clause. The company will give notice of its intention to close a plant at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to such closing.
SCHEDULE 111" - SUMMER STUDENTS
The company agrees to resume the preferential hiring of sons and
daughters of employees during the summer period, subject to the
following:
(a)	The summer period is considered to be May 1 through Labour Day.
(b)	Persons hired during this period will be advised on hiring that the period of employment will be for a fixed period and they will have no rights with respect to employment beyond the date so established.
(c)	Summer Students will have no entitlement to fringe benefits, excepting statutory holidays and then only when they have completed their probationary period. They will receive a rate of $10.00 per hour.
«J> No more than one (1) person per family shall be hired until all those who have applied have been satisfied.
(e)	The Company reserves the right to exercise standard selection Procedures in deciding on hiring and job assignment.
(f)	The work week guarantee, as referred to in B.01, shall not apply to summer students.
- 32 -
SCHEDULE »J"
The following shall clarify the Traffic positions as outlined in Schedule "B".
1.	Tractor/Trailer
Driving within a one hundred and fifty (150) mile (240 kilometre) radius of the-Gladstone location.
2.	Long Haul Tractor
Driving beyond a one hundred and fifty (150) mile (240 kilometre) radius of the Gladstone location. Drivers are to be paid on a mileage basis of forty-three cents ($0.43) per mile ($0,269 per kilometre] . In addition, a drop rate of thirty-four dollars and fifty cents ($34.50) is applied as appropriate.
Drivers who are on the highway over the normal lunch period will he allowed five dollars and fifty-seven cents ($5.57) and if on the highway over the second meal period (supper) on the same day will be allowed five dollars and ninety-nine cents ($5.99) for the meal. All claims for the five dollars and ninety-nine cents ($5.9$) allowance must he supported with receipts.
3.	Truck Drivers* Uniforms will he paid for by the company. However, should the truck driver leave the employ of the Company within six (6) months of the purchase of the uniform, he shall pay the full cost of uniforms purchased.
SCHEDULE **KM
JOB (Line1) POSTINGS
K. oi In filling vacancies of a permanent nature, the Company will "Line Post" the positions of Enrober Operator, Wrapping Machine Attendant/ Cherries, Line Service Operator, and Wrapping Machine Operator as fallows:
Line
Shift
Malted Milk
Sweet Marie/ Wunderbar
C650
Crispy Crunch Mr. Big Crunch!©
C1000
C600
Pep/ coconut
A
A, B A, B A, B A, B A
A, B A, B
A
33
K. 02 In addition to the above, the company agrees to "Line Post" any other line which runs in excess of six($) months in a Calendar year.
In recognition that some employees in the P6 classification may wish to change lines every so often, the Company agrees to meet with employees reguesting transfers and endeavor to work out a mutually agreeable work schedule. These schedules will be based on both the employee's and the Company's needs.
SCHEDULE "L"
JOB POSTINGS - TRAINING
In the application of Article 12.09, employees will be eligible for a training period, as outlined below, to become qualified for the job in question.
L» 01 During this training period, employees will be evaluated and will have their progress reviewed with them on a regular basis to point out any shortcomings or where job expectations are not being met.
L. 02 Employees who do not sucess£ully pass training will be returned to their former positions.
The training period for all positions, except as outlined below, shall be up to three(3) weeks.
Position	Training Period (weeks)
C600 Carle Plant operator C1000 Carle Plant Operator C650 Carle Plant Operator Chocolate Distribution Operator Willo-Pak Operator Crispy Process Operator Crunchie system Operator Natural Bar Operator Alysynchro Operator Compound Coating Operator Petzholts conching Operator Buehler Operator Roaster Operator Enrober Operator National operator Crunchie Syrup/ Sawroon Operator Crumb Tote £ Supply Operator Jersey System operator Mini Egg Plant Operator Sortex Operator Stock (Control) Operator Caramel & Rice Crispy Coater Kitchen Process Operator Yorkshire operator Presswhip £ Nougat Operator Lubrication Mechanic C.I.P. cleaner & sanitizer
5
5
5
5
5
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
• 34
L.04 Eaployeea awarded training programs rill be considered to have successfully bid on a vacancy as outlined in Article 12,09 and therefore oust wait the necessary time before bidding on x future vacancy. This will ipe explained to employees prior to then accepting the training.