CASCO INC.
2012-2015
AGREEMENT
CAW#TCA
CANADA
United Food Processors Union Local 483 (AFL-CIO-CLC)
cn ro Tf
INDEX
ARTICLE
1
5
(A)
(B)
(C)
6
(A)
(B)
(C)
SUBJECT	PAGE
Purpose of Agreement	7
Recognition - Exclusions	7
Reservation to Management	7
Union Security	8
Deduction of Dues	8
Wage Administration	9
Amendments to Schedule “B"	9
Mergers or New Jobs	9
Maintenance of rate for job
Re-classification	9
Pay for work on more than one job	'	9
Pay for employee selected on a job	9
Pay for substitution on job	10
Pay for temporary job assignment	10
Pay Day	10
Hours of Work	11
Working Hours	11
Recognized Work Week	11
Permission and notification re Absences
and return to work	11
Keeping Supervisor advised of employee’s
personal phone number	11
Wash - up Time	11
Loss of Pay - reporting late and
quitting early	12
Overtime pay to nearest 1/4 hour	12
Overtime pay after 8 hours work	12
Responsibility to work overtime	12
Normal Hours for Day Work	12
Normal Hours for Shift work	13
Rotation of Shifts	13
Remaining on shift until arrival of mate	13
Replacement after schedule has
been posted	13
Oil Refinery Schedule	14
Laboratory Division Schedule	15
l
a>c.>
co a>
ARTICLE SUBJECT	PAGE
(D)	Replacement Operator	16
Priority of Replacement Operators	16
Limitations of jobs to be held	16
(E)	Work Schedules	16
Posting of work Schedules	16
Rotation of Saturday relief work	17
Schedule Changes	17
Assigned Day Off	17
Reporting Time	17
Early Starting Time	17
Guaranteed Pay when Scheduled	17
(F)	Scheduling of Assigned Days Off
and Down Days	18
7	Overtime	19
(A)	Payment of Overtime	19
(B)	Work on Saturday & Sunday	19
(C)	Work on Recognized Holidays	19
(D)	Pay for work on Call Backs	19
Pay for work on Assigned Day Off
or Down Day	20
(E)	Call Backs	20
(F)	Work on Split Shifts	20
(G)	Mutual Agreement to relieve at other
than normal shift change time	20
(H)	Noon Hour Work	21
(I)	Minimum Pay for Work on Later Shift	21
Weekend Coverage	21
Minimum pay for stand-by	22
(J)	Early starting time pay	22
(K)	Scheduling overtime in one department to
avoid it in another	22
( L)	Distribution of extra Rate 1 overtime work
within Division	22
Shift Bonus	24
(A)	Recognized Holidays	25
(B)	Disqualification for Holiday Pay	25
(C )	Recognized Holidays for Schedule C	26
Monday - Friday Work Week (D)	Cancellation of Floating Recognized Holiday	26
10	(A)	Vacation Qualifications	27
(B)	Vacation Entitlement	27
(C)	Vacation Pay Calculation	27
(D)	No Accumulation of Vacations	27
2
ARTICLE SUBJECT	PAGE
Vacation of Calendar Weeks	28
Scheduling of Vacations	28
Limitation of Vacations Between
June 25th and Labour Day	28
(E)	Vacation Pay on Termination	28
(F)	Vacation - Plant Shutdown	28
(G)	Cancellation of Vacations	28
11	Employee Security	29
(A)	(1) Selection for Job Vacancies	29
Selection of Replacement Operators	29
(2)	Seniority Status	29
Probationary Period	29
(3)	Severance of Employment	29
(4)	Seniority Lists	30
(5)	Posting Job Vacancies	30
Selection of Applicants	30
Training Period	31
(6)	Recognition of 12-hour employees	32
(B)	Guaranteed Opportunity of Working	32
Reduction of Work Week	32
(C)	General Plant Schedule	32
(D)	(1)Lay - offs	33
(2)Job Displacement	33
(E)	Contracting Out Work	33
(F)	Staff Performing Bargaining Unit Work	34
(G)	Facilities previously occupied by Best
Foods Canada Inc.	34
12	Discipline	35
13	Union Officers and Committees	36
(A)	Stewards and Zones	36
(B)	(1) Grievance Committee	36
(B) (2) Labour Committee	36
(B)	(3) Negotiation Committee	36
(C)	Union Officers and Representatives	36
(D)	Permission to Present Grievances	37
(E)	Pay for lost time due to Joint	37
Union-Management Meetings
(F)	Leave of Absence to attend to Union
Conventions	37
(G)	Leave of Absence to attend to Union Business 37
3
ARTICLE
PAGE
SUBJECT
	(H)	Leave of Absence to attend a Labour	
		School	38
14		Grievance Procedure	39
15		Lockouts and Strikes	41
16		Safety and Health	42
17		General Provisions	43
	(A)	Bulletin Boards	43
	(B)	Monthly Union-Management Meetings	43
	(C)	Amendments to Agreement	43
	(D)	Employee Leaving Plant because of	
		injury on the job	44
	(E)	Welfare Plans	44
	(F)	Physical Examinations	51
	(G)	Removal of Personal or Company	
		Property from Plant	51
	(H)	Entrance to Plant	51
	(I)	Bereavement Pay	51
	(J)	Apprentice Training Program	52
	(K)	Personal Cleanliness	52
	(L)	Security Searches	52
	(M)	Jury Duty	52
	(N)	Tool Allowance	52
	(O)	Severance Allowance	52
	(P)	Pregnancy Leave	53
	(Q)	Cost of Living Allowance	53
18		Duration of Agreement	54
		Appendix A -Definitions	56
		Split Shift	56
		Regular Rate	56
		Normal Hourly Rate	56
		Plant Seniority	56
		Grind Shift	56
		Grind Day	56
		Grind Week	56
		Starting Time	56
		Quitting Time	56
		Call Back or Call In	56
		Schedule B -Rate Schedule	57
		Section 1 - Dry Starch Division	58
		Section 2 - Refinery Division	58
		Section 3 - Wet Starch Division	58
4
ARTICLE SUBJECT	PAGE
Section 4 - Stores, Shipping and Transportation Division	59
Section 5 - Mechanical Division	59
Section 6 - Power House Division	60
Section 7 - Laboratory	60
Schedule C - Jobs on Monday to Friday
Work Week	61
Memoranda of Understanding	62
Re: Meal Allowance, Work Clothing and
Safety Shoes	62
Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons
Retiring While on L.T.D.	62
Memoranda of Understanding Re: Mechanical Division	63
Apprentice Training Program	64
Memorandum of Agreement
Re: Yard Employees	66
Memorandum of Agreement
Re: Primary Safety Observer	67
Memorandum of Understanding
Re: Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule For Continuous Operations	69
Memorandum of Understanding	75
Memorandum re: Notification for	76
Mechanical Weekend Work Memorandum re: Resolution of Same	77
Seniority Dates
Memorandum of Understanding re:	78
Receiver and Supplier Stores Mechanical Division Memorandum	79
Memorandum re: Callback Procedure	80
Memorandum re: Make-up Shifts	81
Pension Pop-Up	82
Seniority List	83
Wherever the words referring to the masculine gender are used herein, such as he, his or him the same shall include and cover females and males.
5
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO AND AMENDED THIS 15TH DAY OF APRIL 2012 BETWEEN
CASCO INC.
Having its Head Office in the city of Toronto Ont., and plant at Cardinal, Ontario hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
OF THE FIRST PART:
and
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION LOCAL N0.483
of Cardinal, Ontario, a local union chartered by the CAW - Canada {AFL-CIO-CLC}, hereinafter called the “Union”
OF THE SECOND PART:
WITNESSETH:
6
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this agreement is to promote the best mutual relationship between the Company and the Union, define orderly collective bargaining and grievance procedures; and to prevent interruptions of work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company’s business.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION - EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agency for all the Company’s employees in its plant at Cardinal, Ontario, except those employed within the following classifications:
Foreman, Chief Engineers, those above the rank of Foreman, Office Workers, Plant Protection Employees and Highway Tractor Trailer Drivers.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATION TO MANAGEMENT
The location of the Plant, the operation and management of its business, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, together with the determination of the number of employees in any department, or in any job are exclusively the responsibility of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union recognizes the right of the Company (1) to hire, promote and transfer within the bargaining unit, (2) to discipline any employee for justifiable cause, (3) to allocate work, describe, and classify jobs, and (4) to determine the number of employees in any classification.
7
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY
The Company agrees to a modified Rand Formula which consists of the following provisions:
(a)	All Employees shall, as a result of this agreement, have the right to join the Union or to remain a member of the Union.
(b)	The Company will deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement an amount equal to the regular dues established by the Union. Such deductions, as authorized by the Union Executive, will be made weekly and the Company shall deliver to the designated officer of the Union the amount so collected by the end of the current month or as soon as possible.
No deduction of dues shall be made in any pay period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions required by law is not sufficient to cover the full amount. In such cases, the dues shall be deducted from the next regular pay period in which sufficient earnings are payable to cover such deductions.
ARTICLE 5
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
(A)	Schedule “B” is part of this Agreement. Subsequent revisions and additions to Schedule “B” as agreed to by the parties hereto, will be incorporated by amendment at the Union-Management Monthly Meeting, next following such agreement.
(B)	(1) Before new jobs are created or the duties of old jobs are merged during the term of the contract, the Company will meet with the Union executive at a monthly management meeting to discuss the merger or new jobs. Such new or merged jobs will be classified, and the rates put into effect by the Company. It is agreed that in the event the Union does not agree with the Company, the matter may be taken up under Grievance Procedure.
(2)	Jobs which are practically identical from the standpoints of duties shall be classified under the same occupational title.
(3)	Rates of compensation for the same rate classification shall prevail throughout the plant regardless of Department or Division in accordance with Schedule “B”.
(4)	The rate of a present worker in any occupation which has been assigned to a lower Rate Classification than it carried previously will not be reduced; however, the proper and related new Rate Classification as set forth in the foregoing rate schedule will apply to any future workers in the occupations.
(5)	An employee who is required to perform in the regular manner, not an emergency or substitution, the work of more than one job, will be paid at the respective rates assigned to each job for the number of hours spent on each job.
(6)	(a) When an employee is awarded a job in a higher wage group, he will receive his old rate until he takes over the full responsibility of the job. He will then receive the rate of the new job to which he has been assigned.
(b)	When an employee is awarded a job in a lower wage group he will receive the rate of the job to which he has been assigned. For the days he would have been working from the general plant schedule, he will receive the lesser of Rate 1 or the normal hourly rate appearing on his Form “8”.
(c)	Employees who hold a regular job who have been awarded a job in a higher wage group, and fail to get to their new job within 90 consecutive days
9
after the completion of their 5 day training period, will receive the rate of their new job until they begin to train in the new job. When an employee returns to the job to continue training, he will be paid in accordance with Article 5(B) (6)
(a).
(7)	(a) If, when an employee would normally be working on his own job, he is required to substitute on another job, he shall be paid at his own rate or the rate of the other job, whichever is greater.
(b)	An employee, temporarily assigned to other work for one or more days or shifts, when there is a lack of work in his regular occupation, shall receive the rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned except as provide under Article 11 (B), paragraph 4.
(c)	An employee who has been working on his own job, and because of lack of work may be temporarily assigned to work for part of the day or shift on another job, will be paid for the balance of the shift at his own job rate or the rate of the job to which he has been temporarily assigned, whichever is the greater.
(C)	Employees will be paid each Thursday for earnings up to 7:00 am the preceding Sunday. Deductions will be made as per schedule as mutually agreed upon. In the event of a payday falling upon a recognized holiday, wages shall be paid on the next bank business day.
The Company will provide notification to employees if their pay has been altered.
10
ARTICLE 6
HOURS OF WORK
(A)	Working Hours -
The working day begins at 7:00 am and ends at 7:00 am. As recognized by the Company, Sunday begins at 7:00 am on the calendar day Sunday and ends at 7:00 am. on the calendar day Monday. The same applies to recognized holidays.
The recognized work week shall consist of five days or shifts of eight (8) hours, or a total of 40 hours between 7:00 am Sunday and 7:00 am the following Sunday. However, in the cases listed in Schedule C which is part of this Agreement “Jobs on Monday to Friday Work Week” the recognized work week shall consist of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday, and work on Saturdays and Sundays on these jobs shall be on a call back basis. Nothing in this paragraph is to be interpreted as a guarantee of work or as a limitation on assignment of overtime work outside the recognized work week.
It is the duty of all employees to report for their scheduled work periods unless they have obtained their supervisor’s permission to be absent. If an employee is prevented from reporting for duty through exceptional circumstances, he should notify his supervisor at least fourteen (14) hours before his work period begins indicating the anticipated time of return to work.
If an employee has been absent from his work for more than one day because of sickness or any other cause he must report to his supervisor at least sixteen (16) hours prior to the beginning of the work period in which he intends to begin duty.
Employees are responsible for keeping their supervisor advised of the phone number at their principal residence at which they can be contacted. Without such advice, the Company cannot be responsible for notifying employees concerning extra work, callbacks, schedule changes, etc. An employee will not be considered available, for that job, if a phone call to the phone number given is unsuccessful in contacting the employee.
Day workers will be allowed five (5) minutes before quitting time at noon and night to put their tools away and wash up.
ll
Employees up to 15 minutes late will lose 1/4 hour’s pay. Employees 16 to 30 minutes late will lose 1/2 hour’s pay, etc.
The same regulations will apply for employees leaving work ahead of
time.
Employees working overtime will be paid to the nearest 1/4 hour as authorized by their supervisor.
An employee reporting late for work must work eight (8) hours before overtime rates can be applied.
To meet our product demand and ensure customer service, it is the duty of the employees to remain on the job if required to meet special circumstances. If an employee does not wish to remain, the supervisor will endeavor, in accordance with the Collective Agreement to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work, but failure to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work without increasing the cost, to the Company, does not relieve the employee on the job of the responsibility towards his job.
(B)	DayWork
The normal hours of work are:	
and	7:00 am to 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
or	7:00 am to 3:00 p.m.
or and	8:00 am to 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
or and	9:00 am to 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
or and	7:00 am to 12:00 noon 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
or such other eight (8) hour schedules that may be necessary to meet special conditions resulting from production demands, delivery schedules, the type of job, or seasonal variations which might affect the daylight hours. Except as otherwise provided, the Company will not schedule less than 8 hours.
12
(C)	Shift Work -
The normal hours of work for shift workers are any one of the following shifts:
First Shift -	7:00 am - 3:00 p.m.
Second Shift -	3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.
Third Shift -	11:OOp.m.- 7:00 am
Each revolving shift shall rotate in sequence weekly. Employees are not to exchange shifts without permission from their supervisor.
When a shift begins each shift worker is required to be at his place.
At the end of a shift no shift worker may leave his place to wash up or dress unless his mate has changed his clothes and reported to take on the responsibilities of the position. If a shift worker does not report for his shift, and has not given the required notice, the employee on the job shall notify the department supervisor. He shall then remain at his post until a substitute is secured.
When a replacement is required for a shift job or day job after the Schedule has been posted for the following work week, the supervisor will attempt to make the replacement in accordance with Article 6 (E) using the following priority provided no overtime results.
1.	Regular Operator, provided using the Regular Operator does not involve moving him from one shift to one of the other two shifts.
2.	Replacement Operators in order of priority.
If overtime cannot be prevented the Replacement will be made in the following priority:
(1)	Person on the job.
(2)	Regular Operator on his assigned day off.
(3)	Other Regular Operators in order of seniority.
(4)	Replacement Operators in order of priority.
The supervisor may at his discretion use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
13
Oil Refinery Schedule
	Sun	Mon	Tues	Wed	Thurs Fri		Sat
Reg.	11-7	3-11	3-11	3-11	3-11	A	A
Reg.	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Reg.	3-11	7-3	7-3	7-3	A	A	7-3
Reg.	7-3	A	A	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7
R1	A	11-7	11-7	A	7-3	3-11	3-11
R2	A	GPS	GPS	GPS	GPS	7-3	A
14
Laboratory Division
Normal Weekly Rotation							
	SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THR	FRI	SA T
Reqular 1	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular 2	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Reqular 3	7-3	A	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3
Reqular 4	3-11	3-11	3-11	A	A	3-11	3- 11
Reqular 5	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7	A	A
							
Relief 1	A	A	7-3	3-11	3-11	11-7	11- 7
Relief 2	A	7-3	7-3 Lab	7-3 Lab	7-3 Lab	7-3 Lab	A
1 Incumbent* - The Company intends to exercise its rights to assign the duties currently undertaken by the incumbent to the Lab Operator Grade 2 on shift i when the incumbent retires or otherwise leaves this job.
(Reference signed item of agreement dated June 3,1998)
Replacement #2** -Normally scheduled in accordance with Article 6(D). As , a variation to Article 11 (C ) when not scheduled as a replacement operator for the full recognized work week, the Replacement #2 is scheduled to work day shift on a Monday to Friday basis at the Rate Classification for the Laboratory Operator Grade 2.
Relief Weekend Off							
	SUN	MON	TUE S	WED	THR	FRI	SA T
Reqular 1	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular 2	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular 3	7-3	A	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3
Regular 4	3-11	3-11	A	A	3-11	3-11	3- 11
Regular 5	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7	A	A	11- 7
							
Relief 1	A	7-3	3-11	3-11	11-7	11-7	A
Relief 2	A	7-3 Lab	7-3	7-3 Lab	7-3 Lab	7-3 Lab	A
15
(D)	Replacement Operator - A Replacement Operator is an employee who replaces a Regular Operator or other Replacement Operator during their temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, assigned days off, or other similar cause. The Replacement Operator will have the same rights and obligations of the job for the days he is on the job as if he were the regular operator, but he shall not have the rights and obligations of any other replacement job he may have for those days. When there is more than one operator on a shift or days, a Replacement Operator will not have priority over the Regular Operator for any overtime assignments.
A Regular Operator who also holds a Replacement job will not have the rights and obligations of his Regular job for the day he is working on his Replacement job. Replacement of Regular Operators Rate 5 or higher will be made from Replacements (in order of priority) who have received their jobs in accordance with Article 11 (A) (7) as a result of a bulletin. When a Replacement operator is replacing a Regular operator for one calendar week, he shall have no rights to his other jobs for that seven day period.
When there is more than one Replacement Operator for a job the priority of the Operators shall be indicated as Replacement Operator No. 1, Replacement Operator No.2, - etc., and such priority shall be indicated on the job bulletin when the vacancy is posted. A Replacement Operator regularly on shiftwork is limited to that job, i.e.: he may not hold another Regular Job or Replacement job. Similarly, a Regular Operator regularly on shift work is limited to that job.
A day worker is limited to holding one replacement job plus a regular job within the division or is limited to holding two replacement jobs.
(E)	Work Schedules-
A work schedule is to be posted on the bulletin board in each department on Thursday on which is shown the planned working days and shifts, for the following week. This schedule will indicate “assigned day off and “down days”, if any, and in the event that any work which is Rate 2 or higher shown on this schedule is to be performed by an employee at overtime rates then such work will be scheduled to the Regular Operator or the Replacement Operator enjoying the rights of the Regular Operator unless it is assigned in accordance with Article 6 (C).
16
As an exception to the preceding paragraph the existing system of scheduling week-end relief and days off will continue. The present common practice is the scheduling of the 3 -11 shift Saturday to Replacement Operators three Saturdays out of four, with the 4th such shift being scheduled to the Regular Operators. There are exceptions to this general rule in various departments and in situations where Replacement Operators are not available.
The schedule may be changed by the supervisor by advising the man concerned at least “25" hours before the shift or day concerned for an assigned day off or down day change if such change is caused by production demands, or by at least “17” hours notice if the change is for any other reason, provided, however, that not withstanding the foregoing, no notice of a change in schedule is required if caused by serious breakdown. In any of these cases, the additional time worked is not on a “call back" basis. When an employee has had his schedule changed he will be given at least 17 hours notice from his previously scheduled starting time. Without 17 hours notice the employee will receive overtime rates and the time scheduled will be included in calculating the workweek under Article 7(A). Without 17 hours notice the supervisor will not take away a scheduled shift from an employee. If so the employee will be paid for the shift and it will be included in the work week under Article 7 (A).
Assigned Day Off is a day of relief from the regular job assigned to an employee to conform to the recognized work week.
When owing to a change in the work schedule and the employee has not been advised that regular work is not available and reports for work, he will be supplied with at least four hours work or pay, at straight time on week days, but such time will not be included in the work week. If on a Sunday or holiday or assigned day off, his work will be treated as a call back. The above does not apply in the case of a serious breakdown.
When an employee is required to come in to work ahead of his regular starting time he will be given twelve (12) hours warning. Without twelve (12) hours warning his early starting time will be on a call back basis.
Except as otherwise provided, when employees are scheduled for 8 hours work on their regular jobs, they will be guaranteed 8 hours work or pay in lieu thereof.
All employees assigned to work at overtime rates, who are scheduled for 8 hours work on their regular jobs are not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on their job will be guaranteed at least 4 hours work or pay on a call back basis.
17
(F)	For reasons of product demand or efficiency, assigned days off and down days will be determined by the supervisor concerned. Recognizing that employees would like their two days off consecutively, the supervisor will prepare the schedules accordingly when feasible, providing additional cost is not incurred.
18
ARTICLE 7
OVERTIME
(A)	Overtime rates of time and one-half the regular rate will be paid for:
(1)	a) work in excess of eight hours continuously
b)	work in excess of eight hours in any one day.
c)	hours worked between 3 p.m. Saturday and 7 am Monday
d)	hours worked between 7 am Saturday and 3 p.m. Saturday except hours worked from the general schedule.
OR
(2)	Scheduled time worked in excess of 40 hours in any one work week.
No more than 8 scheduled hours per day will be included in calculating the work week.
(B)	(1) When an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours on Sunday and is not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on his job, the time worked will not be included in calculating the work week under Article 7
(A)	and will not be included as “opportunity of working” under Article 11
(B)
(2) When an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours on Sunday and has the opportunity of working 8 hours or more on Sunday, time worked up to but not exceeding 8 hours will be included in calculating the work week under Article 7 (A). Such time scheduled will be included as 8 hours in determining the “opportunity of working” under Article 11 (B).
(C)	Work on Recognized Holidays - As shown in Article 9 (A) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half of hourly rate with the exception that work on New Year's Day, Christmas Day and Labour Day will be paid at double time. If an employee works 8 hours or is scheduled to work 8 hours or is paid for 8 hours on a Recognized Holiday, such time worked or paid for will be included in computing the work week.
(D)	(1 )Time worked on call back basis will be paid at time and one-half, and will not be included in the forty hour work week.
(2) Call backs or overtime will terminate at the beginning of the employee’s regular scheduled day or shift. When an employee continues on his regular shift without interruption after a call back, overtime rates
19
will again become effective eight hours after he started his call back work.
(3)	Work on an Assigned Day Off or a Down Day - When an employee is required to work on his assigned day off or his down day without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E), he shall be paid on a call back basis.
(E)	(1) Call Back or Call In - With the exception of work normally performed by the mechanical division, the Company is not obligated to call in any employees for any job of approximately one-half hour duration, that can be done by other hourly employees in the plant available to perform the work.
In addition the Company is not obligated to call in any employee for any mechanical task that can be done by the utility mechanics. Nor is the Company obligated to call in any employee who is scheduled on vacation, floating holidays, Union business, labour relations, or requested time off.
Employees called in for non operational activities such as crew meetings, safety meetings, safety training, training meetings, environmental meetings and other similar meetings mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union will be paid on a call back basis.
(2)	Employees who are called in to work without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E) for a limited period of time will get a minimum of four
(4)	hours regular pay, except that the minimum pay will be 6 hours regular pay if the employee is called in to work without notice between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 am. If the employee’s services are not required for two hours and forty minutes he can with the supervisor’s permission leave the plant. If, however, while he is in the plant on a call back another emergency arises requiring his attention he must remain on the job and subject to the instructions of the supervisor concerned.
OR
(3)	If an employee is called upon after his regular quitting time and after having been relieved from his work to work overtime he will be paid on a call back basis.
(F)	Work on Split Shifts - Employees may be required at the request of their supervisor to work a split shift. In such cases the actual hours worked within the span of their normal working hours will be paid for at regular rates, and any time so worked outside of normal working hours will be compensated for at time and one-half.
(G)	Shift Relief - Overtime will not be paid in the case of a mutual agreement between two shift workers on the same job to relieve at a time
20
other than the normal shift change time. This arrangement must have the permission of the supervisor concerned.
Employees may be required by their supervisor to work 12 hour shifts in situations in which two operators are only available to cover the 24 hours duty per day. Such 12 hour shifts will be considered as normal hours of work in accordance with Article 7(A)1.
, (H) Noon Hour Work - Employees who are advised before noon that they are required to do unscheduled work during the noon hour, will be paid one and one-half hours’ pay. Such time will be included in the 8 hour work day.
Work during the noon hour will be paid for on a call back basis only if ' the following conditions prevail:
(1)	The employees concerned must have worked during the morning
and be scheduled to work that afternoon.
i
(2)	The employee concerned was not advised before 12 noon of the
i	noon hour work.
Such call back pay will terminate at the time the employee would i	normally begin his afternoon work.
t (I) Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required at a definite time on a later shift during that day will be paid a minimum of two hours and forty minutes at time and one-half their hourly 1 rate.
1 An employee may be required to stand by at home for duty at an indefinite time later during that day for which he shall receive a minimum pay i equal to a call back whether or not his services are required.
i Weekend Stand -by Coverage
During the period of Victoria Day weekend to Labour Day weekend inclusive, the following procedure of mandatory weekend coverage for emergency repairs will be followed:
Mechanics from each of the following shops will be on stand-by from 3:30 p.m. on Friday until 7:00 am on the following Monday,
(7:00 am on Tuesday for holiday weekends).
Mechanical Shop: 1 mechanic Electric Shop:	1 mechanic
21
Each designated mechanic on call will receive a rate of pay in the amount of $300.00 per weekend, (plus $150.00 for each additional day of coverage on holiday weekends), in addition to their pay for hours worked.
For the purposes of this article where a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday the assigned day off continuous to the weekend shall be considered part of the holiday weekend.
Employees in the shops identified above will be scheduled for standby duty on a rotating basis.
A schedule will be posted in each shop by May 1, each year.
In addition to the above, employees in each of the shops identified above will be scheduled for stand-by duty on a seniority voluntary basis for the remaining weekends. If a holiday falls in the middle of the week, each designated mechanic will be paid $175.00 per day in addition to their callback or pay for hours worked.
Callbacks will be handled as before except designated individuals are obligated to come in when called.
(J)	Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required to start their day’s work the following morning before 7:00 am will be paid time and one-half for time worked before 7:00 am and time and one-half after eight (8) hours work.
(K)	It is not the intention of the Company to schedule overtime work in one department to avoid overtime in another department.
For example, an employee under ordinary circumstances, will not leave his regular job to go to another job to act as a replacement if so doing creates overtime on the regular job.
In the case of an R2 holding jobs of the same rate, he will be scheduled if possible on a rotating basis.
(L)	Distribution of extra Rate 1 overtime work within the Division:
The Company agrees not to use contractors to perform rate 1 overtime work until eligible bargaining unit employees from the division have been afforded the opportunity to perform said work. For the purpose of this provision, extra Rate 1 overtime work is defined to be Rate 1 work to be performed by an employee, which work is deemed necessary by the Company, and in the opinion of the Supervisor concerned will be in excess of two hours duration and cannot be done by employees within their recognized work week.
22
In order to distribute extra Rate 1 overtime work equitably among employees within a Division, a list, in seniority order of employees who hold a regular and/or replacement job within the Division, and who wish such work will be kept. Employees are responsible for advising their Supervisor of their desire to be included on the list and of a phone number by which they can be reached at all times. As extra Rate 1 overtime work occurs, employees on the list will be given the opportunity on a rotational basis, providing the employee is capable of doing the work. Such time worked is not included in calculating the work day or work week. For such work, only one phone call to the phone number given is required of the Supervisor. If an employee does not wish to take advantage of the opportunity, he will forfeit his turn and be eligible again when his turn comes up on the next rotation. An employee who refuses to work Rate 1 overtime on 3 consecutive occasions will forfeit their right to be included in the Rate 1 overtime list. Employees who forfeit their right will be given the right to renew their position on the Rate 1 overtime list on January 1 and July 1 each year.
When planned cleaning is required, procedure will be to call eligible employees on the Rate 1 overtime list, during the preceding workday, on a rotational basis. When planned cleaning is required it will be scheduled to commence at 7:00 a.m. In order to be eligible employees must either be on their assigned day off or working the 3-11 shift. Any refusals during the same scheduled week shall be considered a total of one refusal.
23
ARTICLE 8
SHIFT BONUS
A shift bonus will be paid to:
(a)	employees whose working hours rotate on a three shift basis,
(b)	employees whose working hours rotate on a second and third shift basis.
(c)	employees whose working hours are permanently on one of either of the two night shifts.
(d)	employees whose working hours rotate regularly on a day and night shift basis, and
(e)	day workers when they are required to work on a night shift.
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Effective April 15, 2008, the shift bonus is 5% of Rate 7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
A shift bonus of 5% of Rate 6 per hour will be paid for hours worked at unloading corn boats between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am. Effective April 15, 2008, the shift bonus is 5% of Rate 7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
24
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS TO BE RECOGNIZED
(A)	The following holidays during the year shall be recognized:
New Year’s Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday
Alternative days to any of those listed above may be settled by mutual agreement.
In addition to the above, and in lieu of Canada Day and Remembrance Day, each regular employee will have four (4)*“floating" recognized holidays each calendar year which may be taken at times desired by the employee provided they have approval of the Supervisor concerned. Any floating holidays not taken by December 31st, will be scheduled by the Supervisor concerned within the following two months.
'Effective April 15, 2011, in lieu of Family Day, each regular employee will have an additional floating recognized holiday
(B)	The company will pay all regular employees eight hours straight time at their normal classification rate for the recognized holidays as named in Article 9 (A), provided that an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
If he refuses to work on such holidays if assigned or if he refuses to respond to a “call back" without justifiable reason.
If he is absent without justifiable reason on the scheduled working day immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
If such holiday occurs while he is on requested leave of absence of more than one month.
If such holiday occurs when he is under suspension.
If he is absent for any reason in excess of twenty-six (26) weeks prior to the holiday.
25
(C)	In the cases listed in Schedule C jobs on Monday to Friday work week, the following applies:
Where a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday the assigned day off shall be on the preceding Friday and where a recognized holiday falls on a Sunday the assigned day off shall be on the following Monday.
Where two consecutive recognized holidays fall on a Friday and a Saturday the assigned day off corresponding to Saturday shall be on the preceding Thursday. Where two consecutive recognized holidays fall on a Sunday and a Monday the assigned day off corresponding to Sunday shall be on the following Tuesday.
(D)	With at least 3 days notice or immediately when hospitalized, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled Floating Recognized Holiday.
If such floating holidays cannot be rescheduled within the floating holiday deadlines, the employee will receive that floating holiday pay in lieu of a floating holiday with pay.
26
ARTICLE 10
VACATIONS
(A)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) complete months of continuous service.
(B)	(1)An employee with from one (1) to four (4) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(2)	An employee with from four (4) to eleven (11) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(3)	An employee with from eleven (11) to seventeen (17) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(4)	An employee with seventeen (17) to twenty-five (25) years seniority who has rendered regular services during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks during the calendar year.
(5)	An employee with twenty-five (25) years or more seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of six (6) weeks during the calendar year.
(C)	This vacation pay shall be computed as follows:
1.	Employees will be paid 2% of their total earnings of the preceding calendar year or forty (40) hours pay at their normal rate, whichever is the greater for each week of vacation.
2.	If an employee is called back to work while on vacation, he will be paid on a call back basis.
3.	All paid vacation time will be included in the work week.
(D)	Vacation time will not be accumulated from year to year except that the last two weeks of an employee’s vacation may be carried over to the following year with one week being completed by the end of March and the remaining week being completed by the end of May.
For vacation purposes the last calendar week of the year begins on the last Sunday of the year.
27
Unless special permission has been given by the Company employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacations.
Vacations will not be granted after schedules have been posted without approval of the supervisor concerned.
Vacation between June 25th and Labour Day may be limited to two weeks to allow as many employees as possible to take a vacation during this period.
(E)	If an employee leaves the Company’s service at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he will be paid in accordance with the regulation of the Ministry of Labour for Province of Ontario.
(F)	The Company may require all or part of employees subject to this agreement, to take a vacation period and may close the Plant or any part of its operations for that purpose at any time convenient to the Company from June 30th to August 24th. If the Company decides to close all or part of the Plant for vacation purposes three months notice shall be given on bulletin boards. Any vacation taken by an employee outside of that time taken during a general Plant shut down will be scheduled insofar as possible as desired by the employee, but must be acceptable to the Supervisors concerned.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, the employee’s 7 day vacation will be scheduled in two parts, provided each part begins and ends within the one calendar week and provided no overtime is created. Furthermore, with special permission an additional two weeks of an employee’s vacation {i.e.
10 paid vacation days} may be taken one, two, or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturday’s.
Employees are requested to apply for vacation periods before May 1st, each year, giving 2nd and 3rd choices for dates. Such vacation schedules will be allotted by June 1st, giving priority according to seniority. Personnel who make their requests after May 1st will be scheduled on a “firs come, first served” basis. Vacation schedules previously arranged will not be disturbed to accommodate requests made after May 1st, except in cases of urgency.
(G)	With at least 3 days notice or immediately when hospitalized, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled vacation. If such vacation cannot be rescheduled within vacation deadlines, the employee will receive that vacation pay in lieu of vacation with pay.
28
ARTICLE 11
EMPLOYEE SECURITY
(A)	Each of the parties hereto recognizes that employees are entitled to an equitable measure of job security based on seniority, subject to the following provisions:
(1)	In the selection of employees for job vacancies, appointments will be made to the most senior employee with sufficient ability to perform the duties of the position. Ability shall include skill, efficiency, responsibility and physical fitness to perform the duties of the position. Such appointments will be subject to the provisions of Article 11 (A) (6).
The selection of Replacement Operators may be from the Regular employees within the division concerned. As an exception to Article 6 (D) which limits Employees to one division, that rule may be set aside by mutual agreement when the parties agree there would be no conflict in so doing.
(2)	Seniority Status: Employees other than the employees hired by mutual agreement on a strictly temporary basis, shall have seniority status from their last date of hire, and shall come under the provisions of this Agreement, except that they shall be on probation for 70 days worked. The Company shall have the exclusive and unlimited right to determine if a probationary employee shall be retained. In determining whether an employee shall be retained, the Company shall not act in an arbitrary, discriminatory or bad faith manner. The Company’s decision on retention or discharge of a probationary employee shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Not withstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph the Company and the Union may exclude specific employees from seniority status by mutual agreement in writing.
(3)	An employee shall have his seniority broken and employment severed under the following conditions:
If he voluntarily resigns or quits.
If he is discharged for justifiable cause.
If he is absent for seven consecutive days without notifying the
Company unless there was justifiable reason for not notifying the Company.
If he does not work for a continuous period exceeding twelve months due to a lay-off.
29
If he does not return to work after a lay-off, within fourteen (14) consecutive days of being called without reason acceptable to the Company. Provable sickness shall be considered an acceptable reason. The employee shall be notified by registered mail to his last known address of recall after lay-off. Absence for which special permission in writing has been given by the Company shall not break seniority, or sever employment. An employee wishing to be absent from his work in excess of 3 working days for reasons other than lay-off or illness must apply for a Leave of Absence.
(4)	Seniority Lists: The Company will prepare seniority lists which will be revised annually or whenever proof of an error has been submitted. Copies of revised lists will be furnished to the Union. Plant wide seniority shall be as of Article 11 (A) (2).
(5)	Posting Job Vacancies:	All hourly job vacancies within the scope
of this Agreement, with the exception of Rate 1 jobs, temporary jobs not exceeding one month, or as mutually agreed, will be posted. In cases of temporary vacancy, the job will be posted if conditions warrant, affording protection for the regular employee to return to his regular job. Where a temporary vacancy is posted to replace an employee temporarily off work, it shall be posted subject to permanency. Other temporary vacancies shall be limited to one year at which point, the jobs will be re-posted or considered as permanent.
When a vacancy becomes evident the job vacancy, if subject to posting, will be posted on all bulletin boards immediately for a period of eight (8) days, indicating job title, rate of pay and hours of work. The successful applicant will be chosen within an additional fourteen days and, provided no replacement is required by bulletin on the successful applicant’s job, he shall begin training within 21 days of the posting of the selection. If a vacancy results from retirement, the vacancy is to be posted sixty (60) days in advance of normal retirement date.
The Company will forward to the President and to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, copies of the job postings, list of applicants and selectee within the time limits. In addition, members of the Union Executive will, upon request, be shown lists of applicants at the Personnel Office.
The selection of applicants for job vacancies will be in accordance with Article 11 (A) (1). In selecting applicants for posted job vacancies it is stipulated that the selectee’s appointment is temporary, but subject to permanency if found satisfactory after a reasonable period of training and when previous incumbent’s appointment to another job has been declared permanent. An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a 5 day training period to determine if he wishes to continue this training. After
30
this five days of training, he shall have no grievance if he loses the rights to his former job. This loss of rights to his former job does not apply if he proves to be unsatisfactory on his new job prior to being declared permanent. This also applies to hourly employees being selected for jobs listed in Article 2. During the above 5 day training period the employee will be paid Rate 1. Employees who continue to train after this five (5) day training period will be paid in accordance with the Article 5 (6) retroactive to the beginning of the training period.
In the event that a selectee proves during his training period to be unsatisfactory or desires to return to his former job then the next selection will be made from those who answered the bulletin. If none of the applicants are qualified, an employee who has completed his probation or is currently serving his probationary period will be appointed. If the job is not filled within 90 days the job will be re-posted if requested by the Union. Applicants who applied for the initial posting and apply for the re-posting, may not be considered if they were selected in the first instance, and withdrew after the training period had begun.
An employee with over five years seniority who applies for and is selected to a job, may apply for another job within 24 months of his previous selection but he shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the second instance. An employee selected to an apprenticeship may apply for another job within 36 months of attaining Rate 12 but shall have no grievance if not selected in the 2nd instance. An employee with less then five years seniority who is appointed to a job, or who applies for and is selected to a job, may apply for another job within 36 months of his previous selection but he shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the second instance. Employees are restricted to an 18 month waiting period when moving from a regular job to a regular job with a higher rate classification. The above restrictions do not apply if an employee is improving his position in the replacement sequence, or moving to a posted regular day job or days (shift as required) from a shift job. The above does not apply to employees changing shifts within the same job. Filling of the new vacancy will be accomplished by selecting an applicant from the original list for that bulletin by continuing down the list.
When an employee bids to the same job (moving in the replacement sequence) his 36 or 24 month restriction period does not get reset to zero. When an employee bids to the same job (moving to a different shift) his 36 or 24 month restriction period does not get reset to zero. If no additional training is required, the restriction period for the employee does not get reset.
31
(6)	Recognition of 12-hour employees outside the 12-Hour Memorandum of Understanding - Unless specified in the 12 -Hour Memorandum of Understanding, both parties understand that all Articles in the Collective agreement pertain to all hourly employees, (Day workers, 8-hours shift workers and 12 hour shiftworkers). Where the collective agreement references 8 hours it is understood that it applies to and means the same as 12 hours where applicable. Where the guaranteed workweek provides for 40 hours it is understood that the 12-Hour memorandum of 48 hours and 36 hours on a weekly rotation basis shall suffice.
(B)	Subject to Article 11 (D) all regular employees will be guaranteed the opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of 40 hours, or 32 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours on a recognized holiday, or 24 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours for each of 2 recognized holidays. Regular employees who have less than 5 years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of
150 days in each contract year with recall rights for the term of this Agreement.
(“Regular employees’ excludes probationary employees and student employees”)
Employees in the Mechanical Division will be subject to the above guarantee and any additional work undertaken by the Mechanical Division will be handled by the regular members of the shop concerned.
It is also agreed by both parties that certain active employees are limited for work under Article 11 (C) and it is agreed that these employees shall be assigned to duties that their limitations will allow them to perform. Excluded from the above are employees who qualify for LTD under the terms of the Agreement.
When a regular assigned employee has been given an assigned day off because he had an expected work week of 40 hours, and his scheduled work is reduced he will receive 8 hours work or 8 hours pay for each day’s work that he would have received, if he had not been given an assigned day off.
(C)	General Plant Schedule - Extra Work as requisitioned by divisions will be allocated with as much advance notice as practical by the Support Services Department to employees without regular assigned jobs and to employees who are not scheduled for the full recognized work week on a divisional schedule. All work for the following week requisitioned prior to 4:00 p.m. Friday will be allotted and posted by 5:00 p.m. Friday. In applying
32
the foregoing, if senior employees have an expected work week of less than the Recognized work week and work on Rate 1 jobs is available on days they are not scheduled to work on a Divisional Schedule, then such Rate 1 work will be allocated to the more senior employees provided no extra cost results.
Work allocated under this section will be distributed on a seniority basis, ability to do the work required, availability and the expected work week. It is recognized however, that it is not practical nor possible to allocate such work strictly on a seniority basis.
Work allocated under this section will be included in the work week for all employees but provisions covering call back pay, down day change, assigned day off change, starting time change, and work reduction do not apply to such work.
Employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned (except the application of Rate 1A to Probationary Employees).
(D)	(1) Lay-offs'. Where changes in methods, production or policy would require a permanent lay-off, the reduction in employees will be made by laying off the lowest Plant seniority employees. When additional employees are required, the former employees will be re-hired in reverse order of lay-off.
(2) In any job displacement the Company will transfer the Regular Operators and the Replacement Operators who are affected, to Rate 1 jobs provided they have sufficient seniority and are able to do the work available. Vacancies in Rate 1 jobs will be created by transferring the least senior employees with regular Rate 1 jobs from the Rate 1 jobs. The Regular and Replacement Operators permanently displaced will be guaranteed a minimum of not less than the rate of their former job for the work done during a period of 18 months after the displacement.
(E)	The Company agrees except in cases of urgency, not to let or enter into contracts for Plant maintenance work or the performance of other bargaining unit work at the Plant, which work is normally performed by Mechanical employees or other bargaining unit employees, while Mechanical or other regular bargaining unit employees who are qualified and capable of doing the work are on layoff status.
Maintenance work is defined to mean repair and replacement of existing equipment in kind.
Exceptions to the foregoing are jobs which are normally contracted out such as roof and road repairs, elevator maintenance, etc., together with
33
jobs that require special skills not possessed by employees, or equipment which is not owned by the Company.
The Company will give the Union five (5) days prior notice (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) of the letting of contracts mentioned above in Article 11 (E), paragraph 1.
The Company will continue its efforts to undertake selected nonroutine jobs such as building demolition when necessary skilled and unskilled regular employees are available within the workforce. Such work will be undertaken by the Company only if it can be done safely and at comparable cost. Unskilled labour on these jobs will be paid at Rate 1. Qualified mechanic when needed will be on the job.
(F)	Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform routine work normally done by hourly employees. Violation of this provision is subject to the Grievance Procedure.
(G)	The facilities (excluding the office) previously occupied by Best Foods Canada Inc. at Cardinal shall be considered as part of the plant as defined in Article 2 for the purposes of this agreement.
34
ARTICLE 12
DISCIPLINE
(A)	Subject to the right of an employee to file a grievance the Company reserves the right to discipline any employee for any justifiable cause.
A conduct record must be filed with the Support Services Office within 14 calendar days of the alleged offense becoming apparent. The employee shall be notified of the discipline imposed within 12 calendar days after the filing of the conduct record and in the case of discharge or suspension, the President of the Union will be advised by registered mail within this period.
(B)	If a suspension or discharge is disputed, an appeal must be made through the grievance procedure within 14 calendar days of notification to the employee and the Union. In case of suspension, the discipline must commence within 24 calendar days of the discovery of the alleged offense.
If it is found that no penalty is justified the employee so reinstated will be reimbursed for loss of earnings by payment of 2% of previous 12 months earning for each week’s loss of earnings or by payment for such time at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. As well the said 2% penalty is also applied to unjustified, non-disciplinary suspension, demotions or terminations.
If the penalty is reduced, the employee will be paid for the unjustified time off by payment of 2% of previous 12 months earnings for each week’s unjustified loss of earnings or by payment for such at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. From this amount paid to him, will be deducted any earnings or benefits he has received from any other source during the period of unjustified time off.
(C)	Complete records in writing will be kept of discipline administered. Upon the written request of an employee to the Support Services Department, a record of his disciplinary record will be made available to him. The employee has the right to appeal through the Grievance Procedure in all cases of discipline.
The Company agrees to remove quarterly each year, from the employee‘s files all discipline records that are 2 years old or older.
In addition, the Company has agreed that an employee may, if he wishes, be accompanied by his steward if he is being reprimanded as the result of a written conduct record. The employee will be required to initial the conduct record to indicate only that he has received it.
35
ARTICLE 13
UNION OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES
(A)	The Union shall notify the Company from time to time of the names of the stewards and their respective zones. No zone or portion of a zone shall be represented by more than one steward. Each steward shall have a definite designated zone and be a regular employee of that zone. Any change in this latter condition must be arranged by mutual agreement with the Support Services Manager.
(B)	(1)A Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) Plant Union members for the purpose as outlined in the Grievance Procedure. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the National Representative or his designate from Local 483.
(B) (2) The Labour Committee which meets Management on a scheduled monthly basis shall consist of four (4) Plant Union members, and the President of Local 483. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the National Representative or his designate from Local 483.
In Article 13 (B)(1) and 13(B)(2) it is understood that the designate may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
(B)	(3) The Union Committee which meets with Management to negotiate renewal of the Agreement, will be paid by the Company, and shall not exceed six (6) Union members of Local 483 plus representation from the National Union.
In Article 13(B) (3) any of the six (6) Union members may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
In the case of (B) (1), (B) (2), and (B) (3) above, the same limitation in numbers shall apply to the Company.
(C)	The Union agrees to certify to the Company the names of its duly elected officers and any other representatives authorized by the Union under its constitution to negotiate with the Company on any matters covered by this Agreement.
It is agreed that no individual employee or group of employees shall represent the local Union at meetings with Management without proper authorization from the local Union.
36
(D)	A Steward, with the approval of his Supervisor, shall be permitted, during regular working hours without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonable period to adjust and present grievances in his zone. If an employee has been instructed to report to management he may, if he so desires, be accompanied by a Union Representative but only if he has been advised by management that the instruction is mandatory.
(E)	The Company agrees it will reimburse Union officers called in for monthly Union-Management meetings at regular rate for any hours between 7:00 am and 3:30 p.m. Such time will not be included in the work week. When the Union Officers or Committees are scheduled for and paid for 8/12 hours in one day for attending joint Union-Management meetings, such 8/12 hours will be considered as 8/12 hours worked in computing the work week under Article 7 (A), and in determining the “opportunity of working” under Article 11 (B).
(Understanding is that short duration meetings will be done on a call
back basis as current practice.)
Meetings convened by a Conciliation Officer or by a Conciliation Board during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be joint Union-Management Meetings.
Only Plant employees will be reimbursed by the Company as outlined in the Agreement, for joint Union-Management Meetings as in 13 (B) (1) and 13(B)(2).
(F)	The Company shall grant a leave of absence of up to one month for a maximum of 4 Union Representatives to attend Union conventions upon written request from the Union Executive. Arrangements for such time shall be made with the Support Services Manager giving as much notice as possible with a minimum of 48 hours.
(G)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operations, the Company shall allow the Union Executive and Stewards the required time off without pay to attend to necessary Union Business, upon the written request of the Union President or his authorized representative. Arrangements for such time off shall be made with the supervisor concerned giving as much notice as possible with a minimum of 24 hours. Preferably such request should be presented to the Support Services Manager by 8:00 am Thursday of the week preceding the date the required time would begin. Such time off will be considered as 8 hours work for each day, for purposes of calculating the work week (Article 7 (A)), and opportunity to work (Article 11 (B)).
37
(H)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operation, the Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay or benefits of up to six months for a maximum of two Union Representatives in one calendar year to attend a Labour School upon the written request from the Union Executive with two weeks notice.
38
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For the purpose of adjusting grievances arising from the interpretation, administration or alleged violation of any part of the Collective Agreement this grievance procedure shall be followed. Any complaint of an employee must be taken up verbally by the employee and his steward with the supervisor concerned. If the complaint is not settled, it becomes a grievance and shall be processed accordingly.
Grievances shall be taken up as follows:
(1)	As soon as possible after the alleged grievance becomes apparent but in any event within 42 calendar days from the alleged occurrence, the grievance must be presented to the supervisor concerned by the Steward in writing on forms provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union. Within 24 calendar days of presentation of the grievance, the Divisional Manager or his representative, will hold a meeting with the Union Steward, Chief Steward or his representative, and the supervisor, at which time an effort will be made to settle the grievance. The Divisional Manager or his representative will reply in writing to the Union Steward, advising him of his decision within 7 calendar days after the meeting.
(2)	If the Divisional Manager’s decision is not satisfactory, the Union will make a request, within 7 calendar days of receiving the Divisional Manager’s decision, for a meeting with the Plant Manager or his representative. Within 28 calendar days of receiving the request, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee. The Plant Manager or his representative will make his ruling on the disposition of the grievance in writing and send it by registered mail to the Chairman of the Grievance Committee within 7 calendar days of his meeting
with the Grievance Committee. Also copies of such decisions or rulings will be delivered by the Support Services Department to the Union Secretary-Treasurer, Union President and National Representative. If the Union requests arbitration, the request must be made in writing within 14 calendar days after receipt of the Plant Manager’s decision.
(3)	By a single arbitrator upon the written request of either party to this Agreement. The functions of such Arbitrator shall be limited to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such Arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, detract from, or alter any terms of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator shall be selected as follows: The Union and the Company shall endeavor to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon within one calendar week, the Minister of
39
Labour will be requested to appoint an Arbitrator. A hearing will be set within 21 days of receipt of the request by the Minister of Labour. The Arbitrator shall deliver his decision orally without reason as soon as practicable, and his decision in writing with reasons, within twenty-one days of the hearing. The Union and the Company shall each pay half of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator.
If either party fails to adhere to the time limits of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall lapse. In the case of a Union or employee grievance, if the failure is attributable to the Company, the demand will be granted by the Company without prejudice. In the case of a Company grievance, if the failure is attributable to the Union, the demand will be granted by the Union without prejudice. Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by the written consent of both parties.
40
ARTICLE 15
LOCKOUTS AND STRIKES
(A)	The Union shall not call or authorize and no officer, official, or agent of the Union shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful strike or slowdown. Any employee violating this provision is subject to discipline.
The Company shall not call or authorize and no officer, official or agent of the Company shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful lockout. If the Company violates this provision, it shall reimburse the employee or employees for the time lost by reason of such violation.
(B)	Should any condition lead to a stoppage of work, the Union will, at the request of the Company, cause to remain at work such members of the Union as are necessary to maintain essential services for plant and town protection.
41
ARTICLE 16
SAFETY AND HEALTH
(A) The Company will maintain its plant and its premises in safe conditions and in accordance with the regulations set out by the Province of Ontario and/or the Dominion of Canada and the Union agrees to assist the company in maintaining observance of these regulations. The Company will continue to maintain adequate First Aid facilities, and to establish and maintain Safety and Health Rules and Regulations in accordance with good safety and health practice and government regulations. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company concerning the health and safety of employees. Employees are required to work safely at all times and comply with the safety regulations. No employee shall be required to perform services that seriously endanger his safety or health, and refusal to do such work shall not warrant discipline, or warrant discharge. Understanding is the above sentence would be applicable if the current provisions governing “Right to Refuse or to Stop Work Where Health or Safety is in Danger” are revoked.
A joint Labour-Management Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of three representatives of management one of whom will be the Safety Supervisor and three Plant Union members. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union.
The Committee Shall:
1.	Promote safety and health and report unsafe practices and conditions to the Safety Supervisor as they become apparent.
2.	The Safety Supervisor and the Committee shall make an inspection of the Plant once per month preceding the monthly meeting of the Safety Committee.
3.	Make recommendations to Management concerning safety matters.
42
ARTICLE 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(A)	Bulletin Boards shall be available for posting Union notices after they have been approved by the Plant Manager or someone delegated by him for this purpose.
(B)	Monthly meetings will be held, normally on the 2nd Tuesday of each month or as otherwise mutually agreed. A Union representative will meet with the Support Services Manager on the preceding Monday morning to exchange agendas and arrange a time for the meeting.
A record will be kept of the minutes of all such monthly meetings between Management and Union Committees. Such record of the minutes shall first be prepared in draft form and submitted to the Union Officers. The Union shall then signify its acceptance of the record of the meeting, by signing the draft copy. Final copies shall then be prepared which indicate acceptance by both the Company and the Union and shall be distributed to the Union Officers and the National Representative.
(C)	Amendments to the Agreement may be negotiated by the parties at any time by mutual consent, but failure to agree shall not constitute a grievance nor be submitted to Arbitration. Copies of such amendments shall be signed by the Union Officers and the Company and attached to the Master copies of the Agreement and shall be distributed to the Union Executive, Union Stewards and the National Representative.
The following will become part of the Agreement:
Re: Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons Retiring while on Long Term Disability
Re: Apprentice Training Program Re: Primary Safety Observer Re: Yard Employees Re: 12 Hr. Shifts Re: Mechanical Division
Re: Memorandum of Understanding Dated January 23, 1997 Memorandum re: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates Memorandum re: Notification for Mechanical Weekend Work Memorandum of Understanding re: Receiver & Supplier Stores Memorandum of Understanding re: Meal Allowance, Work Clothing & Safety Shoes
Memorandum of Understanding re: Make Up Shifts
The parties agree to abide by the following memorandums:
Corn Unloading - May 26/95
Provincial Apprentice Program - May 26/95
43
Mechanical Division Memorandum
Vacation Scheduling and Floating Holidays -12 Hr. Shifts
(D)	An employee who is advised to leave the Plant by the Company because of an injury on the job will be paid for the balance of the day of the injury at his rate of pay.
(E)	The Company shall continue to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs and any increases in cost of premiums for coverage and/or benefits as provided by the following plans for all employees who have completed their probationary period and are below the age of 65.
A summary of the principal features of the insurance, medical and pension plans is outlined below.
Except as otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, all interpretations shall be governed by the Legal Plan Texts.
The coverage is effective on the 1 st day of the month coincident with or next following the end of the probationary period provided the employee is actively at work on that date.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(1)	O.H.I.P. and Semi-Private Hospitalization
Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan {If premiums reinstated}
Blue Cross Semi-Private Hospital
(2)	Life Insurance
Basic Life Insurance of $80,000 for active employees.
An employee who qualifies for Long Term Disability will be covered for the Basic Life Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for active employees to purchase additional $60,000 Optional Life Insurance and $60,000 Optional Spousal Life Insurance.
Option to purchase Optional Life for dependants ($40,000 for spouse; $20,000 for each child)
Note: Optional Insurances are subject to the Insurance Company’s requirements for evidence of Insurability.
Upon retirement on pension, Basic Life Insurance is replaced by $8000 coverage until death.
44
For retirement between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill-health or disability, the amount of Basic Life Insurance in force immediately prior to retirement will remain in force until the normal retirement date, at which time coverage will be reduced to $8,000. Optional insurance shall continue in force until age 65, provided the employee continues to the pay the premium.
(3)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment insurance
Basic AD&D Insurance of $38,000 for active employees.
An employee who qualifies for Long Term Disability will be covered for the Basic AD&D Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for an active employee to purchase additional $45,000 coverage.
For retirement on pension between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill health or disability, the amount of Basic AD&D Insurance in force immediately prior to retirement will remain in force until the normal retirement date. Optional AD&D Insurance shall continue in force until age 65 provided the employee continues to pay the premium.
(4)	Sick Pay
A Company provided self-insured plan providing a benefit to active employees who qualify.
To qualify, an employee must not have been disabled due to the same illness for two weeks immediately prior to initiating a new claim.
The Benefit will be as follows:
Following a waiting period of 3 days of disability:
$850 per week of disability
OR
4/5 of $850 per week of disability that includes one paid recognized holiday.
OR
45
3/5 of $850 per work week of disability that includes two paid recognized holidays.
The above benefit will be reduced by any wages received from the Company during that week and less one seventh of the benefit per day for each waiting day where applicable.
Benefits will begin on the earliest of:
(a)	absence on first day following an accident
OR
(b)	first day of illness and hospitalization (i.e. employee is admitted as an inpatient for a minimum hospital stay of 24 consecutive hours)
OR
(c)	retroactive to 1 st day of illness/disability if absence continues for at least 7 consecutive days
Otherwise, benefits will begin on the 4th consecutive day of illness.
Benefits will continue for a maximum of 26 weeks for any one disability.
The Company will require a Doctor’s verification in order to process a sick pay claim.
Employees may make use of up to 2 floating holidays entitlement retroactively as paid compensation for sick leave. Employees may make use of their remaining floating holidays entitlement retroactively as paid compensation for sick leave upon presentation of a doctor’s note.
(5)	Long Term Disability Insurance
Long Term Disability Insurance will pay 66-2/3% of current base earnings to a maximum of $2300.00 per month less any applicable incomes, or in respect to a recurrent illness, an amount determined by the Long Term Disability Insurance Policy. Such benefits will begin after 26 continuous weeks of disability and will continue until the employee is fit for employment, elects early retirement, or reaches age 65 whichever is the earliest. Disability is defined as disabled from own occupation for the first 24 months and any occupation thereafter.
46
The above increase applies only to employees actively at work when the increase occurs.
(6)	Prescription Drug Plan
The Company will maintain the Blue Cross prescription drug plan (Formulary Three (3)) that pays for prescription drugs after a deductible of 35 cents per prescription.
(7)	Extended Health Benefits
a)	Vision Coverage
Maximum of $350 per 24 months including the cost of eye exams. (100% reimbursement)
b)	Orthopedic shoes/inserts
One pair of Orthopedic shoes or inserts are reimbursable at 80% up to an annual maximum of $350 per person, subject to the Insurance Company’s approval (based on medical necessity). Note, coverage is not eligible if primary use is for athletic purposes.
c)	Chiropractor/Physiotherapist
Treatment by a licensed Chiropractor/Physiotherapist will be reimbursed up to $20 per visit to an annual maximum of $300 per person
d)	Positive Pressure Sleeping Machines
Coverage for positive pressure sleeping machine sleep apnea to a maximum of $2000 every 60 months.
(8)	Dental Plan
a)	Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses 100% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
b)	In addition to the above, coverage equivalent to Rider 1 of the Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses 80% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
47
c)	Major Dental Plan which reimburses 50% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
d)	Orthodontics - with lifetime maximum $2,000 (50% reimbursement) for adults and $3,000 (50% reimbursement) for children.
e)	First two units of scaling at a recall exam will be paid at 100% coverage
The overall combined maximum for basic, preventative and major services is $2500 per person for each benefit year.
(9)	In addition the company shall maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs and any increases in cost of premiums for coverage and/or benefits as provided by OHIP, Semi Private Hospitalization, Prescription Drugs, Vision, Orthopedic Shoes, Chiropractor/Physiotherapy, Sick Pay, Dental and Basic Life Insurance of $8000 for active employees working past age 65.
(10)	PENSION PLAN
Defined Benefit Pension Plan
The Company has provided a Pension Plan for employees hired prior to April 16, 2012, which will be continued.
Effective April 16, 2012 to April 16, 2013, all current employees as of April 15, 2012 shall have a weekly deduction of 2% of gross wages which will be applied to offset the cost of the defined benefit Pension Plan.
Upon completion of the probationary period, membership in the pension plan is conferred retroactively to the latest date of hire as a full-time employee.
Upon completion of two years of plan membership, each employee is vested in the Plan.
Subject to legal requirements, all employees are required to retire at the end of the month in which they become 65 years of age.
Calculation of Average Monthly Earnings (A.M.E)will be based on the best three years earnings in the last ten years of service. Employees who are eligible for early retirement and request a pension estimate
48
will receive a 10 year week by week earnings record to accompany the estimate.
Minimum Yearly Earnings:
In selecting yearly earnings to be used in calculating the A.M.E., each year’s earnings is compared with employee’s regular rate x 2080 hours and the greater amount is used.
The Pension Formula will be as follows:
At Normal Retirement Age of 65 years with 15 or more years’ service: 35% of A.M.E.
plus 1/4% A.M.E for 15 through 30 years’ service.
plus 1/2% A.M.E for 31 through 35 years’ service.
plus 3/4% A.M.E for each year over 35 years’ service.
less (1/2 Canada Pension Plan Benefit minus $175.00)
Early Retirement between age 55 and 65 will be granted on request of employees with at least 15 years of service.
The following Early Retirement Factors apply to employees with at least 15 years of service.
Early Retirement Factor Table:
	PENSION
	REDUCTION
RETIREMENT	EFFECTIVE
AT AGE	JAN. 1, 1991
64	0%
63	0%
62	0%
61	0%
60	0%
59	3%
58	6%
57	9%
56	12%
55	15%
Pension Pop-Up - The Company will continue to provide for a pension pop-up in the Pension Plan as per the attached document.
49
Defined Contribution Pension Plan
New employees hired after April 16, 2012 will be enrolled in a defined contribution pension plan as follows:
< 5 years service:	4%
5 to 9 years:	5%
10 to 15 years:	6%
15 + years	7%
Optional employee contribution of up to 3% with 100% matching by the Company.
Earnings comprised of gross wages.
Upon completion of the probationary period, membership in the defined contribution pension plan is conferred retroactively to the latest date of hire as a full-time employee.
(11)	Up to 1 week education of two Union Representatives will be provided by the Company in administration and operation of Pension Plan.
(12)	All employees retiring shall be entitled to the same retirement benefits.
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coverage for early retirees between age 55 and normal retirement age will be paid by the Company.
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coverage will be paid by the Company to provide single coverage for spouses of retirees.
Such premiums will commence upon the death of the retiree or on the first day of the month following the month during which the retiree attains age 65 and will continue until the earliest of:
1.	The completion of twenty-four months from the above mentioned date,
or
2.	The last day of the month during which retiree’s spouse attains age 65.
The above amendment to 17 (E) (10) is applicable to retirements that occur after April 15, 2000
50
(13)	The Company agrees to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs of Semi-Private Hospitalization, Prescription Drug Plan, Dental Plan coverage in effect for the employee’s spouse and dependents for a period of 12 months following an employee’s death.
(14)	The Union, on behalf of the employees, accepts the foregoing benefits as a full and complete settlement of the Company’s obligations in respect of any amounts required by the Employment Insurance Act to be paid to or for the benefit of employees as a consequence of the reduction of any insurance premiums payable by the Company under the aforementioned Act, and discharges the Company of the said obligation.
(F)	All employees must submit to a physical examination as a condition of employment. All hourly employees will be re-examined annually or as required by the Company.
It is agreed that the Company will pay for the cost of a medical certificate related to the above physical examination.
(G)	Property - Company or personal property shall not be removed from the Plant without a pass duly authorized by the Mechanical Supervisor or the Plant Manager.
(H)	Entrance to Plant - any employee wishing to enter the Plant property at any time other than reporting for duty must obtain a pass from the Security Office. An exception is made to this rule in case of fire.
(I)	Employees will be entitled to 3 days bereavement pay at their regular rate for immediate family. Scheduled time lost due to bereavement will be paid to an employee at his regular rate. Assigned days off and down days are not included in bereavement time off. Time off will apply to the immediate family, which is defined as current spouse, son or daughter of the employee, father or mother of the employee, stepparents of the employee, stepchildren of the employee, father-inlaw or mother-in-law of the employee, brother or sister of the employee and grandchildren of the employee.
In the case of grandparents of the employee, brother’s or sister’s inlaw of the employee, aunts and uncles of the employee, employees will be entitled to a 1-day bereavement pay as above. In addition, payment for the remainder of his shift will be made when an employee is excused from work due to a death in the immediate family as defined above. This time and pay will not be considered as bereavement time.
51
In the event of a death in the family, and an employee is either on, or about to commence vacation or a floating holiday that would be coincident with the bereavement leave, holidays will be cancelled at the request of the employee and rescheduled at a later date in accordance with the collective agreement.
(J)	An apprentice training program - may be instituted and continued at the discretion of the Company. The rate schedule for such a program is shown in Schedule B. The selection and retention of employees as apprentices will be solely a responsibility of the Company. If for any reason the program is discontinued, apprentices who are in training will be retained as regular members of the shop concerned and will follow the Apprentice Rate Schedule.
(K)	In order to maintain the high standards of sanitation desirable in a food plant, all personnel must observe the rules and regulations as they apply to their personal hygiene and cleanliness as well as to their performance of their job.
(L)	The Company reserves the right to conduct searches on plant premises, of belongings and lockers of employees in their presence.
(M)	When an employee is required to serve on jury duty, the Company will pay to the employee the difference between jury duty pay and his base rate for scheduled time lost. The Company agrees that employees scheduled to work 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. or 7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. immediately preceding the day of jury duty, will be paid base rate for scheduled time lost.
(N)	The Company agrees to pay a tool allowance of $350 to mechanics Rate 6 and higher within the Mechanical Division. Employees in the Mechanical Division with Rate 3 to Rate 5 (exclusive of the Yard employees) will receive a tool bonus of $75 providing such employees maintain an adequate supply of tools. The allowance shall be made subject to the recommendation of the Supervisor concerned and paid not later than February 28th, each year.
(O)	The Company will pay severance allowance in compliance with the Employment Standards Act to employees permanently laid off without rights to recall. The Company will also extend the severance provisions of the Employment Standards Act to non-probationary employees with less than 5 years of service who are laid off without rights to recall.
(P)	Leaves of Absence for Pregnancy:
52
Female employees who are pregnant will be granted leave of absence without pay for a period of time in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
(Q)	C.O.L.A (Cost Of Living Allowance): The Cost of Living Allowance will be based on the National Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100). The first application of any wage increase resulting from this provision will be August 1, 2013.
If the C.P.I. increases by more than 3.0% between December
2012	and June 2013 the hourly wage rates will be increased by 1c for each .45 point that C.P.I. increase has exceeded the 3.0% to the nearest cent. The increased wage rate will be effective 7 am August
1.2013.
Similarly, the wage rates will be increased by 1c for each .45 points that the C.P.I increase exceeds 3.0% between June 2013 and December 2013 to the nearest cent, effective 7 a.m. February 1,
2014.
If the C.P.I. increases by more than 3.0% between December
2013	and June 2014 the hourly wage rates will be increased by 1c for each .45 point that C.P.I. increase has exceeded the 3.0% to the nearest cent. The increased wage rate will be effective 7 am August
1.2014.
Similarly, the wage rates will be increased by 1c for each .45 points that the C.P.I increase exceeds 3.0% between June 2014 and December 2014 to the nearest cent, effective 7 a.m. February 1,
2015.
The maximum wage rate increase resulting from this provision will be as follows:
(1)	maximum increase of 16c per hour in C.O.L.A. adjustment effective 7:00 a.m. August 1,2013.
(2)	maximum increase of 16c per hour in C.O.L.A. adjustment effective 7:00 a.m. February 1, 2014.
(3)	maximum increase of 16c per hour in C.O.L.A. adjustment effective 7:00 a.m. August 1, 2014.
(4)	maximum increase of 16c per hour in C.O.L.A. adjustment effective 7:00 a.m. February 1, 2015.
53
ARTICLE 18
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall commence at 12:01 a m. on April 15, 2012 and except as otherwise provided will continue in full force and effect until 12:01 a.m. on the 15th day of April 2015 and from year to year thereafter unless either the Company notifies the Union or the Union notifies the Company in writing within three (3) months prior to the renewal date of its desire to amend the Agreement. Negotiations shall commence not later than ten (10) days following receipt of such notice. Either party desiring amendments shall present its proposed amendments on or before the beginning of negotiations. Any amendments which may be agreed upon shall become part of the Agreement without modifying or changing any other terms of the Agreement.
54
In Witness whereof the said parties have hereunto signed.
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION CAW, LOCAL 483, CARDINAL, ONTARIO
Harry Ghadban National Representative
Joseph Roode	Richard Campbell
President	Vice-President
Wade Tousignant Secretary - Treasurer
Daniel Roode Recording Secretary
CASCO INC. Cardinal, Ontario
Marc Harcus	Ken Shaw
Plant Manager	Manager, Support Services
Ken Meadows
Director Human Resources
U.S./Canada Manufacturing
55
APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
SPLIT SHIFT - is a shift or regular day’s work split on the instructions of the Supervisor into two or more periods separated by more than one hour.
REGULAR RATE - is the classification rate corresponding to the job title on the rate schedule i.e. Schedule B.
NORMAL HOURLY RATE - is the highest active hourly rate appearing on the employees Form 8.
PLANT SENIORITY - is the length of recognized continuous service in the plant dating from the employee’s last date of hiring.
A GRIND SHIFT - is a regular shift (i.e. 7 am - 3pm, 3pm - 11pm, or 11pm -7am) during which corn is being ground.
A GRIND DAY - is a working day (see Article 6 (A)) consisting of 3 grind shifts. Thus one grind shift equals one-third Grind Day, and two grind shifts equal two-thirds Grind Day.
A GRIND WEEK - consists of the number of days or fraction thereof in which corn is ground in accordance with Article 6(A).
STARTING TIME - is the time designated to be the beginning of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the beginning of the normal hours of work.
QUITTING TIME - is the time designated to be the end of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the end of the normal hours of work.
CALL BACK OR CALL IN - for the purpose of this Agreement, these two terms have the same meaning. A Call Back or Call In refers to the situation in which an employee is called in to work without notice for a limited period of time.
56
APPENDIX A
SCHEDULE “B” RATE SCHEDULE
Rate Classification	Effective 7:00am April 15, 2012	Effective 7:00am April 15, 2013	Effective 7:00am April 15, 2014
1S	$14.47	$14.84	$15.21
1A	$19.15	$19.62	$20.11
1F	$19.87	$20.37	$20.88
1	$25.85	$26.49	$27.16
2	$26.29	$26.94	$27.62
3	$26.84	$27.51	$28.19
4	$27.63	$28.32	$29.03
5	$28.26	$28.97	$29.70
6	$28.98	$29.70	$30.45
7	$29.75	$30.50	$31.26
8	$30.46	$31.22	$32.00
9	$31.21	$31.99	$32.79
10	$31.55	$32.34	$33.15
11	$31.92	$32.71	$33.53
12	$32.26	$33.07	$33.90
13	$33.33	$34.16	$35.02
1S-STUDENT
1A - FUTURE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES 1F - FUTURE EMPLOYEES
Rate 1S, 1A and Rate 1F employees will receive that rate while doing Rate 1 work. When such employees are working on jobs of Rate 2 or higher, they will receive the rate of the job. Student employees will receive Rate 1S when painting.
After completion of one year at rate 1F Future Employees will progress to rate 1.
It is agreed that rate 1S, 1A and 1F Employees will not be used from the General Plant Schedule if any Regular Employee is not receiving 40 hours work each week.
SECTION 1
DRY STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Dextrine Operator	9
Reinevelds & Bldg. 39 Operator	9
Cationic Operator	9
Bulk Loader and Packer	8
General Labour	1
SECTION 2 REFINERY DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Process Operator	10
Finished Product Operator	9
Glucose Solids Operator	9
Glucose Solids Packer	7
General Labour	1
SECTION 3
WET STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Wet Starch Process Operator	10
Germ Process Operator	9
Oil Refinery Operator	9
Bldg. #43 Operator & Loader	7
Operator Corn Elevators	6
Germ Dryer Cleaner	2
General Labour	1
58
SECTION 4
STORES, SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Warehouseman	8
Brakeman	8
, Locomotive Engineer	8
Receiver & Supplier - Stores	8
General Labour	1
SECTION 5
MECHANICAL DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Primary Safety Observer	12
, Electrician Mechanic Grade 3	9
Millwright Mechanic Grade 3	9
!	Machinist Mechanic Grade 3	9
Instrument Mechanic Grade 3	9
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 3	9
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 3	9
Utility Mechanic Grade 4	9
1 Electrician Mechanic Grade 2	8
Millwright Mechanic Grade 2	8
<	Machinist Mechanic Grade 2	8
Instrument Mechanic Grade 2	8
i Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 2	8
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 2	8
Utility Mechanic Grade 3	8
Electrician Mechanic Grade 1	7
. Millwright Mechanic Grade 1	7
' Machinist Mechanic Grade 1	7
Instrument Mechanic Grade 1	7
i
i
59
JOB TITLE
RATE
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 1	7
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 1	7
Utility Mechanic Grade 2	7
Electrician Mechanic	6
Millwright Mechanic	6
Machinist Mechanic	6
Instrument Mechanic	6
Pipe Fitter Mechanic	6
Tinsmith Mechanic	6
Painter Mechanic	5
Tractor Driver	7
Yard Hand	5
General Labour	1
APPRENTICE RATES
RATE
Enter Apprentice Program	7
After Successful Completion of
1/2 Program Requirements	8
After Successful Completion of
Full Program Requirements	9
SECTION 6
POWER HOUSE DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Waste T reatment Operator	9
General Labour	1
SECTION 7
LABORATORY DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Laboratory Operator Grade 2	9
General Labour	1
60
SCHEDULE C
Jobs on Monday to Friday work week
Section 4 - STORES, SHIPPING AND
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
Receiver & Supplier - Stores
Section 5 - MECHANICAL DIVISION
All jobs except the following Utility Mechanic Grade 2 Utility Mechanic Grade 3 Utility Mechanic Grade 4 Corn Unloading
General Labour - Mechanical Division General Labour - Yard
Marine Leg Operation - Corn Unloading - When corn unloading is to be performed or has been performed in a work week, Yard Hands will be scheduled 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in accordance with Article 6( C), when available. When corn unloading is being performed, Yard Hands will be scheduled in accordance with Article 6( C). When corn unloading is not scheduled to be done in a workweek, Yard Hands will be scheduled from Schedule C, 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
General - No Labour Assignments (i.e. Article 11 (C) General Plant Schedule) are restricted to the Monday to Friday work week.
61
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Re:	Meal Allowance, Work Clothing & Safety Shoes
This is to confirm that the Company will provide each regular employee a meal and clothing allowance of $100 no later than April 15th each contract year. The Company will pay $275 during each contract year towards the purchase of safety shoes or boots for each regular employee for the duration of the agreement. Employees who are absent due to sickness or other reasons, are not eligible for meal and clothing allowance or subsidy on safety shoes until they return to work.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: CALCULATION OF A.M.E. FOR PERSONS RETIRING WHILE ON LONG TERM DISABILITY
Calculation of A.M.E. for persons retiring while on Long Term Disability will be based on the last 3 years (36 months) of active employment. In selecting these 3 years the individual concerned must have worked 1040 hours in each year. These 3 years (36 months) actual earnings will be compared to the Normal Hourly Rate the employee held during each of these years of service multiplied by 2080 hours and the greater amount used.
In the above cases, the pension formula in effect on the day prior to retirement will be used to calculate the pension.
62
RE: MECHANICAL DIVISION
1)	If more permanent employees are required in another shop the Company will discuss the possibilities of a permanent transfer with the Union before positions for new apprentices or employees are posted in the shop requiring the additional employees.
2)	If it is found necessary to reduce the work force in any of the mechanical shops the Company will meet with the Union in an attempt to reach a satisfactory method of displacing employees. It is recognized that if skill and ability to perform the work are equal then seniority will govern.
3)	If a yard hand performing duties of a mechanical helper has been working on a job for all or most of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the most senior yard hand will be afforded the first opportunity and so forth by seniority to stay on overtime, provided no regular member of the shop concerned wishes to avail himself of the overtime.
The above only applies to a yard hand working with a regular member of the shop concerned.
4)	For callbacks, Utility Mechanics will be used only after the regular employees of the shop concerned.
The sequence would be:
1)	Regular employees of shop concerned by seniority.(Apprentices are considered to be Regular employees of the shop concerned.)
2)	Regular or replacement Utility Mechanic on the job.
3)	Regular Utility Mechanic on his assigned day off.
4)	Regular Utility Mechanic in order of seniority.
5)	Replacement Utility Mechanic in order of priority.
The Supervisor may, at his discretion, use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
63
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
In administering the Apprentice Training Program, the following general principles will be followed:
The service requirement for Industrial Mechanic (Millwright), Construction Mechanic (Millwright) and Construction/Maintenance Electrician under the Provincial Apprentice program is 8000 hours.
The service requirement for Instrumentation Mechanic is 8000 hours. Should the Instrumentation Mechanic become a provincially regulated trade, the service requirement will be as provided for by the Provincial Apprentice Program.
All hours worked as an apprentice (including overtime) shall be included as hours worked towards the service requirement. After attainment of 4000 hours towards the service requirement, the above apprentices will proceed to Rate 8 as provided for in Section 5 of Schedule B. After attainment of 8000 hours towards the service requirement and the successful completion of all relevant testing the apprentice will progress to Mechanic Grade 3 - Rate 9 (Rate 9 will be effective on the date that the testing is successfully completed). Effective April 15th, 2010, upgrading to Rate 12 will occur after the employee has worked 2080 hours as a Grade 3 Mechanic.
For purposes of collective agreement administration the following job titles apply:
Machinist Mechanic Millwright Mechanic Electrician Mechanic
1.	Education Requirements - General requirements are 3 years High School approximately. Employees with less than 3 years High School are considered for apprenticeship, if their abilities and experience indicate they would be successful in training.
2.	Tests - When it is considered advisable to give apprentices written tests to show their progress, the apprentices will be advised of the test, and nature, at least three days before it is given.
3.	Apprentice on Job Training - Each apprentice will be given experience with various mechanics and will not remain with one mechanic for long periods.
4.	Apprentice Working Rights - Regular employees of the Mechanical
Dept, will get preference for overtime, call back, and work on premium days. However, if an apprentice has been working on a job for all or most of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the apprentice will stay on overtime to complete the job.
64
5.	Night School Courses - The Company will pay tuition fees for apprentices attending approved courses, with a minimum attendance requirement at the sessions.
65
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RE: YARD EMPLOYEES
It is agreed that the job of Yard Hand includes the following:
1.	Continuation of existing Yard Hand duties.
2.	Working as mechanical helpers in the Mechanical Division 7:003:30, Monday to Friday.
3.	Operation of the bucket tractor.
4.	Marine leg operation - Corn unloading
5.	Track repairs
Student employees will receive Rate 1S when assigned to the Mechanical Division except when working on corn unloading when they will receive the rate of the job.
There will be no “Replacement” Yard Hands.
It is agreed that corn unloading duties are transferred to the Operator Corn Elevators when corn is delivered and unloaded by a self unloading boat. When a replacement is needed i.e. where only one Operator Corn Elevators is available, the Yard Hands will be used as replacements in seniority order.
Marine Leg Operation will be offered to Yard employees in order of seniority.
Snow Removal of sidewalks and walkways
As a variation of Article 6(A), Yard Hands may be scheduled 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Monday to Fridays from December 1 to March 31. In the event this provision is used, Yard Hands will be scheduled as a group to work these hours. When scheduled to work these hours, such hours shall be considered as normal hours of work and employee will be paid at straight time.
If snow removal of sidewalks and walkways is deemed necessary outside of these hours, the opportunity to perform this work will be afforded to the Yard Hands on a call back basis.
Article 7(H) applies if Yard Hands are required to perform work during the 30 minute meal break.
In instances where there is only one Receiver & Supplier Stores available, it is agreed that a Yard Hand may be used as a replacement for the job title Receiver & Supplier.
66
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
“PRIMARY SAFETY OBSERVER”
1.	There will be one Regular Primary Safety Observer.
The Co-Chair will be selected from worker representatives on the joint health and safety committee.
2.	Replacement Safety Observers will be maintained for use when Regular Primary Safety Observer is already being used or is unavailable.
The title “Primary Safety Observer” {Replacement} will appear on each of these individual’s Form 8’s.
Extra Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be posted at the discretion of the Company.
Replacements will be paid Rate 12 only when performing the duties of Primary Safety Observer for Confined Space Entry procedures. Confined Space entry work will be assigned to a replacement on a seniority/availability basis.
An employee’s entitlement to hold regular and replacement jobs will not be affected by his selection as a Replacement Primary Safety Observer.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be selected from within the Mechanical Division.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers who move to another job in another division forfeit their entitlement to hold the job title “Primary Safety Observer" (Replacement).
3.	When overtime is required, the man on the job will be entitled to the overtime. If he declines it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
When a call-back or weekend work is required it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
4.	Postings for Primary Safety Observer positions will contain the following restrictions:
1)	Applicants must be in good physical condition.
67
2)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence in the Company’s Confined Space procedure and associated testing procedures.
3)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence in the use of self contained breathing apparatus.
4)	Applicants must pass a St. John Ambulance first aid training course.
5)	Applicants must successfully complete all courses and programs required for certification under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
68
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
A Twelve (12) Hour Schedule involving the Job Titles of “Process Operator” and “Finished Product Operator” in the Refinery Division will be implemented within one (1) month of ratification.
In order to provide for a smooth transition into a Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule, an agreed on Twelve (12) Hour Shift Procedure will be implemented subject to review at monthly Management Meetings, or renegotiation in the next Collective Agreement.
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT PROCEDURE
PURPOSE: The following procedure outlines the basic 12-Hour Shift Schedule involving the Job Titles “Process Operator” and “Finished Product Operator" in the Refinery.
Article 6(D) does not apply; there is no Replacement Operator for job titles referenced in this memorandum.
SCHEDULE: The following is tabled as a schedule for employees working a straight Twelve (12) Hour Schedule:
BASIC TWELVE (12) HOUR SCHEDULE
Wk	Sun	Mon	Tues	Wed	Thurs Fri Sat	Base O.T	
1	D	A	A	N	N A A	24	12
2	A	D	D	A	ANN	36	12
3	N	A	A	D	D A A	24	12
4	A	N	N	A	ADD 120	36 48	12
12 Hr. D=Days N=Nights A = Assigned
* For employees working this schedule the Plant Day will be from 0700 to 0700
Day Shift: 7:00 am to 7:00 p.m.
Night Shift: 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
69
SHIFT BONUS
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am. Effective April 15, 2008, the shift bonus is 5% of Rate 7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
WORK GROUPS
The existing four Work Groups will rotate through a 28 day cycle.
Week #1-36 Hour Normal Work Week Week #2-48 Hour Normal Work Week Week #3-36 Hour Normal Work Week Week #4-48 Hour Normal Work Week
The average work week is 42 hours.
OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at a rate in accordance with the Collective Agreement for hours worked in excess of the normal scheduled hours of work.
E.G. 1) After 12 hours continuous work
2)	Week #1 & #3: Overtime after 36 Hours
3)	Week #2 & #4: Overtime after 48 Hours
4)	Overtime on Saturday, Sunday and recognized Holidays
5)	Callbacks as per Collective Agreement
HOLIDAYS
Holiday allowance will continue to be eight (8) hours pay at Regular Hourly Rate for each of the eight (8) Recognized Holidays and each of the four (4) Floating Holidays.
'Effective April 15, 2011, in lieu of Family Day, each regular employee will have an additional floating recognized holiday
VACATIONS
Vacations will be for a calendar week only. Employees will receive pay in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
Unless special permission has been given by the Company, employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacation. A
70
calendar week vacation is a 40 hour week, Sunday to Saturday inclusive.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, 80 hours of an employee’s vacation, consisting of 6 days of 12 hours and 1 day of 8 hours may be taken one, two or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturdays.
Alternatively if an employee requests to split one week of the above 80 hours it may consist of 3 days of 12 hours + one 4 hours segment and 1 day only may be taken on a Saturday.
VACATION RELIEF
Temporary Vacation Relief employees will be posted and awarded to Students at Rate 5. They will be trained and scheduled in the Lab Duty and will only be used when more than one operator is on vacation/training in any work group. Otherwise they will be scheduled on an eight (8) hour shift in the Refinery at Rate 1S as general labour.
1) CHANGES IN HOURS OF WORK
A)	If employee is required due to vacation, sickness, training, etc., he will be scheduled in on his assigned day off in order of seniority as long as it does not conflict with his regular scheduled shift, (i.e. Did not work the preceding shift, not scheduled to work the following shift). Operators who are on their assigned day off have no designated shift.
B)	If employee is required due to special circumstances, (i.e.
Sickness with short notice given or absence with no notice.) man on duty would be obligated to stay until other operators have been contacted in order of seniority. It is to be understood that this overtime coverage will be a responsibility of all 12 hour shift employees.
C)	For training purposes employees will be scheduled on eight (8) hour shifts or a combination of eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts. It would be the practice to make the change, if it is possible, without the employee working a lesser number of hours then he would have, had there been no change.
71
EXAMPLE: EXTRA TRAINING
	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu Fri	Sat	Base	O.T.
Wk.1	D	A	T	T	T A	A	24 Hr.	12Hr.
Wk.4	A	T	T	T	A D	D	36 Hr.	12Hr.
D= 12	Hour	Day Shift			A= Assigned Day Off			
N= 12 Hour Night Shift T= 8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00 am - 3:00 p.m.)
EXAMPLE: Short Duration Training (Maximum 4 Hours)
Complete operating crew would be scheduled in on assigned day off for an eight (8) hour shift.
For a four (4) hour training session: Crew brought in on assigned day off would attend for training and would then go “Relieve” operating crew for four hours so they could attend training. At conclusion of four hours of training, operating crew would return to complete their scheduled 12 hour shift.
2) Scheduled Hours worked on assigned day off will be included in the work week and paid at straight time.
An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a five day training period - consisting of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts - to determine if he wishes to continue his training.
The following schedule is tabled as a training schedule for trainee operators and may be used in combination with the basic twelve (12) hour schedule until the operator is trained.
72
TRAINING SCHEDULE
	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Base	O.T.
Wk. 1	D	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr.	12 Hr.
Wk. 2	A	T	T	T	A	N	N	36 Hr.	12 Hr.
Wk. 3	N	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr.	12 Hr.
Wk. 4	A	T	T	T	A	D	D	36 Hr.	12 Hr.
D= 12 Hour Day Shift	N= 12 Hour Night Shift
T= 8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00 am - 3:00 p.m.)
A= Assigned Day Off
Regular employees who have five years plant seniority, or more, will be guaranteed the opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of the normal scheduled hours.
OR
Normal scheduled hours less 8 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours on a recognized holiday.
OR
Normal scheduled hours less sixteen (16) hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours for each of two (2) recognized holidays.
Regular employees who have less than five (5) years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of one hundred (100) twelve (12) hour shifts.
73
Sick Pay as provided under Article 17 (E) (4) will be calculated subject to the following waiting period determination where applicable.
Benefits will begin the earliest of:
1.	The fourth consecutive day of illness and will be subject to a deduction of $100.00 for each day of the waiting period.
OR
2.	The day following completion of 24 hours of continuous absence from scheduled work and will be subject to a deduction of $150.00 from the benefit for each day of the waiting period.
Both parties acknowledge the above Memorandum is a deviation from the Collective Agreement.
The parties agree to implement a 12 hour shift schedule for the following job titles using a 12 hour shift schedule similar to the 12 hour shift schedule in place in the Refinery Division. Either party may discontinue the 12 hour shift schedule by providing 30 days written notice
Dry Starch Division:
Bulk Loader and Packer
Refinery Division Glucose Solids Packer
Wet Starch Division
Wet Starch Process Operator
74
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Bulk Loader and Packer
Duties to include all bulk filling/loading/shipping on a two shift basis. Shipping duties to include SAP. (Bulk includes all bulk carrier vehicles.)
Duties to include semi bulk starch filling and transfer into Warehouse 64 on a 2-shift basis- 7 days a week.
(Note: semi-bulk filling at each station would be one person operation. Some automation at the existing semi-bulk filler will be completed to facilitate one person filling).
Duties include helper duties for Reinevelds.
Loading of semi-bulk starch may be done on 11-7 shift if there are space limitations in Warehouse 64 or Building 47.
Dumping of returned/rejected bagged products Blend Pack Specialties Staffed on a 7 day basis Rate 8
Add Job Title to Section 1 in Schedule B and delete Bulk Loader and General Helper
Warehouseman
Loading and Shipping of bagged starch products including SAP Loading and Shipping of semi-bulk starch and Cationic from Warehouse 64, Building 36 and Building 47 including SAP. (One Warehouseman operation)
Memorandum Dated January 23,1997
For the Company
For the Union
75
Memorandum re: Notification for Mechanical Weekend Work
December 13, 2000
Todd Deschamps Vice President Local 483 RW/CAW Cardinal, Ontario Delivered by Hand
Dear Todd,
Further to our meeting of November 17, 2000 the Company intends to implement the following procedure for assigning planned weekend work to Mechanical Division employees effective Friday, December 15, 2000.
This procedure applies in situations where employees are absent on a Friday.
In all cases the foreman will call the employee’s principle residence.
1.	Employees - With Answering Machine
Foreman will call the employee’s phone number and leave a message that there is planned work and the expected duration of the work.
If the employee wishes to avail himself of the opportunity he must phone back to the foreman prior to 2:00pm on Friday and either speak to the foreman personally or leave a message on the shop extension that he will be in at the established starting time.
2.	Employees - No Answering Machine
Foreman will call the employee’s phone number prior to 2:00pm on Friday to notify him of the availability of planned work.
The above would also apply on a Thursday where a recognized holiday falls on a Friday.
Employees on vacation for a calendar week are ineligible for planned work for the weekend days of the calendar week.
Yours truly,
Ken Shaw
Manager Support Services
Cc. Kevin Patrick Frank Hitsman John Playford Paul Choquette
76
Memorandum re: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates
Employees who are currently listed in the collective agreement will have seniority in the order in which they are listed.
Employees hired on the same date after May 1, 2001 will have their seniority established by the Company on their date of hire. The Company will furnish the Union with a list in seniority order at the end of each quarter when new employees have been hired.
Student employees will only be considered as applicants for jobs listed in Schedule B after all other employees have been considered except for “Temporary Vacation Relief’ as provided for in the 12 Hour Shift Schedule for Continuous Operations.
It is mutually agreed the student probationary period will be May 1st to Labour Day inclusive and students employed during the probationary period shall not acquire seniority.
77
Memorandum of Understanding Re: Receiver & Supplier-Stores
The Company agrees to maintain three Regular Operators in the Job Title “Receiver and Supplier - Stores” for the duration of this agreement.
The three Regular Operators will be responsible for coverage during any temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, or other similar cause. Article 6(D) does not apply-there is no replacement operator.
The job duties are expanded to include ail chemical unloading.
Both parties acknowledge the above memorandum is a variation from the collective agreement.
78
Mechanical Division Memorandum
1.	The Company will provide the Union each week with a list of contractors who were in the plant the previous week.
2.	The Company will attempt to select repair work to be undertaken by regular members of the Mechanical Division after hours and on weekends.
3.	Tinsmith duties will be assigned to the Millwright Shop when available and practical.
4.	All work associated with the repair and maintenance of pneumatic conveying lines will be transferred to the Millwright Shop.
5.	Two millwright shop employees have been trained in insulation. Whenever possible they will be given the opportunity for minor repair jobs.
6.	Whenever painting duties are to be performed by our own employees, whether after regular hours or on weekends, this work will be offered to the regular employees of the Mechanical Division by Seniority.
It is not the Company's intention to have contractors working on weekends. However situations can arise which necessitate the presence of contractors on weekends. When this occurs, and if possible, the Company will inform the Union beforehand.
79
Memorandum - Callback Procedure
Mechanical Division
Employees will be called from the shop concerned in seniority order in accordance with Article 6(A) paragraph 5 and Article 7(E)(1).
If additional employees are required to help with the job, the list from the shop concerned will be exhausted before returning to the top of the seniority list for that shop and calling the employees a second time.
When the list of available employees in the shop concerned has been exhausted, employees in the subsequent shop will be called in seniority order providing they have sufficient ability to perform the work.
Mechanical-Electrical-Yard-Tractor Driver-Safety Observer Electrical-Mechanical-Yard-Tractor Driver-Safety Observer Yard-Mechanical Division in seniority order
Prior to leaving the plant, mechanics will make a reasonable attempt to notify the supervisor concerned that they have completed the job.
Callbacks - Mechanic in the plant for planned work
If a breakdown occurs while mechanics are in the plant carrying out planned work, employees from the shop concerned will be called as per the above procedure.
Once the list of Mechanics from the shop concerned has been exhausted the employees carrying out the planned work will be directed to work on the breakdown.
Callbacks - Mechanic already in the plant on another callback
The employee will be contacted and advised that he/they may be required for another breakdown.
Once the list of mechanics from the shop concerned has been exhausted, the employees on the initial callback will be directed to work on the subsequent breakdown as a continuation of the same callback.
80
Memorandum re: Make Up Shifts
The Make-up shift provision will be applied when an employee is unable to complete his scheduled shift as a result of number of consecutive hours worked and being subsequently sent home by his supervisor.
Employee will be scheduled to work the hours lost, beyond his normal scheduled hours.
His schedule will be posted as part of the normal weekly schedule on Thursday for the following week with the understanding that the work will be scheduled on a day that otherwise would be an assigned day off.
Hours worked will be excluded from the calculation of the workweek for the purposes of calculating overtime. (In the event, the work is scheduled for the weekend then the hours worked would be paid on the basis of the weekend overtime premium of time and one half).
The scheduling of work will be done as soon as reasonably practicable.
If the employee declines the scheduled work or fails to report for work on the scheduled day, then he forgoes his rights under this memorandum.
Make-up shifts will not interfere with normal scheduling and call-in procedures.
It is agreed that the Union would not process any grievance on behalf of any employee once the make-up shift provision has been administered as described above.
81
Pension Pop Up
An example of how a pop-up pension would work:
Example
Employee approaches retirement and requests option forms.
The administrator calculates the Normal form of Pension
Let’s assume that based on the employee’s age, service and salary that the
monthly pension works out to be $1500.00 payable for life.
Joint and 60% Survivor Pension (No Pop-up)
Let's also assume that based on the employee’s age, service and salary that the pension payable as a Joint and 60% survivor pension is $1350.00. Then in the event of the retiree’s death prior to his spouse, his spouse would receive a pension of $810.00 per month for the remainder of her life. If the spouse dies before the retiree, then the retiree continues to receive $1350.00 per month for the rest of his life.
Joint and 60% Survivor Pension (with Pop-Up)
Based on the employee’s age, service and salary, the monthly pension payable as a Joint and 60% survivor pension with pop-up is $1335.00 per month. Then, in the event of the retiree’s death prior to his spouse, his spouse would receive $801.00 per month for the remainder of her life. If the spouse dies before the retiree, then the retiree’s pension would pop-up to the normal form amount of $1500.00 per month from the date of his spouse’s death for the remainder of his life.
All forms have been calculated as being actuarially equivalent to the normal form.
82
Page removed Page enlevee
Page removed Page enlevee
Page removed Page enlevee
Page removed Page enlevee
2012
Januai7______ _ j| _ February ___________________i!___________March
• S M	T	W	T	F IS H s			M	T	w	T		S i	S	M	T	W	T		S
																			
i 1 2	3	4	5	6	7				1	2	3							2	3
I 8 9	10	11	12	13 ! 14		5	6	7	8	9	10	11	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
15 16	17	18		20	21	; 12	13	14	15	16	17	18	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
' 22 23	24	25	26	27	28	; 19	20	21	22	23	24	25	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
. 29 30	31	—				26	27	28	29		- -	—:	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
	April								May			l			June				
; S M	T	W	T		s 1	S	M	T	w	T		s	S	M	T	W	T		S
; 1 2	3	4	5	6	7			1	2	3	4	5						1	2
: 8 9	10	11	12	13	14	i 6	7	8	9	10	11	12	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
. 15 16	17	18	19	20 21		* 13	14	15	16	n	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
' 22 23	24	25	26	27	28 ! 20		21	22	I 23	24	25	26 ^	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
• 29 30		i—				27	28 ....	29	30	3, 			.. ..		24	25	26	27	28	29	30
	July					August							September						
. S M	T	W	T		S	s	M	T	W	T		S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S
. 1 2	3	4	5	6	7 ;				1	2	3	4							1
■89	10	11	12	13	" |	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
i 15 16	17	18	19	20	21		13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
: 22 23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
; 29 30	31					26	27	28	29	30	31		23	24	25	26	27	28	29
													30						
October								November							December				
• S M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T		S	S	M	T	W	T		S
: 1	2	3	4	5	6					1	2	3							1
: 7 8	9	10	11	12	13	; 4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
; 14 15	16		18	19	20	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
i 21 ’ 22	23	24	25	26	27	! 18	19	20	21	22	23	24	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
; 28 29	30	31				25	26	27	28	29	30		23	24	25	26	27	28	29
													30	31					
87
2013
88
2014
January							February							March						
			w	T F		s	s	M T		w			s	s			Vi		F . S	
				2	3	4							1						: 1	
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
26	27	28	29	30	31		23	24	25	26	27	28		23	24	25	26	27	28	29
														30	31					
																				
April							May							June						
			w			S	S			w			s	S	M		w		F . S	
			2	3	4	5						2	3		2	3	4	5	6	7
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
27	28	29	30				25	26	27	28	29	30	31	29	30					
																				
																				
July									A	jgu	$t			September						
			w		T F		s	s			w			s	s			w		F S	
		1	2	3	4	5							2			2	3	4	5	6
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
27	28	29	30	31			24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29	30				
							31													
October							November							December						
			w	T : F		s	s	H	T	W	T		S	S			w			S
				2	3	4							1			2	3	4	5	6
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
26	27	28	29	30	31		23	24	25	26	27	28	29	28	29	30	31			
							30													
89
2015
January							February							March						
	M		vv		F S		S i M			W		F S		s	M		w		F S	
					2	3		2	3	4	5	6	7		2	3	4	5	6	7
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	i							29	30	31				
																				
																				
April										May				June						
			w	T	F 3		s			w	T	F S					w		F S	
				2	3	4						1 2				2	3	4	5	6
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23|24		25	26	27
26	27	28	29	30			24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29	30				
							31								I						
July									AUgu		>t			September						
			w	T	F S		s	u	T W		T	F S				T i w ■ T .			F S	
				2	3	4						1				1 2		3	4	5
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
26	27	28	29	30	31		23	24	25	26	27	28	29	27	28	29	30			
							30	31												
																				
October							November							December						
	M	T W			F S		s			w		F S		s			W T		F S	
					2	3		2	3	4	5	6	7				2	3	4	5
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
11	12	13 14		15	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
18	19	20 21		22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	29	30 I						27	28	29	30	31		
		i					,													