ARTICLE
PAGE
INDEX
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
RECOGNITION RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT RIGHTS NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS REPRESENTATION GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ARBITRATION DISCHARGE CASES SENIORITY
HOURS OFWORK AND OVERTIME
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
JOB POSTING
PAID HOLIDAYS
VACATIONS
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GENERAL
BENEFITS
SEVERANCE
TERMINATION
WAGE SCHEDULE "A”
WAGE SCHEDULE "B"
WAGE SCHEDULE "C"
WAGE SCHEDULE ”D”
1
1
2
3
3
5
7
8 8 13 16 16
17
18
19
20 22
24
25
27
29
30
31
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
PAGE
Seniority Status of Temporary Employees	32
Active Payroll	34
Disciplinary Record	35
Job Posting	36
Reinstatement of Benefit Coverage	37
Grievance Procedure	38
Essential Services Group	39
Appendix "C" • Memorandum of Settlement	40
Recall Procedure (Less Than One Week)	41
Technological Change	42
Contracting Out	43
Maintenance of Pay	44
Temporary To Permanent Status	45
Best Estimate of Recall Frcm Layoff	46
Company Bonus	47
Doctor's Notes	49
Cross Training	50
Light Labour Program	51
1.
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all its employees at 1500 Birchmount Road, Scarborough, Ontario, save and except Supervisors, persons above the rank of Supervisors, quality control employees, office staff, persons employed for not more than 24 hours per week and students employed during the school vacation period.
1.02	Non-bargaining unit personnel will not perform any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit provided, however, that this clause shall not apply in the case of work of an experimental instructional or educational nature or in casescf emergency or in cases of new equipment or processes. It is understood and agreed that the services of engineering and or technical staff will be required from time to time, as a result of the above circumstances.
ARTICLE II • RELATIONSHIP
2.01	(a) All regular employees in the bargaining unit shall, upon completion of the probationary period, become ana remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition Of employment.
(b)	Employees hired on a seasonal (temporary) basis shall as a condition of employment, pay Union Dues and furthermore shall sign an authorization in writing on a form provided by the Union to that enact,
(c)	The Company will not discriminate against any employee and will ensure that employees are treated, during employment without re ard to their race, colour, religion, sex, age or national origin. It is further understood and agreecf that the use of the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include the feminine throughout this agreement.
(d)	The Company is committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all individuals on the basis of seniority, skill, ability, knowledge and experience and within the framework provided by this collective agreement, to facilitate the employment and advancement of women, visible minorities, native persons, and people vith disabilities.
2.02	(a) All regular employees who have completed the probationary period and have acquired seniority in the bargaining unit shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct whatever sum may ce so authorized for initiation fees, Union dues and for any assessments uniformly imposed on all members by the Union. Union dues shall be deducted weekly and the Company shall remit same to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made. The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues and assessments of those employees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union. The Union dues will therefore be forwarded by the Company_ to the Union Office as soon as possible after the end of the month for which the deductions were made and in any case not later than two (2) weeks following the end of the month in which deductions were made.
2.
(b)	The Union agrees that the Company shall not be liable for any and fell claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted in accordance with the above.
2.03	The Union agrees that it, its officers, agents, representatives and members, will not engage in Union activities during wording hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company except as authorized by this agreement.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
3.01	The Union, recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and without restricting the generality, of the foregoing the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been demoted, transferred, discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and re lations to be observed by the employees; before altering any such rugs, the Company will discuss same with the Union and give them the opportunity of making representations with regard to such proposed alterations;
(d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of work, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part hereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this agreement.
3.02	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is understood and agreed that breach, of any of the Plant Rules and Regulations, or or any of the provisions of this agreement, shall be sufficient cause for an employee to be disciplined up to and including discharge. However, nothing herein, shall prevent an employee from
rieving the appropriateness of the discipline and whether or not such %reachtook place.
3.
ARTICLE IV - NO STRIKES- NO LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that during the lifetime of this agreement there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, ana the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
4.02	The Company shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be the subject cf a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article VI below.
4.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company as provided in Article VI below.
4.04	The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer.
4.05	The Union agrees that it will not involve or interfere with any other installation or the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, in or as a result of any labour dispute it may have at the premises covered by this agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.01
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select Stewards, not to exceed seven (7) Stewards, plus the Plant Chairperson, and the Executive Board Member, making rune (9) in total. In the absence of the regular Steward, the Company further agrees to recognize individuals who shall be identified as alternate Stewards. The alternate will only be recognized in the absence of the designated Steward. Steward representation shall be as follows:
ENROBING, MOULDING, CHOCOLATE, STARCH & COOKING GENERAL PROCESS & TAKE OFF FANCY PACK
MAINTENANCE & BOILER ROOM WAREHOUSE & TRANSPORTAHON AFTERNOON SHIFT MIDNIGHT SHIFT
1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward
All Stewards shall have completed the probationary period and shall be regular employees of the Company during their term of office. The Company agrees to recognize a grievance committee consisting of the Plant Chairperson and the Steward involved. Any problems resulting in a grievance will be handled by the Steward up to step number two of the grievance procedure, at which time they will be assisted by the Plant Chairperson, or in his absence, the Executive Board Member.
4.
5.02	The name of each Steward and alternate, who may be elected from time to time, and the designated area they will represent, shall be given to the Industrial Relations Administrator in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such Steward until it has been so notified.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to cooperate with the Stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers. Stewards and members, their cooperation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity.
5.05	The right of Stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to adjust grievances filed by employees in their own areas under Article VI is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	The Steward shall obtain the permission of his Supervisor before leaving his work. The Supervisor may reauest a reasonable explanation for the Steward's absence from regular duties prior to being excused. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b)	The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the the required for attending grievance step meetings and any preliminary meetings with the management.
(c)	The Supervisor shall have the right to limit such the taken, so that it is not excessive.
(d)	The Union acknowledges that Stewards and officers of the Union have their regular duties to perform.
5.06	On any negotiating meetings held with the Company for the renewal of this agreement, the Umon committee shall consist of the Plant Chairperson, Executive Board Member and not more than six (6) Stewards and any such full-time Union Representative as the Union desires. The Company agrees to pay employeeson the said committee for lost time from work to attend negotiating meetings with the Company up to eight (8) hours per day at the employee's normal hourly rate.
5.07	The Company agrees that the Plant Chairperson wi 11 be assigned to work on the day shift. Furthermore, the Company agrees to recognize the assignment of a permanent Steward appointed to both the afternoon and night shifts provided the shifts are operational.
5.
5.08	To ensure continuity of representation, the Plant Chairperson will be credited with super-seniority for the purpose of lay-off only. His does not mean that employees m such a position will be protected against bumping, transfers, or being displaced from a particular position as a result of lack of work. It does mean however, that the Plant Chairperson will be protected only to the extent that he will not be displaced from employment and placed on actual lay-off from the Company. Ms provision shall continue in force as long as the day shift remains operational. Furthermore similar consideration will be extended to the afternoon and night shift Stewards.
5.09	In keeping with the spirit of 5,06 above, the Company agrees to grant a paid educational leave not exceeding three (3) days per year for all Stewards (excluding alternates) and Union officers provided the granting of such leave does not unreasonably interfere with tne efficient operation of the Company.
5.10	Recognizing the importance cf industrial peace within the establishment and the role of the Steward body, the Company encourages the Steward body to convene a meeting once every four (4) months for a duration of two (2) hours. Prior to convening meetings, the.Plant Chairperson is expected to make a formal re uest for such meeting at least three (3) weeks in advance of the desire8 meeting date to the Industrial Relations Manager. Thereafter, the Company will arrange for appropriate meeting facilities and will inform the Plant Chairperson accordingly,
Following the Stewards meeting, the Plant Chairperson will meet with the Industrial Relations Manager to review any issues that are not conducive to positive Labour/Management relations.
It is understood that off shift Stewards attending the meeting do so on their own time.
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The parties to this agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
6.02	No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	unless it deals with a specific Violation of the collective agreement,
(b)	where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (5) full working days before the filing of the grievance at Step No. 1 of the grievance procedure.
6.
6.03
6.04
Grievances properly arising under this agreement shall be adjusted and settled as fovows:
Inquiry Stage
The employee shall present his complaint orally to his Supervisor with the assistance of the area Steward if requested. Following the presentation of the complaint, the Supervisor shall have one (1) working aay in which to respond. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the complaint Mil be reduced to writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company and presented to the Industrial Relations Administrator as a formal grievance within two (2) working days following the rendering of the Supervisor's answer.
STEP NO. 1
The Industrial Relations Administrator shall convene a meeting With the appropriate management representative together with the aggrieved employee and the area Steward within two (2) working days of the presentation of the formal grievance. The management representative involved must reply in writing to the grievance within two (2) working days of the hearing at Step No. 1. If the answer is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee then the matter may be referred immediately to the Industrial Relations Administrator who shall forward the grievance to the appropriate department head.
STEP NO..2
Within two (2) working days of the presentation of the grievance at this step, the department head shall convene a meeting with the aggrieved employee, the grievance committee and such other _ persons as management may desire. The department head will respond in writing to the grievance within two (2) days of the hearing at this step. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the grievance will be submitted to the Industrial Relations Manager at any time within three (3) working days following the rendering of the department heads answer.
STEP NO. 3
A meeting will be convened Within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance with the grievance committee, the grievor, and a full-time Union representative together With such other persons as management may desire. The management shall render its decision in writing within three (3) working days following the hearing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
If final settlement of the grievance is not reached at Step No. 3 and if the
Sievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of is agreement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VII below at any time within ten (10) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 3 and if no such written request for arbitration is received within that time then the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
7.
6.05	It is understood that the management may submit to the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers and members or any complaint that a contractual obligation undertaken by the Union in this agreement has been violated. Ary such complaint shall be delivered in writing to the Chairperson of the grievance committee where upon it shall be discussed at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure. Baling a satisfactory settlement within two (2) working days after the filing of such grievance, the Company may refer it to arbitration in accordance with Section6.04.
6.06	A Union Policy Grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of this agreement concerning all or a substantial number of the employees (five (5) or more) in the bargaining unit in regard to which an individual employee could not grieve or an alleged violation where a group of employees have signified to the Company an intention to grieve, may be brought forward by the Union Grievance Committee in writing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure at any time within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated and if such grievance is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration in the same manner as the grievance of an individual employee.
6.07	Ary of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by mutual written agreement between the parties. Reasonable time extensions will be discussed and decided by the respective representatives given the level of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	Both parties tey this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through the provisions of Article VI above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the request of either cf the partial.
7.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of ione person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as Chairperson chosen by the other two members of the Board.
7.03	Within five (5) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
7.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act. on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fall to agree on a third person within seven (7) working days of the notification mentioned in 7.03, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairperson.
7.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding on both parties.
a
7.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any p>ow®r to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions cf this agreement.
7.07	Each of the parties to this agreement will bear the exptnses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear tJ« expenses if any of the Chairperson.
7.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE VIII- DISCHARGE CASES
8.01	The discharge of an employee during his probationary p« riod or the discharge of a seasonal (temporary) employee shall not be subject of a grievance. A claim by an employee wno has completed his probationary period that he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a special grievance. The written grievance shall be submitted at Step No.3 of the grievance procedure within three (3) full working days after the employee is discharged. Such special grievance may be settled under the grievance procedure by:
(a)	Confirming the Company's action in dismissing the employee, or
(b)	Reinstating the employee with or without compensation for time lost,
or
(c)	By any other arrangement mutually agreed upon.
8.02	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his Steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the plant premises.
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY
9.01	(a) Seniority as referred to in this agreement, shall mean length of
continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall continue on a departmental basis with respect to layoff or recall from layoff.
(b)	Notwithstanding the above, seniority with respect to vacation entitlement and application for job postings, shall mean length of continuous service in the employ cf the Company and shall be applied on a plant-wide basis.
9.
9.02	Regular employees hired into a permanent position will be considered probationary and shall have no seniority until the completion of sixty (60) working days. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority will be back dated to date of nire. Emplo ees hired on a seasonal basis who have not completed one hundred and Arty-seven (137) days of work as set out in 9.03 who are accepted as a regular employee are required to complete the regular probationary period of sixty (60) working days regardless of the number of days of work completed as a seasonal employee.
9.03	Employees hired on a seasonal (temporary) basis completing one hundred and thirty-sewn (137) days cf work within any twelve (12) month period shall be considered a regular employee with seniority. Seniority will be back dated one hundred and thirty-seven (137) working days exclusive of Saturdays arri Sundays. Seasonal (temporary) employees shall not acquire seniority until after the completion of one hundred and thirty-seven working days as described above.
9.04	The Company shall maintain a seniority list containing the names of all regular employees in its active employmen t, ALL such employees will be credited Wm seniority service equal to their length of continuous service in the employ of the Company. Seniority lists will be revised twice each calendar year. A copy will be posted on the bulletin_ board and a copy will be given to the Plant Chairperson and a copy will be forwarded to the Union Office. If employees do not challenge their seniority date within the first fifteen (IS) days from the date their name first appears on a seniority list, then they shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing.
9.05	Seniority shall be administered on a departmental basis and the following shall be, for: the purposes of administrating the lay-off and bumping procedure only, the departments:
1.	Production, Plant Services and Returns
2.	Shipping. Receiving, Packaging and Work in Process
3.	Maintenance
4.	Boiler Room
9.06	Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstancesonly:
(a)	When off work due to layoff, seniority will continue to accumulate for the first twelve (12) months or the length of the employee's service, whichever is shorter.
(b)	When off work due to sickness or accident (work related or not) then seniority will continue to accumulate regardless of the duration of absence from work. Employees advising the Company of their intention to return to work following a prolonged period of absence, must be capable of performing regular duties, without any restrictions and/or modifications. Furthermore, the Company shall not be obligated to provide employees with a training period as a result of a prolonged period of absence from work.
10.
(c)	When off work due to personal leave of absence, then seniority will continue to accumulate for the first thirty (30) days of such leave.
(d)	When absent on vacation With pay or on plant holidays.
(e)	When actually at work for the Company.
9.07	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	Voluntarily quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	Is off work due to layoff for a period of twelve (12) months.
(d)	Is on layoff and fails to return to work after receipt of registered letter of recall within the time specified as contained in 9.13.
(e)	Fails to return to work upon the termination of an authorized leave of absence unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	Accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company in writing.
9.08	It shall be ,the duty of each employee to notify the Industrial Relations Department immediately in writing of any change in address and/or telephone number. Notice required by the Company shall be deemed to be given, if forwarded by registered mall to the employee at the last address of which the Company had notice.
9.09	LAYOFF AND RECALL
Layoffs will be applied as follows:
(a)	Decreases in the working force shall be in accordance with the procedure set out in the following sections of this article.
(b)	In any layoff in excess of one (1) day or recall after such layoff, seniority shall receive primary consideration subject to the Company's right to maintain a competent worldng force and provided further, that all employees remaining at or being recalled to work shall then be qualified, in the opinion of the Company, to perform the work available. In the event of any layoff not exceeding one (1) day, the Company agrees to layoff seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees in the first instance provided the remaining employees are equally capable of performing the required duties to the Company's satisfaction.
11.
(c)	. Layoffs wijl first be applied by department starting with the particular job or jobs where there is insufficient work. The departments for layoff and recall purposes are as contained in 9.05.
(d)	Probationary and seasonal (temporary) employees, as determined ly the Company who are working at the particular job affected, will be laid off first.
(e)	The most junior employee working in the department and shift affected shall receive notice of layoff which could result in transfers arising from the issuance of notice of layoff.
(f)	Notwithstanding (e) above, employees within wage rate classification two (2) or two (2) lead hand (production) who receive notice of layoff will be entitled to displace the most junior group one (1) production employee on the shift affected rather than accepting an undesired shift. Employees choosing to exercise this option may do so not later than three (3) days following receipt of the notice of layoff.
(g)	Employees attempting to claim a job by application of seniority do so recognizing that in all cases, they are permitted to displace the most junior employee (on the shift affected in the first instance) the only exception to this being that which is expressed In 9.10(c).
Notwithstanding the above, employees attempting to bump others in Groups 3 and 6 of Schedule A are entitled to bump the most junior employee whose job they can perform.
9.10	(a) If he is not able to claim a job by seniority, in the same wage rate
class, the above process will be repeated in successively lower wage rate classes until he either finds a job open to him by seniority or becomes subject to layoff.
<b) Prior to being placed on actual layoff and provided that another department is in an upcrew position, or has seasonal (temporary) or agency employees actually working in that particular department, the laid on employee shall be provided with an opportunity of demonstrating his ability. If in the opinion of the Company he can perform the job satisfactorily, then the seasonal (temporary) or agency employee will be displaced from our employ.
(c)	Prior to being placed on actual layoff and only as a last resort, a laid off employee shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in a successively higher wage rate classification in his own department or successively lower or higher wage rate classification in another department provided the laid off employee exercising this option has a minimum of two (2) consecutive months of experience on the actual job he is attempting to claim by application of seniority within the previous three (3) year period.
12.
(d) An employes claiming a job in another department by application of
(b)	and/or (c) above, shah not have any seniority rights within that department and will be returned to his original department by order of seniority as dictated by recall.
9.11	The Company agrees to provide written notice of termination of employment as prescribed under the Employment Standards Act With regard to termination of employment resulting from a layoff in the first instance only. Employees displaced by the application of seniority wi 11 be provided with a minimum of two (2) days written notice. Employees receiving written notice must complete and return one> (1) copy confirming his choice of options (a) application of seniority or (o) acceptance of layoff. Failure to complete and return one (1) copy of the written notice within three (3) working days shall result in immediate layoff and employees shall disqualify themselves from the notice period and/or payment in lieu of notice.
9.12	Employees choosing to be laid off rather than accepting an undesired shift, shall have the right to refuse a recall to work on an alternate shift, other than the shift being worked at the time of the layoff. Ihis provision shall not exceed a period of twelve (12) months from the date of layoff.
9.13	Notice or recall to work shall be forwarded to laid off employees by registered mail. Employees must return to work within five (5) days of receipt of the registered letter of recall and/or not later than ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the registered letter of recall. The Company may elect to expedite the recall process by telephoning the appropriate employees. Where the Company _is unable to contact an employee by phone, the Plant Chairperson will be consulted for the purpose of verifying the Company's attempts to contact such employee and until such time as the 'employee actually reports for work, the vacancy will be filled in accordance with established practice. Furthermore, the Company will attempt to return laid off employees and employees transferred to other shifts as a result of layoff to the shift held prior to the imposition of layoff within two (2) weeks following a recall but in any event, not later than three (3) weeks provided, of course, sufficient openings exist on the said shift.
9.14	In rehiring after layoff, the reverse order shall apply, that is, the last to be laid off shall be the first to be rehired. As jobs become available, employees may be recalled to a job opening which they held at the time of layoff (within 12 months).
9.15	Any employee claiming improper layoff must do so not later than five (5) working days following the effective date of lpiff, otherwise the Company will not be held liable for damages. The Company agrees that whenever possible, it will advise employees who are being laid off for a period in excess of five (5) working days, with five (5) days notice. If the Company i s unable to give notice, it will not be held liable.
13.
9.16	In the event that an employee covered by this agreement should be
promoted to a position beyond the scope of this agreement, then, ■within a period of six (6) months from the. oate of such promotion either the employee or the Company can elect a transfer back to the bargaining unit in which event the employee shall be entitled to return to his former position and to displace any employee who might have been transferred to fill his former position. In the event that the Company wishes to transfer such an employee back to the bargaining unit after the said period of six (6) ircntins, then he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have i added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such position beyond the scope of this agreement, but he shall not be permitted to make application for a vacancy until a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed following his transfer back to the bargaining unit, It is understood and agreed that except on the mutual agreement of the parties, any employee so transferred wi 11 be classified as General Help- In the event of a transfer back to the bargaining unit during a period of layoff, t seniority shall, be the governing factor in determining the right to claim his former position,
ARTICLE X - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.01	The foliowin paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours of wore per day or per week or of days of work per week.
10.02	The normal work week for regular full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours per week comprised of five (o) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Friday inclusive.
10.03	(a) There shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest period in the first half of each shift and one (1) twenty-five (25) minute paid lunch period to be granted at a time or times selected by the Company.
(b) When overtime lasts for two (2) hours or more, employees shall be entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute paid rest period. This rest period may be taken at the end of the regular shift provided, the employee works two (2) hours or more.
10.04	The Company may require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours.
(i) One and one half 0.1/2) times the employee's regular basic hourly rate for:
(a)	a 11 hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a
normal work day.
(b)	the first eight (8) hours worked on a Saturday.
(c)	all hours worked prior to his regular starting time.
14.
(d)	the first eight (8) hours worked on the sixth day.
(ii) Double time (2X) the employee's regular basic hourly rate
for:
(a)	all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a
Saturday.
(b)	all hours worked on a Sunday.
(c)	all hours worked on the seventh day.
(d)	all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on the sixth day.
(e)	all hours worked on a paid holiday.
In both (i) and (ii) above, any hours that fall within the normal work week are excluded.
10.05	The Company may require employees to work on a shift basis. The Company shall pay a shift premium of fifty (50) cents per hour for all hours worked by an employee in a day when the majority of his regularly assigned hours fall between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight and of sixty (60) cents per hour for all hours worked by an employee in a day when the majority of his regularly assigned hours fall between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. The said shift premiums will not be included in calculating Overtime pay. The Company will advise employees as soon as possible of any shift change:
10.06	An employee who has completed his regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at time and one half of the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate. The Company reserves the right to assign additional work to be the equivalent for compensation received under this section.
10.07	An employee reporting for work as usual on a regular working day, unless notified not to report and for whom no work at his regular job is Available, shall be offered at least eight (8) hours employment in other work at the employee's regular hourly rate or, at the Company's option, will be paid eight (8) hours pay at the employee's regular hourly rate m iieu of such work. This provision shall not apply if the failure to receive notice was caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flccd, power failure or other like cause, furthermore, this provision shall not apply in cases where employees fail to provide the Industrial Relations Department with their correct telephone numbers.
15.
10.08	Any employee who for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to another job for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee's regular job. snail be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is less than the employee's regular pay, he snail receive his own higher rate of pay.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the job to which he is transferred is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive the higher rate of pay for the job to which he is temporarily transferred.
10.09	An employee who is transferred to another job as a result of a layoff, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid the applicable job rate while so employed.
10.10	Overtime - except in the case of emergency breakdown of equipment, overtime after the completion cf an eight (8) hour shift shall be voluntary. However, employees will co-operate and there will be no concerted or collective refusal to work such overtime as may be required to complete the work schedule for the shift. If there are insufficient volunteers, then the Company shall select the most junior employee in the department concerned, who is capable of performing the task required.
10.11	(a) The Union recognizes the problems of distributing overtime in a factory operation composed of a wide variety of product ones, production processes and job occupations. _ to the extent practicable under such circumstances, the Company will distribute overtime fairly among the employees who are scheduled to produce the work requireo to meet the daily schedule. '
(b) In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an extension of the regular shift, the Company will endeavour to distribute the overtime amongst regular employees rather than seasonal (temporary) employees who could be working on the particular line where the overtime is actually scheduled.
10.12	In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an additional shift, the current practice with respect to overtime assignment will be maintained.
10.13	In the event that an employee declines overtime, or is absent when overtime is available, the overtime hours will be recorded against the employee's name as if the hours were actually worked.
16.
10.14	Notwithstanding sections 10.01 and 10.02, a Continental Work Week applicable only to. the Plant Services group and specifically to those who are employed as either a Belt Line Cleaner or a Machine Cleaner will be implemented as required. Employees scheduled to work on either a Saturday or Sunday as part of their normal work week shall receive a premium of $3,50 per hour in addition to their regular rate of pay for all nours worked on a Saturday or Sunday when so scheduled.
Employees hired prior to December 1, 1987 will not be required to work on a Continental Shift unless they voluntarily accept such assignment.
ARTICLE XI - WAGE S AND CLASSIFICATIONS
11.01	Schedules A, B, C, and D attached hereto are hereby made a part of this agreement.
11.02	Where any new classifications are created during the life cf this agreement, the applicable rate will be discussed with the Union.
11.03	An employee injured on the job and requiring medical attention by a doctor shall be paid for the balance of his shift in which the injury occurred. If the use of an ambulance is determined to be necessary by the Elealth Center, the Company agrees to pay the difference between the actual cost and the amount paid by O.H.I.P.
11.04	For the contract year commencing April 1,1994, the annual inflation rate based on the Canada CPI for November 1993 will be applied against the weighted "average of $13,34 and the result will be added to all wage fclassifications.
For the contract year commencing April 1,1995, the annual inflation rate based on the Canada CPI for November 1994 will be applied against the weighted average of $13.34 plus the previous year’s increase and the result wilfbe added to all wage classifications.
ARTICLE XII - JCB POSTING
12.01	Vacancies as determined by the Company which last for forty-five (45) working days or longer, including Lead Fland, except vacancies in Group One shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days. Vacancies created by the application of Article IX (Layoff
and Recall) of this agreement shall not be posted. Copies of job bulletins will be provided to the Plant Chairperson. Only regular employees will be permitted to make application for any vacancies. Postings wifi specify the shift of the vacancy.
12.02	The Company shall within seven (7) working days after the posting has been taken down, notify the successful applicant who shall be placed on the job not later than one (1) week following such notification. If the employee is not placed on the jcb within that period, he shall receive the higher rate of pay immediately.
This section does not apply in the case of advance posting where the actual date of the vacancy has not taken place. In the case of advance postings, the Company will provide effective dates of such vacancies.
17.
12.03
12.04
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
12.09
Seniority shall be the governing factor provided that in the opinion of the Company, the employee has the qualifications to perform the job satisfactorily.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no qualified employee applies. Any vacancy can be filled at the discretion of the Company on a temporary basis while carrying out the provisions of this article,
Nothing herein shall require the Company to post more than two (2) vacancies (including the original vacancy ) as a result of the occurrence of the original vacancy, and all subsequent vacancies which may occur shall be filled at the discretion of the Company.
Employees receivin a job through the job posting system, shall rot be permitted to make further applications for vacancies until a period of six (61 months has passed from the most recent appointment unless applying for a higher wage rate classification.
Employees placed oft a job as a result of this section who are not capable of performing the work in the opinion of the Company, after a brief period of familiarization, shall be returned to their former position and will displace any other employee who might have been transferred to his former position.
If following a brief period of familiarization as mentioned in 12,07 the employee is deemed to be capable of performing the work in the opinion of the Company, then all senkmity previously acquired while working in another department shall be transferred to the new department where the job vacancy occurred and for which he was accepted.
Failing to fill permanent vacancies in accordance with the above procedure, temporary employees shall be considered for such positipns provided they are qualified for theposition in the Company's opinion prior to hiring from the outside. The filling of vacancies as described herein vail be in keeping with the employees' hire date. It is further understood that upon completion of the probationary period as contained in 9.02, seniority will be back dated to the first day of change of employment status.
ARTICLE XIII - PAID HOLIDAYS
13.01	The following twelve (12) days will be considered as paid holidays:
New Year's Day, January 2nd, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day. Civic Holiday, Labour Day. Thanksgiving Day, December 24th. Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
Effective in 1996, paid holidays will be increased by one to thirteen (13) and this additional day shall be the third Monday in February.
Ml the above paid holidays will be paid for regardless of the day on which they fall, provided that;
(a)	The employee has completed the probationary period prior to the holiday(s) concerned.
18.
(b)	The emplo ee is present on the normal working day immediate& before and after the holiday(s),
(c)	The employee has obtained permission in writing from management for leave of absence which would include any paid holiday®, however, if such leave of absence exceeds one week ti.e. 5 working days) payment for the paid holiday<s)
will not be granted.
(d)	An employee can prove he was sick or that it was impossible to attend work. In case of doubt, the employee's attendance record will be the governing factor.
(e)	Laid off employees, who are recalled to work on either of the first two (2) working days immediately following the paid holiday® and provided such em loyee actually works the full day on which he was recalled!
(f)	An employee works on the working day actually preceding the paid holiday® and is laid off on the working days actually succeeding it.
<g> Seasonal (temporary) employees will be afforded payment for Statutory Holiday® only, as identified under the applicable legislation in the Employment Standards Act.
(h) In the event that one of the above listed paid holiday® falls during a period for which an employee is receiving weekly indemnity, then, the employee shall receive the difference between the amount received while on weekly indemnity and regular earnings for the day in question.
In the event that one of the above named paid holiday® falls during an employee's vacation, then by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, the employee shall receive an extra day's pay in lieu of the holiday, or an extra day with pay shall be added to the employee's vacation. In the event that any of the named paid holiday® falls on a Saturday then it shall be celebrated on the Friday, and if such holiday falls on a Sunday then it shall be celebrated on the Monday. Should the government proclaim an additional Statutory Holiday, then such holiday shall replace December 24th.
ARTICLE XIV - VACATIONS
14.01
Entitlement shall be as follows:	
6 months service as of June 30th	1 week
1 year service as of June 30th	2 weeks
5 years service	3 weeks
10 years service	4 weeks
20 years service	5 weeks
30 years service	6 weeks
4^ pay 4% pay 6% pay 8% pay
pay
19.
14.02	Vacation pay VMH be based on earnings with the Company during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 30th in the vacation year Vacation pay will be paid out, on or about July 1st with the exception of vacation actually taken prior to this date.
14.03	Vacations must be taken in the calendaryear in which the vacation is due (January 1 to December 31).
14.04	Vacations will be taken at a time or times most convenient to the Company, however, employees will receive two (2) consecutive weeks of vacation during the month of July. The Company will endeavour to provide the last two (2) weeks of July, however, the needs of the business will dictate actual vacation time off.
14.05	Entitlement to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation will be based on the anniversary date of the employee, that is, if an employee completes the necessary service requirement at any point in the vacation year, he shall then be qualified for the appropriate weeks of vacation regardless of the June 30th date.
ARTICLE XV- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
15.01	The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to any employee for legitimate persona1 reasons. In order to be considered valid, the employee must submit a written request for leave to the Industrial Relations Administrator.. An employee must submit their request at least two (2) weeks in advance of the first day of desired absence. Only in an emergency will a shorter period be permitted. In the event that the Company fails to respond to the written request for leave of absence within a period of one (1) week from the date the initial request was submitted to the Industrial Relations Administrator, the request for leave will be automatically granted.
15.02	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to not more than three (3) employees to attend Union conventions and conferences for a period or periods not exceeding ten (10) days for any one employee in any one calendar year, provided that in the opinion of the Company the granting of such leave of absence does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
15.03	The Company shall pay an employee who is required for Jury Service and or subpoenaed as a Crown witness, for each day of such service, the difference between his straight time hourly rate for the number of hours he would normally have worked on that day and payment he received for Jury Service or Witness Service. The employee must furnish proof as to the time served on Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness and the amount of pay received therefore. Any employee called for Jury Service or as a Crown Witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at the court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked on his shift. The above will not apply to employees who are the accused.
20.
15.04	An employee required to be absent from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of his father, step-father, mother, step-mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, spouse, child, stepchild, brother, sister, grandmother or grandfather shaM be granted a leave of absence covering the required time off up to and including the day of the funeral. Where any of such days of required absence falls on a scheduled working day for such employee, he shall be paid a bereavement allowance for each such day, but up to a maximum of three (3) days computed by multiplying his regular straight time hourly rate times the number of hours he would have worked or by eighit hours, whichever the lesser. In the event of the death of an employee's brother-in-law or sister-in-law, then he shall be granted one (1) working day leave of absence from his employment without loss of pay, provided he uses such time for the purpose of attending the funeral. In the event that an employee does not attend the funeral of his mother or father only, he will be entitled to one (1) working day's leave of absence with pay.
An employee will not receive bereavement allowance when it duplicates pay or any other allowance received for time not worked for any other reason. Time lost thus compensated for will not be counted as hours worked for purposes of determining overtime or premium pay liability.
15.05	In the event that any leave of absence is used for a purpose other than the purpose for which the leave was granted, then the employee may be discharged.
ARTICLE XVI - GENERAL
16.01	If the Union desires to post notices in theplant, such notices shall be first submitted in duplicate to the Industrial Relations Manager for approval, Neither the Company nor the Union shall make any change in such notice after such approval and no notice shall be posted except on such boards which shall be provided by the Company. There shall be no distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any other kind of literature upon the Company's property, except as herein provided, without permission of the Company.
16.02	If the fuU-time representative of the Union wishes to speak to Union Stewards in the piant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall advise the Industrial Relations Manager, who shall then call the Steward or Stewards to the office where they may confer privately These talks will be arranged so that they wil l not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the Company.
16.03	Both parties hereto will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of the safety and health of the employees. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of employees to make use of all ^protective devices and equipment made available by the Company.' To further these aims a safety committee shall be established composed of at least two (2) employees and two (2) management personnel, such committee shall meet not less than the number of tunes prescribed under the O.H, and S.A,
21,
16.04	Pay days shall be each Thursday and the Company 'will endeavour to distribute pay cheques around the time of lunch breaks for employees working on days and afternoons. Employees working on the midnight shift will receive their pay cheques during their shift commencing on the Wednesday with the only exception being, a week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs and in that case, pay day shall be Thursday.
16.05	(a) The Company will pay 100% to a maximum of $70.00 towards the cost of safety shoes purchased by regular employees who have completed the probationary period, to a maximum oi one (1) pair per year (12 months from date of purchase).
(b)	Employees making use of the safety shoe allowance may do so only with the understanding that this benefit is strictly for use in the plant. In addition to the normal safety shoe allowance, persons employed as Cook "A", "B" or Cooks Helper and Plant Services will be provided with slip on rubbers where required.
(c)	The wearing pf hearing protection equipment is mandatory for any employee working in areas where the noise level is ninety (90) decibels or greater. Employees required to work m such areas shaLl be provided at no cost to the employee, within each twelve (12) month period, two (2) pair of ear plugs or one (1) pair of ear muffs only for employees^ in certain areas. Should any employee require further hearing protective equipment, they shall be responsible for payment^ of same. Under no circumstances will employees be permitted to work in areas which require the wearing of protective equipment unless they are in compliance with this section. Employees not complying with the above shall be dealt with severely.
16.06	The Company agrees to continue its present practice concerning the supply and laundering of uniforms. Regular employees will be provided with two (2) uniforms per week with the exception of those working in Starch, Chocolate, or Moulding departments and in their case, the number of uniforms issued will exceed two (2) in the week as deemed necessary by the Company. The present practice in regards to Maintenance will remain unchanged. Uniforms are the property of the Company and at no time will the wearing of uniforms outside of the buiiding be tolerated with the exception of certain employees who are required to _work outside. Employees refusing to comply with this section, will be disciplined.
16.07	(a) An employee required to work two (2) or more hours overtime in excess of his normal work day who has not been notified of such overtime the shift previous, shall be paid a meal allowance of $5.00,
(b) Truck Drivers who are working outside a thirty (30) mile radius of the plant shall be provided with a meal allowance of $8.00, Those not working outside of a thirty mile radius shall be entitled to the meal allowance provided under subsection (a) of this section.
22.
16.08	Lead Hands • will receive fifty-five (55) cents per hour over the highest rate in the group they lead.
16.09	The parties agree to create a new job position entitled Group Leader which shall fail under the scope of the collective agreement and shall be subject to the job posting and appointment process. Postings may be temporary, subject to the needs Oi the business. The Group Leader rate will be two dollars ($2.00) above their normal rate of pay while they are performing the Group Leader function.
16.10	An employee who, at the request of his Supervisor, trains another employee will be paid a Training Ailownace of fifty (50) cents per hour.
16.11	Employees absent from work for a period of three (3) days or more resulting from illness or accident are required to:
(a)	Notify the Company's Nurse of their intention to return to work by telephone one (1) day prior to the actual date of return.
Notwithstanding the above, where the absence is for five (5) days or more the employee will provide a minimum of two (2) working days notice of intention to return to work.
(b)	Provide the Company’s Nurse with a certificate from a physician confirming full recovery from the illness or accident which caused the period of absence.
Ary employee not complying with this section shall not be permitted to return to active employment nor will the Company be obligated to provide work or payment of wages as a result of the employee's noncompliance.
16.12	A tool allowance of $200.00 wUl be provided yearly to all maintenance personnel employed in groups 3, 4, 5 or 6. such allowance is intended for the replacement of worn or broken tools only, and will not be paid if the replacement of the tool is covered under the manufacturers warranty. Furthermore, the allowance will be paid upon submission of receipt for tools purchased for industrial use. Payment will be made in December of each year.
ARTICLE XVII - BENEFITS
17.01	Seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees are not entitled to any of the benefits set forth under this article.
17.02	The Company will continue its present practice regarding payment of premiums of the benetil package recognizing that only regular employees who are on active payroll will be eligible to receive the benefit package as
outlined. Furthermore, the continuation of benefit premiums payable by the Company shall cease at the expiry of a seventy-two (72) week period for those employees who are disabled from work as a result of sickness or accident.
17.03	The Company will be responsible for the payment of premiums for Ontario Health Insurance Plan, on the same oasis as described above (17.02).
23.
17.04	The Company will be responsible for the payment of premiums for the Group Insurance Plan haying a $10.00 single and $20.00 family deductible on the same basis as described above U7.02). There is no co-insurance feature on the plan. however, the drug plan avers only drugs that require a prescription from a qualified doctor.
Once a year the Company will examine each employee's major medical lifetime maximum used and, for those employees who have exceeded $7500.00 use of major medical benefits, a credit of up to $2500.00 will be applied on a yearly basis.
Life insurance wi 11 be $30,000.00. fls of April 1,1994, life insurance will be increased to $35,000.00, and $40,000.00 as of April 1,1995.
17.05	a) Effective June 1, 1992, the pension benefits will be based on the following formula:
1.	For service between June 1,1992 and March 31,1993, the pension benefit shall be $10.00 per month per year of credited service.
2.	For service between April 1,1993 and March 31,1994, the pension benefit shall be $13.00 per month per year of credited service.
3.	For service between April 1,1994 and March 31,1995, the pension benefit shall be $18.00 per month per year of credited service.
4.	For service from April 1,1995, $23.00 per month per year of credited service.
b)	This benefit shall apply to all regular employees having a minimum of one year continuous service in the employ of the Company.
c)	Credited service from June 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993 is defined as 1800 hours worked. As of April 1,1993, credited service is defined as 1500 hours worked.
17.06	The Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan will continue to provide for seventy-two (72) weeks of entitlement, it being understood that the second fifteen US) weeks of the seventy-two (72) week period will be carved out and payable through the U.I.C. with the usual qualifiers. Weeks cf insurance payable through the carrier provides payment of 66 2/3% of the employes's normal weekly pay to a maximum of U.I.C. insurable benefit. Such payment to be made in accordance with the plan commencing the first day of accident, the first day of hospitalization, the fourth day of sickness and continuing for a maximum period of seventy-two(72) weeks (15-15-42). The Union agrees that the Company shall retain 100% of the U.I.C. rebates coming from the qualifications of the said plan.
24.
17.07	Effective April 1, 1993. the Dental Plan will be upgraded to provide for payments in accordance with the 1992 O.D.A. fee schedule. Effective April 1,1994, the Plan will be upgraded to the 1993 O.D.A. rates and as of April 1, 1995, the O.D.A. fee schedule will be upgraded to the 1994 rates.
Basic Plan:
-	$1,000.00 maximum per year.
-	$25.00 single and $50.00 family deductible
-	80/20 co-insurance
Major Restorative (riders 1-2-4) Perio/Endo
-	$1,000.00 maximum per year
-	50/50 co-insurance
17.08	Effective April 1,1992, the Company will provide a standard Vision Care Plan at $100.00 every twenty-four (24) months for payment towards prescription eye glasses or contact lenses.
ARTICLE XVIII - SEVERANCE
18.01
18.02
Where reasonably practicable the Company will give the ETnion six (6) months notice of the closure of the factory.
The Company agrees to make severance payments to all seniority employees whose employment is terminated as a result of a plant closure. Payments will be determined as follows:
a)	Service Category
Severance Payment
Employees with less than	1 week of pay per year
5 years seniority	of seniority
Employees with 5 years but less than 15 years seniority
Employees with 15 years but less than 25 years seniority
11/3 weeks of pay per year of seniority
12/3 weeks of pay per year of seniority
Employees with 25 years	2 weeks of pay per
seniority or more	year of semority
b)	Seniority is determined as of the employee’s termination date.
c)	For the purpose of the above calculations, seniority will be rounded to the next higher quarter (1/4) of a year.
25.
d)	A week’s pay is equal to forty (40) hours at the rate stipulated in the collective agreement for the job held by the employee at the time of termination.
e)	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to include any severance pay as may be required under any Ontario legislation.
f)	In order to qualify for severance pay. employees shall continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
g)	The weeks of severance allowance plus earned vacation will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to the employee’s normal retirement date.
h)	Severance will not be payable to any employee who is discharged for just cause or who quits without Company approval (which wH not unreasonably withheld, subject to the needs of the business) prior to their final scheduled day of work.
ARTICLEXIX - TERMINATION
19,01 Tms Agreement shall be in full force and effective from April 1. 1993l\ , tKrouen to and including March 31,1996 ana snail continue in xorce from year to year unless in any year not more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, Wore its date of termination, either Part,: shall furnish the other with notice cf termination of or notice of desire to bargain for renewal of this Agreement.
26.
SIGNED AT TORONTO, ONTARIO THIS
/ N

. DAY OF
_Wa.
1993.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
WAGE SCHEDULE"A
27.
PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS
GROUP I
Apr. 1/93 Apr. 1/94 Apr, 1/25
Packer
Enrober Placer/Take-Off
Mould Feeder
Swirl
12.64	as per	as per
12.64	Article	Article
12.64	11,04	11.04
12.64
GROUP II
Machine Operators: Cut-Roll Wrap-King Box
Overwrap
Wrapping
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
12.93
GROUP III
Cooks Helper	J3.40
Trucker	”.40
GROUP IV
Mogul Assistant
13.63
GROUP V
Cook "B"
Extruder/Rheon Operator Mould Maker
13.75
13.75
13.75
WAGE SCHEDULE“A
28.
PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS (CONTINUED)
GROUP VI
Apr. 1/23	ApL-1/94 Apr. 1/9?
Operators:
Mogul
Mixer(Chocolate)
Moulding
Enrobing
Peppermint Pattie Nut Roaster Pre-Refiner
Bean Processor
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.91
as per	as per
Article	Article
11.04	11.04
GROUP VII
Cook “A“
Refiner Operator Senior Operator Enrobing Moulding Mogul Turtle
14.15
14.15
14.15
14.15
14.15
14.15
14.15
GROUP VIII
Continuous Fondant	14.47
Continuous Caramel	14.47
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
29.
WAGE SCHEDULE "B" WAREHOUSING OPERATIONS
GROUP 1
Order Picker Order Assembler
GROUP 2
Slupper/Receiver
Lift Truck Operator
Apr. 1/93 Apr, 1/94 Apr. 1/95
13.63	as per	as per
13.63	Article	Article
11.04	11.04
14.06
14.06
GROUP 3
Senior Shipper	14.47
GROUP 4
Truck Driver	14.78
GROUP 5
Tractor Trailer	16.27
Driver
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all
categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
30.
SCHEDULE "C”
MAINTENANCE OCCUPATIONS
Apr. 1/93 Apr. 1/94	Apr, 1/95
GROUP 1
Maintenance Helper	13.91	as per	as per
Article	Article
11.04	11.04
GROUP 2
Set-Up Man Wrapping	14.15
Machine
GROUP 3	
Facilities Operator	19.29
Area Mechanic	19.29
Electricians	19.29
GROUP 4	
Senior Mechanic	19.57
Senior Electrician	19.57
GROUP 5	
Senior Facilities Operator	20.33
GROUP 6 Electro Mechanical
Technician	Level 1	19.68
	Level 2	20.37
	Level 3	20.98
	Level 4	21.89
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all
categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
31.
SCHEDULE ”D"
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS
Apr.,1/^3 Apr. 1/94 Apr. 1/95
GROUP 2
Laundry Attendant	13.63	as per	as per
Article	Article
11.04	11.04
GROUP 3-A
Plant Services	13.40
Belt Cleaner	13.40
GROUP 3-B
Machine Cleaner	13.75
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees shall receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
32.
April 18, 1993
Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12. 1987) SENIORITY STATUS OF TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
(having a minimum of one year of seasonal employment)
In keeping with our agreement reached during the recent set of negotiations, persons hired as a seasonal/temporary employee will I be credited With seniority standing (for the purpose of layoff or recall only.) Their names and starting dates will then form a "Temporary Employee1’ seniority list.
PROVISOS
Seniority Rights Defined
Temporary employees do not have the same seniority rights as permanent full-time employes, i.e. bumping options and shift preference etc., nor is the Company obligated to return the temporary to a shift held prior to layoff. ’	’
In assigning this particular group with a "seniority" date, it only suggests that temporary employees are provided with rights of recall provided there are no issues of concern related to performance either directly or indirectly.
In matters of layoff/recall whenever possible and where notice of layoff permits, temporary employees will be laid off and recalled by seniority provided the senior temporary employee is qualified, in the opinion of the Company, to perform the remaining work.
Any temporary employee refusing to accept a work assignment, transfer, etc., shall be removed from the temporary seniority list and termination will result.
Temporary employees shall be deemed terminated during each period of layoff as defined under the Employment Standards Act "Definite Term/Task", however, this shall not interfere with their rights to recall as defined.
...2
33.
Mr. Cameron Nelson Page 2.
April 18,1993
The above is not intended to circumvent the collective agreement in any way, shape or form nor is it intended to provide any benefits other than those specified above.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
34,
April 18, 1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street.
Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ACTIVE PAYROLL (17,02)
Regular employees shall be deemed to be on active payroll when:
(a)	Actually at work for the Company.
(b)	A period of employment is interrupted by illness or accident which has necessitated tile employee to absent himself from work. This however, shall not apply to laid off employees who are not able to comply With an official recall to work as a result of illness or accident.
(c)	Absent on vacation or on paid holidays.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
April 18.1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President	,
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
BP: T F.TTF.R OP UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12.1987) DISCIPLINARY RECORD
Except in cases of suspension, or in cases of assault or theft, an employee's previous record will not be referred to after a period of three (3) years.
Sincerely.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
36.
April 18.1993
Mr, Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED NOVEMBER 12.1987) JOB POSTING
The parties have agreed that in certain circumstances where attendance is relevant to a job posting, the Company can legitimately consider an employee's absenteeism record in determining whether an employee is qualified. Further, in jcfas where the level of supervision is lessened or responsibility higher, the Company can legitimately consrakr an employee's discipline record as it relates to work performance in determining whether the employee is qualified.
Sincerely
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
37.
April 18, 1993
Mr, Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REINSTATEMENT OF BENEFIT COVERAGE
The parties to the current collective agreement having an expiry date of March 31, 1996, agree to reinstate the usual benefit coverage for employees returning to active employment following a prolonged period of absence from work with the following understanding:
Employees absenting themselves from work due to sickness or accident who inform the Health Center of their intention to return to active employment may do so with the understanding that the necessary medical authorization is in place. In addition, such employees wi 11 be permitted to return to active employment, however, under a period of assessment (4 weeks in duration) at which point we will determine if in fact the individual is actually able to return to active employment or if the individual is merely abusing the system by attempting to establish a new claim.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
38.
April 18.1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE; LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
It is agreed by both the Company and the Union that should the Industrial Relations Administrator be unavailable for presentation of a formal grievance and or step one of the grievance procedure. the grievance in that case, will proceed directly to step two provided the grievance is submitted vithin two working days following the rendering of the Supervisor’s answer.
R, Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
39.
April 18, 1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ESSENTIAL SERVICES GROUP
This letter merely serves to confirm our discussions during the 1987 set of negotiations with regard to the scheduling of vacations for this group.
The parties understand and agree that Article XIV section 14.04 of the collective agreement is not applicable to persons employed in essential services as described below. However, tne Company shall ma&e a reasonable effort to accommodate requests for vacations during the period described in (14.04) and agrees to maintain the current practices with respect to vacation scheduling for these groups of employees.
Essential services defined:	- Skilled Trades
- Warehousing Occupations ■ Plant Services
Sincerely,
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
40.
April 18,1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE; LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
APPENDIX "C"- MEMORANDUM OP SETTLEMENT
The Company will make every reasonable effort to ensure that no employee with ten (10) or more years of seniority will work less than the number of insurable weeks per year required to qualify for U.I.C. benefits.
The Union and the Company agree that it may not be possible for the Company to ensure this minimum number of weeks work should the poundage fall bekw the 1984 poundage production level minus 5%.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
41.
April 18, 1993
Mr, Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RECALL PROCEDURE (LESS THAN ONE WEEK)
It is agreed by the Company and Union that in the event cf a recall to work for a definite term and task of less than one week, the Company shall begin by recalling employees by order of seniority. However, if it is afParent that senior employees db not choose to return to work, the Company shMl offer the recall
to the most junior employees.
In the event that junior employees refuse the recall, the Company shall then fill the vacancy as it sees fit.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
42.
April 18,1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
RE: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING (DATED APRIL 13.1985) TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
If the number of permanent full-time employees are substantially reduced as a direct result of technological change, the Company agrees to advise the Union of the potential reduction of Unionized employees prior to any such change.
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
43.
April 18,1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street.
Toronto, Ontario MSS 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
RF; UTTER OP UNDERSTANDING (DATED APRIL 13.1985) CONTRACTING OUT
The Company will continue its practice concerning the above subject matter, with the understanding that it will not result in the layoff or delayof recall of any regular employee who has completed the probationary period and has acquired proper seniority standing.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
44.
April 18,1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
LETTER OF.. UNDERSTANPINO
RE: MAINTENANCE OF PAY
Employees unable to bump the most junior employee VdiWn their own wage rate classification, who are, by virtue of existing language with regard to lay-off contained in the collective agreement, forced to accept a position in a lower wage rate classification,shall be treated as follows:
A)	Employees so displaced due to their lack of skill and ability, who have been offered, and have refused, an opportunity to receive cross training, shall be paid the applicable rate of pay for the job claimed by virtue of the lay-off procedure.
B)	Employees so displaced due to their lack of skill and ability, who have accepted any and all opportunities for cross training offered them, shall be paid their regular rate of pay for a maximum period of eight (8) weeks, and thereafter shall be paid the applicable rate of pay for the job claimed by virtue of the lay-off procedure.
C)	Failure of employees to meet the obligation with regard to cross training, or to demonstrate a satisfactory effort in the opinion of the Company, will result in immediate disqualification from entitlement as described in B) above.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
45.
April 18, 1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING RE: TEMPORARY TO PERMANENT STATUS
In keeping with our agreement reached during the recent set of negotiations and in addition to newly negotiated language(12,09), the following practice will be adopted.
A)	The filling cf Permanent positions, as deemed necessary by the Company, resulting from natural attrition will be in the first instance, satisfied by means of the temporary employee group and in order of "temporary employment status seniority'’ provided they are qualified in the opinion of the Company to perform the requirements of the job.
B)	In offering positions to temporary employees, this will in no way interfere with or restrict our inherent rights as defined under Article III of the terms and conditions of the collective agreement.
C)	This will in no way be interpreted by the Union as a guarantee to maintain (or increase) a specific level of permanent employees.
D)	In addition to the above, the Union has our assurance that it is not the Company's intention to reduce the complement of full-time employees by means of increasing the temporary group. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Union must recognize that the Company has an absolute right to determine the number of employees to be employed as specified under the Management Rights clause as contained m Article III of the current collective agreement.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager RS/jr
46.
April 18,1883
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING RE: BEST ESTIMATE OP RECALL PROM LAYOFF
The Company agrees to provide employees being laid off with a "best estimate" of their recall to work date. It is further understood that the "best estimate" wi 11 not be acceptable as a reason for not responding to a recall notice.
R, Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
47.
April 18, 1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING
RE; CQMPANT BONUS
Employees shall participate in the salaried employees Bonus Plan for the life of
this agreement as follows:
a)	For the calendar year January 1, 1993 to December 1,1993 employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of 4% of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving its Operating Profit target for that year.
b)	For the calendar year January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1994, employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of 3% of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving its Operating Profit target for that year.
c)	For the calendar year January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1995, employees shall be entitled to receive a bonus of 3% of eligible earnings conditional upon the Company achieving its Operating Profit target for that year.
d)	Eligible earnings shall be defined as the employee's hourly wage rate as at
the year end multiplied by the number of hours that he/she worked during the calendar year in question. Hours worked shall include vacation, statutoiw holidays and Union leave, but exclude weekly indemnity and WCB. The total number of hours shall not exceed 2080.	"
e)	If bonus is aol achieved for the calendar year January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1993, then employees shall receive a bonus based on the annual inflation rate based on the Canada CPI for November 1993 as compared with November 1992.
f)	It is anticipated that the Bonus earned for each year shall be paid out in February or the subsequent year.
.2
48.
Mr. Cameron Nelson
Page 2.
April 18,1993
g)	Notwithstanding the above, bonus shall not be included in the previous year's earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation as per article 14.02.
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
49.
April 18, 1993
Mr. Cameron Nelson President	_
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING. RE: DOCTOR'S NOTES
The Union agrees that the Company may require an employee to provide a Doctor's note identifying the illness in situations where the absence is three days or less, if the Company has reasonable grounds to doubt that the employee was in fact. ill. The Company agrees that this is a right that' must be exercised with discretion.
R, Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
52.
April 18, 1993
Mr, Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
LE.IIER.OF-UNDERST ANDING
RE: MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT VACATION POLICY
Vacation entitlement is based upon the current Collective Agreement.
Vacation scheduling will be based upon the following:
1)	Vacation selection will be granted on the basis of plant seniority with the Trade Groups. For purposes_of vacation scheduling the Trade Groups will be as follows:, (i) Electrical, (ii) Stationary Engineers, (iii) Packaging, (iv) all other Mechanics.
2)	Vacations will be scheduled on the basis of the maximum allowable absences at any one time, per Trade Group, based on the following allowable absence chart:
Maximum Nurber cf Employees on Vacation at one Time
TRADE GROUP
Electrical
Stationary Engineers Packaging
All Other Mechanics
Jaru/Feb7Apr,
May/June
1
1
3*
3*
Maryjuly/Aug7
Deo.
1
0
1
1
Sept/Oct/NoY.
Only one (1)
employee may be absent from each of the
Maintenance and Boiler Room Departments at any one time.
...2
Based on one person per Department on vacation at any one time.
53.
Mr. Cameron Nelson
Page 2.
April 18,1993
3)	Employees must submit their vacation request in writing to their Supervisor not later than, the end of March Of the year the vacation is to be taken. Effective April 1st. the Supervisor will consider the requests submitted to date and will grant vacation requests in accordance with seniority and the allowable absence chart.
If an employee fails to meet the March 31st deadline, the employee may submit a vacation request after April 1st on the basis of first come first served in keeping with the allowable absence chart.
Those employees who do not submit a vacation request by the end of May (of the vacation year) shall have their vacation time off scheduled by Management.
R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager
RS/jr
54.
April 18,1993
Mr, Cameron Nelson President
Brewery, General & Professional Workers Union 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
LETTER..QF. UNDERSTANDING
RE: MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT OVERTIME- DISTRIBUTION
The Company will endeavour to distribute overtime opportunities as fairly as
practicable in keeping with the guidelines which follow:
1)	There shall be one overtime log covering all overtime opportunities kept by the Maintenance Department for the employees of the department.
2)	The log shall identify the "Appropriate Overtime Distribution Groups" and shall include the names of the employees who are members of the group in descending order of seniority.
3)	The log shall be updated weekly.
4)	Overtime opportunities shall be allocated based on whether the opportunity is planned or unplanned.
5)	Planned Opportunities:
When the opportunity® arises, the Supervisor will determine which Distribution Group normally performs the work in question and the Supervisor will begin offering the opportunity® to that Group's members be inning with the employee who has the least accumulated hours. All refusals will be logged against the employee in an amount equal to the hours worked by the accepting employees up to a maximum or eight (8) hours. Where an employee turns down an opportunity on a particular calena'ar _ day, the Supervisor need not offer any other overtime opportunity® which may arise for the day to be worked. Nor will additional refusals be logged against the employee for that day.
.2
55.
Mr, Cameron Nelson Page 2.
April 18,1993
6)	U^^»d Opportunities:
From time to time machines break down or employees call in sick or other events occur which make it difficult to distribute overtime amongst those normally performing the work in question. In these situations, the Supervisor will determine if overtime needs to be scheduled. If he deems it appropriate, he will offer the opportunity(s) to work to those employees who are members of the group ana are on the premises. ALL refusals will be logged in an amount eoual to the time which could have been worked up to a maximum of eight t8) hours.
Where sufficient volunteers from the appropriate group cannot be secured, the Supervisor may choose to ask employees from another distribution group.
Depending on the situation at hand, the Company reserves the right to contract out work in keeping with the past practice as the Company deems appropriate.
7)	AH overtime offered and refused or worked shall be logged.
8)	The department management and steward shall meet each month to review the log and the Preventative Maintenance Plan. They shall review:
1)	the low person in each overtime distribution group for period end,
2)	the planned and unplanned overtime for the month past,
3)	upcoming overtime opportunities which clearly do not belong to any specificdistribution groups and
4)	those individuals who are low in overtime hours who are qualified to do the projects identified in point 3 above.
The log will be reviewed at the end of each month and any inequities will be highlighted and the Company shall direct opportunities to those employees noted.
9)	Employees absent from work (ie: Leave of Absence, etc.) for a day or greater, will have their overtime hours adjusted upon return in a manner which will ensure the same difference in accumulated hours between themselves and the next highest employee that existed prior to the absence.
In the case of absence due to verified illness, the employee will have their hours adjusted upon their return to work if the absence equals or exceeds twenty-eight (28) calendar days.

56.
Mr. Cameron Nelson
Page 3.
April 18, 1993
In the case of absence due to Vacation leave, no adjustment viH be made in respect of opportunities which were available while the employee was off on said leave.
10)	Where an employee has a concern over overtime work assigned to another, the employee should immediately notify the Supervisor of his concern.
11)	Special Assignments:
Where an employee p a p Project or nment, the Company may s to leave the employee on that project versus i) others.
12)	At year end, the overtime log shall be adjusted down in each distribution group by an amount equal to the hours of the lowest accumulation of that group.
13)	At each month's review meeting, the parties shall examine the gap in each distribution group between the highest and lowest accumulation. If it is found that the spread increased solely due to the inappropriate assignment of scheduled overtime, then the Company will pay the employee for the time lost and the hours shall be removed from the log.
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION AREAS
GROUP 1	GROUP 2	GRQU£_3
Electricians	E.M.T.'s	Dry Side
E.M.T.'s	(Mechanical)
(Electrical)
GROUP 4	GROUP S
Starch	Wet Side
GROUP 7 LEADHAND
GROUP-6
Stationary
Engineers
The Leadhand may be required to work in all areas and may be required to perform overtime irrespective of accumulated hours due to the nature of the work.
It is understood that employees who are employed as a Leadhand may also be asked to work in a capacity as a mechanic,, without the need to "Lead" anyone. In these situations, the Company will not call-in or ask in the Leadhand for Unplanned or Planned overtime, respectively, if he is already 40 hours ahead on the accumulated hours of the mechanics) who are regularly assigned to the equipment in the "Area: until such maintenance mechanics) are asked if they wish to work provided they are qualified.
'R. Sleva
Industrial Relations Manager