1996-98 AGREEMENT
United Food Processors Union Local 483 (AFL-CIO-CLC)
INDEX
ARTICLE	SUBJECT
PAGE
1
2
3
4
5
6
Purpose Of Agreement...............1
Recognition - Exclusions...........2
Reservation to Management..........2
Union security.....................3
Deduction of Dues..................3
Mage Administration................3
(A)	Amendments to Schedule "B".........3
(B)	Mergers or New Jobs................4
Maintenance of rate for job
reclassification..................4
Pay for work on more than one job.5 Pay for employee selected on a
job...............................5
Pay for substitution on job........5
Pay for temporary job assignment - .5
(C)	Pay Day............................5
Hours of Work......................6
(A)	Working Hours......................6
Recognized work week...............6
Termination of work at noon the
day before Christmas and or New
Year's Day........................6
Permission and notification re
Absences and return to work ......6
Keeping Foreman advised of employee's personal phone number.7
Wash-Up tune.......................7
Loss of pay - reporting late and
quitting early....................7
Overtime pay to nearest 1/4 hour ..7 Overtime pay after 8 hours work, ..7 Responsibility to work overtime, ..7
(B)	Normal Hours for Day work..........8
(C)	Normal Hours for Shift work........8
Rotation of Shifts.................a
Remaining on shift until arrival
of mate..........................a
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
(D)
(E)
<F>
7
(A)
(B)
(C) <D)
<E)
(F)
(G>
(H)
(I)
(J)
IK)
(L)
0
9 (A) <B)
Replacement after schedule has
been posted.......................9
Replacement Operator ............. 9
Priority of Replacement
Operators........................10
Limitation of jobs	to be held....l 0
Work Schedules...................10
Posting of work schedules........1 0
Rotation of Saturday relief work.11
Schedule changes.................11
Assigned Day Off.................1 1
Reporting time...................11
Early starting time.............1 1
Guaranteed pay when scheduled. ...12 Scheduling of Assigned Days Off
and Dow" Days..................12
Overtime..........................12
Payment of Overtime ..............12
Work on Saturday & Sunday........1 3
Work on Recognized Holidays......l 3
Pay for work on Call Backs......1 3
Pay for work on Assigned Day Off
or Dow" Day....................1 3
Call Backs.......................14
Work on Split Shifts.............1 4
Mutual Agreement to relieve et other then normal shift
change time....................15
Noon Hour work....................15
Minimum pay for work on
later shift....................15
Weekend coverage.................16
Minimum pay for stand-by.........1 6
Early starting time pay.........1 6
Scheduling overtime in one department to avoid it in another...........................17
Distribution of extra Rate 1 overtime work	within Division..17
Shift Bonus.......................19
Recognized Holidays..............2 0
Disqualification for Holiday Pay...............................
(11)
20
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
10	(A) vacation	Qualifications...........2	1
(B)	Vacation	Entitlement............2	1
(C)	Vacation	Pay Calculation........2	l
(D)	No Accumulation of Vacations....2 2
Vacation of Calendar Weeks.......2 2
Scheduling of Vacations..........2 2
Limitation of Vacations Between
June 25th end Labour Day........2 2
<E) Vacation	Pay on Termination.....2	2
(P) Vacation	- Plant Shutdown.......2	3
(G)	Cancellation of Vacations.......2 3
11	Smployee Security..................2 4
(A)	(1) Selection for Job Vacancies..2 4
Selection of Replacement Operators.......................24
(2)	Seniority Status..............2	4
Probationary Period.............2	4
(3)	Severance of Employment.......2	5
(4)	Seniority Lists...............2	6
(5)	Employees Returning to
Bargaining Unit................2	6
Temporary Transfers to Job Outside Bargaining Unit.........2	7
(6)	Posting Job Vacancies.........2	7
Selection of Applicants.........2	8
Training Period.................2	8
{7)Upgrading - Mechanical
Division......................29
Reguest for Upgrading...........2	9
(8)Seniority - employees not
covered prior to June 16, 1967.29
(B)	Guaranteed Opportunity of
Working........................30
Reduction of Work Week..........30
(C)	General Plant Schedule..........3	1
(D)	(1) Lay-offs.....................32
(2)	Job Displacement..............3	2
(E)	Contracting Outwork.............3	2
(F)	Staff Performing Bargaining
Unit Work......................3 3
12	Discipline......................35
(iii)
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
13
14
15
16 17
18
Union Officers and Committees....36
(A)	Stewards and Zones...............36
(B)	(l)Grievance Committee...........37
(B)	(2) Labour Committee.............37
(B)	(3) Negotiation Committee........37
(C)	Union Officers and
Representative.................37
<D) Permission to present
Grievances.....................38
(El Pay for lost time due to Joint
Union-Management Meetings......3 8
(F)	Leave of Absence to attend
Union Conventions...............3 9
(G)	Leave of Absence to attend
to Union Business..............3 9
(H)	Leave of Absence to attend a
Labour School..................3 9
Grievance Procedure..............4 0
Lockouts and Strikes.............4 2
Safety and Health................4 3
General Provisions...............4 4
(A) Bulletin Boards...................4 4
(B)	Monthly Union-Management
Meetings........................4 4
(C) Amendments to Agreement...........4 4
(D)	Employee Leaving Plant
because of injury on the	job....4 5
(E)	Welfare Plans....................4 5
(F)	Physical Examinations............5 2
(G)	Removal of Personal or
Company Property from Plant......5 2
(H)	Entrance to Plant................5 2
(I)	Bereavement Pay..................5 2
(J)	Apprentice Training Program......5 3
(K)	Personal Cleanliness.............5 3
(L)	Security Searches................5 3
(M)	Jury Duty........................5 3
(N)	Tool Allowance...................5 4
(O)	Severance Allowance..............5 4
(P)	Pregnancy Leave..................5 4
(Q)	Cost of Living Allowance.........5 4
Duration ofAgreement..............5 5
(iv)
SUBJECT
PAGE
Appendix A - Definitions....................5 7
Split Shift.....................5	7
Regular Rate..................  5	7
Normal Hourly Rate . . . .....5 7
Plant Seniority...............5 7
Grind Shift.....................5	7
Grind Day.......................5	7
Grind Week. ., ................5	7
Starting Time...................5	7
Quitting Time...................5	7
call Back or Call In............5	7
Schedule B - Rate Schedule....................5	6
Section 1	-	Dry Starch Division.....5	9
Section 2	-	Refinery Division.......5	9
Section 3	-	Wet Starch Division.....5	9
Section 4 - Stores, Shipping and
Transportation Division.60
Section 5 - Mechanical Division.....6 0
Section 6 - Power House Division....6 1 Section 7 - Laboratory......6 1
Schedule C - Jobs on Monday to Friday
Work Week......................6	2
Memoranda of Understanding
Res Meal Allowance, .Work Clothing, and
Safety Shoes........................63
Memoranda of Understanding
RE:	Mechanical Division..................64
Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons
Retiring While on L.T.D..............63
Apprentice Training Program..........66
Memorandum of Agreement
RE:	Yard Employees.......................67
Memorandum of Agreement
RE:	Primary Safety Observer..............68
Memoranda of Understanding
RE: Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule
For Continuous Operations............70
Memorandum of Agreement:
RE:	Best Foods Canada Inc................77
Appendix "B".................................80
Seniority List...............................61
(v)
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO AND AMENDED THIS 15TH DAY OF APRIL 1996 BETWEEN
CASCO INC.
Having its Head Office in the city of Toronto Ont., and plant at Cardinal, Ontario hereinafter referred to as "The Company"
OF THE FIRST PART:
and
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION LOCAL NO.403
of Cardinal, Ontario, a local union chartered by the Retail, Wholesale Canada, Canadian Service Sector Division of the United Steelworkers	of America(AFL-CIO-CLC) ,
hereinafter called the "Union"
OF THE SECOND PART:
WITNESSETH
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this agreement is to promote the best mutual relationship between the Company and the Union, define orderly collective bargaining and grievance procedures; and to prevent interruptions of work and interferences with the efficient operation of the Company’s business.
Page 1
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION - EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agency for all the Company’s employees in its plant at Cardinal, Ontario, except those employed within the following classifications:
Foremen, Chief Engineers, those above the rank of Foreman, Office Workers, Plant Protection Employees and Highway Tractor Trailer Drivers.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATION TO MANAGEMENT
The location of the Plant, the operation and management of its business, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means Of manufacturing, together with the determination of the number of employees in any department, or in any job, are exclusively the responsibility of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement. the Union recognises the right of the Company (1) to hire, promote and transfer,
(2)	to discipline any employee for justifiable cause, (3) to allocate work, describe, and classify jobs, and (4) to determine the number of employees in any classification.
Page 2
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY
The Company agrees to a modified Rand Formula which consists of the following provisions:
(a) No employee shall, -as a result of this agreement, be obliged to join the Union or to remain a member of the Union.
<b) The Company will deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement an amount equal to the regular dues established by the Union. Such deductions, as authorised by the Union Executive, will be made weekly and the Company shall deliver to the designated officer of the Union the amount so collected by the end of the current month or as soon as possible.
No deduction of dues shall be made in any pay period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions required by law is not sufficient to cover the full amount. In such cases, the dues shall be deducted from the next regular pay period in which sufficient earnings are payable to cover such deductions.
ARTICLE 5
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
(A) Schedule "B" is part of this Agreement. Subsequent revisions and additions to Schedule "B" as agreed to by the parties hereto, will be incorporated by amendment at the Union-Management Monthly Meeting, next following such agreement.
Page 3
(B)	(1) Before new jobs are created or the
duties of old jobs are merged during the term of the contract, the Company will meet with the Union executive at a monthly management meeting to discuss the merger or new jobs. Such new or merged jobs will be classified, and the rates put into effect by the Company. It is agreed that in the event the Union does not agree with the Company, the matter may be taken up under Grievance Procedure.
(2)	Jobs which are practically identical from the standpoints of duties shall be classified under the same occupational title.
(3)	Rates of compensation for the same rate classification shall prevail throughout the plant regardless of Department or Division in accordance with Schedule "B".
(4)	The rate of a present worker in any occupation which has been assigned to a lower Rate Classification than it carried previously will not be reduced; however, the proper and related new Rate Classification as set forth in the foregoing rate schedule will apply to any future workers in the occupations.
(5)	An employee who is required to perform in the regular manner, not an emergency or substitution, the work of more than one job, will be paid et the respective rates assigned to each job for the number of hours spent on each job.
(6)	(a) When an employee is awarded a job in a higher wage group, he will receive his old rate until he takes over the full responsibility of the job. He will then receive rate of the new job to which he has been assigned.
(b) When an employee is awarded a job in a lower wage group he will receive the rate of the job to which he has been assigned. For the days he would have been working from the general plant schedule, he will receive the lesser of Rate 1 or the normal hourly rate appearing on his Form 'a'.
Page 4
(7)	(a) If, when an employee would normally
be working on his own job, he is required to substitute on another job, he shall be paid at his own rate or the rate of the other job, whichever is greater.
(b)	An employee, temporarily assigned to other work for one or more days or shifts, when there is a lack of work in his regular occupation, shall receive the rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned except as provided under Article 11(B), paragraph 4,
(c)	An employee who has been working on his own job, and because of lack of work may be temporarily assigned to work for part of the day or shift on another job, will be paid for the balance of the shift at his own job rate or the rate of the job to which he has been temporarily assigned, whichever is the greater.
(C)	Employees will be paid each Thursday for earnings up to 7:00 am the preceding Sunday. Deductions will be made as per schedule as mutually agreed upon. In the event of Thursday falling upon a recognised holiday, wages shall be paid Friday.
Page 5
ARTICLES 6 HOURS OF WORK
(A) Working Houra-
The working day begins at 7:00 am and ends at 7:00 am. As recognised by the Company, Sunday begins at 7:00 am on the calendar day Sunday and ends at 7:00 am. on the calendar day Monday. The same applies to recognised holidays.
The recognised work week shall consist of five days or shifts of eight (8) hours, or a total of 40 hours between 7:00 am Sunday and 7:00 am the following Sunday. However, in the cases listed in Schedule C which is part of this Agreement "Jobs on Monday to Friday Work Week” the recognised work week shall consist of eight {8) hours per day Monday to Friday, and work on Saturdays and Sundays on these jobs shall be on a call back basis. Nothing in this paragraph is to be interpreted as a guarantee of work or as a limitation on assignment of overtime work outside the recognised work week.
The Company has the right to terminate work in the department or division at noon the day before Christmas and, or New Year’s Day.
It is the duty of all employees to report for their scheduled work periods unless they have obtained their Foreman’s permission to be absent. If an employee is prevented from reporting for duty through exceptional circumstances, he should notify his Foreman or Superintendent at least fourteen (14) hours before his work period begins indicating the anticipated time of return to work.
If an employee has been absent from his work for more than one day because of sickness or any other cause he must report to his Foreman or Superintendent at least sixteen (16) hours prior to the beginning of the work period in which he intends to begin duty.
Page 6
Employees are responsible for keeping their Foreman advised of a phone number by which they may be contacted. Without such advice the Company cannot be responsible for notifying employees concerning extra work, call backs, schedule changes, etc. An employee will not be considered available, for that job, if two phone calls to the phone number given is unsuccessful in contacting the employee, provided that one of the cells is made end recorded by the Security Office personnel. As an exception to the above, in case of mechanical breakdown, one telephone call, not necessarily from the Security Office will suffice.
Day workers will be allowed five (5) minutes before quitting time at noon and night to put their tools away and wash up.
Employees up to 15 minutes late will lose 1/4 hour's pay. Employees 16 to 30 minutes late will lose 1/2 hour's pay, etc.
The same regulations will apply for employees leaving work ahead of time.
Employees working overtime will be paid to the nearest 1/4 hour as authorised by their Foreman.
An employee reporting late for work must work eight (8) hours before overtime rates can be applied.
To meet our product demand end ensure customer service, it is the duty of the employees to remain on the job if required to meet special circumstances. If an employee does not wish to remain, the Foreman will endeavour, in accordance with the Collective Agreement to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work, but failure to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work without increasing the cost, to the Company, does not relieve the employee on the job of the responsibility towards his job.
Page 7
Day Work
The normal hours of work are:
7:00 am to 12:00 noon and 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm
or 7:00 am to 3:00 pm
or 8:00 am to 12:00 noon and 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm
or	9:00 am	to	12:00	noon
and	1:00 pm	to	6:00 pm
or	7:00am	to	12:00	noon
and	12:30pm	to 3:30	pm
or such other eight (8) hour schedules that may be necessary to meet special conditions resulting from production demands, delivery schedules, the type of job, or seasonal variations which might affect the daylight hours. Except as otherwise provided, the Company will not schedule less than 8 hours.
(C) Shift work-
The normal hours of work for shift workers are any one of the following shifts: First Shift	-	7:00	am -	3:00	pm
Second Shift	-	3:00	pm -	11:00	pm
Third Shift	-	11:00	pm -	7:00	am
Each revolving shift shall rotate in sequence weekly. Employees are not to exchange shifts without permission from their Superintendent or Foreman.
When a shift begins each shift worker is required to be at his place. At the end of a shift no shift worker may leave his place to wash up or dress unless his mate has changed his clothes and	reported to	take	on the
responsibilities of the position. If a shift worker does not report for his shift, and has not given the required notice, the employee on the job shall notify the Department Superintendent or Foreman. He shall then remain at his post until a substitute is secured.
Page 8
When a replacement is required for a shift job or a day job after the Schedule has been posted for the following work week, the Foreman will attempt to make the replacement in accordance with Article 6	(E) using the
following priority provided no overtime results.
{1) Regular Operator, provided using the Regular Operator does not involve moving him from one shift to one of the other two shifts.
(2) Replacement Operators in order of priority.
If overtime cannot be prevented the Replacement will be made in the following priority :
(1)	Person on the job.
(2)	Regular Operator on his assigned day off
(3)	Other Regular Operators in order of
seniority.
(4)	Replacement Operators in order of priority.
The Foreman may et his discretion use any of the above in an effort to minimise the *mount of overtime or avoid the need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
(D)	Replacement Operator-is an employee who replaces a Regular operator or other Replacement Operator during their temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, assigned days off, or other similar cause. The Replacement Operator will have the same rights and obligations of the job for the days he is on the job, as if he were the Regular Operator, but he shall not have the rights and obligations of any other Replacement job he may have for those days. A Regular Operator who also holds a Replacement job will not have the rights and obligations of his Regular job for the day he is working on his Replacement
Page 9
job. Replacement of Regular Operators Rate 5 or higher will be made from Replacements (in order of priority) who have received their jobs in accordance with Article ll (A) (7) as a result of a bulletin. When a Replacement operator is replacing a Regular operator for one calendar week, he shall have no rights to his other jobs for that seven day period.
When there is more than one Replacement Operator for a job the priority of the Operators shall be indicated as Replacement Operator no. 1, Replacement Operator no. 2 -etc., and such priority shall be indicated on the job bulletin when the vacancy is posted. A Replacement operator no. 1 regularly on shift v\»rk is limited to that job, ie: he may not hold another Regular job or Replacement job. Similarly, a Regular Operator regularly on shift work is limited to that job. A shift worker Replacement operator no. 2 is limited to holding one other Replacement no. 2 or no. 3 job within the Division.
A day worker is limited to two (2) Replacement jobs plus a Regular Job within the Division.
The following Replacement Personnel are
not restricted to the job limitations imposed by 6 (D) ( i . e . They may be selected to an additional Replacement #2 Job.):
Corn Elevator Operator Replacement #1 Bldg 43 Operator & Loader Replacement #1 Dextrine operator Replacement #1
(E)	Work Schedules-
A work schedule is to be posted on the bulletin board in each department on Thursday on which is shown the planned working days and shifts, for the following week. This schedule will indicate "assigned day off" and "down days", if any, and in the event that any work which is Rate 2 or higher shown on this schedule to be performed by an employee at overtime	rates then such work	will be
scheduled to the Regular Operator or the Replacement operator enjoying the rights of the Regular operator unless it is assigned in accordance with Article 6(C).
Page 10
As an exception to the preceding paragraph the existing system of scheduling week-end relief and days off will continue. The present common practice is the scheduling of the 3-11 shift Saturday to Replacement Operators three Saturdays out of four. with the 4th such shift being scheduled to the Regular Operators. There are exceptions to this general rule in various departments and in situations where Replacement Operators are not available.
The schedule may be changed by the Foreman or Supervisor by advising the man concerned at least "22" hours before the shift or day concerned for an assigned day off or down day change if such change is caused by production demands, or by at least "12" hours notice if the change is for any other reason, provided. however, that not withstanding the foregoing, no notice of a change in schedule is required if caused by serious breakdown. In any of these cases. the additional time worked is not on a "call back" basis.
Assigned bay Off is a day of relief from the regular job assigned to an employee to conform to the recognised work week.
When owing to a change in the work schedule and the employee has not been advised that regular work is not available and reports for work, he will be supplied with at least four hours work or pay, at straight time on week days, but such time will not be included in the work week. If on a Sunday or holiday or assigned day off, his work will be treated as a call back. The above does not apply in the case of a serious breakdown.
When an employee is required to come in to work ahead of his regular starting time he will be given twelve (12) hours warning. Without twelve (12) hours warning his early starting time will be on a call back basis.
Page 11
Except as otherwise provided, when employees are scheduled for 8 hours work on their regular jobs, they will be guaranteed 8 hours work or pay in lieu thereof.
All employees assigned to work at overtime rates, who are scheduled for 8 hours work on their regular jobs are not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on their job will be guaranteed at least 4 hours work or pay on a call back basis.
(F> For reasons of product demand or efficiency, assigned days off and down days will be determined by the Foreman concerned. Recognising that employees would like their two days off consecutively, the Foreman will prepare the schedules accordingly when feasible, providing additional cost is not incurred.
ARTICLE 7 OVERTIME
(A) Overtime rates of time and one-half the regular rate will be paid for:
(1)	a) work in excess of eight hours
continuously
b)	work in excess of eight hours in any
one day.
c)	hours worked between-3 P.M. Saturday and 7 A.M. Monday
d)	hours worked between 7 A.M. Saturday and 3 P.M. Saturday except hours worked from the general schedule.
OR
(2)	Scheduled time worked in excess of 40
hours in any one work week.
No more than 8 scheduled hours per day will be included in calculating the work week.
Page 12
<B>	(1) When an employee is scheduled to work
8 hours on Sunday and is not required to work 8 hours because of,lack of work on his job, the time worked will not be included in calculating the work week under Article 7 (A) and will	not be included as "opportunity of
working" under Article 11 (B) .
(2) When an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours on Sunday and has the opportunity of working 8 hours or more on Sunday, time worked up to but not exceeding 8 hours will be included in calculating the work week under Article 7 (A) . Such time scheduled will be included as 8 hours in determining the "opportunity of working" under Article 11 (B) .
(C)	Work on Recognised Holidays - As shown in Article 9 (A) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half of hourly rate with the exception that work on New Year’s Day, Christmas Day and Labour Day will be paid at double time. If an employee works 8 hours or is scheduled to work 8 hours or is paid for 8 hours on a Recognised Holiday, such time worked or paid for will be included in computing the work week.
<D> (1) Time worked on call back basis will be paid at time and one-half, and will not be included in the forty hour work week.
{2) Call backs or overtime will terminate at the beginning of the employee's regular scheduled day or shift. When an employee continues on his regular shift without interruption after a call back, overtime rates will again become effective eight hours after he started his call back work.
(3)	v\»rk on an Assigned Day Off or a Down Day-When an employee is required to work on his assigned day off or his down day without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6<E), he shall be paid on a call back basis.
Page 13
(E)	(1) Call Back or Call I" - The Company is not obligated to call in any employees for any job of approximately one-half hour duration, that can be done by other hourly employees available in the departments concerned. In addition the Company is not obligated to call in any employee for any mechanical task that can be done by the utility mechanics. Nor is the Company obligated to call in any employee who is scheduled on vacation, floating holidays, Union business, labour relations, or requested time off.
(2)	Employees who are called in to work without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E) for a limited period of time will get a minimum of four {4) hours regular pay, except that the minimum pay will be 6 hours regular pay if the employee is called in to work without notice between 11:00 pm and 6:00 am. If the employee's services are not required for two hours and forty minutes he can with the Foreman's or Foremen's permission leave the plant. If, however, while he is in the plant on a call back another emergency arises requiring his attention he must remain on the job and subject to the instructions of the Foreman or Superintendent concerned.
(3)	If a" employee is called up"" after his regular quitting time and after having been relieved from his work to work overtime he will be paid on a call back basis.
{F} Work on Split Shifts - Employees may be required at the request of their Supervisor to work a split shift. In such cases the actual hours worked within the span of their normal working hours will be paid for at regular rates, and - any time so worked outside of normal working hours will be compensated for at time and one-half.
Page 14
(G) Shift Relief - Overtime will not be paid in the case of a mutual agreement between two shift workers on the same job to relieve at a time other than the normal shift change time. This arrangement must have the permission of the Foreman concerned.
Employees may	be required by their
Foreman or Supervisor to work 12 hour shifts in situations in which two operators are only available to cover the 24 hours duty per day. Such 12 hour shifts will be considered as normal hours of work in accordance with Article 7(A)1.
<H) Noon Hour Work - Employees who are advised before noon that they are required to do unscheduled work during the noon hour, will be paid one and one-half hours’ pay. Such time will be included in the 8 hour work day.
Work during the noon hour will be paid for on a call back basis only if the following conditions prevail:
(1)	The employees concerned must have worked during the morning and be scheduled to work that afternoon.
(2)	The employee concerned was not advised before 12 noon of the noon hour work.
Such call back pay will terminate at the time the employee would normally begin his afternoon work.
(I) Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required at a definite time on a later shift during that day will be paid a minimum of two hours and forty minutes at time and one-half their hourly rate.
An employee may be required to stand by at home for duty at an indefinite time later during that day for which he shall receive a minimum pay equal to a call back whether or not his services are required.
Page 15
Weekend Stand-by Coverage
During the period of Victoria Day weekend to Labour Day weekend inclusive, the following	procedure of	mandatory weekend
coverage	for emergency	repairs will be
followed:
Mechanics from each of the following shops will be on stand-by from 3:30pm on Friday until 7;00am on the following Monday, (7:00am on Tuesday for holiday weekends). Machine Shop:	1	mechanic
Millwright Shop:	1	mechanic
Instrument Shop:	1	mechanic
Electric Shop:	1	mechanic
Each designated mechanic on call will receive a rate of pay in the amount Of $200 per weekend, ($300 per holiday weekend) in addition to their pay for hours worked.
Employees in the shops identified above will be scheduled for stand-by duty on a rotating basis.
A schedule will be posted in each shop by May 1, each year.
In addition to the above, employees in each of the shops identified above will be scheduled for stand-by duty on a seniority voluntary basis for the remaining holiday weekends as identified in Article 9.
Callbacks will be handled as before except designated individuals are obligated to come in when called.
(J)	Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required to start their day's work the following morning before 7:00 am will be paid time and one-half for time worked before 7:00 am and time and one-half after eight (8) hours work.
Page 16
(K)	It is not the intention of the Company to schedule overtime work in one department to avoid overtime in another department.
For example. an employee under ordinary circumstances, will not leave his regular job to go to another job to act as a replacement if so doing creates overtime on the regular job.
A" R2 holding two R2 jobs will replace in the lower rate job when available.
In the case of an R2 holding jobs of the same rate, he will be scheduled if possible on a rotating basis.
(L)	Distribution of extra Rate 1 overtime work within the Division:
For the purpose of this provision, extra Rate 1 overtime work is defined to be Rate 1 work to be performed by an employee, which work is deemed necessary by the Company, and in the opinion of the Foreman concerned will be in excess of two hours duration and cannot be done by employees within their recognised work week.
In order to distribute extra Rate 1 overtime work equitably among employees within a Division, a list, in seniority order of employees who hold a	regular and/or
replacement job within the Division, and who wish such work will be kept. Employees are responsible for advising their Foreman of their desire to be included on the list and of a phone number by which they can be reached at all times. As extra Rate 1 overtime work occurs, employees on the list will be given the opportunity on a rotational basis, providing the employee is capable of doing the work. Such time worked is not included in calculating the work day or work week. For such work, only one phone call to the phone number given is required of the Foreman. If an employee does not wish to take advantage of
Page 17
the opportunity, he will forfeit his turn and be eligible again when his turn comes up on the next rotation. a" employee who refuses to work Rate 1 overtime on 3 consecutive occasions will forfeit their right to be included in the Rate 1 overtime list. Employees who forfeit their right will be given the right to renew their position on the Rate 1 overtime list on January 1, May 1 and September 1 each year.
Page 18
ARTICLE 0
SHIFT BONUS
A shift bonus will be paid to:
(a)	employees whose working hours rotate on a
three shift basis,
(b)	employees whose working hours rotate on a
second and third shift basis.
(c) employees whose working hours are
permanently on one of either of the two night shifts,
(d)	employees whose working hours rotate
regularly on a day and night shift basis, and
(e)	day workers when they are reguired to
work on a night shift.
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 pm and 7:00am.
A shift bonus of 5% of Rate 6 per hour will be paid for hours worked at unloading corn boats between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
Page X9
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS TO BE RECOGNIZED
(A) The following holidays during the year shall be recognised:
New Year's Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Alternative days to any of those listed above may be settled by mutual agreement.
In addition to the above, and in lieu of Dominion Day and Remembrance Day. each regular employee will have four (4) "floating" recognised holidays each calendar year which may be taken at times desired by the employee provided they have approval of the Foreman concerned. Any floating holidays not taken by December 31st, Will be scheduled by the Foreman concerned within the following two months.
(B) The company will pay all regular employees eight hours straight time at their normal classification rate for the recognised holidays as named in Article 9 (A) , provided that an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
(1)	If he refuses to work on such holidays if assigned or if he refuses to respond to a "call back" without justifiable reason.
(2)	If he is absent without justifiable
reason on the scheduled working day .immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
(3)	If such holiday occurs while he is on
requested leave of absence of more than one month.
(4)	If such holiday occurs when he is under
suspension.
(5)	If he is absent for any reason in excess
of twenty-six (26) weeks prior to the holiday.
Page 20
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
(A)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) complete months of continuous service.
(B)	(1) An employee with from one(l) to four(4) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(2)	An employee with from four (4) to eleven (11) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(3) An employee with from eleven (11) to seventeen (17) years seniority who	has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(4) An employee	with	seventeen (17) to
twenty-five (25) years	seniority who has
rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks during the calendar year.
(5)	An employee with twenty-five (25) or more years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of six (6) weeks during the calendar year.
(C)	This vacation pay shall be computed as follows:
(1)	Employees will be paid 2% of their total earnings of the preceding calendar year or forty (40) hours pay at their normal rate, whichever is the greater for each week of vacation.
Page 21
(2)	If an employee is called back to work while on vacation, he will be paid on a call back basis.
(3)	All paid vacation time will be included in the work week.
(D)	Vacation time will not be accumulated from year to year except that the last week of an employee's vacation may be carried over to the following year and must be completed by the end of May.
It is recognised that a number of employees save one or two weeks of vacation for the Christmas season. It is sometimes impractical to schedule these vacations due to work schedules. In such cases, as an exception to the above paragraph, the vacation time will be rescheduled in January or February the following year.
For vacation purposes the last calendar week of the year begins on the last Sunday of the year.
Unless special permission has been given by the Company employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacations.
Vacations will not be granted after schedules have been posted without approval of the foreman or supervisor concerned.
Vacation between June 25th and Labour Day may be limited to two weeks to allow as many employees as possible to take a vacation during this period.
(E> If an employee leaves the Company's service at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he will be paid in accordance with the regulation of the Ministry of Labour for Province of Ontario.
Page 22
(F)	The Company may require all or part of employees subject to this agreement. to take a vacation period and may close the Plant or any part of its operations for that purpose at any time convenient to the Company from June 30th to August 24th. If the Company decides to close all or part of the Plant for vacation purposes three months notice shall be given on bulletin boards. Any vacation taken by an employee outside of that time taken during a general Plant shut down will be scheduled insofar as possible as desired by the employee, but must be acceptable to the Supervisors concerned.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, the employee's 7 day vacation will be scheduled in two parts, provided each part begins and ends within the one calendar week and provided no	overtime is created.
Furthermore, with	special permission an
additional two weeks of an employee's vacation (i.e.	10 paid vacation days) may be taken
one, two, or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturdays.
Employees are requested to apply for vacation periods before May 1st, each year, giving 2nd and 3rd choices for dates. Such vacation schedules will be allotted by June 1st, giving priority according to seniority. Personnel who make their requests after May 1st will be scheduled on a "first come, first served’ basis. Vacation schedules previously arranged will not be disturbed to accomodate requests made after May 1st, except in case* of urgency.
<G) With at least 3 days notice or one day when hospitalised, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled vacation. If such vacation cannot be rescheduled within vacation deadlines, the employee will receive that vacation pay in lieu of vacation with pay.
Page 23
ARTICLE 11 EMPLOYEE SECURITY
(A) Each of the parties hereto recognizes that employees are entitled to an equitable measure of job security based on seniority, subject to the following provisions:
(1)	In the selection of employees for job vacancies, appointments will be made to the most senior employee with sufficient ability to perform the duties of the position. Ability shall include skill, efficiency, responsibility and physical fitness to perform the duties of the position. Such appointments will be subject to the provisions of Article 11(A) (6).
The selection of Replacement operators may be from the Regular employees within the division concerned. In addition to this, a Replacement #2 or Replacement #3 Shift Worker, may be selected to an additional Replacement #2 or #3 shift job, within the division. The number of jobs already held by an applicant is an important consideration in making a selection. As an exception to Article 6(D) which limits Employees to one division, that rule may be set aside by mutual agreement when the parties agree there would be no conflict in so doing.
(2)	Seniority Status:	Employees other than
the employees hired by mutual agreement on a strictly temporary basis, shall have seniority status from their last date of hire, and shall come under the provisions of this Agreement, except that they shall be on probation for 70 days worked. The Company shall have the exclusive right to determine if a
Page 24
probationary employee shall be retained. The Company’s decision on retention or discharge of a probationary employee shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Not withstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph the Company and the Union may exclude specific employees from seniority status by mutual agreement in writing.
It isu t u a 1 1 y agreed the student probationary period will be May 1st to Labour
Day inclusive.
(3)	An employee shall have his seniority broken and employment severed under the following conditions:
If he voluntarily resigns or quits.
If he is discharged for justifiable cause.
If he is absent for seven consecutive days without notifying the Company unless there was justifiable reason for not notifying the Company.
If he does not work for a continuous period exceeding twelve months due to a lay-off.
If he does not return to work after a lay-off, within fourteen (14) consecutive days of being called without reason acceptable to the Company. Provable sickness shall be considered an acceptable reason. The employee
Page 25
shall be notified by registered mail to his last known address of recall after lay-off. Absence for which special permission in writing has been given by the Company shall not break seniority, or sever employment. An employee wishing to be absent from his work in excess of 3 working days for reasons other than lay-off or illness must apply for a Leave Of Absence.
{4) Seniority Lists:	The Company will
prepare seniority lists which will be revised annually or whenever proof of an error has been submitted. Copies of revised lists will be furnished to the Union. Plant wide seniority shall be as of Article 11 (A) (2) .
(5)	An employee returning to the bargaining unit after November 17, 1973 from those jobs referred to in Article 2 shall not be allowed to exercise seniority accumulated before such return for the first six months from the day the Union received notice of the return. After this period he shall be able to exercise all his seniority except that no time spent outside the bargaining unit shall be recognised at any time for the purpose of awarding bulletined jobs and except that no time spent outside the bargaining unit after August 1,	1968 shall be considered as
seniority for lay-off purposes.
Page 26
Those employees temporarily transferred to jobs not covered by the Collective Agreement from the bargaining unit Shall continue to accumulate seniority up to nine months of any temporary assignment. If any assignment extends beyond nine months, the job will be posted, and the additional time spent shall not be accumulated as seniority in the bargaining unit. Except in cases of emergency such periods of temporary transfer Shall not be less than one calendar week. Any such temporary transfer will be declared at the time of the appointment and the Union so notified within 7 calendar days.
(6)	Posting Job vacancies: All hourly job vacancies within the scope of this Agreement, with the exception of Rate 1 jobs, temporary jobs not exceeding one month, or as mutually agreed, will be posted. In cases of temporary vacancy, the job will be posted if conditions warrant, affording protection for the regular employee to return to his regular job.
When a vacancy becomes evident the job vacancy, if subject to posting, will be posted on all bulletin boards immediately for a period of eight (8) days, indicating job title, rate of pay and hours of work. The successful applicant will be chosen within an additional fourteen days and, provided no replacement is required by bulletin on the successful applicant's j ob, he shall begin training within 21 days of the posting of the selection. If a vacancy results from retirement, the vacancy is to be posted sixty (60) days in advance of normal retirement date.
Page 27
The Company will forward to the President and to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, copies of the job postings, list of applicants and selectee within the time limits. In addition, members of the Union Executive will, upon request, be shown lists of applicants at the Personnel Office.
The selection of applicants for job vacancies will be in accordance with Article 11	(A)	(1) . In selecting applicants for
posted job vacancies it is stipulated that the selectee's appointment is temporary, but subject to permanency if found satisfatory after a reasonable period of training and when previous incumbent's appointment to another job has been declared permanent. An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a 5 day training period to determine if he wishes to continue this training. After this five days of training, he shall have no grievance if he loses the rights to his former job. This loss of rights to his former job does not apply	if he	proves to be
unsatisfactory on his new job prior to being declared permanent. This also applies to hourly employees being selected for jobs listed in Article 2.
In the event that a selectee proves during	his training period to	be
unsatisfactory or desires to return to his former job then the next selection will be made from those who answered the bulletin. If none of the applicants are qualified, an employee who has completed his probation or is currently serving his probationary period will be appointed. If the job is not filled within 90 days the job will be reposted if requested by the Union.	Applicants who
applied for the initial posting and apply for the reposting, may not be considered if they were Selected in the first instance, and withdrew after the training period had begun.
Page 28
An employee with over 5 years seniority who applies for a job and is selected for the job. may apply for another job within six months of his previous selection but he shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the second instance. In the case of employees with less than 5 years seniority the period is	twenty-four	months (instead of six
months). The above shall not be applicable if the employee withdraws within 3 days of the posting of their selection. The above restrictions do not apply if en employee is improving his position in' the replacement sequence, or moving to a job at the same or higher job rate classification, or moving to a posted regular day job (shift es required) from a shift job.
(7)	Employees Rate 3 and above within the Mechanical Division (except the Yard employees) will be upgraded, taking into consideration seniority, skills, ability to perform the work required, efficiency, responsibility and physical fitness.
Once each calendar year such employees may request an upgrading, on a form provided by the Company. If he is not upgraded, his Superintendent will explain the reason to him and his steward if requested and suggest what action the employee should take to assist him in gualifying for an upgrading in the future. Rate 10 is provided for upgrading of mechanics who have upgraded their skills beyond the normal requirements of the job. Such upgradings will be the responsibility of the Supervisor.
(8)	Those employees not covered by the
Agreement prior to June 16,	1967 have full
seniority from 1st date of hire for all purposes except awarding of bulletined jobs. For the purpose of awarding bulletined jobs no time spent outside the bargaining unit shall be recognised.
Page 29
(B) Subject to Article 11 (D) Regular Employees who have five years plant seniority or more, will be guaranteed the opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of 40 hours, or 32 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours on a recognised holiday, or 24 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours for each of 2 recognised holidays. Regular employees who have less than 5 years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of 150 days in each contract year with recall rights for the term of this Agreement.
Employees in the Mechanical Division will be subject to the above guarantee and any additional work undertaken by the Mechanical Division will be handled by the regular members of the shop concerned.
It is also agreed by both parties that certain active employees are limited for work under Article 11 (C) and it is agreed that these employees shall be assigned to duties that their limitations will allow them to perform. Excluded from the above are employees who qualify for LTD under the terms of the Agreement.
When a regular assigned employee has been given an assigned day off because he had an expected work week of 40 hours, and his scheduled work is reduced he will receive 8 hours work or 8 hours pay for each day's work that he would have received, if he had not been given an assigned day off. The above work or pay in lieu of work shall not apply in case of a serious breakdown.
Page 30
(O General Plant Schedule -Extra work es requisitioned by divisions will be allocated with as much advance notice as practical by the Industrial Relations Department to employees without regular assigned jobs and to employees who are not scheduled for the full recognised work week on a divisional schedule. All work for the following week requisitioned prior to 4:00 pm Friday will be allotted and posted by 5;00 pm Friday. In applying the foregoing, if senior employees have an expected work week of less then the Recognised work week and work on Rate 1 jobs is available on days they are not scheduled to work on a Divisional Schedule, then such Rate 1 work will be allocated to the more senior employees provided no extra cost results.
Work allocated under this section will be distributed on a seniority basis, ability to do the work required, availability and the expected work week. It is recognised however, that it is not practical nor possible to allocate such work strictly on a seniority basis.
Work allocated under this section will be included in the work week for all employees but provisions covering call beck pay, down day change, assigned day off change, starting time change, and work reduction do not apply to such work.
Employees called in to work under this section will be guaranteed a minimum of 4 hours work except in case of a breakdown.
Employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned (except the application of Rate 1A to Probationary Employees).
Page 31
(D)	(1) Lay-offs:	Where changes in methods,
production or policy would require a permanent lay-off, the reduction in employees will be made by laying off the lowest Plant seniority employees.	When additional employees	are
required, the former employees will be rehired in reverse order of lay-off.
(2) In any job displacement the Company will transfer	the Regular	Operators end	the
Replacement operators who are effected, to Rate 1 jobs provided they have sufficient seniority end are able to do the work available.	Vacancies in Rate 1 jobs will be
created by	transferring	the least senior
employees with regular Rate 1 jobs from the Rate 1 jobs. The Regular end Replacement Operators	permanently	displaced will	be
guaranteed a minimum of not less then the rate of their former job for the work done during a period of 18 months after the displacement.
(E)	The Company agrees except in cases of urgency, not to let or enter into contracts for Plant maintenance work or the performance of other bargaining unit work et the Plant, which work is normally performed by Mechanical employees or other bargaining unit employees, while Mechanical or other regular bargaining unit employees who are qualified end capable of doing the work are on layoff status.
Maintenance work is defined to mean repair end replacement of existing equipment in kind.
Page 32
Exceptions to the foregoing are jobs which are-normally contracted out such as roof and road repairs, elevator maintenance, etc., together with jobs that require special skills not possessed by employees, or equipment which is not owned by the Company.
The Company will give the Union five (5) days prior notice (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) of the letting of contracts mentioned above in Article 11(E), paragraph 1.
The Company will continue its efforts to undertake selected non-routine jobs such as building demolition when necessary skilled and unskilled regular employees are available within the work force. Such work will be undertaken by the Company only if it can be done safely end et comparable cost. Unskilled labour on these jobs will be paid at Rate 1. Qualified mechanic when needed will be on the job.
(F)	Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform routine work normally done by hourly employees. Violation of this provision is subject to the Grievance Procedure.
(G)	Memorandum of Agreement dated March 29th, 1985 to be included in the Agreement.
(H)	The Minutes of Settlement dated March 23, 1994 and April 14,1994 shall form part of this and subsequent collective agreements subject to the terms thereof.
Page 33
According to the terms of the agreements referred to above, the Company agrees that the items listed in Appendix "B" to this collective agreement shall be common to the collective agreement signed between the union and Best Foods Canada Inc.
The union agrees that, for so long as the Company maintains the items listed in Appendix "B" to this collective agreement as common to any collective agreement signed between the union and Best Foods Canada Inc., the union shall not seek to combine the units or the collective agreements or to have the Companies declared to be a common employer under the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act
Page 34
ARTICLE 12 DISCIPLINE
(A)	Subject to the right of an employee to file a grievance the Company reserves the right to discipline any employee for any justifiable cause.
A conduct record must be filed with the Personnel Office within 7 calendar days of the alleged offence becoming apparent. The employee shall be notified of the discipline imposed within 12 calendar days after the filing of the conduct record and in the case of discharge or suspension, the President of the Union will be advised by registered mail within this period.
(a) If a suspension or discharge is disputed. an appeal must be made through the grievance procedure within seven calendar days of notification to the employee and the Union. In case of suspension, the discipline must commence within 24 calendar days of the discovery of the alleged offence.
If it is found that no penalty is justified the employee so reinstated will be reimbursed for loss of earnings by payment of 2% of previous 12 months earnings for each week's loss of earnings or by payment for such time at his regular rate, whichever is the greater.
If the penalty is reduced, the employee will be paid for the unjustified time off by payment of 2% of previous 12 months earnings for each week's unjustified loss of earnings or by payment for such at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. From this amount paid to him, will be deducted any earnings or benefits he has received from any other source during the period of unjustified time Off.
Page 35
(C) Complete records in writing will be kept of discipline administered. Upon the written request of an employee to the Industrial Relations Department, a record of his disciplinary record will be made available to him. The employee has the right to appeal through the Grievance Procedure in all oases of discipline.
The Company agrees to remove quarterly each year, from the employee's files all discipline records that are 2 years old or older.
In addition, the Company has agreed that
an employee may, if he wishes, be accompanied by his steward if he is being reprimanded as the result of a written conduct record. The employee will be required to initial the conduct record to indicate only that he has received it.
ARTICLE 13
UNION OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES
(A) The Union shall notify the Company from time to time of the names of the stewards and their respective zones. No zone or portion of a zone shall be represented by more than one steward. Each steward shall have a definite designated zone and be a regular employee of that zone. Any change in this latter condition must be arranged by mutual agreement with the Support Services Manager.
Page 36
(B)(1) A Grievance Committee shall consist of three(3) Plant Union members for the purpose as outlined in the Grievance Procedure. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the International Representative or his designate from Local 483.
(B) (2) The Labour Committee which meets Management on a scheduled monthly basis shall consist of four(4) Plant Union members, and the President of Local 483. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the International Representative or his designate from Local 483.
In Article 13(B) (1) and 13(B) (2) it is
understood that the designate may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
For the purposes of Articles 13(B) (1) and 13(B) (2) if the Chair of the Grievance Committee is not an employee of the Company, the Union may designate him as a member of such Committees in the place of a plant Union member.
(B)	(3) The Union Committee which meets with Management to negotiate renewal of the Agreement, will be paid by the Company, and shall not exceed six (6) Union members of Local 483 plus representation from the International Union.
In Article 13(B) (3) any of the six(6) Union members may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
In the case of (B) 1, (B) 2 and (B) 3 above, the same limitation in numbers shall apply to the Company.
(C)	The Union agrees to certify to the Company the names of its duly elected officers and any other representatives authorised by the Union under its constitution to negotiate with the Company on any matters covered by this Agreement.
Page 37
It is agreed that no individual employee or group of employees shall represent the local Union at meetings with Management without proper authorisation from the local Union.
(D)	A Steward, with the approval of his Supervisor, shall be permitted, during regular working hours without loss of time or pay, to
leave his regular duties for a reasonable period to adjust and present grievances in his zone. If an employee has been instructed to report to management he may, if he so desires, be accompanied by a Union Representative but only if he has been advised by management that
the instruction is mandatory.
(E)	The Company agrees it will reimburse
Union officers called in for monthly Union-Management meetings at regular rate for any hours between 7:00 am and 3:30 pm. Such time will not be included in the work week. When the Union Officers or Committees are scheduled for and paid for 8 hours in one day for attending joint Union-Management meetings, such 8 hours will be considered as 8 hours worked in computing the work week under Article 7	(A), and in determining the
"opportunity of working" under Article 11 (B) .
Meetings convened by a Conciliation Officer or by a Conciliation Board during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be joint Union-Management Meetings.
Only Plant employees will be reimbursed by the Company as outlined in the Agreement, for joint Union-Management Meetings as in 13(B) (1) and 13(B) (2).
The Chair of the Grievance Committee and the President of Local 483 will be reimbursed at their regular rate for joint Union-Management meetings they are entitled to attend under Articles 13(B) (1) or 13(B) (2) for any hours between 7:00am and 3:30pm. Such time will not be included in the work week unless it is scheduled time lost and reimbursed.
Page 38
No reimbursement shall be provided to the Chair of the Grievance committee or the President of Local 483 while acting as a designate	of	the	International
Representative.
If the President of Local 483 or the Chairman of the Grievance Committee is reguired to attend a meeting referred to in Article 13(B) (1) or (2) of the Best Foods Canada Inc. collective agreement, the company shall not unreasonably withold consent to permit those individuals to attend the meeting.
(F)	The Company shall grant a leave of
absence of up to One month for a maximum of 4 Union Representatives	to atttd Union
conventions upon written request from the Union Executive. Arrangements for such time shall be made with the Support Services Manager giving as much notice as possible with a minimum of 48 hours.
(G)	Subject to the efficiency Of plant
operations, the Company shall allow the Union Executive and Stewards the required time off without pay to attend to necessary Union Business, upon the written request of the Union President or his authorized representative. Arrangements for such time off shall be made with the Foreman concerned giving as much notice as possible with a minimum of 24 hours. Preferably such request should be presented to the Support Services Manager by 8 am Thursday of the week preceding the date the required time would begin. Such time off will be considered as 8 hours work for each day, for purposes of calculating the work week (Article 7	(Al), and opportunity to
work (Article 11 (B)) .
(H)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operation, the Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay or benefits of up to six months for a maximum of two Union Representatives in one calendar year to attend a Labour School upon the written request from the Union Executive with two weeks notice.
Page 39
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For the purpose of adjusting grievances arising	from the	interpretation,
administration or alleged violation of any part of the Collective Agreement this grievance procedure shall be followed., Any complaint of an employee must be taken up verbally by the employee and his steward with the foreman concerned. If the complaint is not settled, it becomes a grievance and shall be processed accordingly.
Grievances shall be taken up as follows:
(1)	As soon as possible after the alleged grievance becomes apparent but in any event within 42 calendar days from the alleged occurrence, the grievance must be presented to the Foreman concerned by the Steward in writing on form provided by the Company and agreed to by the Union. Within 24 calendar days of presentation of the grievance, the Divisional Superintendent or	his ,
representative, will hold a meeting with the Union Steward, Chief Steward or 'his representative, and the Foreman, at which time an effort will be made to settle the grievance. The Divisional Superintendent or his representative will reply in writing to the Union Steward, advising him of his decision within 7 calendar days •after the meeting.
Page 40
(2)	If the Divisional Superintendent’s
decision is not satisfactory, the Union will make a request, within 7 calendar days of receiving the Divisional Superintendent's decision, for a meeting with the Plant Manager or his representative, within 28 calendar days of receiving the request, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee. The Plant Manager or his representative will make his ruling on the disposition of the grievance in writing and send it by registered mail to the Chairman of the Grievance Committee within 7 calendar days of his meeting with the Grievance Committee. Also copies of such decisions or rulings will be delivered by	the	Industrial	Relations
Department to the Union Secretary-Treasurer, Union President	and International
Representative.	If	the Union	requests
arbitration, the request must be made in writing within 14 calendar days after receipt of the Plant Manager's decision.
(3)	By a single arbitrator upon the written request of either party to this Agreement. The functions of such Arbitrator shall be limited to the interpretation. application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such Arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, detract from, or alter any terms of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator shall be selected as follows:	The Union and the Company shall
endeavour to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon within one calendar week, the Minister of Labour will be requested to appoint an Arbitrator. A hearing will be set within 21 days of receipt of the request by the Minister of Labour. The Arbitrator shall deliver his
Page 41
decision orally without reason as soon as practicable, and his decision in writing with reasons, within twenty-one days of the hearing. The Union and the Company shall each pay half of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator.
If either party fails to adhere to the time limits of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall lapse. In the case of a Union or employee grievance, if the failure is attributable to the Company, the demand will be granted by the Company without prejudice. In the case of a Company grievance, if the failure is attributable to the Union, the demand will be granted by the Union without prejudice. Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by the written consent of both parties.
ARTICLE 15 LOCKOUTS AND STRIKES
(A)	The Union shall not call or authorize and no officer, official, or agent of the Union shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful strike or slowdown. Any employee violating this provision is subject to discipline.
The Company shall not call or authorise and no officer, official or agent of the Company shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful lockout. If the Company violates this provision, it shall reimburse the employee or employees for the time lost by reason of such violation.
(B)	Should any condition lead to a stoppage of work, the Union will, at the request of the Company, cause to remain at work such members of the Union as are necessary to maintain essential services for plant and town protection.
Page 42
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
(A) The Company will maintain its plant and its premises in safe condition and in accordance with the regulations set out by the Province of Ontario and/or. the Dominion of Canada. The Company will continue to maintain adequate First Aid facilities, and to establish and maintain safety and health rules and regulations in accordance with good safety and health practice and government regulations. The Union agrees to assist the company in maintaining observance of all safety and health rules. Employees are required to work safely at all times and comply with the safety regulations.
A joint Labour-Management Health and Safety Committee shall be composed of three representatives of management one of whom will be the Safety Supervisor and three Plant Union members. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union.
The Committee shall:
(i)	Promote safety and health and report unsafe practices and conditions to the Safety Supervisor as they become apparent.
, (2) The Safety Supervisor and.the Committee shall make an inspection of the Plant once per month preceding the monthly meeting of the Safety Committee.
(3) Make recommendations to Management concerning safety matters.
Page 43
ARTICLE 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(A)	Bulletin Boards shall be available for posting Union notices after they have been approved by the Plant Manager or someone delegated by him for this purpose.
(B)	Monthly meetings will be held, normally on the 2nd Tuesday of each month or as otherwise mutually agreed. A Union representative will meet with the Support Services Manager on the preceding Monday morning to exchange agendas and arrange a time for the meeting.
A record will be kept of the minutes of all such monthly meetings between Management and Union Committees. Such record of the minutes shall first be prepared in draft form and submitted to the Union Officers. The Union shall then signify its acceptance of the record of the meeting, by signing the draft copy. Final copies shall then be prepared which indicate acceptance by both the Company and the Union and shall be distributed to the Union Officers and the International Representative.
<C) Amendments to the Agreement may be negotiated by the parties at any time by mutual consent, but failure to agree shall not constitute a grievance nor be submitted to Arbitration. Copies of such amendments shall be signed by the Union Officers and the Company and attached to the Master copies of the Agreement and shall be distributed to the Union Executive, Union Stewards and the International Representative.
Page 44
The following will become part of the Agreement:
Re: Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons
Retiring while on Long Term Disability
Re: Apprentice Training program Re: Primary Safety Observer Re: Yard Employees Re: 12 Hr Shifts Re i Mechanical Division
The parties agree to abide by the following memorandums for the duration of the agreement which commenced on April 15, 1996:
Corn Unloading - May 26/95 provincial .Apprentice Program - May 26/95 Millwright Shop Grievance Resolution - Aug 10/95 Probationary & student Employee Painting Vacation Scheduling and Floating Holidays -12 Hr Shifts
(D)	An employee who is advised to leave the Plant by the Company because of an injury on the job, will be paid for the balance of the day of the injury at his rate of pay.
(E)	The Company shall continue to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs and any increases in cost of premiums for coverage and/or benefits as provided by the following plans for all employees who have completed their probationary period.
A summary of the principal features of the insurance, medical and pension plans is outlined below.
Except as otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, all interpretations shall be governed by the Legal Plan Texts.
The coverage is effective on the 1st day of the month coincident with or next following the end of the probationary period provided the employee is actively at work on that date.
(1) O.H.I.P. and Semi-Private Hospitalization
Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan
(If premiums reinstated)
Blue Cross Semi-Private Hospital
Page 45
(2)	LIFE INSURANCE
Basic Life	Insurance	of $32,000	for
active employees.
Basic Life	Insurance	of $27,500	for
employees on Long Term Disability on April 14, 1992.
A" employee who qualifies for Long Term Disability after April 14, 1992, will be covered for the Basic Life Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for active employees to purchase additional	$20,000	Optional	Life
Insurance and $20,000 Optional Spousal Life Insurance.
(Company will implement Optional Spousal Life Insurance June 1, 1996 - subject to Sun Life's evidence of insurability requirements.)
upon retirement on pension, Basic Life Insurance	is replaced by $4,000
coverage until death.
For retirement between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill-health or disability, the amount Of Basic Life Insurance in force immediately prior to retirement Will remain in force	until	the normal
retirement date, at which time coverage will be. reduced to $4,000. Optional insurance shall continue in force until age 65, provided the employee continues to pay the premium.
(3)	ACCIDENTAL	DEATH	AND	DISMEMBERMENT
INSURANCE
Basic AD&D Insurance of $16,000 for active employees.
Basic AD&D Insurance of $13,500 for employees on Long	Term	Disability on
April 14, 1992.
Page 46
An employee who qualifies for Long Term Disability after April 14,	1992, Will
be covered for the Basic AD&D Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for an active employee to purchase additional $10,000 coverage.
For retirement on pension between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill health or disability, the amount of Basic AD & D Insurance in force immediately prior to retirement will remain in force until the normal retirement date. Optional AD & D Insurance shall continue in force until age 65 provided the employee continues to pay the premium.
(4)	SICK PAY
A Company provided self-insured plan providing a benefit to active employees who qualify.
To qualify, an employee must not have been disabled due to the same illness for two weeks immediately prior to initiating a new claim.
The benefit will be as follows:
Following a waiting period of 3 days of disability:
$525 per week of disability.
OR
4/5 of $525 per week of disability that includes one paid recognized holiday.
OR
3/5 of $525 per work week of disability that includes two paid recognized holidays.
Page 47
The above benefit will be reduced by any wages received from the company
during that week and less one seventh of the benefit per day for each waiting day where applicable.
Benefits will begin on the earliest of:
(a) absence on first day following an accident
OR
(b) first day of illness and hospitalisation (i.e. employee is admitted as an inpatient for a minimum hospital Stay of 24 consecutive hours)
OR
(c) retroactive to 1st day of illness/disability	if absence
continues for at least 7 consecutive days
Otherwise, benefits will begin on the 4th consecutive day of illness.
Benefits will continue for a maximum of 26 weeks for any one disability. The Company will require a Doctor’s verification in order to process a sick pay claim.
Page 48
(5)	LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
Long Term Disability Insurance will pay $1700 per month less any applicable incomes, or in respect to a recurrent illness, an amount determined by the Long Term Disability Insurance Policy. Such benefits will begin after 26 continuous weeks of disability and will continue until the employee is fit for employment, elects early retirement or reaches age 65 whichever is the earliest.
The above increase applies only to employees actively at work when the increase occurs.
(6)	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
The Company will maintain the Blue Cross prescription drug plan {Formulary Three (3) ) that pays for prescription drugs after a deductible of 35 cents per prescription.
(7)	DENTAL PLAN
Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses 100% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
In addition to the above, coverage equivalent to Rider 1 of the Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses 80% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
(8)	PENSION PLAN
The Company has provided a Pension Plan for employees represented by the Union which Pension Plan will he continued.
Page 49
upon completion of the probationary period, membership in the pension plan is conferred retroactively to the latest date of hire as a full-time employee.
Upon completion of two years of plan membership, each employee is vested in the Plan
All employees are required to retire at the end of the month in which they become 65 years of age.
Calculation of Average Monthly Earnings (A.M.E.) will be based on the best three years earnings in the last ten years service.
Minimum Yearly Earnings:
In selecting yearly earnings to be used in calculating the A.M.E., each year 's earnings is compared with employee's regular rate X 2080 hours and the greater amount is used.
The Pension Formula will be as follows:
At Normal Retirement Age of 65 years with 15 or more years' service:
35% of A.M.E
plus 1/4% A.M.E. for 15 through 30 years' service
plus 1/2% A.M.E. for 31 through 35 years'service
plus 3/4% A.M.E. for each year over 35 years’ service.
less	(1/2	Canada	Pension	Plan	Benefit
minus $160.00)
(Effective April 15, 1997:
less	(1/2	Canada	Pension	Plan	benefit
minus $175.00))
Page 50
Early Retirement between age 55 and 65 will be granted on request of employees with at least 15 years of service.
The following Early Retirement Factors apply to employees with at least 15 years of service.
Early Retirement Factor Table:
	PENSION
	REDUCTION
RETIREMENT	EFFECTIVE
AT AGE	JAN. 1,1991
64	0%
63	0%
62	0%
61	0%
60	0*
59	3%
58	6%
57	9%
56	12%
55	15%
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental, and semi-private hospital coverage for early retirees between age 55 and normal retirement age will be paid by the Company.
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coverage will be paid by the Company to provide single coverage for spouses of retirees. Such premiums will commence on the first day of the month following the month during which the retiree attains age 65 and will continue until the earliest of:
1. The completion of twenty-four months from the above mentioned date, or 2 The last day of the month during which retiree's spouse attains age 65.
The above ammendment to 17(E) (8) is applicable to retirements that occur after May 11th 1994.
Page 51
UP to 1 week education of two Union Representatives will be provided by the company in administration and operation of
Pension Plan.
(9)	The Union, on behalf of the employees, accepts the foregoing benefits as a full and complete settlement of the Company’s obligations in respect of any amounts required by the Unemployment Insurance Act to be paid to or for the benefit of employees as a consequence of the reduction of any insurance premiums payable by the Company under the aforementioned Act, and discharges the Company of the said obligation.
(F)	All employees must submit to a physical examination as a condition of employment. All hourly employees will be re-examined annually or as required by the Company.
(G)	Property - Company Of personal property shall not be removed from the Plant without a pass duly authorised by a Mechanical Supervisor or the Plant Manager.
(H)	Entrance to Plant - any employee wishing to enter the Plant property at any time other than reporting for duty must obtain a pass from the Security Office. An exception is made to this rule in case of fire.
a) Scheduled time lost from a scheduled work week shall be paid an employee at his regular base rate for the time lost due to bereavement.	Pay for such time will not
exceed three consecutive days. one of which days shall be the day of the funeral, provided however. if the time between death and the funeral exceeds 3 days, the employee may elect to be paid for lost time during that period to a maximum of 3 days, one of which must be the day of the funeral. This will apply to the immediate family which is defined as current spouse, son or daughter of the employee, father or	mother	of the	employee,
father-in-law or mother-in-law of the employee, brother or sister of the employee.
Page 52
In addition, payment for the remainder of his shift will be made when an employee is excused from work due to a death in the immediate family as defined above. In case of grandparents of the employee and current brother-in-law or sister-in-law of the employee, pay for bereavement will not exceed one day which shall be the day of the funeral.
The above in-law relationships shall be considered as terminated in case of death of spouse if employee is remarried and in case of divorce. Scheduled time lost for which the employee receives payment under this clause will be included in computing the work week.
(J)	An apprentice training program - may be instituted and continued at the discretion of the Company. The rate schedule for such a program is shown in Schedule B. The selection and retention of employees as apprentices will be solely a responsibility of the Company. If for any reason the program is discontinued, apprentices who are in training will be retained as regular members of the shop concerned and will follow the Apprentice Rate Schedule.
(K> In order to maintain the high standards of sanitation desirable in a food plant, all personnel must observe	the rules	and
regulations as they apply to their personal hygiene and cleanliness as well as to their performance of their job.
(L)	The Company reserves the right to conduct searches on plant premises, of belongings and lockers of employees in their presence.
(M)	When an employee is required to serve on
jury duty. the Company	will pay to the
employee the difference between jury duty pay and his base rate for scheduled time lost.
Page 53
(N)	The Company agrees to pay a tool allowance of $100 to mechanics Rate 6 and higher within the Mechanical Division. Employees in the Mechanical Division with Rate 3 to Rate 5 (exclusive of the Yard employees) will receive a tool bonus of 575 providing such employees maintain an adequate supply of tools. The allowance shall be made subject to the recommendation of the foreman concerned and paid not later than February 28th, each year.
(O)	The Company will pay severance allowance in compliance with the Employment Standards Act to employees permanently laid off without rights to recall.
<P) Leaves of Absence for Pregnancy:
Female employees who are pregnant will be granted leave of absence without pay for a period of time in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
(Q) C.O.L.A. (Cost of Living Allowance) : The Cost of Living Allowance will be based on the National Consumer Price Index (1971 « 100) . The first application of any wage increase resulting from this provision will be August 1, 1997.
If the C.P.I. increases by more than 3.0% between December 1996 and June 1997 the hourly wage rates will be increased by lc for each .45 point that C.P.I. increase has exceeded the 3.0% to the nearest cent. The increased wage rate will be effective 7 am August 1, 1997.
Similarly, the wage rates will be increased by lc for each .45 points that the C.P.I. increase exceeds 3.0% between June 1997 and December 1997 to the nearest cent, effective 7 a.m. February 1, 1998.
Page 54
	The maximum wage rate	increase	resulting
from	this provision will be	as follows	
(1)	maximum increase of	16c per	hour in
	C.O.L.A. adjustment August 1, 1997.	effective	7 a.m.
(2)	maximum increase of	16c per	hour in
	C.O.L.A. adjustment February 1, 1998.	effective	7 a. m.
ARTICLE 18 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall commence at 12:01 a.m. on April 15. 1996 jmM_gjccept as otherwise
provide wm rnn1-<niia _ An __fn.11 ■ ■ffirnn - an*
effect until 12:Q1____a.m...an__the.lSth. -day, nf
■April 199B _and from year to year thereafter unless either the Company notifies the Union or the Union notifies the Company in writing within three (3) months prior to the renewal date of its desire to amend the Agreement. Negotiations shall commence not later than ten
(10)	days following receipt of such notice. Either party desiring amendments shall present its proposed amendments on or before the beginning of negotiations. Any amendments which may be agreed upon shall become part of the Agreement without modifying or changing any other terms 'of the Agreement.
Page 55
In Witness whereof the said parties have hereunto signed.
RETAIL, WHOLESALE CANADA CANADIAN SERVICE SECTOR
DIVISION OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION LOCAL 403, CARDINAL, ONTARIO
If James Donnelly " Intent&tlonal Representative
Charles Deschamps
Allen Kelly Manager Wet/Dry Starch
ifi
Gerry O’Connor Director, Human Resources


Page 56
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS
SPLIT SHIFT - is a shift or regular day's work split on the instructions of the Supervisor into two or more periods separated by more than one hour.
REGULAR PATE - is the classification rate corresponding to the job title on the rate schedule i.e. Schedule B.
NORMAL HOURLY RATE - is the highest active hourly rate appearing on the employees Form 8.
PLANT SENIORITY - is the length of recognised continuous service in the plant dating from the employee’s last date of hiring.
A GRIND SHIFT - is a regular shift (i.e. 7 am -	3 pm. 3 pm - 11 pm or 11 pm -	7 am)
during which corn is being ground.
A GRIND DAY - is a working day (see Article 6(A)) consisting of 3 grind shifts. Thus one grind shift equals one-third Grind Day, and two grind shifts equal two-thirds Grind Day.
A GRIND WEEK - consists of the number of days or fraction thereof in which corn is ground in accordance with Article 6(A) .
STARTING TIME - is the time designated to be the beginning of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the beginning of the normal hours of work.
QUITTING TIME - is the time designated to be the end of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the end of the normal hours of work.
CALL BACK OR CALL IN - for the purpose of this Agreement, these two terms have the same meaning. A Call Back or Call In refers to the situation in which an employee is called in to work without notice for a limited period of time.
Page 57
APPENDIX A
SCHEDULE "B"
RATE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE 7:00 A.M. April 15,1996
EFFECTIVE 7:00 A.M. APRIL 15,1997
5
6 7
e
3
10
IS
1A
IF
1
2
3
4
IS - STUDENT
1A - FUTURE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES IF - FUTURE EMPLOYEES
Rate IS, 1A and IF Employees will receive that rate while doing rate 1 work. When such Employees are working on jobs of rate 2 or higher, they will receive the rate of the job. Probationary and Student Employees will receive Rate 1A when assigned painting duties.
After completion of one year at rate IF Future Employees will progress to rate 1.
It is agreed that rate IS, 1A and IF Employees will not be used from the General Plant Schedule if any Regular Employee is not receiving 40 hours work each week.
Page 50
SECTION 1
DRY STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE
Dextrine Operator
Reinvelds & Bldg. 39 Operator
Blend Pack Specialties
Bulk Loader and General Helper
Bag Packer & Pelletizer
General Labour
SECTION 2 REFINERY DIVISION
JOB TITLE
Process Operator Finished Product Operator Glucose Solids Operator Glucose Solids Packer General Labour
SECTION 3
WET STARCH DIVISION JOB TITLE
Feed House & Merco Operator Wet Milling Operator Germ Process Operator
Bldg. #17 operator
Operator Corn Elevators
Bldg. #43 Operator & Loader
Feed, Merco & Mill House General Helper
Germ Dryer Cleaner
General Labour
Page 59
RATE
9
9
6
6
8
1
RATE
9
3
3
6
1
RATE
9
9
3
3
6
6
5
2
1
SECTION 4
STORES, SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Warehouseman	6
Brakeman	B
Locomotive Engineer	B
Receiver & Supplier - Stores	B
Towmotor Transporter Operator	6
Pallet Repairs	2
General Labour	1
SECTION 5
MECHANICAL DIVISION JOB TITLE
Primary Safety Observer Electrician Mechanic Grade 3 Millwright Mechanic Grade 3 Machinist Mechanic Grade 3 Instrument Mechanic Grade 3 Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 3 Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 3 Utility Mechanic Grade 4 Electrician Mechanic Grade 2 Millwright Mechanic Grade 2 Machinist Mechanic Grade 2 Instrument Mechanic Grade 2 Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 2 Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 2 Utility Mechanic Grade 3 Electrician Mechanic Grade 1 Millwright Mechanic Grade 1 Machinist Mechanic Grade 1 Instrument Mechanic Grade 1
RATE
10
9
3
9
9
9
3
9
6
6
B
B
8
8
B
7
7
7
7
Page 60
JOB TITLE
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 1 Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 1 Utility Mechanic Grade 2 Electrician Mechanic Millwright Mechanic Machinist Mechanic Instrument Mechanic Pipe Fitter Mechanic Tinsmith Mechanic Painter Mechanic Tractor Driver Yard Hand General Labour
APPRENCTICE RATES
Enter Apprentice Program After Successful Completion of 1/2 Program Requirements After Successful Completion of Full Program Requirements
SECTION 6
POWER HOUSE DIVISION JOB TITLE
Fireman - (Shift Engineer 2nd Class Cert.) Waste Treatment Operator General Labour
SECTION 7
LABORATORY DIVISION JOB TITLE
Laboratory Operator Grade 2 General Labour
Page 61
RATE
7
7
7
6
6
6
6
6
6
5
7
5
1
RATE
5
8
9
PATE
10
9
1
RATE
9
1
SCHEDULE C
Jobs on Monday to Friday work week
Section 4 - STORES, SHIPPING AND
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
Receiver & Supplier - Stores
Warehouseman
Pallet Repairs
Towmotor Transporter Operator
Section 5 - MECHANICAL DIVISION
All jobs except the following: Utility Mechanic Grade 2 Utility Mechanic Grade 3 Utility Mechanic Grade 4 Corn Unloading
General Labour - Mechanical Division General Labour - Yard
Section 7 - LABORATORY DIVISION
Laboratory Operator Grade 2
General - No Labour assignments (i.e. Article •11(C) General Plant Schedule) are restricted to the Monday to Friday work week.
Page 62
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Re; Meal Allowance, Work Clothing & Safety Shoes
This is to confirm that the Company Will provide each regular employee a meal* and clothing allowance of $50.00 no later than April 15th each contract year. The Company will pay $110 during the first contract year, and $110 during the second contract year towards the purchase of safety shoes or boots for each regular employee. Employees who are absent due to sickness or other reasons, are not eligible for meal and clothing allowance or subsidy on safety shoes until they return to work.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: CALCULATION OF A.M.E. FOR PERSONS RETIRING WHILE ON LONG TERM DISABILITY
Calculation of A.M.E. for persons retiring while on Long Term Disability will be based on the last 3 years (36 months) of active employment. In selecting these 3 years the individual concerned must have worked 1040 hours in each yeas. These 3 years (36 months) actual earnings will be compared to the Normal Hourly Rate the employee held during. each of these years of service multiplied by 2080 hours and the greater amount used.
In the above cases, the pension formula in effect on the day prior to retirement will be used to calculate the pension.
Page 63
RE:	MECHANICAL DIVISION
1)	If more permanent employees are required in another shop the Company will discuss the possibilities of a permanent transfer before positions for new apprentices or employees are posted in the shop requiring the additional employees.
2)	If it is found necessary to reduce the
work force in any of the mechanical shops the Company will meet with the Union in an attempt to reach a satisfactory method of displacing employees. It is recognised that if skill and ability to perform the work are equal then seniority will govern.
3)	If a yard hand performing the duties of a
mechanical helper has been working on a job for all or moat of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the most senior yard hand will be afforded the first opportunity and so forth by seniority to stay on overtime, provided no regular member of the shop concerned wishes to avail himself of the overtime
The above only applies to a yard hand working with a regular member of the shop concerned.
Yard hands will not be used for callbacks until all other regular metiers of the Mechanical Division have been given the
opportunity.
Page 64
4.	For callbacks, Utility Mechanics will be used only after the regular employees of the shop concerned.
The sequence would be:
1)	Regular employees of shop concerned by
seniority.{Apprentices are considered to be Regular employees of the shop concerned.)
2)	Regular or replacement Utility Mechanic
on the job.
3)	Regular Utility Mechanic on his assinged day off.
4)	Regular Utility Mechanic in order of seniority.
5)	Replacement Utility Mechanic in order . of priority.
The foreman may, at his discretion, use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
Page 65
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
In administering the Apprentice Training Program, the following general principles will be followed:
1.	Education Requirements - General requirements are 3 years High School approximately. Employees with less than 3 years High School are considered for apprenticeship, if their abilities and experience indicate they would be successful in training.
2.	Tests - When it is considered advisable to give apprentices written tests to show their progress, the apprentices will be advised of the test, and nature, at least three days
before it is given.
3.	Apprentice on Job Training - Each apprentice will be given experience with various mechanics and will not remain with one mechanic for long periods.
4.	Apprentice Working Rights - Regular employees of the Mechanical Dept. will get preference for overtime, call backs, and work on premium days. However, if an apprentice has been working on a job for all or most of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the apprentice will stay on overtime to complete the job.
5.	Night School Courses - The Company will pay tuition fees for apprentices attending approved courses, with a minimum attendance requirement at the sessions.
Page 66
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RE; YARD EMPLOYEES
It is agreed that the job of Yard Hand includes the following:
1.	Continuation of existing Yard Hand duties.
2.	Working as mechanical helpers in the Mechanical Division 7:00-3:30, Monday to Friday.
3.	Operation of the bucket tractor.
4.	Corn unloading including operation of Marine Leg.
5.	Track repairs.
6.	Assisting village as reguired for garbage pick-up.
Student employees will receive Rate IS when assigned to the Mechanical Division except when working on corn unloading when they will receive the rate of the job.
Job Titles pertaining to Yard Employees:
Tractor Driver Rate 7 Yard Hand	Rate 5
General Labour Rate 1
There will be no "Replacement" Yard Hands.
Marine Leg Operation will be offered to Yard employees in order of seniority.
Page 67
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
"PRIMARY SAFETY OBSERVER"
1	There will be one Regular Primary Safety Observer.
The Regular Primary Safety Observer will be the Co-Chair of the Joint Health and Safety Committee and the certified member representing workers on the Committee.
2	Replacement Safety Observers will be maintained for use when the Regular Primary Safety Observer is already being used or is unavailable.
The title ’Primary Safety Observer’ (Replacement) will appear on each of these individual's Form 0's.
Extra Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be posted at the discretion of the Company.
Replacements will be paid Rate 10 only when performing the duties of Primary safety Observer for Confined Space Entry procedures. Confined Space entry work will be assigned to a replacement on a seniority/ availability basis.
An employee’s entitlement to hold regular and replacement jobs will not be affected by his selection as a Replacement Primary Safety Observer.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be selected from within the Mechanical Division.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers who move to another job in another division forfeit their entitlement to hold the job title ’Primary Safety Observer' (Replacement)
3. When overtime is	required , the man	on the job
will be entitled	to	the overtime.	If he declines it
will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
When a call-back	or	weekend work is	required it	will
be offered first	to	the regular and	then to the	others
on a seniority basis.
Page 60
4. Postings for primary Safety Observer positions will contain the following restrictions:
1)	Applicants must be in good physical condition.
2)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence
in the Company's Confined Space procedure and associated testing procedures:
3)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence
in the use of self contained breathing apparatus.
4)	Applicants must pass a St. John Ambulance first
aid training course.
5)	Applicants must successfully complete all courses
and programs required for certification under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Page 69
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
A Twelve {12) Hour Schedule involving the Job Titles of "Process Operator" and "Finished Product Operator" in the Refinery Division will be implemented within one (1) month of ratification.
In order to provide for a smooth transition into a Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule, an agreed on Twelve (12) Hour Shift Procedure will be implemented subject to review at monthly Management Meetings, or renegotiation in the next Collective Agreement.
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT PROCEDURE
PURPOSE:	The following procedure outlines the
basic 12-Hour Shift Schedule involving the Job Titles "Process Operator' and "Finished Product Operator' in the the Refinery.
Page 70
SCHEDULE:
The following is tabled as a schedule for employees working a straight Twelve (12) Hour Schedule:
BASIC TWELVE (12) HOUR SCHEDULE
Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Base O.T Wk
1	D	AA	N N A	A	24	12
2	AD	D	A A N	N	36	12
3	N	AA	D D	AA	24	12
4	ANN	A	A D	D	36	12
12	Hr. D-	Days	N-Nights		120	46
A-Assigned
*For employees working this schedule the Plant Day will be from 0700 to 0700
Day Shift: 7:00am to 7:00pm Night Shift:	7:00pm to 7:00am
SHIFT BONUS
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
Page 71
WORK GROUPS
The existing four Work Groups Will rotate through a 28 day cycle.
Week # 1 Week # 2
Week # 3 Week # 4
36 Hour Normal Work Week 40 Hour Normal Work Week 36 Hour Normal Work Week 48 Hour Normal Work Week
The average work week is 42 hours.
OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at a rate in accordance with the Collective Agreement for hours worked in excess of the normal scheduled hours of work.
EG. 1) After 12 hours continuous work
2} Week #1 & #3: Overtime after 36 Hours
3)	Week #2 & #4: Overtime after 48 Hours
4)	Overtime on Saturday, Sunday and
recognised holidays
5)	Callbacks as per Collective Agreement HOLIDAYS
Holiday allowance will continue to be eight
(8)	hours pay at Regular Hourly Rate for each of the eight (8) Recognised Holidays and each of the four (4) Floating Holidays.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be for a calendar week only.
Employees will receive pay in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
Unless special permission has been given by the Company, employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacation. A calendar week vacation is a 40 hour week, Sunday to Saturday inclusive.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, SO hours of an employees vacation, consisting of 6 days of 12 hours and 1 day of 8 hours may be taken one, two or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturdays.
Page 72
Alternatively if an employee requests to split one week of the above SO hours it may consist of 3 days of 12 hours + one 4 hour segment and 1 day only may be taken on a Saturday.
VACATION RELIEF
Temporary Vacation Relief employees will be posted and awarded to Students at Rate 5. They will be trained and scheduled in the Lab Duty and will only be used when more than one operator is on vacation/training in any work group. Otherwise they will be scheduled on an eight (8) hour shift in the Refinery at Rate IS as general labour.
1) CHANGES IN HOURS OF WORK
A)	If employee is required due to vacation, sickness, training, etc., he will be scheduled in on his assigned day off in order of seniority as long as it does not conflict with his regular scheduled shift. (i.e. Did not work the preceding shift, not scheduled to work the following shift). Operators who are on their assigned day off have no designated shift.
B)	If employee is required due to special circumstances, (i.e. Sickness with short notice given or absence with no notice.) man on the duty would be obligated to stay until other operators have been contacted in order of seniority. It is to be understood that this overtime coverage will be a responsibility of all 12 hour shift employees.
C)	For training purposes employees will be scheduled on eight (8) hour shifts or a combination of eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts. It would be the practice to make the change, if it is possible, without the employee working a lesser number of hours then he would have, had there been no change.
Page 73
EXAMPLE:
EXTRA TRAINING
WK 1 WK 4
Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
D	A	T	T	T	A	A
A	T	T	T	A	D	D
Base O.T. 24 Hr 12 Hr 36 Hr 12 Hr
D - 12 Hour Day Shift	A = Assigned Day Off
N - 12 Hour Night Shift T * 8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00am - 3:00 pm)
EXAMPLE: Short Duration Training (Maximum 4 Hours)
Complete operating crew would be scheduled in on assigned day off for an eight (8) hour shift.
For a four (A) hour training session: Crew brought in on assigned day off would attend for training and would then go "Relieve" operating crew for four hours so they could attend training. At conclusion of four hours of training, operating crew would return to complete their scheduled 12 hour shift.
2) Scheduled Hours worked on assigned day off will be included in the work week and paid at straight time.
Page 74
An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a five day training period - consisting of five {5) eight (0) hour shifts - to determine if he wishes to continue his training.
f
The following schedule is tabled as a training schedule for trainee operators and may be used in combination with the basic twelve (12) hour schedule until the operator is trained.
TRAINING SCHEDULE
Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Base O.T
WK 1	D	A	T
WK 2	A	T	T
WK 3 N ATT WK 4	A	T	T
T T A TAN
T A TAD
A
N
A
D
24 Hr 12 Hr 36 Hr 12 Hr 24 Hr 12 Hr 36 Hr 12 Hr
D * 12 Hour Day Shift N - 12 Hour Night Shift T * 8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00am - 3:00pm) A ** Assigned Day Off
Page 75
Regular employees who have five years plant seniority, or more, will be guaranteed the opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of the normal scheduled hours.
OR
Normal scheduled hours less 8 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours on a recognised holiday.
OR
Normal scheduled hours less sixteen (16) hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours for each of two (2) recognized holidays.
Regular employees who have less than five (5) years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of one hundred (100) twelve (12) hour shifts.
Sick Pay as provided under Article 17(E) (4) will calulated subject to the following waiting period determination where applicable.
Benefits will begin the earliest of:
1.	The fourth consecutive day of illness and will be subject-to a deduction of $75.00 for each day of the waiting period.
or
2.	The day following completion of 24 hours of continuous
absence from scheduled work and will be subject to a deduction of $112.50 from the benefit for each day of the waiting period.
Both parties acknowledge the above Memorandum is a deviation from the Collective Agreement.
Page 76
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This agreement is made with the intention of providing a mechanism which will allow Best Foods Canada Inc. to establish a manufacturing facility at Cardinal which is distinct and separate from the Casco Company facility at Cardinal. It is recognized	that this
agreement will not be effective until such time as approval for construction of such distinct Best Foods facility at Cardinal has been obtained.
If the Union has not been advised in writing j-v Sept.	2985, that approval for
construction has been obtained, then it reserves the right to declare this agreement null and void.
The following points are mutually agreed and are considered non-negotiable and existing in perpetuity by the parties, specifically:
A.	Two separate bargaining units will exist, one consisting of the employees of Casco Company and the other consisting of the employees of Best Foods Canada Inc. and each will have their respective independent agreements.
B.	Until April 15,	1986, all Casco employees
will be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing collective’ agreement unless as otherwise stated.
C.	The existing collective agreement will be the basis from which the two new collective agreements will be negotitated.
Page 77
D.	If employees of Casco are transferred to
Best Foods Canada Inc. prior to April 15, 1986, the existing collective agreement shall apply. If employees of Casco are transferred to Best Foods Canada Inc. after April 15,	1986, but before a new
collective agreement is negotiated, the existing collective agreement shall apply.
E.	Best Foods Canada Inc. will function as a
free standing unit distinct from Casco Company. Employees permanently transferred will retain their seniority with the company concerned.	Before new
employees are hired into either company, it may be mutually beneficial to effect a transfer between the two companies. In such circumstances, management reserves the option of posting within the other company.
F.	In the event of a permanent layoff in either the Best Foods plant or Casco plant at Cardinal, those employees who were employed as of February 8, 1985, and are permanently displaced will have the opportunity to exercise their seniority in the other Company.
G.	Method of selection of employees:
All Consumer Division personnel as listed and designated Distribution personnel including incumbent motor mechanic will become part of Best Foods Canada Inc..
Of the remaining 19 positions, 10 will be posted, 'i.e.	5 Line Attendants, 1 Syrup
Mixer, 2 Receiving and Supplies personnel and 2 General Labour. These 10 positions will be open to all employees of the present Casco Company.
Page 78
The six Mechanical and three Laboratory Operators Grade 2 positions will be filled by the principle of first right of refusal to the most senior.
Mechanical vacancies are Pipefitter Mechanic Grade 3, two Millwright Mechanics Grade 3, Machinist Mechanic Grade 3, Instrument Mechanic Grade 3 and Electrician Mechanic Grade 3.
Once these positions have been filled by the above procedure, the 72 Best Foods Canada Inc. personnel will be considered permanently transferred at which time, clauses E and F will become effective.
Charles Deschamps W. T. Craig R. B. Snyder
Dated March 29, 1985
For :
THE UNION
CASCO
BEST FOODS CANADA INC.
Gerard O'Brien A. Burwell
Robert McDonald
Michae.
James
Page 79
Appendix nB'
1.	Expiry date of collective agreements.
2.	Common probationary periods.
3.	These Minutes of Settlement incorporated by reference into new collective agreements as new Article 11(H).
4.	Following benefits in Article 17 to be common to each collective agreement.
Life Insurance - Basic and optional.
AD&D Insurance - Basic and optional.
5.	Casco Article 11(A) (6) - Job Vacancy Posting
provision - with adjustment for named personnel of Best Foods.
6.	First paragraph Article 11(A) (1) as follows:
"In the selection of employees for job vacancies, appointments will be made to the most senior employee with sufficient ability to perform the duties of the position. Ability shall include skill, efficiency, responsibility and physical fitness to perform the duties of the position.
Such appointments will be subject to the provisions of Article 11(A)(7) (Best Foods) Article (11)(A) (6) (Casco)." (As adjusted by item 5 above).
Page 80
SENIORITY LIST
CLOCK SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY DATE
NO. NAME	NAME
148	Toupin Franklin
20	Towsley George
310	Beatson Thomas
249	Strader Donald
51	Stitt Roger
602	Gaylord Robert
391	Johnson Ronald
421	Steele William
24	Davy Allan
290	Rylands John
326	Gilligan Samuel
36	Seeley William
603	Mills Edward
34	Sherman Morris
8	McKee Oliver
321	Selleck Merrick
191	MacDonald	Edward
163	Barkley Steven
577	Stitt James
38	Gaylord Willard
578	Turner Charles
541	Merkley Leo
561	Collison Mitchell
637	Patrick John
557	McShane Dennis
664	Tyo James
154	Deschamps	Lester
523	Amell Allan
356	Barnhardt	William
177	Hutchcroft John
198	Patterson Wayne
201	Seeley Gerald
203	Allan Laurence
46	Hanna Stuart
June 15, 1949 Sept.15, 1953 Oct. 4, 1954 Dec. 14, 1954 Jan. 17, 1955 May 2, 1955 May 2, 1955 July 14, 1955 July 14, 1955 Aug. 12, 1955 Oct. 22, 1955 Sept. 14, 1956 Feb. 15, 1957 April 16, 1957 Sept. 21, 1957 Sept. 21, 1957 Nov. 29, 1957 June 13, 1958 June 25, 1958 Sept. 4, 1958 (April 22, 1964) Sept. 24, 1958 Oct. 2, 1958 (July 5, 1959) Oct. 28, 1958 Mar. 5, 1959 Mar. 11, 1959 April 9, 1959 Nov. 3, 1959 May 3, 1960 June 11, 1960 July 15, 1961 July 17, 1961 July 17, 1961 July 17, 1961 Oct	26, 1961
(Aug.	22, 1965)
Page 81
CLOCK SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY DATE
NO.	NAME	NAME
43
273
311
455
479 461
555 52
359
556 593
22
97 131
98 145 195 281 401
480 566 584 138 123 226 265
83
250 47
220
251 469 313 368 531 660
84 365 280 702
Towsley
Ward
Leizert
O'Connell
Reid
Nesbitt
O'Brien
O'Brien
Donald
Ernest
Charles
Herman
Beverley
Earl
Gerard
William
Perry
Gilmour
Murphy
Mallett
Steinburg
Prosser
Sayeau
McDonald
Castleman
Roode
McMillan
O'Brien
Marriner
Kroone
Elliott
Stobo
Murphy
Barkley
Coulter
Barkley
Allen
Aaron
Wood
Fawcett
Shaw
Amell
Duncan
Whitteker
Ferguson
Sloan
Latulippe
Veltkamp
James
Lyall
Paul George Roy Carl James Robert Barton Francis Verne James George Barend Floyd Arnold Edward Donald John Leslie Nelson Christopher Leslie Harry Claire Richard Willard Donald Ross Donald Floyd William Page 82
Mar. 1, 1962 Mar. 17, 1962 April 5, 1962 May 17, 1962 May 29, 1962 May 29, 1962 June 16, 1962 June 16, 1962 (Aug. 5, 1966) June 19, 1962 June 26, 1962 June 29, 1962 Jan. 23, 1963 Jan. 23, 1963 Feb. 23, 1963 Feb. 23, 1963 Mar. 5, 1963 Mar. 12, 1963 Mar. 19, 1963 nay 17,	1963
June 1, 1963 June 4, 1963 June 19, 1963 July 3, 1963 Aug. 24, 1963 Aug. 30, 1963 Sept. 12, 1963 Sept. 25, 1963 Oct. 22, 1963 Jan. 15,	1964
Jan. 24, 1964 April 27, 1964 April 27, 1964 May 27, 1964 Sept. 9, 1964 Sept. 11, 1964 Sept. 29, 1964 May 12,	1965
Sept. 13, 1965 Nov. 3, 1965 Nov. 3, 1965
CLOCK SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY DATE
NO.	NAME	NAME
666
760
402
48
646
312
292
261
253
336
513
28
109
159
170
150
606
542
596
765
707 42
663
26
708 788 128 763 701 716 624 811 801 797 818 827 615
846 845
847
849
848
850
851 855
Crawford
Strader
Walker
Huneault
Summers
Toupin
Dalton
William
Norman
Henry
John
Charles
Patterson Walter
Cheetham
Watson
Garlough
Potvin
Crozier
Lloyd
McCurrie
Adams
Grant
DeVries
Levere
Kavanaugh
Smith
Toupin
Cook
Simpson
Bottan
Seeley
David
Donald
Donald
Andre
Susan
Carry
Michael
Danny
Edwin
Thomas
Roger
George
Carl
Ivan
Carman
Larry
Daniel
Dale
Hutchcroft Robert
Read Gill Riddell Murray Wyatt Dalrymple Sheedy Roode Hamilton Woodward Fahrngruber John Gilmour	Dale
Boyd	Alan
Beatson	Thomas
Dougherty	Donald
James
Andrew
Earl
Kevin
Rick
Colin
Raymond
Daniel W.
Martin
Stanley
Lavery
Carkner
DeJong
Tobin
John
Garnet
Andy
Michael
Page 83
Mar. 1, 1966 Mar. 1, 1966 Mar. 2, 1966 Mar. 17, 1966 June 30, 1966 Sept. 2, 1966 Sept. 3, 1966 Sept. 7, 1966 Sept. 9, 1966 Feb. 4, 1967 Sept. 23, 1968 Sept. 28, 1968 Sept. 10, 1969 Oct. 14, 1970 Sept. 27, 1971 Sept. 3, 1974 Sept. 30, 1974 July 16, 1975 Aug. 11, 1975 Oct. 14, 1975 Jan. 5, 1976 Jan. 12, 1976 Jan. 22, 1976 Jan. 23, 1976 Mar. 30, 1976 May n, 1976 June 7, 1976 Sept. 9, 1977 July 27, 1978 Aug. 25, 1978 Sept. 7, 1978 Oct. 16, 1978 Oct. 16, 1978 Feb. 7, 1979 June 25, 1979 July 20, 1979 Aug. 15, 1979 Sept. 4, 1979 Sept. 5, 1979 Sept.. 6, 1979 Sept. 6, 1979 Sept. 6, 1979 Sept. 11, 1979 Sept. 12, 1979 Dec. 5, 1979
CLOCK
NO.
718
682
611
892
629
830
033
087
655
695
872
649
25
614
579
621
622
870
647
662
674
424
425
426
427
428 430
436
437
438
440
439
443
444
441
442 446
302 301
303
304 306
305
sur
NAME
Grey
Merkley
Kenney
Skakum
Hutton
Patterson
Foster
Berry
Dishaw
Roode
Allan
MacPherson
Byers
Patrick
Foss
Foster
Labelle
MacKinnon
McCallam
Abrams
McLaughlin
Baldwin
Hoogwerf
Johnson
McCurdy
Poole
Williams
Reilly
Moore
Dimopoulos
Ramdeen
Pidgeon
Lacroix
Learmonth
Garlough
Ranger
sherman
Deschamps
Dillabough
Brown
Gibson
Geurkink
Anderson
CHRISTIAN
NAME
James
Anthony
William
Michael
Paul
Ronald K.Jr Douglas
Kenneth
Larry
Mark
Jeffrey
Graham
Richard
Kevin
Danny
John
Kirk
Lloyd
Kim
Carl
Chris
Clancy
sheldon
John
Steven
Daniel
Barry
Bruce
Brian
George
John
Paul
Paul
Dave
William
Stephan
John
Todd
Wayne
Matthew
Allan
Michael
Robert
Page 84
SENIORITY DATE
May 5, 3.900 May 5, i960 Sept. 15, 1980 Sept. 15, 1980 Jan. 12, 1981 Feb. 9, 1981 May 4, 1981 May 14,	1981
May 20, 1981 Mar. 10, 1982 May 10, 1982 May 26, 1982 April 14, 1986 June 29, 1987 July 13, 1987 Sept. 14, 1987 Sept. 14, 1987 July 18, 1988 Sept. 21, 1988 Jan. 13, 1989 Jan. 16, 1989 Feb. 12, 1990 Feb. 12, 1990 Feb. 12, 1990 Feb. 12, 1990 Feb. 12, 1990 May 6, 1991 Aug. 12,	1991
Aug. 12,1991 Aug. 12, 1991 Aug. 12, 1991 Nov. 18,	1991
July 14, 1992 July 14, 1992 July 20, 1992 July 20, 1992 July 27, 1992 Feb 22,	1993
Feb 22,	1993
March 8, 1993 March 16,1993 March 16,1993 April 23,1993
CLOCK SUR
NO. NAME
7X0 Dishaw
712	Knudson 711 Murdock
713	Whitley 715 Levere 720 St.Thomas
410	Arcand
411	Gladstone
412	Veltkamp
413	Winter
414	Tobin
415	Serviss
CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY DATE
NAME
Michael
Reginald
Timothy
Lee
Wayne
John
Paul
Scott
Mike
Tim
Tom
David
Oct 18, 1993 Oct 18, 1993 Oct 18, 1993 Nov 1, 1993 Nov 15, 1993 Jan 3, 1994 Jan 3, 1996 Jan 4, 1996 Jan 10, 1996 Jan 11, 1996 Jan 17, 1996 Jan 18, 1996
Page 85