COLL]
i<Mmd			
OFF.			Of
	m		3/
3~oo			
between
ROWNTRRE MA^TOSH CANADA LIMITED
— and —
R5® WER1^ MA|^ AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 304
April 1,1987 - N arch 31,1900
INDEX
Article
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
Recognition................
Relationship...............
Management Rights..........
No Strikes - No Lockouts...
Representation.............
Grievance Procedure........
Arbitration................
Discharge Cases............
Seniority..................
Hours of Work and Overtime Wages and Classifications ...
Job Posting................
Paid Holidays..............
Vacations..................
Leave of Absence...........
General....................
Welfare....................
Termination................
Wage Schedule “A”..........
Wage Schedule “B”..........
Wage Schedule “C”..........
Wage Schedule “D”..........
Letters of Understanding....
Page . 1
. 2 . 3 . 5 . 5 . 8 . 11 . 12 . 13 . 20 . 24 . 24 . 26 21
.. 28 . 3C 33 .. 36 .. 3/ ,. 4C .. 41 .. 43 .. 45
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INTO THIS 14TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1987,
BETWEEN:
RQWNTREE MACKINTOSH CANADA LIMITED, (hereinafter called the “Company”)
- and -
BREWERY, MALT AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 304, (hereinafter called the “Union”)
The Ontario Labour Relations Board by Certificate dated the 5th of May, 1980 has certified the Union as the bargaining agent for the employees in the bargaining unit hereinafter described.
The purpose of this agreement is to provide lawful and orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and its employees covered by the agreement through the Union, to secure prompt and fair disposition of grievances, to eliminate interruption of work and to promote to the fullest extent possible, efficient and economical operation of the Company’s business and to maintain fair wages, hours and working conditions for the said employees, all as set forth in this agreement:
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all its employees at 1500 Birchmount Road, and 2220 Midland Avenue,
- 1 -
Unit 50, Scarborough, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, quality control emp
employed d
1.02	Non-bargaining unit personnel will not perform any work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit provided, however that this clause shall not aply in the case of work of an experimental, instructional or educational nature or in cases of emergency or in cases of new equipment or processes. It is understood and agreed that the services of engineering and or technical staff will be required from time to time, as a result of the above circumstances.
become and remain members in good standing of the Union during the lifetime of this agreement as a condition of employment.
(b)	Employees hired on a seasonal (temporary) basis shall as a condition of employment, pay Union Dues and furthermore shall sign an authorization in writing on a form provided by the Union to that effect.
(c)	The Company will not discriminate against any employee and will ensure that employees are treated, during employment, without regard to their race, col-

the probationary period and have acquired seniority in
not more
2
the bargaining unit shall/as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct whatever sum may be so authorized for initiation fees, union dues and for any assessments uniformly imposed on all members by the union. Union dues shall be deducted weekly and the Company shall remit same to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made. The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues and assessments of those employees who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union. The Union Dues will therefore be forwarded
by the Company to the Union Office as soon as possible after the end of the month for which the deduc-
tions were made and in any case not later than 2 weeks following the end of the month in which deductions were made.
(b)	The Union agrees that the Company shall not be liable for any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted in accordance with the above.
03 <e) The Union agrees that it, its officers, agents, representatives and members, will not engage in Union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company except as authorized by this agreement.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3,01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that the management of the plant and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and without restricting the generality of the foregoing the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
- 3 -
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b)	hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer, suspend and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee foriust cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been demoted, transferred, discharged or'disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees; before altering any such rules, the Company will discuss same with the Union and give them the opportunity of making representation with regard to such proposed alterations;
(d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the kinds and locations of plants, equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of work, the number of employees to be employed, the extension, limitations, curtailment or cessation of operations or any part hereof, and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this agreement.
■ 3.02 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is understood and agreed that breach of any of the Plant Rules and Regulations, or of any of the provisions of this agreement, shall be sufficient cause for an employee to be disciplined up to and including discharge. However, nothing herein shall prevent an employee from grieving the appropriateness of the discipline and whether or not such breach took place.
4
ARTICLE IV - NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
4.01	The Union agrees that during the lifetimeof this agreement there will be no strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
4.02	The Company shall have the right to discipline employees who take part in or instigate any strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article VI below.
4.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company as provided in Article VI below.
4.04	The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer.
4.05	The Union agrees that it will not involve or interfere with any other installation of the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, in or as a result of any labour dispute it may have at the premises covered fcy this agreement.
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select stewards, not to exceed ten stewards, plus the Plant Chairman, and the Executive Board Member, making twelve in total. In the absence of the regular steward, the Company further agrees to recognize individuals who shall be identified as alternate stewards. The alternate will only be recognized in the absence of the designated steward. Steward representation shall be as follows:
- 5 -
Enrobing & Moulding Chocolate, Starch & Cooking General Process Fancy Pack Take CGE
Maintenance & Boiler Room Warehouse & Transportation Afternoon Shift Midnight Shift Midland Avenue
1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward 1 Steward
All stewards shall have completed the probationary period and shall be regular employees of the Company during their term of office. The Company agrees to recognize a grievance committee consisting of the Plant Chairman and the Steward involved. Any problems resulting in a grievance will be handled by the steward up to step number two of the grievance procedure, at which time they will be assisted by the Plant Chairman, or in his absence, the Executive Board Member.
5,02	The name of each steward and alternate, who may be elected from time to time, and the designated area they will represent, shall be given to the Employee Relations Supervisor in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been so notified.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the stewards in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members, their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity.
6
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to adjust grievances filed by employees in their own areas under Article VI is granted on the following conditions:
(a)	The steward shall obtain the permission of his supervisor before leaving his work. The Supervisor may request a reasonable explanation for the steward’s absence from regular duties prior to being excused. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b)	The time off shall be devoted to the prompt handling of grievances and shall be limited to the time required for attending Grievance Step meetings and any preliminary meetings with the management.
(c)	The Supervisor shall have the right to limit such time taken, so that it is not excessive.
(d)	The Union acknowledges that stewards and officers of the Union have their regular duties to perform.
5.06	On any negotiating meetings held with the
Company for the renewal of this agreement, the Union negotiation committee shall consist of the Plant Chairman, Executive Board Member and not more than one Steward from each-department (as per Article V ■ 5,01) and any such full-time Union representative as the Union desires. The Company agrees to pay employees on the said committee for time lost from work to attend negotiating meetings with the Company up to eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s normal hourly rate. The Union agrees to reimburse the Company an amount equal to 50%5of wages paid to employees for time lost.	0 U/ 0.
5.07	The Company agrees that the Plant Chairman
will be assigned to work on the day shift. Furthermore, the Company agrees to recognize the assignment of a
permanent steward appointed to both the afternoon and night shifts provided the shifts are operational.
5.08	Tb ensure continuity of representation, the Plant Chairman will be credited with super-seniority for the purpose of lay-off only. This does not mean that employees in such a position will be protected against bumping, transfers, or being displaced from a particular position as a result of lack of work. It does mean, however, that the Plant Chairman will be protected only to the extent that he will not be dis laced from employment and placed on actual lay-offfrom the Company. This provision shall continue in force as
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	The parties to this Agreement are agreed that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
6.02	No grievance shall be considered:
(a)	unless it deals with a specific violation of the Collective Agreement,
(b)	where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated more than five (51 full working days before the filing of the grievance at Step No. 1 of the grievance procedure.
6.03	Grievances properly arising under this Agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
The employee shall present his complaint orally to his Supervisor with the assistance of the area steward if requested. Following the presentation of the complaint, the Supervisor shall nave one (1) working day
8
in which to respond. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the complaint will be reduced to writing on a form supplied by the Union and approved by the Company ana presented to the Employee Relations Supervisor as a formal grievance within two (2) working days following the rendering of the Supervisor’s answer.
Step No. 1
The Employee Relations Supervisor shall convene a meeting with the appropriate management representative together with the aggrieved employee ana the area steward within two (2) working days of the presentation of the formal grievance. The management representative involved must reply in writing to the grievance within two (2) working days of the hearing at Step No. 1. If the answer is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee then the matter may be referred immediately to the Employee Relations Supervisor who shall forward the grievance to the appropriate department head.
Step No. 2
Within two (2) working days of the presentation of the grievance at this step, the department head shall convene a meeting with the aggrieved employee, the grievance committee and such other persons as management may desire. The department head will respond in writing to the grievance within two (2) days of the hearing at this step. If the answer is not satisfactory to the employee, the grievance will be submitted to the Industrial Relations Manager at any time within three (3) working days following the rendering of the department head s answer.
Step No. 3
A meeting will be convened within three (3) working days following receipt of the grievance with the
- 9 -
grievance committee, the grievor, and a full-time union representative together with such other persons as management may desire. The management shall render its decision in writing within three (3) working days following the hearing at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure.
6.04	If final settlement of the grievance is not reached at Step No. 3 and if the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration as provided in Article VII below at any time within ten (10) working days after the decision is given under Step No. 3 and if no such written request for arbitration is received within that time then the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
6.05	It is understood that the management may submit to the union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers and members or any complaint that a contractual obligation undertaken by the union in this agreement has been violated. Any such complaint shall be delivered in writing to the chairman of the grievance committee whereupon it shall be discussed at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure. Failing a satisfactory settlement within two (2) working days after the filing of such grievance, the Company may refer it to arbitration in accordance with Section 6.04.
6.06	A Union Policy Grievance, which is defined as an alleged violation of this agreement concerning all or a substantial number of the employees in the bargaining unit in regard to which an individual employee could not grieve or an alleged violation where a group cf employees have signified to the Company an intention to grieve, may be brought forward by the Union Grievance Committee in writing at Step No. 3 of the
- 10 -
grievance procedure at any time within five (5) working days after the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated and if such grievance is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration in the same manner as the grievance of an individual employee.
6,07	Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by mutual written agreement between the parties.
ARTICLE VII - ARBITRATION
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through the provisions of Article VI above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the request of either of the parties.
7.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company one person
appointed by the Union and a third person to act as
Chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board.
7.03	Within five (5) working days of the request by either party for a Board, each party shall notify the other of the name of its appointee.
7.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to ag ree on a third person within seven (7) working days of the notification mentioned in 7.03, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a person to act as Chairman.
11
7.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding on both parties.
7.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.07	Each of the parties to this agreement will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses if any of the Chairman.
7.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE VIII - DISCHARGE CASES
8,01 The discharge of an employee during his probationary period or the discharge of a seasonal (temporary) employee shall not be the subject of a grievance. A claim by an employee who has completed his probationary period that he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a special grievance. The written grievance shall be submitted at Step No. 3 of the grievance procedure within three (3) full working days after the employee is discharged. Such special grievance may be settled under the Grievance Procedure by:
(a)	Confirming the Company’s action in dismissing the employee,
or
(b)	Reinstating the employee with or without compensation for time lost,
or
- 12 -
(c)	By any other arrangement mutually agreed upon.
8.02	When an employee has been dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to interview his steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY
9.01 (a) Seniority as referred to in this agreement, shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Company and shall continue on a departmental / basis with respect to layoff or recall from layoff.
(b) Notwithstanding the above, seniority imu respect to vacation entitlement and application for job postings, shall mean length of continuous service in the employ of the Companj ........ pplied on a
9.02	Regular employees hi	. anent posi-
tion will be considered probationary and shall have no seniority until the completion of sixty (60) working
days. Upon completion of the probationary period seniority will be back dated to date of hire. Employees hired on a seasonal basis who have not completed one hundred and thirty-seven (137) days of work as set out in 9.03 who are accepted as a regular employee are required to complete the regular probationary period of sixty (60) working days regardless of the number of days of work completed as a seasonal employee.
9.03	Employees hired on a seasonal (temporary) basis completing one hundred and thirty-seven (137) days of work within any twelve (12) month period shall be considered a regular employee with seniority. Seniority will be back dated one hundred and thirty-seven (137) working days exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays. Seasonal (temporary) employees shall not
plant-wide basis.
- 13
acquire seniority until after the completion of one hundred and thirty-seven (137) working days as described above.
9.04	The Company shall maintain a seniority list containing the names of all regular employees in its active employment. All such employees will be credited with seniority service equal to their length of continuous service in the employ of the Company. Seniority lists will be revised twice each calendar year. A copy will be posted on the bulletin board and a copy will be given to the plant chairman and a copy will be forwarded to the Union Office. If employees do not challenge their seniority date within the first fifteen (15) days from the date their name first appears on a seniority list, then they shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing.
9.05	Seniority shall be administered on a departmental basis and the following shall be the departments:
1,	Production, Plant Services and Returns
2,	Shipping, Receiving, Packaging and Work in Process
3,	Maintenance
4,	Boiler Room
5,	Sign Shop
6,	Display and Sundries
9.06	Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstances only:
(a)	When off work due to layoff, seniority will continue to accumulate for the first twelve (12) months or the length of the employee’s service, whichever is shorter.
(b)	When off work due to sickness or accident (work related or not) then seniority will continue to
14
accumulate regardless of the duration of absence from work. Employees advising the Company of their intention to return to work following a prolonged period of absence, must be capable of performing regular duties without any restrictions and/or modifications.
Furthermore, the Company shall not be obligated to provide employees with a training period as a result of a prolonged period of absence from work.
(c)	When off work due to personal leave of absence, then seniority will continue to accumulate for the first thirty (30) days of such leave.
(d)	When absent on vacation with pay or on plant holidays.
(e)	. When actually at work for the Company.
9.07	Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall
cease to be employed by the Company when he:
(a)	Voluntarily quits his employment with the Company.
(b)	Is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(c)	Is off work due to lataffibr a period of twelve (12) months. (2, 'I j I A
(d)	Is on layoff and fails to return to work after receipt of registered letter of recall within the time specified as contained in (9.13).
(e)	Failsto return to work upon the termination of an authorized leave of absence unless a reason acceptable to the Company is given.
(f)	Accepts gainful employment while on leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company in writing.
15
9.08	It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Human Resources Department immediately in writing of any change in address and/or telephone number. Notice required by the Company shall be deemed to be given, if forwarded by registered mail to the employee at the last address of which the Company had notice.
9.09	Layoff and Recall
_ Layoffs will be applied as follows:
(a)	Decreases in the working force shall be in accordance with the procedure set out in the following sections of this article.
(b)	In any layoff in excess of one (1) day or recall after such layoff, seniority shall receive primary consideration subject to the Company’s right to maintain a competent working force and provided further that all employees remaining at or being recalled to work shall then be qualified, in the opinion of the Company, to perform the work available. In the event of any layoff not exceeding one (1) day, the Company agrees to layoff seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees in the first instance provided the remaining employees are equally capable of performing the required duties to the Company’s satisfaction.
(c)	Layoffs will first be applied by department starting with the particular job or jobs where there is insufficient work. The departments for layoff and recall purposes are as contained in (9.05),
(d)	Probationary and seasonal (temporary) employees, determined by the Company who are working at the particular iob affected, will be laid off first
(e)	The most junior employee working in the department and shift affected shall receive notice of
16
layoff which could result in transfers arising from the issuance of notice of layoff.
(0 Notwithstanding (e) above, employees within wage rate classification two (2) or two (2) lead hand (production) who receive notice of layoff will be entitled to displace the most junior group , one (1) production employee on the shift affected ' rather than accepting an undesired' shift. Employees choosing to exercise this option may do so not later than three (3) days following receipt of the notice of layoff.
(g)	Employees attempting to claim aj o b by application of seniority do so recognizingthat in all cases, they are permitted to displace the most junior employee (on the shift affected in the first instance) the only exception to this being that which is expressed in 9,10 (c),
9.10	(a) Ifhe is not able to claim ajob by seniority, in the same wage rate class, the above process will be repeated in successively lower wage rate classes until he either finds a job open to him by seniority or becomes subject to layoff.
(b)	Prior to being placed on actual layoff and provided that another department is in an upcrew position, or has seasonal (temporary) or agency employees actually working in that particular department, the laid off employee shall be provided with an opportunity of demonstrating his ability. I fin the opinion of the Company he can perform the job satisfactorily, then the seasonal (temporary) or agency employee will be displaced from our employ.
(c)	Prior to being placed on actual layoff and only as a last resort, a laid oil employee shall be entitled to displace the most junior employee in a successively higher wage classification in his own department or successively lower or higher wage rate classification in
17
another department provided the laid off employee exercising this option has a minimum of two (2) consecutive months of experience on the actualjob he is attempting to claim by application of seniority within the previous three (3) year period.
(d)	An employee claiming ajob in another department by application of (b) and/or (c) above, shall not have any seniority rights within that department and will be returned to his original department by order of seniority as dictated by recall.
9.11	The Company agrees to provide written notice of termination of employment as prescribed under the Employment Standards Act with regard to termination of employment resulting from a layoff in the first instance only. Employees displaced by the application of~ . seniority will be provided with a minimum of two (2) <-A days written notice. Employees receiving written notice must complete and return one (1) copy confirming his choice of options (a) application of seniority or (b) acceptance of layoff. Failure to complete and return one (1) copy of the written notice within three (3) working days shall result in immediate' layoff and employees shall disqualify themselves from the notice period and/or payment in lieu of notice.
9.12	Employees choosing to be laid off rather than accepting an undesired shift, shall have the right to refuse a recall to work on an alternate shift, other than the shift being worked at the time of the layoff. This provision shall not exceed a period of twelve (12) months from the date of layoff
9.13	Notice of recall to work shall be forwarded to laid off employees by re istered mail. Employees must return to wodc within b e (5) days of receipt of the registered letter or recall and/or not later than ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the registered letter of
18 -
recall. Furthermore, the Company will attempt to return laid off employeesand employees transferred to other shifts as a result of layoff to the shift held prior to the imposition of layoff within two (2) weeks following a recalf but in any event, not later than three (3) weeks provided, of course, sufficient openings exist on the said shift.
9.14	In rehiring after layoff, the reverse order shall apply, that is, the last to be laid off shall be the first to be rehired. As jobs become available, employees may be recalled to aj ob opening which they held at the time of layoff (within 12 months).
9.15	Any employee claiming improper layoff must do SO not later than five (5) working days following the effective date of layoff, otherwise the Company will not be held liable for damages. The Company agrees that whenever possible, it will advise employees who are being laid off for a period in excess of five (5) working days, with five (5) days notice. If the Company is unable to give notice, it will not be held liable.
9.16	In the event that an employee covered by this agreement should be promoted to a position beyond the scope of this agreement, then, within a period of seven (7) months from the date of such promotion either the employee or the Company can elect a transfer back to the bargaining unit in which event the employee shall be entitled to return to his former position and to displace any employee who might have been transferred to fill his former position. In the event that the Company wishes to transfer such an employee back to the bargaining unit after the said period of seven (7) months, then he shall retain all seniority he had previously acquired and shall have added thereto the seniority accumulated while serving in such position beyond the scope of this agreement,
- 19 -
but he shall not be permitted to make application for a vacancy until a period of twelve (12) months has elapsed following his transfer back to the bargaining unit. It is understood and agreed that except on the mutual agreement of the parties, any employee so transferred will be classified as general help. In the event of a transfer back to the bargaining unit during a period of layoff, seniority shall be the governing factor in determining the right to claim his former position,
ARTICLE X - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
10.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours of work per/day
or per week or of days of work per week. 7
10.02	The normal work week for regular/full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours per week comprised of five (5) eight (a) hour days, w- -J---through Friday inclusive.
10.03 (a) There shall be one (1) ten (10) i rest period in the first half of each shift a twenty-five (25) minute paid lunch period to be granted at a time or times selected by the Company.
(b)	When overtime lasts for two (2) hours or more employees shall be entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute paid rest period. This rest period may be taken at the end of the regular shift provided, the employee works two (2) hours or more.
10.04 The Company may require employees to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly assigned hours.
(i) One and one-half (l'/i) times the employee’s regular basic hourly rate for:
20
(a)	all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a normal work day.
(b)	the first eight (8) hours worked on a Saturday.
(c)	all hours worked prior to his regular starting time.
(d)	the first eight (8) hours worked on the sixth day.
(e)	all hours worked on a paid holiday.
(ii) Double time (2x) the employee’s regular basic hourly rate for:
(a)	ail hours worked in exces^of eight (8) hours on a
Saturday. 37C/K	/'
(b)	all hours worked on ar Sunday. 3 scy U
(c)	all hours worked on the seventh day:
(d)	all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on the sixth day.
In both (i) and (ii) above, any hours that fall within the normal work week are excluded.
7~10.05 The Company may require employees to work :C—on a shift basis. The Company shall pay a shift pre-(pmium of 30 cents per hour for all hours worked by an employee in a day when the majority of his regularly assigned hours fall between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 mid- o ■, night and of 35 cents per hour for all hours worked by an employee In a day when the majority of his regularly assigned hours fall between 12:00 midnight )/md 8:00 a.m. The said shift premiums will not he --included in calculating overtime pay. The Company i, will advise employees as soon as possible of any shift change. Effective April 1, 1989, the shift premiums 1 will be increased to 40 cents per hour for the afternoon shift and 45 cents per hour for the midnight shift.
10.06	An employee who has completed his regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at time and one-half of the employee’s regular straight
- 21
time hourly rate. The Company reserves the right to assign additional work to be the equivalent for compensation received under this section. .,, / ,,,
10.07 An employee reporting for work as visual on a regular working day, unless notified not to report and for whom no work at his regularjob is available, shall be offered at least eight (8) hours employment in other work at the employee’s regular hourly rate or, at
the Company’s option, will be paid eight (8) hours pay at the employee Js regular hourly rate in lieu of such work. This provision shall not apply if the failure to receive notice was caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause, furthermore, this provision shall not apply in cases where employees fail to provide the Human Resources Department with their correct telephone numbers.
10.08	Any employee, who for the convenience of the Company, is temporarily transferred to anotherjob for which the rate of pay is different from that in effect for such employee’s regular job, shall be paid while so employed as follows:
(a)	If the rate of pay for thejob to which he istransfer-red is less than the employee’s regular pay, he shall receive his own higner rate of pay.
(b)	If the rate of pay for thejob to which he is transferred is higher than the employee’s regular pay he shall receive the higher rate of pay for the job to which he is temporarily transferred.
10.09	An employee who is transferred to another job as a result of a layoff, breakdown of machinery or other like cause shall be paid the applicable job rate
while so employed.
22
10.10	Overtime - except in the c^eof emergency breakdown of equipment, overtime after the completion of an eight (8) hour shift shall be voluntary. However, employees will co-operate and there will be no concerted or collective refusal to work such overtime as may be required to complete the work scheduled for the shift. If there are insufficient volunteers, then the Company shall select the most junior employee in the department concerned, who is capable of performing the task required.
10.11	(a) The Union recognizes the problems of distributing overtime in a factory operation composed of a wide variety of product lines, production processes and job occupations, to the extent practicable under such circumstances, the Company will distribute overtime fairly among the employees who are scheduled to produce the work required to meet the daily schedule.
(b) In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an extension of the regular shift, the Company will endeavour to distribute the overtime amongst regular employees rather than seasonal (temporary) employees who could be working on the particular line where the overtime is actually scheduled.
10.12	In the event that overtime is scheduled in the form of an additional shift, for instance, a Saturday or Sunday, such overtime will be offered to employees in order of seniority, however, on a rotational basis, provided they are capable in the opinion of the Company, of performing the work required. This clause . shall apply only to those employees who are working in the department and wage class, in which the work is required.
10.13	In the event that an employee declines overtime, or is absent when overtime is available, the overtime hours will be recorded against the employee's name as if the hours were actually worked.
- 23 -
ARTICLE XI - WAGES AND
CLASSIFICATIONS
11.01	Schedules “A”, “B”, “C” and “D” attached hereto are hereby made a part of this agreement.
11.02	Where any new classifications are created during the life of this agreement, the applicable rate will be discussed with the Union.
11.03	An employee injured on the job and requiring medical attention by a doctor shall be paid for the balance of his shift in which the injury occurred. If the use of an ambulance is determined to be necessary by the Medical Department, the Company agrees to pay the difference between the actual cost and the amount rtnirl hu fl H 1 P
which last for forty-five (45) working days or longer, including Lead Hand, except vacancies in Group One shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days. Vacancies created by the application of Article IX (Layoff and Recall) of this agreement shall not be posted. Copies of job bulletins will be provided to the plant chairman. Only regular employees will be permitted to make application for any vacancies. Postings will specify the shift of the vacancy.
12,02	The Company shall within seven (7) working days after the posting has been taken down, notify the successful applicant who shall be placed on the job not later than one (l) week following such notification. If the employee is not placed on the job within that period, he shall receive the higher rate of pay immediately,
24
This section does not apply in the case of advance posting where the actual date of the vacancy has not taken place. In the case of advance postings, the Company will provide effective dates of such vacancies.
12.03 Seniority shall be the governing factor pro-
12.04	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no qualified employee applies. Any vacancy can be filled at the discretion of the Company on a temporary basis while carrying out the provisions of this article.
12.05	Nothing herein shall require the Company to post more than two (2) vacancies (including the original vacancy) as a result of the occurrence of the original vacancy, and all subsequent vacancies which may occur shall be filled at the discretion of the Company.
12.06	Employees receiving a job through the job posting system, shall not be permitted to make further applications for vacancies until a period of six (6) months has passed from the most recent appointment unless applying for a higher wage rate classification.
12.07	Employees placed on a job as a result of this section who are not capable of performing the work in the opinion of the Company, after a brief period of familiarization, shall be returned to their former position and will displace any other employee who might have been transferred to his former position.
12.08	If following a brief period of familiarization as mentioned in (12.07) the employee is deemed to be
25
capable of performing the work in the opinion of the Company, then all seniority previously acquired while working in another department shall be transferred to the new department where the job vacancy occurred and for which he was accepted.
ARTICLE XIII - PAID HOLIDAYS
13.01	The following twelve (12) days will be considered as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day, January 2nd, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Ray, December 24th, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
All the above paid holidays will be paid for regardless of the day on which they fall, provided that:
(a)	The employee has completed the probationary period prior to the holiday(s) concerned.
(b)	The employee is present on the normal working day immediately before and after the holiday(s).
(c)	The employee has obtained permission in writing from management for leave of absence which would include any paid holiday(s), however, if such leave of absence exceeds one week (i.e. 5 working days) payment for the paid holiday (s) will not be granted.
(d)	An employee can prove he was sick or that it was impossible to attend work. In case of doubt, the employee’s attendance record will be the governing factor.
(e)	Laid off employees, who are recalled to work on either of the first two (2) working days immediately following the paid holidayCs) and provided such employee actually works the full day on which he was recalled.
26
(f)	An employee works on the working day actually preceding the paid holiday (s) and is laid off on the working days actually succeeding it.
(g)	Seasonal (temporary) employees will be afforded payment for Statutory Holiday(s) only, as identified under the applicable legislation in the Employment Standards Act.
(h)	In the event that one of the above listed paid holiday (s) falls during a period for which an employee is receiving weekly indemnity, then, the employee shall receive the difference between the amount received while on weekly indemnity and regular earnings for the day in question.
In the event that one of the above named paid holiday (s) falls during an employee's vacation, then by mutual agreement between the Company and the employee, the employee shall receive an extra day's pay in lieu of the holiday, or an extra day with pay shall be added to the employee's vacation. In the event that any of the named paid holiday(s) falls on a Saturday then it shall be celebrated on the Friday, and if such holiday falls on a Sunday then it shall be celebrated on the Monday. Should the government proclaim an additional Statutory Holiday, then such holiday shall replace December 24th.
ARTICLE XIV - VACATIONS
14.01	Entitlement shall be as follows:
6 months service as of June 30th	1	week
1 year service as of June 30th 2	weeks
5 years service	3	weeks
12 years service	4	weeks
21 years service	5	weeks
- 27 -
4%
4% 0/02 6% pay o.vv> j> 8% pay /2,Oy' 10% pay
. >0/
(20 years service effective
April 1,1989	5 weeks 10% pay If??
30 years service	6 weeks 12% pa>y 301
14.02	Vacation pay will be based on earnings with the Company during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 30th in the vacationyear. Vacation pay will be paid out, on or about July 1st with the exception of vacation actually taken prior to this date.
14.03	Vacations must be taken in the calendar year in which the vacation is due (January 1 to December 31).
14.04	Vacations will be taken at a time or times most convenient to the Company, however, employees will receive two (2) consecutive weeks of vacation during the month of July. This provision will apply only to employees having a minimum of three (3) weeks of vacation entitlement.
14.05	Entitlement to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation will be based on the anniversary date of the employee, that is. if an employee completes the necessary service requirement at any point in the vacation year, he shall then be qualified for the appropriate weeks of vacation regardless of the June 30th date.
ARTICLE XV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE ^SA//3>
15.01	The Company may grant leave of absefice without pay to any employee for legitimate personal reasons. In order to be considered valid, the employee, must submit a written request for leave to the Employee Relations Supervisor. In the event that the Company fails to respond to the written request for leave of absence within a period of one (1) week from the date the initial request was submitted to the
- 28 -
Employee Relations Supervisor, the request for leave will be automatically granted. . .. , .. ,
15.02 The Company will grant leave of absence without pay to not more than three (3) employees to
attend Union conventions and conferences for a period or periods not exceeding ten (10) days for any one employee in any one calendar year, provided that in the opinion of the Company the granting of such leave of absence does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant.	^ ^ 0C,/ /
15.03 The Company shall pay an employee who is
required for Jury Service and or subpoenaed as a Crown Witness, for each day of such service, the difference between his straight time hourly rate for the number of hours he would normally have worked on that day and the payment he received for Jury Service or Witness Service. The employee must furnish proof as to the time served on Jury Duty or as a Crown Witness and the amount of pay received therefore. Any employee called for Jury Service or as a Crown Witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at the Court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked on his shift. The above will not apply to employees who are the accused.
15,04	An employee required to be absent from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of his father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, spouse, child, brother, sister, grandmother or grandfather shall be granted a leave of absence covering the required time off up to and includin the day of the funeral. Where any of such days of required absence falls on a scheduled working day for such employee, he shall be ^>aid a bereavement allowance for each such day, but up to a maximum of three (3) days computed by multiplying his regular straight time hourly rate times
- 29 -	/
the number of hours he would have worked or by eight (8) hours, whichever the lesser. In the event of the death of an employee’s brother-in-law or sister-inlaw, then he shall be granted one (1) working day leave of absence from his employment without toss of pay, provided he uses such time for the purpose of attending the funeral. In the event that an employee does not attend the funeral of, his mother or father only, he will be entitled to one (i) working day’s leave of absence with pay.
An employee will not receive bereavement allowance when it duplicates pay or any other allowance received for time not worked for any other reason. Time lost thus compensated for will not be counted as hours worked for purposes of determining overtime or premium pay liability.
15.05	In the event that any leave of absence is used for a purpose other than the purpose for which the leave was granted, then the employee may be discharged.
ARTICLE XVI - GENERAL
16.01	If the Union desires to post notices in the plant, such notices shall be first submitted in duplicate to the Employee Relations Supervisor for approval. Neither the Company nor the Union shall make any change in such notice after such approval and no notice shall be posted except on such boards which shall be provided by the Company. There shall be no distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, cards, notices or any other kind of literature upon the Company’s property, except as herein provided, without permission of the Company.
30
16.02	If the full-time representative of the Union wishes to speak to Union Stewards in the plant about a grievance or other official union business, he shall advise the Employee Relations Manager, who shall then call the Steward or Stewards to the office where they may confer privately. These talks will be arranged so that they will not unreasonably interfere with the efficient operation of the Company.
16.03	Both parties hereto will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of the safety and health of the employees. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of employees to make use ofall protective devices and equipment made available by the Company. To further these aims a safety committee shall be established composed of at least two (2) employees and two (2) management personnel, such committee shall meet not less than the number of times prescribed under the O.H, and S. A.
v./y
16.04	Pay days shall be each Thursday add the Company will endeavour to distribute pay cheques around the time of lunch breaks for employees working on days and afternoons. Employees working on the midnight shift will receive their pay cheques during their shift commencing on the Wednesday with the only exception being, a week in which a Statutory Holiday occurs and in that case, pay day shall be Thursday.
16.05	(a) The Company will pay 100% to a maximum of $50.00 toward the cost of Safety Shoes purchased by regular employees who have completed the probationary period, to a maximum of one (1) pair per year (12 months from date of purchase.)
(b) Employees making use of the Safety Shoe Allowance may do so only with the understanding that this benefit is strictly for use in the plant. In addition to
31
the normal safety shoe allowance persons employed as Cook “A”. “B" or Cooks Helper and Plant Services will be provided with slip on rubbers where required.
(c) The wearing of Hearing Protection equipment is mandatory for any employee working in areas where the noise level is ninety (90) decibels or greater. Employees required to work in such areas shall ne provided at no cost to the employee, within each twelve (12) month period, two (2) pair of ear plugs or one (1) pair of ear muffs only for employees in certain areas. Should any employee require further hearing protective equipment, they shall be responsible for payment of same. Under no circumstances will employees be permitted to work in areas which require the wearing of protective equipment unless they are in compliance with this section. Employees not complying with the above shall be dealt with severely.
16.06	The Company agrees to continue its present practice concerning the supply and laundering of uniforms. Regular employees will be provided with two (2) uniforms per week. Uniforms are the property of the Company and at no time will the wearing of uniforms outside of the building be tolerated with the exception of certain employees who are required to work outside. Employees refusing to comply with this
e£»r*fir\ti will V\£» rli er*i r\11	. v
more hours overtime in excess of his normal work day who has not been notified of such overtime the shift previous, shall be paid a meal allowance of $4.00,
(b) Truck Drivers who are working outside a thirty (30) mile radius of the plant shall be provided with a Meal Allowance of $6,00. Effective April 1, 1988 the Meal Allowance will be increased to $7.00. Those not working outside of a thirty mile radius shall be entitled
32
to the Meal Allowance provided under sub-section (a)
of this section.
16.08	Lead Hands - will receive forty-five (45) cents per hour over the highest rate in the group they lead.
16.09	An employee who, at the request of his Supervisor, trains another employee will be paid a Training Allowance of twenty (20) cents per hour.
16.10	Employees absent from work for a period of three (3) days or more, resulting from illness or accident are required to:
(a)	Notify the Company’s Nurse of their intention to return to work by telephone one (1) day prior to the actual date of return.
(b)	Provide the Company’s Nurse with a certificate from a physician confirming full recovery from the illness or accident which caused the period of absence.
Any employee not complying with this section shall not be permitted to return to active employment nor will the Company be obligated to provide work or payment of wages as a result of the employee’s non-compliance.
ARTICLE XVII - WELFARE
17.01	Seasonal (temporary) and probationary employees are not entitled to any of the benefits set forth under this article.
17.02	The Company will continue its present practice regarding payment of premiums of the benefit package recognizing that only regular employees who are on active payroll will be eligible to receive the benefit
- 33 -
package as outlined. Furthermore, the continuation of benefit premiums payable by the Company shall cease at the expiry of a seventy (70) week period (effective April 1, 1989 seventy-two (72) week period) for those employees who are disabled from work as a result of sickness or accident.	.,.. , „ ,
17.03	The Company will be responsible for/he payment of premiums for Ontario Health Insurance Plan, on the same basis as described above (I ^‘02).
7C> 7//0 O 7 0 /'// Q 706//OO
17.04' The Company will be responsible for the pay* ment of premiums for the Group Insurance Plan having a $10,00 single and $20,00 family deductible on the same basis as described above (17 02). There is no coinsurance feature on drugs, however, the balance of the plan remains at 80/20 co-insurance with the understanding that the drug plan covers only drugs that require a prescription from a qualified doctor to be obtained. In addition, Life Insurance in the amount of $15,000 will be provided. Effective April 1, 1988 Life Insurance will be increased to $20,000.	„
'7 / gycY~ 0)5 5tO /- O 50
17.05	The Company will provide a Pension Plan
based on employee contributions of 3.2% of earnings up to the C.P.P./Y.M.P.E. and 5% of earnings greater than the Y,M,P;E, The plan provides a payout at normal retirement equal to 40% of employee contributions per year. pp/ j	p y/y
17.06	The Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan will continue to provide for seventy (70) weeks of entitlement, it being understood that the second fifteen (15) weeks of the seventy week period will be carved out and payable through the U.I.C. with the usual qualifiers. Effective April 1, 1989 entitlement will increase to 72 weeks. Weeks of insurance payable through the carrier provides payment of 66-2/3% of the employee’s normal weekly pav to a maximum of
- 34 -	y,
U.I.C, insurable benefit. Such payment to be made in accordance with the plan commencing the first day of
accident, the first day of hospitalization, the fourth day of sickness and continuing for a maximum period of seventy (70) weeks (15-15-40), (April 1, 1989 seventy-two (72) weeks (15-15-42).The Union agrees that the Company shall retain 100% of the U.I.C, rebates coming from the qualifications of the said plan.
17.07	The current Dental Plan (basic and major restorative on removable prosthesis) shall be upgraded to 1986 O.D.A, rates. Effective April I, 1988 the plan will be improved to 1987 O.D.A, rates and effective April 1, 1989, the plan will be further improved to the 1988 O.D.A, rates. The features on the plan are:
—	$25,00 single, $50.00 family deductible
80/20 co-insurance	,	,
$500,00 maximum per year	'/	/
Major Restorative	/
—	50/50 co-insurance	'
$1,000.00 maximum per year
Based on compulsory enrollment, the Dental Plan includes Blue Cross riders one (1), two (2) and four (4) at 1986 O.D.A, rates. (1987 O.D.A, rates commencing April 1, 1988. 1988 O.D.A, rates commencing April 1, 1989.) The features on the plan are: Premiums
—	75% Company paid, 25% employee	paid
sauxraimncuem
per year

17,08	Effective April 1, 1988 the Company will provide a standard Vision Care Plan at $60,00 every 24 months for payment towards prescription eye_yjjsses or contact lenses.	'

- 35 -
■i&l
ARTICLE XVI11 - TERMINATION
18.01 This agreement shal I he in full force and effeci through to andJncluding March 31, 1990 and shall continue in force from year to y'eaF‘uriIessTn"any year^fltit more than ninety (90) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, before its date of termination, either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of or notice of desire to bargain for renewal of this agreement.
SIGNED AT TORONTO, ONTARIO THIS 1ST DAY OF DECEMBER, .1987.
FOR THE UNION,	^
T. Warren	. r■■s'
N, Muscat	,	\	tT i': >-5
L,	Walther	;	t
W, Foster
S. Siddiqui	i
C, Pestano
B,	, Robichaud
C,	Shaikh
K. Rampersaud
D,	Patel
M,	Shaikh R, Forte
J, C, Nelson
FOR THE COMPANY: L. Herdsman J, McCurley L, Cauthers A. Harkins
36
WAGE SCHEDULE “A”
PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS
	April 1/87	April 1/88	April 1/89	Oct. 1/89
Group I Packer	$ 9.36	$ 9.89	$10.29	$10.54
Case Filler	9.36	9.89	10.29	10.54'
Checker	9,36	9.89	10.29	10,54
Enrober Placermake-Off	3 9.36	9.89	10,29	10.54
General Helper Mould Feeder	/l 9-36	9 89	10.29 .	10.54
	9.36	9.89	10.29	10.54
Nut Sorter	9.36	9.89	10.29	10.54
Weigher	9.36	9.89	10.29	10.54
Swirl	9.36	9.89	10.29	10.54
Group II
Machine Operators:
Cut-Roll	9.65	10.18	10.58.	10.8.3
Wrap-King	9,65			
BOX	9.65	10.18	10.58	10.83
Overwrap	9.65	10.18	10.58	10.83
Wrapping Jelly Sheer Mogul Placer/Sander	9.65 9.65	10,18 10.18	10.58 10.58	10.83 10.83
	9.65	10.18	10.58	10.83
WAGE SCHEDULE “A” (Continued)
PRODUCTION OCCUPATIONS
	April	April	April	Oct.
	1/87	1/88	1/89	1/89
Group III Cooks Helper	10.12	10.65	11.05	11.30
Trucker	10.12	10.65	11.05	11.30
Utility Person Group IV Cook“B”	10.12 10.35	10.65	11.05	11.30 11.53
		10.88	11.28	
Mogul Assistant	10.35	10.88	11.28	11.53
Group V Extruder/Rheon Operator	10.47	11.00	11.40	11.65
Group VI				
Operators: Mogul	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Mixer (Chocolate)	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Moulding	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Enrobing	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Peppermint Pattie	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Latini	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Nut Roaster	10.63	11.16	11.56	11.81
Group VII				
Cook “A”	10.87	11.40	11.80.	12.05
Refiner Operator	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Bean Roaster	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Senior Operators: Enrobing	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Moulding	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Mogul	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Turtle	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Group VIII				
Contmuous Fondant	11,19	11.72	12.12	12.37
Continuous Caramel	11.19	11.72	12.12	12.37
VO
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
WAGE SCHEDULE“B”
WAREHOUSE OPERATIONS
	April 1/87	April 1/88	April 1/89	Oct. 1/89
Group I Stockkeeper Order Picker	$10.35 10.35	$10.88 10.88	$11.28 11.28	$11.53 11.53
Group II Shipper/Receiver Lift Truck Operator	10.78 10.78	11.31 11.31	11.71 11.71	11.96 11.96
Group III Senior Shipper	11.19	11.72	12.12	12.37
Group IV Trucker Driver	11.50	12.03	12.43	12.68
Group V Tractor Trailer Driver	12.99	13.52	13.92	14.17
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
WAGESCHEDULE“C”
MAINTENANCE OCCUPATIONS				
	April	April	April 1/89	Oct.
	1/87	1/88		1/89
^amPenance Helper	$10.63	$11.16	$11.56	$11.81
Group II Set-Up Man Wrapping Machine	10.87	11.40	11,80	12.05
Group III Facilities Operator Area Mechanic	15.36	16.09	16.69 16.69	16.94 16.94
Electricians	15.36	16.09	16.69	16,94
Group IV Senior Mechanic	15.64	16.37	16.97	17.22
Senior Electrician	15,64	16,37	16.97	17.22
Group V Packaging Machine Specialist	15.94	16.67	17.27	17.52
Gmup yicilities Operator	16.40	17,13	17.73	17.98
WAGE SCHEDULE “C" (Continued)
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
-u
to
1
WAGESCHEDULE“D”
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS
	April 1/87	April 1/88	April 1/89	Oct. 1/89
Group I Shop Decorator	$ 9.36	$ 9.89	$10.29	$10.54
Group II Laundry Attendant Order Assembler	9.65	10.18	10.58	10.83
	9.65	10.18	10.58	10.83
Group 111-A Plant Services	10.12	10.65	11.05	11.30
Belt Cleaner	10.12	10.65	11.05	11,30
Group III-B Machine Cleaner	10.47	11.00	11.40	11.65
croup IV Silk Screen Operator “B”	10.87	11.40	11.80	12.05
Group V Silk Screen Operator “A”	12.99	13.52	13.92	14.17
Maintenance Man	12.99	13.52	13.92	14.17
WAGE SCHEDULE “D” (Continued)
Starting rates for regular employees shall be 35 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories until completion of the probationary period.
Seasonal employees receive 96 cents per hour less than the above rates in all categories for the entire duration of their employment as seasonal employees.
1
I
December 1, 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt &Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding (Dated November 12,1987)
Seniority Status,of Temporary Employees
(having a minimum of one (1) year of seasonal employment)
In keeping with our agreement reached during the recent set of negotiations, persons hired as a seasonal/ temporary employee will be credited with seniority standing (for the purpose of layoff or recall only.) Their names and starting dates will then form a “Temporary Employee” seniority list.
Provisos
Seniority Rights Defined:
Temporary employees do not have the same seniority rights as permanent full-time employees, i.e. bumping options and shift preference etc., nor is the Company obligated to return the temporary to a shift held prior to layoff.
In assigning this particular group with a “seniority” date, it only suggests that temporary employees are provided with rights of recall provided there are no issues of concern related to performance either directly or indirectly.
In matters of layoff/recall whenever possible and where notice of layoff permits, temporary employees will be laid off and recalled by seniority provided the senior temporary employee is
- 45 -
qualified, in the opinion of the Company, to perform the remaining work.
—	Any temporary employee refusing to accept a work assignment, transfer, etc., shall be removed from the temporary seniority list and termination will result.
—	Temporary employees shall be deemed terminated during each period of layoff as defined under the Employment Standards Act “Definite Term/Task”, nowever, this shall not interfere with ‘theirrights to recall as defined.
The above is not intended to circumvent the collective agreement in any way shape or form nor is it intended to provide any benefits other than those specified above.
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
46
December I, 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Active Payroll (17.02)
Regular employees shall be deemed to be on active payroll when:
(a)	Actually at work for the Company.
(b)	A period of employment is interrupted by illness or accident which has necessitated the employee to absent himself from work. This however, shall not apply to laid off employees who are not able to comply with an official recall to work as a result of illness or accident.
(c)	Absent on vacation or on paid holidays.
Sincerely,
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
47
December 1, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Continental Work Week
The parties to this agreement, having an expiry date of March 31, 1990, agree to the following:
Establish a new job classification which will require the implementation of a Continental Work Week applicable only to the plant services group and specifically machine cleaners at a hourly rate of $10.47 (Group V) under Schedule “A”. The Continental Work Week will also apply to the current group of plant servicemen who are performing as cleaners on the (belt line) who are presently receiving an hourly rate of $10,12,
in addition, to the rate pay, these employees who are scheduled to work on either a Saturday and/or Sunday as part of their normal work week shall receive $2,50 for each and every hour worked on a Saturday or Sunday when so scheduled.
Current employees, including those employed in the plant services, shall not be required to work any hours other than those which are defined in the current collective agreement (i.e, Monday to Friday).
By virtue of this letter of understanding Article X - Hours of Work and Overtime is deemea to include
the above.
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
48
December 1, 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto. Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding (Dated November 12,1987)
Disciplinary Record
Except in cases of suspension, or in cases of assault or theft, an employee’s previous record v	;
referred to after a period of three (3) years
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
49
December 1, 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt &Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding
(Dated November 12,1987)
Job Posting
The parties have agreed that in certain circumstances where attendance is relevant to a job posting, the Company can legitimately consider an employee's absenteeism record in determining whether an employee is qualified. Further, in jobs where the level of supervision is lessened or responsibility higher, the Company can legitimately consider an employee’s discipline record as it relates to work performance in determining whether the employee is qualified.
A Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
50
December 1, 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto,Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Reinstatement of Benefit Coverage
The parties to the current collective agreement having an expiry date of March 31,1990, agree to reinstate the usual benefit coverage for employees returning to active employment following a prolonged period of absence from work with the following understanding:
Employees absenting themselves from work due to sickness or accident who inform the Medical Department of their intention to return to active employment may do so with the understanding that the necessary medical authorization is in place. In addition, such employees will be permitted to return to active employment, however, under a period of assessment (4 weeks in duration) at which point we will determine if dn fact the individual is actually able to return to active employment or if the individual is merely abusing the system by attempting to establish a new claim.
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
51
December . 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Grievance Procedure
It is agreed by both the Company and the Union that should the Industrial Relations Supervisor be unavailable for presentation of a formal grievance and or step one of the grievance procedure, the grievance in that case, will proceed directly to step two provided the grievance is submitted within two working days following the rendering of the Supervisor's answer.
Sincerely
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
52
December I, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers IccalNo. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Essential Services Group
This letter merely serves to confirm our discussions during the 1987 set of negotiations with regard to the scheduling of vacations for this group.
The parties understand and agree that Article XIV section 14,04 of the collective agreement is not applicable to persons employed in essential services as described below. However, the Company shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate requests for vacations during the period described in (14,04) and agrees to maintain the current practices with respect to vacation scheduling for these groups of employees. Essential services defined:
-	Skilled Trades
-	Warehousing Occupations
-	Plant Services
-	Decorating
-	Sign Shop
Sincerely,
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
53
December 1, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt &Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Appendix “C” - Memorandum of Settlement
The Company will make every reasonable effort to ensure that no employee with ten (10) or more years of seniority will w'ork less than the number of insurable w'eeks per year required to qualify for U.I.C. benefits.
The Union and the Company agree that it may not be possible for the Company to ensure this minimum number of w'eeks w'ork should the poundage fall below' the 1984 poundage production level minus 5%.
Sincerely
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
54
December I. 1987
Mr. Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S 3Z1
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding Recall Procedure (Less Than One Week)
It is agreed ty the Compaay and Union that in the event of i recall to work for a definite term and task of less than one week, the Company shall begin by recalling employees by order of seniority. However, if it is apparent that senior employees do not choose to return to work, the Company shall offer the recall to the most junior employees.
In the event that junior employees refuse the recall, the Compaay shall then fill the vacancy as it sees fit.
Sincerely
A. Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
55
December 1, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding
Recognition 1.01 - Inclusion of Midland Avenue
The Company recognizes that employees in the above mentioned bargaining unit are somewhat isolated from the major part of the business and as such, agrees, that vacancies arising at Midland Avenue will first be provided (via job posting) to the employees actually working in the location where the vacancy has arisen. Failing to fill the vacancy with employees from within the location described above, the Company may fill the job as it sees fit.
Sincerely
A Harkins
Manager Industrial Relations
56
December 1, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3ZI
Dear Mr, Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding (Dated April 13,1985)
If the number of permanent full-time employees are substantially reduced as a direct result of technological

Technological Change
57 -
December 1, 1987
Mr, Cameron Nelson Business Agent
Brewery, Malt & Soft Drink Workers Local No. 304 238 Jane Street Toronto, Ontario M6S3Z1
Dear Mr. Nelson:
Re: Letter of Understanding (Dated April 13,1985)
The Company will continue its practice concerning the above subject matter, with the understanding that it will not result in the layoff or delay of recall of any regular employee who has completed the probationary
Contracting Out
A. Harkins	/
Manager Industrial Relations
58