CASCO INC.

2002-2004
AGREEMENT
k
United Food Processors Union
Local 483 (AFL-CIO-CLC)
CM CO ^
INDEX
ARTICLE	SUBJECT
PAGE
(A)
(B)
(C)
6
(A)
(B)
(C)
Pu rpose of Ag reement Recognition - Exclusions Reservation to Management Union Security
Deduction of Dues Wage Administration
Amendments to Schedule's”
Mergers or New Jobs Maintenance of rate for job reclassification
Pay for work on more than one job
Pay for employee selected on a job
Pay for substitutionon job
Pay for temporary job assignment
Pay Day
Hours of Work
Working Hours
Recognized WorkWeek
Permission and notification re Absences
and return to work
Keeping Supervisor advised of employee's personal phone number Wash • uptime Loss of Pay- reporting late and quitting early
Overtime pay to nearest 1/4 hour Overtime pay after 8 hours work Responsibility to work overtime Normal Hours for Day Work Normal Hours for Shift work Rotationof Shifts
Remaining on shift until arrival of mate Replacement after schedule has been posted Oil Refinery Schedule
7
8 8 9
9
10 10 10
10
10
10
10
10
11
12
12
12
12
12
13
13
13
13
13
13
14 14 14
14
15
1
APnri f	SUBJECT
I	Laboratory Division Schedule
(D)	Replacement Operator
Priority of Replacement Operators Limitations of jobs to be held
(E)	Work Schedules
Postingof work Schedules Rotation of Saturday relief work Schedule Changes Assigned Day QE Reporting Time Early Starting Time Guaranteed Pay when Scheduled
(F)	Scheduling of Assigned Days Off
and Down Days 7	Overtime
(A)	Payment of Overtime
(B)	Work on Saturday & Sunday
(C)	Work on Recognized Holidays
(D)	Pay for work on Call Backs
Pay for work on Assigned Day Off of Down Day
(E)	Call Backs
(F)	Work on Split Shifts
(G)	Mutual Agreement to relieve at other
than normal shift change time
(H)	Noon Hour Work
(I)	Minimum Pay for Work on Later Shift Weekend Coverage Minimum pay for stand-by
(J)	Early starting time pay
(K)	Scheduling overtime in one departmentto
avoid it in another
( L)	Distributionof extra Ratel overtimework
within Division 8	Shift Bonus
9	(A)	Recognized Holidays
(B)	Disqualificationfor Holiday Pay
(C )	Recognized Holidays for Schedule C
Monday— Friday Work Week
2
PAGE
15
16 17 17 17 17
17
18 18 18 18 18
19
20 20 eo 20 21
21
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
23
24
25
26 26
27
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
(A)
(B)
(C) P)
(E)
(F)
(G)
10	(A) Vacation Qualifications	28
Vacation Entitlement	28
Vacation Pay Calculation	28
No Accumulation of Vacations	29
Vacation of Calendar Weeks	29
Scheduling of Vacations	29
Limitation of Vacations Between June 25th and Labour Day	29
Vacation Pay on Termination	29
Vacation - Plant Shutdown	30
Cancellation of Vacations	30
11	Employee Security	31
(A)	(1) Selection for Job Vacancies	31
Selectionof Replacement Operators	31
(2)	Seniority Status	31
Probationary Period	31
(3)	Severance of Employment	31
(4)	Seniority Lists	32
(5)	Posting Job Vacancies	32
Selectionof Applicants	33
Training Period	33
(6)	Seniority - employees not covered prior
to June 16, 1967	34
Guaranteed Opportunity of Working	34
Reduction of Work V\feek	34
General Plant Schedule	34
(D) (1) Lay-offs	35
(2) Job Displacement	35
Contracting Out Work	35
Staff Performing Bargaining Unit Work	36
Facilities previously occupied by Best Foods Canada Inc.	36
12	Discipline	37
(B)
(C)
(E)
(F)
(G)
3
ARTICLE	SUBJECT
13
14
15
16 17
Union Officers and Committees
(A)	Stewards and Zones
(B)	(1) Grievance Committee (B) (2) Labourcommittee
(B)	(3) Negotiation Committee
(C)	Union Officers and Representatives
(D)	Permission to Present Grievances
(E)	Pay for lost time due to Joint Union-
Management Meetings
(F)	Leave of Absence to attend to Union
Conventions
(G)	Leave of Absence to attend to Union
Business
(H)	Leave of Absence to attend a Labour
School
Grievance Procedure Lockouts and Strikes Safety and Health General Provisions
(A)	Bulletin Boards
(B)	Monthly Union-ManagementMeetings
(C)	Amendments to Agreement
(D)	Employee Leaving Plant because of
injury on the job
(E)	Welfare Plans
(F)	Physical Examinations
(G)	Removal of Personal or Company
Property from Plant
(H)	Entrance to Plant
(I)	Bereavement Pay
( J )	Apprentice Training Program
(K)	Personal Cleanliness
(L)	Security Searches
4
PAGE
39
39
39
39
39
39
40
40
40
40
41
42
43
44
45 45 45
45
46 46
52
53 53 53
53
54 54
18
(M)	Jury Duty	54
(N)	Tool Allowance	54
(0)	Severance Allowance	54
(P)	Pregnancy Leave	54
(Q)	Cost of Living Allowance	54
	Duration of Agreement	55
Appendix A - Definitions		57
	Split Shift	57
Regular Rate		57
Normal Hourly Rate Plant Seniority Grind Shift Grind Day Grind Week Starting Time Quitting Time Call Back or Cali In
57
57
57
57
57
57
57
57
Schedule B - Rate Schedule	58
Section 1 - Dry Starch Division	59
Section 2 - Refinery Division	59
Section 3 - V\fet Starch Division	59
Section 4 - Stores, Shipping and
Transportation Division	60
Section 5 - Mechanical Division	60
Section 6 - Power House Division	61
Section 7- Laboratory	62
Schedule C- Jobs on Monday to Friday	62
Work Week
Memoranda of Understanding Re: Meal Allowance, Work Clothing and
Safety Shoes	63
5
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	£AGE
Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons Retiring
While on L.T.D.	63
Memoranda of Understanding Re: Mechanical Division	63
Apprentice Training Program	65
Memorandumof Agreement Re: Yard Employees	67
Memorandum of Agreement Re: Primary Safety Observer	68
Memorandum of Understanding Re: Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule
For Continuous Operations	70
Memorandumof Understanding	76
Memorandum re: Notificationfor Mechanical Weekend Work	78
Memorandum re: Resolutionof Same Seniority Dates	80
Memorandumof Understanding re:
Receiverand Supplier Stores	81
Mechanical Division Memorandum	82
Seniority List	83
Wherever the words referring to the masculinegender are used herein, such as he, his or him the same shall include and cover females and males.
6
MEMORANDUMOFAGREEMENT
ENTERED INTOAND AMENDED THIS 15TH DAY OF APRIL 2002 BETWEEN
CASCO INC.
Having its Head Office in the city of Toronto Ont., and plant at Cardinal, Ontario hereinafter referredto as "The Company"
OF THE FIRST PART:
and
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION LOCAL N0.483
of Cardinal, Ontario, a local union chartered by the CAW-Canada {AFL-CIO-CLC}, hereinaftercalledthe "Union"
OF THE SECOND PART:
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this agreement is to promote the best mutual relationship between the Company and the Union, define orderly collective bargaining and grievance procedures; and to prevent interruptionsof work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company's business.
7
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION- EXCLUSIONS
The company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agency for all the Company's employees in its plant at Cardinal, Ontario, except those employed within the following classifications:
Foremen, Chief Engineers, those above the rank of Foreman, Office Workers, Plant Protection Employees and Highway Tractor Trailer Drivers.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATION TO MANAGEMENT
The location of the Plant, the operation and management of its business, the products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing, together with the determinationof the number of employees in any department, or in any job, are exclusively the responsibilityof the Company.
Subject to the provisionsof this Agreement, the Union recognizes the right of the Company (1)to hire, promote and transfer within the bargaining unit, (2) to discipline any employee for justifiable cause, (3) to allocate work, describe, and classify jobs, and (4) to determine the number of employees in any classification.
a
ARTICLE 4 UNION SECURITY
The Company agrees to a modified Rand Formula which consists of the following provisions:
(a)	All employees shall, as a result of this agreement, have the right to join the Union or to remain a member of the Union.
(b)	The Company will deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement an amount equal to the regular dues established by the Union. Such deductions, as authorized by the Union Executive, will be made weekly and the Company shall deliver to the designated officer of the Union the amount so collected by the end of the current month or as soon as possible.
No deduction of dues shall be made in any pay period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions required by law is not sufficient to cover the full amount. In such cases, the dues shall be deducted from the next regular pay period in which sufficient earnings are payable to cover such deductions.
9
ARTICLE 5
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
(A)	Schedule's” is part of this Agreement. Subsequent revisions and additionsto Schedule'S” as agreed to by the parties hereto, will be incorporated by amendment at the Union-Management Monthly Meeting, next following such agreement.
(B)	(1) Before new jobs are created or the duties of old jobs are merged
during the term of the contract, the Company will meet with the Union executive at a monthly management meeting to discuss the merger or new jobs. Such new or mergedjobs will be classified, and the rates put into effect by the Company. It is agreed that in the event the Union does not agree with the Company, the matter may be taken up under Grievance Procedure.
(2)	Jobs which are practically identical from the standpoints of duties shall be classified under the same occupationaltitle.
(3)	Rates of compensation for the same rate classificationshall prevail throughoutthe plant regardlessof Department or Division in accordance with Schedule "B".
(4)	The rate of a present worker in any occupation which has been assigned to a lower Rate Classificationthan it carried previously will not be reduced; however, the proper and related new Rate Classification as set forth in the foregoing rate schedule will apply to any future workers in the occupations.
(5)	An employee who is required to perform in the regular manner, not an emergency or substitution, the work of more than one job, will be paid at the respective rates assigned to each job for the number of hours spent on each job.
(6)	(a) When an employee is awarded a job in a higher wage group, he will receive his old rate until he takes over the full responsibilityof the job. He will then receive the rate of the new job to which he has been assigned.
10
(b) When an employee is awarded a job in a lower wage group he will receive the rate of the job to which he has been assigned. For the days he would have been working from the general plant schedule, he will receivethe lesser of Ratel or the normal hourly rate appearing on his Form "8".
(7)	(a) If, when an employee would normally be working on his own job, he is required to substitute on another job, he shall be paid at his own rate or the rate of the other job, whichever is greater.
(b)	An employee, temporarily assigned to other work for one or more days or shifts, when there is a lack of work in his regular occupation, shall receivethe rate of the job to which he is temporarily assigned except as provide under Article 11(B), paragraph 4.
(c)	An employee who has been working on his own job, and because of lack of work may be temporarily assigned to work for part of the day or shift on another job, will be paid for the balance of the shift at his own job rate or the rate of the job to which he has been temporarily assigned, whichever is the greater.
(C)	Employeeswill be paid each Thursday for earnings upto 7:00 am the preceding Sunday. Deductionswill be made as per schedule as mutually agreed upon. In the event of Thursday falling upon a recognized holiday, wages shall be paid Friday.
11
ARTICLE 6 HOURS OF WORK
(A)	Working Hours-
The working day begins at 7;00 am and ends at 7:00 am. As recognized by the Company, Sunday begins at 7:00 am on the calendar day Sunday and ends at 7:00 am. on the calendar day Monday. The same appliesto recognized holidays.
The recognized work week shall consist of five days or shifts of eight (8) hours, or a total of 40 hours between 7:00 am Sunday and 7:00 am the following Sunday. However, in the cases listed in Schedule C which is part of this Agreement “Jobs on Monday to Friday Work Week the recognizedwork week shall consist of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday, and work on Saturdays and Sundays on these jobs shall be on a call back basis. Nothing in this paragraph is to be interpreted as a guarantee of work or as a limitation on assignment of overtime work outside the recognizedwork week.
It is the duty of all employees to report for their scheduled work periods unless they have obtained their supervisor's permissionto be absent. If an employee is prevented from reporting for duty through exceptional circumstances, he should notify his supervisor at least fourteen (14) hours before his work period begins indicatingthe anticipatedtime of return to work.
If an employee has been absent from his work for more than one day because of sickness or any other cause he must report to his supervisor at least sixteen (16) hours prior to the beginningof the work period in which he intends to begin duty.
Employees are responsible for keeping their supervisor advised of the phone number at their principle residence at which they can be contacted. Without such advice the Company cannot be responsiblefor notifying employees concerning extra work, call backs, schedule changes, etc. An employee will not be considered available, for that job, if two phone calls to the phone number given are unsuccessful in contacting the employee, providedthat one of the calls is made and recorded by the
12
Security Office personnel. As an exception to the above, in case of mechanical breakdown, one telephone call, not necessarily from the Security Office will suffice.
Day workers will be allowed five (5) minutes before quitting time at noon and night to put their tools away and wash up.
Employeesupto 15 minutes late will lose1/4 hour's pay. Employees 16 to 30 minutes late will lose 1/2 hour's pay, etc.
The same regulationswill apply for employees leaving work ahead of
time.
Employeesworking overtime will be paid to the nearest 1/4 hour as authorized by their supervisor.
An employee reporting late for work must work eight (8)hours before overtime rates can be applied.
To meet our product demand and ensure customer service, it is the duty of the employees to remain on the job if required to meet special circumstances. If an employee does not wish to remain, the supervisor will endeavor, in accordancewith the CollectiveAgreement to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work, but failure to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work without increasingthe cost, to the Company, does not relieve the employee on the job of the responsibility towards his job.
(B)	Day Work
The normal hours of work are:
7:00 am to 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
7:00 amto 3:00 p.m.
8:00 amto 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
9:00 amto 12:00 noon 1:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
7:00 amto 12:00 noon 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
and
or
and
or
and
or
and
or
13
or such other eight (8) hour schedules that may be necessary to meet special conditions resulting from production demands, delivery schedules, the type of job, or seasonal variations which might affect the daylight hours. Except as otherwise provided, the Company will not schedule less than 8 hours.
(C)	Shift Work -
The normal hours of work for shift workers are any one of the following shifts:
First Shift -	7:00 am- 3:00 p.m.
Second Shift -	3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.
Third Shift -	11:00 p.m. - 7:00 am
Each revolvingshift shall rotate in sequence weekly. Employees are not to exchange shifts without permission from their supervisor.
When a shift begins each shift worker is requiredto be at his place. At the end of a shift no shift worker may leave his place to wash up or dress unless his mate has changed his clothes and reportedto take on the responsibilitiesof the position. If a shift worker does not report for his shift, and has not given the required notice, the employee on the job shall notify the department supervisor. He shall then remain at his post until a substitute is secured.
When a replacement is requiredfor a shift job or day job after the Schedule has been posted for the following workweek, the supervisor will attempt to make the replacement in accordance with Article 6 (E) using the following priority provided no overtime results.
1.	Regular Operator, provided using the Regular Operator does not involve moving him from one shift to one of the other two shifts.
2.	Replacement Operators in order of priority.
If overtime cannot be prevented the Replacementwill be made in the following priority:
(1)	Person on the job.
(2)	Regular Operator on his assigned day off.
(3)	Other Regular Operators in order of seniority.
14
(4)	Replacement Operators in order of priority
The supervisor may at his discretion use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
Oil Refinery Schedule
Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat
Reg.	11-7	3-11
Reg.	A	7-3
Reg.	3-11	7-3
Reg.	7-3	A
R1	A	11-7
R2	A	GPS
3-11	3-11	3-11	A
7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3
7-3	7-3	A	A
A	11-7	11-7	11-7
11-7	A	7-3	3-11
GPS	GPS	GPS	7-3
A
A
7-3
11-7
3-11
A
Laboratory Division
Schedule for Laboratory Operator Grade 2 Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat
Incumbent
Regular
Regular
Regular
Regular
R1
R2”
A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
7-3	A	A	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7
11-7	3-11	3-11	3-11	3-11	A	A
A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
3-11	7-3	7-3	7-3	A	A	7-3
A	11-7	11-7	A	7-3	3-11	3-11
A	7-3 over 7-3 over		7-3 over 7-3 over 7-3			A
15
Incumbent*-The Company intends to exercise its rights to assignthe duties currently undertakenbythe incumbent to the Lab Operator Grade 2 on shift when the incumbent retires or otherwise leaves this job.
(Referencesigned itemof agreement dated June 3, 1998)
Re placement #2** -Normally scheduled in accordance with Article 6(D). As a variation to Article 11(C) when not scheduled as a replacement operator for the full recognizedwork week, the Replacement#2 is scheduled to work day shift on a Monday to Friday basis at the Rate Classificationfor the Laboratory Operator Grade 2.
Relief Weekend Off
Sun
Incumbent'	A
Regular	7-3
Regular	11-7
Regular	A
Regular	3-11
R1	A
R2‘*	A
(D)	Replacement Operator -is an employee who replaces a Regular
Operator or other Replacement Operator during their temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, assigned days off, or other similarcause. The ReplacementOperatorwill have the same rights and obligations of the job for the days he is on the job as if he were the regular operator, but he shall not have priority over regular operators for any overtime assignments for such days and he shall not have the rights and obligations of any other replacement job he may have for those days.
(The above applies when there is more than one operatoron a shift or days.)
Mon Tues 7-3	7-3
A	A
3-11	3-11
7-3	7-3
7-3	7-3
11-7	11-7
Wed Thurs 7-3	7-3
11-7	11-7
A	A
7-3	7-3
7-3	A
3-11	3-11
Fri	Sat
7-3	A
11-7	11-7
3-11	3-11
7-3	A
A	7-3
7-3	A
A
7-3 over 7-3 over 7-3 over7-3over 7-3
16
A Regular Operator who also holds a Replacementjob will not have the rights and obligations of his Regularjob for the day he is working on his Replacementjob. Replacementof Regular Operators Rates or higher will be made from Re placements (in order of priorityjwho have receivedtheir jobs in accordance with Article 11 (A) (7) as a result of a bulletin. When a Replacementoperator is replacinga Regular operator for one calendar week, he shall have no rights to his other jobs for that seven day period.
When there is more than one Replacement Operator for a job the priority of the Operators shall be indicatedas Replacement Operator No. 1, ReplacementOperatorNo.2, - etc., and such priority shall be indicated on the job bulletin when the vacancy is posted. A ReplacementOperator No. 1 regularly on shiftwork is limitedto that job, i.e.: he may not hold another Regular Job or Replacementjob. Similarly, a Regular Operator regularly on shift work is limitedto that job. A shiftworker Replacementoperator No. 2 is limitedto holding one other Replacement No. 2 or No. 3 jobwithin the Division.
A day worker is limited to two (2) Replacementjobs plus a Regular Job within the Division.
The following Replacement Personnel are not restrictedto the job limitationsimposedby6(D) (i.e. They may be selected to an additional Replacement#2 Job.):
Corn Elevator Operator Replacement#1 Bldg. 43 Operator and Loader Replacement#1 Dextrine Operator Replacement#1
(E)	Work Schedules-
A work schedule is to be posted on the bulletin board in each department on Thursday on which is shown the planned working days and shifts, for the following week. This schedule will indicate “assigned day off and “down days”, if any, and in the event that any work which is Rate 2 or higher shown on this schedule to be performed by an employee at overtime rates then such work will be scheduledto the Regular Operator or the Replacementoperator enjoyingthe rights of the Regular Operator unless it is assigned in accordance with Article 6 (C).
17
As an exception to the preceding paragraph the existing system of scheduling week-end relief and days off will continue. The presentcommon practice is the scheduling of the 3-11 shift Saturday to Replacement Operators three Saturdaysout of four, with the 4th such shift being scheduled to the Regular Operators. There are exceptions to this general rule in various departments and in situations where Replacement Operators are not available.
The schedule may be changed by the supervisor by advising the man concerned at least "22" hours before the shift or day concernedforan assigned day off or down day change if such change is caused by production demands, or by at least "12" hours notice if the change is for any other reason, provided, however, that not withstanding the foregoing, no notice of a change in schedule is required if caused by serious breakdown. In any of these cases, the additional time worked is not on a "call back' basis.
Assigned Day Off is a day of relief from the regularjob assigned to an employee to conform to the recognizedwork week.
When owing to a change in the work schedule and the employee has not been advised that regular work is not available and reports for work, he will be suppliedwith at least four hours work or pay, at straight time on week days, but such time will not be included in the work week. If on a Sunday or holiday or assigned day off, his work will be treated as a call back. The above does not apply in the case of a serious breakdown.
When an employee is required to come in to work ahead of his regular starting time he will be given twelve (12) hours warning. Without twelve (12) hours warning his early starting time will be on a call back basis.
Except as otherwise provided, when employees are scheduled for 8 hours work on their regularjobs, they will be guaranteed 8 hours work or pay in lieu thereof.
All employees assignedto work at overtime rates, who are scheduledfor8 hours work on their regularjobs are not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on their job will be guaranteed at least 4 hours work or pay on a call back basis.
18
(F)	For reasons of product demand or efficiency, assigned days off and down days will be determined by the supervisor concerned. Recognizing that employees would like their two days off consecutively, the supervisor will prepare the schedules accordingly when feasible, providing additional cost is not incurred.
19
ARTICLE 7 OVERTIME
(A)	Overtime rates of time and one-half the regular rate will be paid for:
(1)	a) work in excess of eight hours continuously
b)	work in excess cf eight hours in any one day.
c)	hours worked between 3 p.m. Saturday and 7 am Monday
d)	hours worked between 7 am Saturday and 3 p.m. Saturday except hours worked from the general schedule.
OR
(2)	Scheduledtime worked in excessof 40 hours in any one work week.
No more than 8 scheduled hours per day will be included in calculating the work week.
(B)	(1) When an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours on Sunday and is not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on hisjob, the time worked will not be included in calculatingthe workweek under Article 7 (AJand will not be included as "opportunity of working" under Article 11
(B)
(2)	When an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours on Sunday and has the opportunity of working 8 hours or more on Sunday, time worked up to but not exceeding 8 hours will be included in calculatingthe work week under Article 7 (A). Such time scheduled will be included as 8 hours in determining the "opportunity of working" under Article 11 (B).
(C)	Work on Recognized Holidays - As shown in Article 9 (A) will be paid at the rate of time and one-half of hourly rate with the exception that work on New Year's Day, Christmas Day and Labour Day will be paid at double time. If an employee works 8 hours or is scheduled to work 8
hours or is paid for 8 hours on a Recognized Holiday, such time worked or paid for will be included in computing the work week.
(D)	(1) Time worked on call back basis will be paid at time and one-half, and
will not be included in the forty hour work week.
20
(2)	Call backs or overtime will terminate at the beginning of the employee's regular scheduled day or shift. When an employee continueson his regular shift without interruptionaftera call back, overtime rates will again become effective eight hours after he started his call back work.
(3)	Work on an Assigned Day Off or a Down Day - When an employee is required to work on his assigned day off or his down day without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E), he shall be paid on a call back basis.
(E)	(1) Call Back or Call In - The Company is not obligated to call in any employees for any job of approximately one-half hour duration, that can be done by other hourly employees in the plant available to perform the work.
In addition the Company is not obligated to call in any employee for any mechanical task that can be done by the utility mechanics. Nor is the Company obligatedto call in any employee who is scheduled on vacation, floating holidays, Union business, labour relations, or requested time off.
Employees called in for non operationalactivities such as crew meetings, safety meetings, safety training, training meetings, environmental meetings and other similar meetings mutually agreedto between the Company and the Union will be paid on a call back basis.
(2)	Employees who are called in to work without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E) for a limited period of time will get a minimum of four (4) hours regular pay, except that the minimum pay will be 6 hours regular pay if the employee is called in to work without notice between 11:00 p.m. and6:00 am. If the employee’s services are not required for two hours and forty minutes he can with the supervisor's permission leave the
plant. If, however, while he is in the plant on a call back another emergency arises requiring his attention he must remain on the job and subject to the instructions of the supervisor concerned.
OR
(3)	If an employee is called upon after his regular quitting time and after having been relieved from his work to work overtime he will be paid on a call back basis.
(F)	Work on Split Shifts - Employees may be required at the request of their supervisor to work a split shift. In such cases the actual hours worked within
21
the span of their normal working hours will be paid for at regular rates, and any time so worked outside of normal working hours will be compensated for at time and one-half.
(G)	Shift Relief- Overtime will not be paid in the case of a mutual agreement between two shift workers on the same job to relieve at a time other than the normal shift change time. This arrangement must have the permissionof the supervisor concerned.
Employees may be required by their supervisor to work 12 hour shifts in situations inwhich two operators are only availableto coverthe 24 hours duty per day. Such 12 hour shifts will be consideredas normal hours of work in accordancewith Article7(A) 1.
(H)	Noon Hour Work - Employees who are advised before noon that they are required to do unscheduledwork during the noon hour, will be paid one and one-half hours’pay. Such time will be included in the 8 hourworkday.
Work during the noon hour will be paid for on a call back basis only if the following conditions prevail:
(I)	The employees concerned must have worked during the morning and be scheduledto work that afternoon.
(2) The employee concerned was not advised before 12 noon of the noon hour work.
Such call back pay will terminate at the time the employee would normally begin his afternoon work.
(I) Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required at a definite time on a later shift during that day will be paid a minimum of two hours and forty minutes at time and one-half their hourly rate.
An employee may be required to stand by at home for duty at an indefinite time later during that day for which he shall receive a minimum pay equal to a call back whether or not his services are required.
22
Weekend Stand -by Coverage
During the period of Victoria Day weekend to Labour Day weekend inclusive, the following procedure of mandatory weekend coverage for emergency repairs will be followed:
Mechanics from each of the following shops will be on stand-by from 3:30 p.m. on Friday until 7:00 am on the following Monday,
(7:00 am on Tuesday for holiday weekends).
Machine Shop:	1	mechanic
Millwright Shop:	1	mechanic
Instrument Shop:	1	mechanic
Electric Shop:	1	mechanic
Each designated mechanic on call will receive a rate of pay in the amount of $250 perweekend, (plus$125.00 for each additional day of coverage on holiday weekends), in addition to their pay for hours worked. For the purposes of this article where a recognizedholiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday the assigned day off continuous to the weekend shall be considered part of the holiday weekend.
Employees in the shops identified above will be scheduled for standby duty on a rotating basis.
A schedule will be posted in each shop by May 1, each year.
In addition to the above, employees in each of the shops identified above will be scheduled for stand-by duty on a seniority voluntary basis for the remainingweekends.
Callbacks will be handled as before except designated individuals are obligated to come in when called.
(J)	Employeeswho during their normalworking hoursare notified that they will be required to start their day’s work the following morning before 7:00 am will be paid time and one-half for time worked before 7:00 am and time and one-half after eight (8) hours work.
(K)	It is not the intention of the Company to schedule overtime work in one department to avoid overtime in another department.
23
For example, an employee under ordinary circumstances, will not leave his regularjob to go to another job to act as a replacement if so doing creates overtime on the regularjob.
An R2 holding two R2 jobs will replace in the lower rate job when available.
Inthe case of an R2 holdingjobs of the same rate, he will be scheduled if possible on a rotating basis.
(L)	Distribution of extra Rate 1 overtime work with the Division:
Forthe purpose of this provision, extra Rate 1 overtimework is defined to be Rate 1 work to be performed by an employee, which work is deemed necessary by the Company, and in the opinion of the Supervisor concerned will be in excess of tWo hours duration and cannot be done by employees within their recognizedwork week.
Inorderto distribute extra Ratel overtimework equitably among employees within a Division, a list, in seniority order of employees who hold a regular and/or replacement job within the Division, and who wish such work will be kept. Employees are responsible for advising their Supervisor of their desire to be included on the list and of a phone number by which they can be reached at all times. As extra Rate 1 overtime work occurs, employees on the list will be given the opportunity on a rotational basis, providing the employee is capable of doing the work. Such time worked is not included in calculatingthe work day or work week. For such work, only one phone call to the phone number given is required of the Supervisor. If an employee does not wish to take advantage of the opportunity, he will forfeit his turn and be eligible again when his turn comes upon the next rotation. An employee who refusesto work Rate 1 overtime on 3 consecutive occasions will forfeit their right to be included in the Ratel overtime list. Employeeswho forfeit their right will be giventhe rightto renew their position on the Ratel overtime list on January 1, May 1 and September 1 each year.
When planned cleaning is required procedurewill be to post a schedule to accompany the weekly Division Schedule. Plannedcleaning days will be posted and employeeson the Ratel overtime list will be scheduled on a sequential basis. When planned cleaning is required it will be scheduled to
24
commence at 7:00 a.m. Inorderto be eligible employees must either be on their assigned day off or working the 3-11 shift. Any refusalsduringthe same scheduled week shall be considered a total of one refusal.
ARTICLE 8 SHIFT BONUS
A shift bonus will be paid lo:
(a)	employees whose working hours rotate on a three shift basis,
(b)	employees whose working hours rotate on a second and third shift
basis.
(C)	employees whose working hours are permanently on one of either of the two night shifts.
(d)	employees whose working hours rotate regularly on a day and night shift basis, and
(e)	day workers when they are required to work on a night shift.
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
A shift bonus of 5% of Rate 6 per hour will be paid for hours worked at unloading corn boats between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am.
25
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS TO BE RECOGNIZED
(A)	The following holidays during the year shall be recognized:
Alternative days to any of those listed above may be settled by mutual agreement.
In additionto the above, and in lieu of Dominion Day and Remembrance Day, each regular employee will have four (4) “floating” recognized holidayseach calendar year which may betaken at times desired by the employee providedthey have approval of the Supervisor concerned. Any floating holidaysnot taken by December31st, will be scheduled by the Supervisor concerned within the following two months.
(B)	The company will pay all regular employees eight hours straight time at their normal classification rate for the recognized holidays as named in Article 9 (A), providedthat an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid:
If he refusesto work on such holidays if assigned or if he refuses to respond to a "call back" without justifiable reason.
If he is absent without justifiable reason on the scheduled working day immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
If such holiday occurs while he is on requested leave of absence of more than one month.
If such holiday occurs when he is under suspension.
New Year's Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Civic Holiday
If he is absent for any reason in excess of twenty-six (26) weeks prior to the holiday.
(C)	In the cases listed in Schedule C jobs on Mondayto Fridaywork week, the following applies:
Where a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday the assigned day of shall be on the preceding Friday and where a recognized holiday falls on a Sunday the assigned day off shall be on the following Monday.
Where two consecutive recognized holidays fall on a Friday and a Saturday the assigned day off corresponding to Saturday shall be on the preceding Thursday. Where two consecutive recognized holidays fall on a Sunday and a Monday the assigned day off corresponding to Sunday shall be on the following Tuesday.
27
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
(A)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) complete months of continuous service.
(B)	(1) An employee with from one (1) to four (4) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the precedingcalendar year will be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(2)	An employee with from four (4) to eleven (11) years seniority who has rendered regularservice during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(3)	An employee with fromeleven (11)to seventeen (17) years seniority who has rendered regular service during tne preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(4)	An employee with seventeen (17) to twenty-five (25) years seniority who has rendered regular services during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks during the calendar year.
(5)	An employee with twenty-five (25) or more seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of six (6)weeks during the calendar year.
(C)	This vacation pay shall be computed as follows:
1.	Employeeswill be paid2% of theirtotal earnings of the preceding calendar year or forty (40) hours pay at their normal rate, whichever is the greater for each week of vacation.
2.	If an employee is called back to work while on vacation, he will be paid on a call back basis.
3.	All paid vacation time will be included in the work week.
28
(D)	Vacation time will not be accumulated from year to year except that the last two weeks of an employee's vacation may be carried over to the following year with one week being completed by the end of March and the remaining week being completed by the end of May.
For vacation purposes the last calendar week of the year begins on the last Sunday of the year.
Unless special permission has been given by the Company employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacations.
Vacations will not be granted after schedules have been posted without approval of the supervisor concerned.
Vacation between June 25th and Labour Day maybe limited to two weeks to allow as many employees as possible to take a vacation during this period.
(E)	If an employee leaves the Company's service at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he will be paid in accordance with the regulation of the Ministry of Labour for Province of Ontario.
(F)	The Company may require ail or part of employees subject to this agreement, to take a vacation period and may close the Plant or any part of its operations for that purpose at any time convenient to the Company from June 30th to August 24th. If the Company decides to close all or part of the Plant for vacation purposes three months notice shall be given on bulletin boards. Any vacation taken by an employee outside of that time taken during a general Plant shut down will be scheduled insofar as possible as desired by the employee, but must be acceptable to the Supervisors concerned.
If it is acceptableto the Supervisor, the employee's 7 day vacation will be scheduled in two parts, provided each part begins and ends within the one calendar week and provided no overtime is created. Furthermore, with special permission an additional two weeks of an employee'svacation (i.e. 10 paid vacation days) may be taken one, two, or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturday's.
29
Employees are requested to apply for vacation periods before May 1 st, each year, giving 2nd and 3rd choices for dates. Such vacation schedules will be allotted by June 1st, giving priority accordingto seniority. Personnelwho make their requestsafter May 1st will be scheduled on a 'first come, first served" basis. Vacation schedules previouslyarranged will not be disturbed to accommodate requests made after May 1 st, except in cases of urgency.
(G)	With at least 3 days notice or one day when hospitalized, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled vacation. If such vacation cannot be rescheduled within vacation deadlines, the employee will receive that vacation pay in lieu of vacation with pay.
30
ARTICLE 11 EMPLOYEE SECURITY
(A)	Each of the parties hereto recognizes that employees are entitled to an equitable measure of job security based on seniority, subject to the following provisions:
(1)	In the selection of employees for job vacancies, appointments will be made to the most senior employee with sufficient ability to perform the duties of the position. Ability shall include skill, efficiency, responsibilityand physical fitness to perform the duties of the position. Such appointments will be subject to the provisionsof Article 11 (A) (6).
The selection of Replacement Operators may be from the Regular employees within the division concerned. In addition to this, a Replacement #2 or Replacement#3 Shiftworker, may beselectedto an additional Replacement#2 or #3 shift job, within the division. The numberof jobs already held by an applicant is an important consideration in making a selection. As an exception to Article 6 (D) which limits Employeesto one division, that rule may be set aside by mutual agreement when the parties agree there would be no conflict in so doing.
(2)	Seniority Status:	Employees other than the employees hired by
mutual agreement on a strictly temporary basis, shall have seniority status from their last date of hire, and shall come underthe provisionsof this Agreement, except that they shall be on probationfor 70 days worked. The Company shall have the exclusive and unlimited right to determine if a probationary employee shall be retained. In determining whether an employee shall be retained, the Company shall not act in an arbitrary, discriminatory or bad faith manner. The Company's decision on retention or discharge of a probationaryemployee shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Not withstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph the Company and the Union may exclude specific employees from seniority status by mutual agreement in writing.
(3)	An employee shall have his seniority broken and employment severed under the following conditions:
31
If he voluntarily resigns or quits.
If he is discharged for justifiable cause.
If he is absent for seven consecutive days without notifying the Company unless there was justifiable reason for not notifying the Company.
If he does not work for a continuous period exceeding twelve months due to a lay-off.
If he does not return to work after a lay-off, within fourteen (14) consecutive days of being called without reason acceptable to the Company. Provable sickness shall be consideredan acceptable reason. The employee shall be notified by registered mail to his last known address of recall after lay-off. Absence for which special permission in writing has been given by the Company shall not break seniority, or sever employment. An employee wishing to be absent from his work in excess of 3 working days for reasons other than lay-off or illness must apply for a Leave of Absence.
(4)	Seniority Lists: The Company will prepare seniority lists which will be revised annually or whenever proof of an error has been submitted. Copies of revised lists will be furnished to the Union. Plant wide seniority shall be as of Article 11 (A)(2).
(5)	Posting Job Vacancies: All hourly job vacancies withinthe scope of this Agreement, with the exceptionof Rate 1 jobs, temporary jobs not exceeding one month, or as mutually agreed, will be posted. In cases cf temporary vacancy, the job will be posted if conditions warrant, affording protectionfor the regular employee to return to his regular job.
When a vacancy becomes evident the job vacancy, if subject to posting, will be posted on all bulletin boards immediately for a period of eight (SJdays, indicating job title, rate of pay and hours ofwork. The successful applicant will be chosen within an additional fourteen days and, provided no replacement is required by bulletin on the successful applicant's job, he shall begin training within 21 days of the posting of the selection. Ifavacancy results from retirement,the vacancy is to be posted sixty (60) days in advance of normal retirement date.
The Company will forward to the President and to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, copies of the job postings, list of applicantsand
32
selectee within the time limits. In addition, members ofthe Union Executive will, upon request, be shown lists of applicants at the Personnel Office.
The selection of applicants for job vacancies will be in accordance with Article 11 (A) (1). In selecting applicants for postedjob vacancies it is stipulated that the selectee's appointment is temporary, but subject to permanency if found satisfactory after a reasonable period of training and when previous incumbent's appointmentto anotherjob has been declared permanent. An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a 5 day training periodto determine if he wishes to continue this training. After this five days of training, he shall have no grievance if he loses the rights to his former job. This loss of rights to his former job does not apply if he proves to be unsatisfactoryon his new job prior to being declared permanent. This also applies to hourly employees being selected for jobs listed in Article 2. During the above 5 day training period the employee will be paid Rate 1. Employeeswho continueto train afterthis five (5) day training period will be paid in accordance with the Article 5 (6) retroactiveto the beginning of the training period.
In the event that a selectee proves during his training period to be unsatisfactory or desires to return to his former job then the next selection will be made from those who answered the bulletin. If none of the applicants are qualified, an employee who has completed his probationor is currently serving his probationary period will be appointed. If the job is not filled within 90 days the job will be re-posted if requested by the Union.
Applicants who applied for the initial posting and apply for the re-posting, may not be considered if they were selected in the first instance, and withdrew after the training period had begun.
An employee with over five years seniority who applies for and is selected to a job, may apply for anotherjob within 24 months of his previous selectionbut he shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the second instance. An employee with less then five years seniority who is appointed to a job, or who applies for and isselectedto a job, may apply for another job within 36 months of his previousselectionbut he shall have no grievance ifhe is not selected in the second instance. The above restrictionsdo not apply if an employee is improvinghis position in the replacement sequence, or moving to a posted regular day job (shift as required) from a shift job.
The above does not apply to employees changing shifts within the same job.
33
Filling of the new vacancy will be accomplished by selecting an applicant from the original list for that bulletin by continuing down the list.
(6)	Those employees not covered by the Agreement prior to June 16, 1967 have full seniority from 1st date of hire for all purposes except awarding of bulletinedjobs. For the purpose of awarding bulletinedjobs no time spent outside the bargaining unit shall be recognized.
(B)	Subjectto Article 11 (D) all regularemployeeswill be guaranteedthe opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of 40 hours, or 32 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours on a recognized holiday, or 24 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours for each of 2 recognized holidays. Regularemployeeswho have lessthan 5 years seniority will be guaranteedthe opportunity of working a minimum of
150 days in each contract year with recall rights for the term of this Agreement.
(“Regular employees' excludes probationary employees and student employees”)
Employees in the Mechanical Division will be subject to the above guarantee and any additional work undertaken by the Mechanical Division will be handled by the regular members of the shop concerned.
It is also agreed by both parties that certain active employees are limitedfor work under Article 11 (C) and it is agreed that these employees shall be assigned to duties that their limitations will allow them to perform. Excluded from the above are employeeswho qualify for LTD underthe terms of the Agreement.
When a regular assigned employee has been given an assigned day off because he had an expected work week of 40 hours, and his scheduled work is reduced he will receive 8 hours work or 8 hours pay for each day’s work that he would have received, if he had not been given an assigned day
Off,
(C)	General Plant Schedule- Extra Work as requisitionedby divisions will be allocated with as much advance notice as practical by the Support Services Department to employees without regular assigned jobs and to
34
employees who are not scheduled for the full recognizedwork week on a divisional schedule. All work for the following week requisitioned prior to 4:00 p.m. Friday will be allotted and posted by 5:00 p.m. Friday. In applying the foregoing, if senior employees have an expected work week of less than the Recognizedwork week and work on Ratel jobs isavailableon days they are not scheduled to work on a DivisionalSchedule,then such Rate 1 work will be allocated to the more senior employees provided no extra cost results.
Work allocated under this section will be distributed on a seniority basis, ability to do the work required, availability and the expected work week. It is recognized however, that it is not practical nor possible to allocate such work strictly on a seniority basis.
Work allocated under this section will be included in the work week for all employees but provisions covering call back pay, down day change, assigned day off change, starling time change, and work reduction do not apply to such work.
Employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned (exceptthe applicationof Rate 1A to Probationary Employees).
(D)	(1) Lay-offs: Where changes in methods, production or policy would require a permanent lay-off, the reduction in employees will be made by laying off the lowest Plant seniority employees. When additional employees are required, the former employees will be re-hired in reverse order of layoff.
(2) In any job displacement the Company will transfer the Regular Operators and the ReplacementOperatorswho are affected, to Ratel jobs provided they have sufficient seniority and are able to do the work available. Vacancies in Ratel jobs will be created by transferring the least senior employees with regular Rate 1 jobs from the Rate 1 jobs. The Regular and Replacement Operators permanently displaced will be guaranteed a minimum of not less than the rate of their former jo b for the work done during a period of 18 months after the displacement.
(E)	The Company agrees except in cases of urgency, not to let or enter into contracts for Plant maintenance work or the performanceof other bargaining unit work at the Plant, which work is normally performed by
35
Mechanical employees or other bargaining unit employees, while Mechanical or other regular bargaining unit employees who are qualified and capable of doing the work are on layoff status.
Maintenance work is defined to mean repair and replacement of existing equipment in kind.
Exceptions to the foregoing are jobs which are normallycontracted out such as roof and road repairs, elevator maintenance, etc., together with jobs that require special skills not possessed by employees, or equipment which is not owned by the Company.
The Company will give the Union five (5) days prior notice (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) of the letting of contracts mentioned above in Article 11 (E), paragraph 1.
The Company will continue its efforts to undertake selected nonroutine jobs such as building demolition when necessary skilled and unskilled regular employees are available within the workforce. Such work will be undertaken by the Company only if it can be done safely and at comparable cost. Unskilledlabouron these jctos will be paid at Ratel. Qualified mechanic when needed will be on the job.
(F)	Employeeswho are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform routine work normally done by hourly employees. Violation of this provision is subject to the Grievance Procedure.
(G)	The facilities (excludingthe office) previously occupied by Best Foods Canada Inc. at Cardinalshall be considered as part of the plant as defined in Article 2 for the purposes of this agreement.
3G
ARTICLE 12 DISCIPLINE
(A)	Subjectto the right of an employee to file a grievancethe Company reserves the right to discipline any employee for any justifiable cause.
A conduct record must be filed with the Support Services Office within 14 calendar days of the alleged offense becoming apparent. The employee shall be notifiedofthe discipline imposedwithin 12 calendar days after the filing of the conduct record and in the case of discharge or suspension, the President of the Union will be advised by registered mail within this period.
(B)	If a suspension or discharge is disputed, an appeal must be made through the grievance procedurewithin 14 calendar days of notificationto the employee and the Union. In case of suspension, the discipline must commence within 24 calendardays of the discovery of the alleged offense.
If it is found that no penalty is justified the employee so reinstated will be reimbursed for loss of earnings by payment of 2% of previous12 months earning for each week's loss of earningsor by payment for such time at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. As well the said 2% penalty is also applied to unjustified, non-disciplinarysuspension, demotions or terminations.
If the penalty is reduced, the employee will be paid for the unjustified time off by payment of 2% of previous12 months earnings for each week's unjustified loss of earnings or by payment for such at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. From this amount paid to him, will be deducted any earningsor benefits he has received from any other source during the period of unjustified time off.
fC)	Complete records in writing will be kept of discipline administered.
Upon the written request of an employee to the Support Services
37
Department, a record of his disciplinary record will be made available to him. The employee has the right to appeal through the Grievance Procedure in all cases of discipline.
The Company agrees to remove quarterly each year, from the employee‘s files all discipline records that are 2 years old or older.
In addition, the Company has agreed that an employee may, if he wishes, be accompanied by his steward if he is being reprimanded as the result of a written conduct record. The employee will be requiredto initial the conduct record to indicate only that he has received it.
38
ARTICLE 13
UNION OFFICERSAND COMMITTEES
(A)	The Union shall notifythe Company from time to time of the names of the stewards and their respectivezones. No zone or portion of a zone shall be represented by more than one steward. Each steward shall have a definite designated zone and be a regular employee of that zone. Any change in this latter condition must be arranged by mutual agreement with the Support Services Manager.
(B)	(1) A Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) Plant Union members for the purpose as outlined in the Grievance Procedure. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the National Representative or his designate from Local483.
(B) (2)The Labour Committee which meets Management on a scheduled monthly basis shall consist of four (4) Plant Union members, and the President of Local483. The Committee may be accompanied at anytime by the National Representative or his designate from Local 483.
InArtide 13 (B)(1) and13(B)(2) it is understood that the designate may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
(B)	(3) The Union Committee which meets with Management to negotiate renewal of the Agreement, will be paid by the Company, and shall not exceed six (6) Union membersof Local 483 plus representationfrom the National Union.
In Article 13(B) (3) any of the six (6) Union members may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
In the case of (B) (1), (B) (2), and (B) (3) above, the same limitation in numbers shall apply to the Company.
(C)	The Union agrees to certify to the Company the names of its duly elected officers and any other representativesauthorized by the Union under its constitution to negotiatewith the Company on any matters covered by this Agreement.
39
It is agreed that no individual employee or group of employees shall represent the local Union at meetings with Management without proper authorizationfrom the local Union.
(D)	A Steward, with the approval of his Supervisor, shall be permitted, during regular working hours without loss of time or pay, to leave his regular duties for a reasonableperiod to adjust and present grievances in his zone. If an employee has been instructedto report to management he may, if he so desires, be accompanied by a Union Representative but only if he has been advised by managementthat the instruction is mandatory.
(E)	The Company agrees it will reimburse Union officers called in for monthly Union-Management meetings at regular rate for any hours between 7:00 am and 3:30 p.m. Such time will not be included in the workweek. When the Union Officersor Committees are scheduled for and paid for 8/12 hours in one day for attending joint Union-Management meetings, such 8/12 hours will be considered as 8/12 hours worked incomputingthe workweek under Article 7 (A), and in determining the "opportunity of working" under Article 11 (B).
(Understanding is that short duration meetings will be done on a call back basis as current practice.)
Meetings convened by a Conciliation Officer or by a Conciliation Board during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be joint Union-Management Meetings.
Only Plant employees will be reimbursed by the Company as outlined in the Agreement, for joint Union-Management Meetingsas in 13 (B) (1) and 13(B) (2).
(F)	The Company shall grant a leave of absence of upto one monthfor a maximumof 4 Union Representativesto attend Union conventions upon written request from the Union Executive. Arrangements for such time shall be made with the Support Services Manager giving as much notice as possible with a minimum of 48 hours.
(G)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operations, the Company shall allow the Union Executiveand Stewards the required time off without pay to attend to necessary Union Business, upon the written request of the Union
40
President or his authorized representative. Arrangements for such time off shall be made with the supervisor concerned giving as much notice as possible with a minimumof 24 hours. Preferably such request should be presentedto the Support Services Manager by 8:00 am Thursday of the week precedingthe date the requiredtime would begin. Such time off will be consideredas 8 hourswork for each day, for purposesof calculatingthe work week (Article 7 (A)), and opportunity to work (Article 11 (B)).
(H)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operation, the Company shall grant
leaves of absence without pay or benefits of up to six months for a maximum of two Union Representatives in one calendar year to attend a Labour School upon the written request from the Union Executivewith two weeks notice.
41
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For the purpose of adjusting grievances arising from the interpretation, administrationor alleged violation of any part of the Collective Agreement this grievance procedure shall be followed. Any complaint of an employee must be taken up verbally by the employee and his steward with the supervisor concerned. If the complaint is not settled, it becomes a grievance and shall be processed accordingly.
Grievances shall be taken up as follows:
(1)	As soon as possible afterthe alleged grievance becomes apparent but in any event within 42 calendar days from the alleged occurrence, the grievance must be presentedto the supervisor concerned by the Steward in writing on forms provided by the Company and agreedto by the Union. Within 24 calendardays of presentationof the grievance, the Divisional Manager or his representative, will hold a meeting with the Union Steward, Chief Steward or his representative, and the supervisor, at which time an effort will be made to settle the grievance. The Divisional Manager or his representativewill reply in writing to the Union Steward, advising him of his decision within 7 calendar days after the meeting.
(2)	If the Divisional Manager'sdecision is not satisfactory, the Unionwill make a request, within 7 calendar days of receivingthe Divisional Manager'sdecision, fora meetingwiththe PlantManagerorhis representative. Wthin 28 calendar days of receivingthe request, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee. The Plant Manager or his representativewill make his ruling on the disposition of the grievance in writing and send it by registered mail to the Chairman of the Grievance Committee within 7 calendar days of his meeting
with the Grievance Committee. Also copies of such decisionsor rulings will be delivered by the Support Services Departmentto the Union Secretary-Treasurer,Union President and National Representative. If the Union requestsarbitration,the request must be made in writing within 14 calendar days after receipt of the Plant Manager's decision.
(3)	By a single arbitrator upon the written request of either party to this Agreement. The functions of such Arbitrator shall be limitedto the
42
interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such Arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, detract from, or alter any terms of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator shall be selected as follows: The Union and the Company shall endeavor to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon within one calendar week, the Minister of Labourwill be requestedto appoint an Arbitrator. A hearingwill be set within 21 days of receipt of the request by the Minister of Labour. The Arbitrator shall deliver his decision orally without reason as soon as practicable, and his decision in writing with reasons, within twenty-one days of the hearing. The Union and the Company shall each pay half of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator.
If either party fails to adhere to the time limits of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall lapse. In the case of a Union or employee grievance, if the failure is attributableto the Company, the demand will be granted by the Company without prejudice. In the case of a Company grievance, if the failure is attributableto the Union, the demand will be granted by the Unionwithout prejudice. Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by the written consent of both parlies.
ARTICLE 15
LOCKOUTS AND STRIKES
(A)	The Union shall not call or authorize and no officer, official, or agent of the Union shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful strike or slowdown. Any employee violating this provision is subject to discipline.
The Company shall not call or authorize and no officer, official or agent of the Company shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful lockout. If the Company violates this provision, it shall reimburse the employee or employees for the time lost by reason of such violation.
(B)	Should any condition lead to a stoppage of work, the Union will, at the request of the Company, cause to remain at work such members ofthe Union as are necessary to maintainessential services for plant and town protection.
43
ARTICLE 16 SAFETY AND HEALTH
(A) The Company will maintain its plant and its premises in safe conditions and in accordance with the regulations set out by the Provinceof Ontario and/or the Dominion of Canada and the Union agrees to assist the company in maintaining observance of these regulations. The Company will continue to maintain adequate First Aid facilities, and to establish and maintain Safety and Health Rules and Regulations in accordance with good safety and health practice and government regulations. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company concerningthe health and safety of employees. Employees are required to work safely at all times and comply with the safety regulations. No employee shall be required to perform services that seriously endanger his safety or health, and refusalto do such work shall not warrant discipline, or warrant discharge. Understandingis the above sentence would be applicable if the current provisionsgoverning "Right to Refuse or to Stop Work Where Health or Safety is in Danger” are revoked.
A joint Labour-ManagementHealth and Safety Committee shall be composed of three representatives of management one of whom will be the Safety Supervisor and three Plant Union members. The Union representatives shall be selected by the Local Union.
The Committee Shall:
1.	Promote safety and health and report unsafe practices and conditions lo the Safety Supervisor as they become apparent.
2.	The Safety Supetvisor and the Committee shall make an inspection of the Plant once per month preceding the monthly meeting of the Safety Committee.
3.	Make recommendationsto Management concerning safety matters.
44
ARTICLE 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(A)	Bulletin Boards shall be available for posting Union notices after they have been approved by the Plant Manager or someone delegated by him for this purpose.
(B)	Monthly meetings will be held, normally on the 2nd Tuesday of each month or as otherwise mutually agreed. A Union representativewill meet with the Support Services Manager on the preceding Monday morning to exchange agendas and arrange a time for the meeting.
A record will be kept of the minutes of all such monthly meetings between Management and Union Committees. Such record of the minutes shall first be prepared in draft form and submitted to the Union Officers. The Union shall then signify its acceptance of the record of the meeting, by signing the draft copy. Final copies shall then be prepared which indicate acceptance by both the Company and the Union and shall bedistributedto the Union Officersand the National Representative.
(C)	Amendments to the Agreement may be negotiated by the parties at any time by mutual consent, but failure to agree shall not constitute a grievance nor be submitted to Arbitration. Copies of such amendments shall be signed by the Union Officers and the Company and attached to the Master copies of the Agreement and shall be distributed to the Union Executive, Union Stewards and the National Representative.
The following will become part of the Agreement:
Re: Calculation of A.M.E. for Persons Retiring while on Long Term Disability
Re: Apprentice Training Program Re: Primary Safety Observer Re: Yard Employees Re: 12 Hr. Shifts Re: Mechanical Division
Re: Memorandumof Understanding Dated January 23,1997 Memorandum re: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates Memorandum re: Notificationfor Mechanical Weekend Work Memorandumof Understanding re: Receiver & Supplier Stores
45
The parties agree to abide by the following memorandums for the duration of the agreement which commenced on April 15, 2002:
Corn Unloading - May 26/95
Provincial Apprentice Program- May 26/95
Mechanical Division Memorandum
Vacation Scheduling and Floating Holidays-12 Hr. Shifts
/q) An employeewho isadvisedto leavethe Plantbythe Company because of an injury on the job, will be paid for the balance of the day of the injury at his rate of pay.
(E) The Company shall continue to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs and any increases in cost of premiumsfor coverage and/or benefits as provided by the following plans for all employeeswho have completedtheir probationary period.
A summary of the principal features of the insurance, medical and pension plans is outlined below.
Except as otherwise provided in this CollectiveAgreement, all interpretationsshall be governed by the Legal Plan Texts.
The coverage is effective on the 1st day of the month coincident with or next following the end of the probationary period provided the employee is actively at work on that date.
(1)	O.H.I.P. and Semi-Private Hospitalization
Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan {If premiums reinstated}
Blue Cross Semi-Private Hospital
(2)	LIFE INSURANCE
Basic Life Insurance of $40,000 for active employees. - 1st year Basic Life Insurance of $45,000 for active employees.- 2nd year
Basic Life Insurance of $30,000 for employeeson Long Term Disability except as provided for in Paragraphs.
An employeewho qualifies for LongTerm Disability after April 14,1992, will be covered for the Basic Life Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
46
Option for active employees to purchase additional$40,000 Optional Life Insurance and $40,000 Optional Spousal Life Insurance. Option to purchase Optional Life for dependants $20,000.
Note: Optional Insurances are subject to the InsuranceCompany's requirementsfor evidence cf Insurability.
Upon retirement on pension, Basic Life Insurance is replaced by $4,000 coverage until death.
For retirement between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill-health or disability, the amount of Basic Life Insurance in force immediately priorto retirementwill remain in force until the normal retirement date, at which time coverage will be reduced to $4,000. Optional insurance shall continue in force until age 65, providedthe employee continuesto the pay the premium.
(3)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
Basic AD&D Insuranceof $20,000 for active employees.
Basic AD&D Insuranceof $15,000 for employees on Long Term
Disability except as providedfor in paragraphs.
An employee who qualifies for Long Term Disability after April 14, 1992, will be covered for the Basic AD&D Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for an active employee to purchase additional$25,000 coverage.
For retirementon pension between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill health or disability, the amount of Basic AD&D Insurance in force immediately priorto retirementwill remain in force untilthe normal retirement date. Optional AD&D Insurance shall continue in force until age 65 providedthe employee continues to pay the premium.
47
(4) SICK PAY
A Company provided self-insured plan providing a benefit to active employees who qualify.
To qualify, an employee must not have been disabled due to the same illness for two weeks immediately prior to initiating a new claim.
The Benefit will be as follows:
Followinga waiting period cf3 days of disability:
$625.00 (1st year) per week of disability.
$640.00 (2nd year) perweek of disability
OR
4/5 of $625 (1sl year), $640 (2nd year) perweek of disability that includesone paid recognized holiday.
OR
3/5 of $625 (1st year), $640 (2nd year) per work week of disability that includestwo paid recognized holidays.
The above benefit will be reduced by any wages receivedfrom the Company during that week and less one seventh of the benefit per day foreach waiting day where applicable.
Benefits will begin on the earliest of:
(a)	absence on first day following an accident
OR
(b)	first day cf illnessand hospitalization(i.e. employee is admitted as an inpatientfor a minimumhospitalstay (f 24 consecutive hours)
48
OR
(c) retroactiveto Istday of illness/disability if absence continues for at least 7 consecutive days
Otherwise, benefits will begin on the 4th consecutive day of illness.
Benefits will continue for a maximumof26 weeks for any one disability.
The Company will require a Doctor's verification in order to process a sick pay claim.
Employees may make use of their existing floating holidays entitlement retroactively as paid compensation for sick leave upon presentation of a doctor's note.
(5) LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
Long Term Disability Insurance will pay 66-2/3% of current base earningsto a maximumof $2100.00 per month less any applicable incomes, or in respect to a recurrent illness, an amount determined by the Long Term Disability Insurance Policy. Such benefits will begin after26 continuousweeks of disability and will continue until the employee is fit for employment, elects early retirement, or reaches age 65 whichever isthe earliest. Disability is defined as disabled from own occupationfor the first 24 monthsand any occupation thereafter.
The above increase applies only to employees actively at work when the increase occurs.
(6)	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
The Company will maintain the Blue Cross prescription drug plan (Formulary Three (3)) that pays for prescription drugs after a deductible of 35 cents per prescription.
49
(7)	DENTAL PLAN
Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Pian#7 which reimburses 100% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
In additionto the above, coverage equivalent to Rider 1 of the Blue Cross Preventative Basic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses80% of eligibleexpenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
Orthodontics-with lifetime maximum$1,000 (50% reimbursement)
(8)	PENSION PLAN
The Company has provideda Pension Plan for employees representedby the Union which Pension Pian will be continued.
Upon completionof the probationary period, membership in the pension plan is conferred retroactivelyto the latest date of hire as a full-time employee.
Upon completion of two years of plan membership, each employee is vested in the Plan.
All employees are required to retire at the end of the month in which they become 65 years of age.
Calculation of Average Monthly Earnings(A.M.E) will be basedon the best three years earnings in the last ten years service.
Minimum Yearly Earnings:
In selecting yearly earnings to be used in calculatingthe A.M.E., each year's earnings is compared with employee's regular rate x 2080 hours and the greater amount is used.
The Pension Formula will be as follows:
50
At Normal Retirement Age of 65 years with 15 or more years' service:
35% of A.M.E.
plus 1/4% A.M.E for 15 through 30 years'service.
plus 1/2% A.M.E for 31 through35 years' service.
plus 3/4% A.M.E for each year over 35 years' service.
less (1/2 Canada Pension Plan Benefit minus $175.00)
Early Retirement between age 55 and 65 will be granted on request of employees with at least 15 years of service.
The following Early Retirement Factors apply to employees with at least 15 years of service.
Early Retirement Factor Table:
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coverage for early retirees between age 55 and normal retirement age will be paid by the Company.
RETIREMENT AT AGE
PENSION
REDUCTION
EFFECTIVE
JAN.
51
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coverage will be paid by the Company to provide single coverage for spouses of retirees. Such premiums will commence uponthe death of the retiree or on the first day of the month following the month during which the retiree attains age 65 and will continue until the earliest of:
1,	The completion of twenty-four months from the above mentioned date,
or
2.	The last day of the month during which retiree's spouse attains age 65.
The above amendmentto 17 (E) (8) is applicable to retirementsthat occur after April 15, 2000
Up to 1 week education of two Union Representativeswill be provided by the Company in administration and operation of Pension Plan.
Pension Pop-Up -The Company will continue to provide for a pension pop-up in the Pension Plan as perthe attached document.
(9)	The Company agrees to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs of Semi-Private Hospitalization, Prescription Drug Plan, Dental Plan coverage in effect for the employee's spouse and dependents for a period of 12 months following an employee's death.
(10)	The Union, on behalf of the employees, accepts the foregoing benefits as a full and complete settlement of the Company's obligations in respect of any amounts required by the Employment Insurance Act to be paid to or for the benefit of employees as a consequence of the reduction of any insurance premiums payable by the Company under the aforementioned Act, and discharges the Company of the said obligation.
(11)	Vision- with maximum of $100 per24 months (100% reimbursement)
(F) All employees must submit to a physical examination as a condition of employment. All hourly employees will be re-examined
52
annually or as required by the Company.
(G)	Property - Company or personal property shall not be removed from the Plant without a pass duly authorized by the Mechanical Supervisor or the Plant Manager.
(H)	Entrance to Plant - any employee wishing to enter the Plant property at anytime other than reporting for duty must obtain a pass from the Security Office. An exception is made to this rule in case of fire.
(I)	Employeeswill be entitled to 3 days bereavement pay at their regular rate for immediate family. Scheduled time lost due to bereavement will be paid to an employee at his regular rate.
Assigned days off and down days are not included in bereavement time off. Time off will apply to the immediate family, which is defined as current spouse, son or daughter of the employee, father or mother of the employee, stepparents of the employee, stepchildren of the employee, father-in-law or mother-in-lawof the employee or brother or sister of the employee.
In the case of grandparents or grandchildren of the employee, brother's or sister's in-law of the employee, employees will be entitled to a I-day bereavement pay as above. In addition, payment for the remainder of his shift will be made when an employee is excused from work due to a death in the immediate family as defined above. This time and pay will not be considered as bereavement time.
In the event of a death in the family, and an employee is either on, or about to commence vacation or a floating holiday that would be coincident with the bereavement leave, holidays will be cancelled at the request of the employee and rescheduled at a later date in accordance with the collective agreement.
(J)	An apprentice training program- may be instituted and continued at the discretion of the Company. The rate schedule for such a program is shown in Schedule B. The selection and retention of employees as apprentices will be solely a responsibilityof the Company. If for any reason the program is discontinued, apprentices who are in training will be retained as regular members of the shop concerned and will follow the Apprentice Rate Schedule.
53
(K)	In order to maintainthe high standards of sanitation desirable in a food plant, all personnel must observe the rules and regulationsas they apply to their personal hygiene and cleanliness as well as to their performanceof their job.
(L)	The Company reserves the right to conduct searches on plant premises, of belongings and lockers of employees in their presence.
(M)	When an employee is required to serve on jury duty, the Company will pay to the employee the difference between jury duty pay and his base rate for scheduledtime lost.
(N)	The Company agrees to pay a tool allowance of $175 to mechanics Rate 6 and higher within the Mechanical Division. Employees in the Mechanical Division with Rate 3 to Rate 5 (exclusive of the Yard employees) will receives tool bonus of $75 providing such employees maintain an adequate supply of tools.
The allowance shall be made subject to the recommendation of the Supervisor concerned and paid not laterthan February 28th, each year.
(O)	The Company will pay severance allowance in compliance with the Employment Standards Act to employees permanently laid off without rights to recall. The Company will also extend the severance provisionsof the Employment Standards Act to non-probationaryemployeeswith less than 5 years of service who are laid off without rights to recall.
(P)	Leaves of Absence for Pregnancy:
Female employees who are pregnant will be granted leave of absence without pay for a period of time in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
(Q)	C.O.L.A (Cost Of Living Allowance): The Cost of Living Allowance will be basedonthe National Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100). The first application of any wage increase resulting from this provision will be August 1,2003.
54
If the C.P.I. increases by more than 3.0% between December 2002 and June 2003 the hourly wage rates will be increased by 1c for each .45 pointthat C.P.I. increasehas exceeded the 3.0% to the nearest cent. The increased wage rate will be effective 7 am August 1,2003.
Similarly, the wage rates will be increased by 1 c for each .45 points that the C.P.I increase exceeds 3.0% between June 2003 and December 2003 to the nearest cent, effective7 a.m. February 1, 2004.
The maximum wage rate increase resulting from this provision will be as follows:
(1)	maximum increase of 16c perhourinC.O.L.A. adjustment
effective 7:00 a.m. August 1,2003.
(2)	maximum increase of 16c per hour in C.O.L.A. adjustment
effective 7:00 a.m. February 1, 2004.
ARTICLE 18
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall commence at 12:01 a.m. on April 15, 2002 and except as otherwise provided will continue in full force and effect until 12:01 a.m. on the 15th day of April 2004 andfromyeartoyearthereafterunless either the Company notifies the Union or the Union notifies the Company in writing within three (3) months prior to the renewal date of its desire to amend the Agreement. Negotiations shall commence not later than ten (10) days following receipt of such notice. Either party desiring amendments shall present its proposedamendments on or before the beginning of negotiations. Any amendments which may be agreed upon shall become part of the Agreement without modifying or changing any other terms of the Agreement.
55
In Witness whereof the said parties have hereunto signed.
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION CAW, LOCAL483, CARDINAL, ONTARIO
Harry Ghadban National Representative
William Garlough President
Kevin Patrick Secretary - Treasurer
Todd DesChamps Vice-president
John Lavery Recording Secretary
CASCO INC. Cardinal, Ontario
Paul Choquette	Ken Shaw
Plant Manager	Manager, Support Services
Marek Siczek	Colin MacGregor
Operations Manager	Director Human Resources
56
APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
SPLIT SHIFT- is a shift or regular day's work split on the instructionsof the Supervisor into two or more periods separated by more than one hour.
REGULAR RATE - is the classification rate corresponding to the job title on the rate schedule i.e. Schedule B.
NORMAL HOURLY RATE - is the highest active hourly rate appearing on the employees Form 8.
PLANT SENIORITY- is the length of recognized continuousservice in the plant dating from the employee's last date of hiring.
A GRIND SHIFT - is a regularshift (i.e. 7 am - 3pm, 3pm - 11pm, or 11pm -7am) during which corn is being ground.
A GRIND DAY - is a working day (see Article 6 (A)) consisting of 3 grind shifts. Thus one grind shift equals one-third Grind Day, and two grind shifts equal two-thirds Grind Day.
A GRIND WEEK - consists of the numberof days or fraction thereof in which corn is ground in accordance with Article 6(A).
STARTING TIME - is the time designated to be the beginning of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the beginning of the normal hours of work.
QUITTING TIME- is the time designatedfo be the end of the day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e. the end of the normal hours of work.
CALL BACKOR CALL IN- for the purpose of this Agreement, these two terms have the same meaning. A Call Back or Call In refers to the situation in which an employee is called in to work without notice for a limited period of time.
57
APPENDIX A
SCHEDULE“B” RATE SCHEDULE
RATE	EFFECTIVE
CLASSI-	7:00 AM.
FICATION	APRIL 15, 2002
EFFECTIVE 7:00 AM. APRIL 15, 2003
1s
1A
1	F 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11.45 15.15 15.71
20.45 20.79 21.23 21.86 22.37 22.93 23.54 24,10 24.69 25.26
11.82
15.65
16.23
21.13
21.48
21.93
22.58
23.11
23.69
24.32
24.90
25.50
26.09
1S-STUDENT
1A - FUTURE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES 1F - FUTURE EMPLOYEES
Rate 1S, 1A and 1 F Employees will receive that rate while doing rate 1 work. When such employees are working on jobs of rate 2 or higher, they will receivethe rateofthejob. Probationary and Student Employeeswill receive Rate 1A when assigned paintingduties.
After completion of one year at rate 1 F Future Employeeswill progress to rate 1.
It is agreed that rate 1S, 1A and 1F Employeeswill not be used from the General Plant Schedule if any Regular Employee is not receiving 40 hours work each week.
58
SECTION 1
DRY STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Dextrine Operator	9
Relnevelds & Bldg. 39 Operator	9
Cationic Operator/General Helper	9
Bag Packer & Palletizer	8
Bulk Loader	8
General Labour	1
SECTION 2
REFINERY DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Process Operator	9
Finished Product Operator	9
Glucose Solids Operator	9
Glucose Solids Packer	7
General Labour	1
SECTION 3
WET STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE
RATE
Feed House & Meroo Operator
Wet Milling Operator
Germ Process Operator
Bldg. #17 Operator
Oil Refinery Operator
Bldg. #43 Operator& Loader
Operator Corn Elevators
Feed, Merco S Mill House General Helper
Germ Dryer Cleaner
General Labour
9
9
9
9
9
7
6
5
2
1
59
SECTION 4
STORES, SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Warehouseman Brakeman
Locomotive Engineer Receivers Supplier - Stores Towmotor Transporter Operator General Labour
SECTIONS
MECHANICAL DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Primary Safety Observer	10
Electrician Mechanic Grade 3	9
Millwright MechanicGrade 3	9
Machinist Mechanic Grade 3	9
InstrumentMechanic Grade 3	9
Pipe FitterMechanicGrade3	9
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 3	9
Utility MechanicGrade 4	9
Electrician MechanicGrade 2	8
Millwright Mechanic Grade 2	8
Machinist MechanicGrade2	8
InstrumentMechanic Grade 2	8
Pipe Fitter MechanicGrade 2	8
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 2	8
60
JOB TITLE	RATE
Utility Mechanic Grade 3	8
Electrician Mechanic Grade 1	7
Millwright Mechanic Grade 1	7
Machinist Mechanic Grade 1	7
Instrument Mechanic Grade 1	7
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 1	7
Tinsmith Mechanic Grade 1	7
Utility Mechanic Grade 2	7
Electrician Mechanic	6
Millwright Mechanic	6
Machinist Mechanic	6
Instrument Mechanic	6
Pipe Fitter Mechanic	6
Tinsmith Mechanic	6
Painter Mechanic	5
Tractor Driver	7
Yard Hand	5
General Labour	1
APPRENTICE RATES	
	RATE
Enter Apprentice Program	6
After Successful Completionof	
1/2 Program Requirements	8
After Successful Completion of	
Full Program Requirements	9
SECTION 6	
POWER HOUSE DIVISION	
JOB TITLE	RATE
Waste Treatment Operator	9
General Labour	1
61	
SECTION 7
LABORATORY DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Laboratory Operator Grade 2	9
General Labour	1
SCHEDULEC
Jobs on Monday to Friday work week
Section4 ■ STORES, SHIPPINGAND
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
Receiver & Supplier - Stores
Section 5 - MECHANICAL DIVISION
All jobs except the following Utility Mechanic Grade 2 Utility Mechanic Grade 3 Utility Mechanic Grade 4 Corn Unloading
General Labour- Mechanical Division General Labour - Yard
Section 7 - LABORATORY DIVISION LaboratoryOperatorGrade2 (Incumbent Don Whitteker only.)
General- No Labour Assignments (i.e. Article 11(C) General Plant Schedule) are restrictedto the Mondayto Friday workweek.
62
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Re:	Meal Allowance, Work Clothing& Safety Shoes
This is to confirm that the Company will provide each regular employee a meal and clothing allowance of $75.00 no later than April 15th each contract year. The Company will pay $195 during the first contract year, and $195 during the second contract year towards the purchase of safety shoes or boots for each regular employee. Employees who are absent due to sickness or other reasons, are not eligible for meal and clothing allowance or subsidy on safety shoes until they return to work.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: CALCULATION OF A.M.E. FOR PERSONS RETIRING WHILE ON LONG TERM DISABILITY
Calculation of A.M.E. for persons retiring while on LongTerm Disability will be based on the last 3 years (36 months) of active employment. In selectingthese 3 years the individual concerned must have worked 1040 hours in each year. These 3 years (36 months) actual earningswill be compared to the Normal Hourly Rate the employee held during each of these years of service multiplied by 2080 hours and the greater amount used.
In the above cases, the pension formula in effect on the day prior to retirement will be used to calculate the pension.
RE: MECHANICAL DIVISION
1)	If more permanent employees are required in another shop the Company will discuss the possibilities of a permanent transfer with the Union before positions for new apprentices or employees are posted in the shop requiring the additional employees.
63
2)	Ift is found necessary to reduce the work force in any cf the mechanical shops the Company will meet with the Union in an attempt to reach a satisfactory method of displacing employees. It is recognizedthat if skill and ability to perform the work are equal then seniority will govern.
3)	If a yard hand performing duties of a mechanical helper has been working on a job for all or most of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the most senior yard hand will be afforded the first opportunity and so forth by seniority to stay on overtime, provided no regular member of the shop concerned wishes to avail himself of the overtime.
The above only applies to a yard hand working with a regular member of the shop concerned.
Yard hands will not be used for callbacks until all other regular members of the Mechanical Division have been given the opportunity.
4)	For callbacks, Utility Mechanics will be used only after the regular employees of the shop concerned.
The sequence would be:
1)	Regular employees of shop concerned by seniority. (Apprentices areconsideredto be Regular employees of the shop concerned.)
2)	Regular or replacement Utility Mechanic on the job.
3)	Regular Utility Mechanic on his assigned day off.
4)	Regular Utility Mechanic in order of seniority.
5)	Replacement Utility Mechanic in order of priority.
The Supervisor may, at his discretion, use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operatorto work in excess cf 16 hours continuously.
64
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
In administering the Apprentice Training Program, the following general principleswill be followed:
The service requirement for Industrial Mechanic (Millwright), Construction Mechanic (Millwright)andConstruction/Maintenance Electrician under the Provincial Apprentice program is 8000 hours. The service requirement for Instrumentation Mechanic is 8000 hours. Should the Instrumentation Mechanic become a provincially regulated trade, the service requirement will be as provided for by the Provincial Apprentice Program.
All hours worked as an apprentice (includingovertime) shall be included as hours worked towards the service requirement. After attainment of 4000 hours towards the service requirement, the above apprenticeswill proceedto Rate8 as provided for in Section5 of ScheduleB. After attainment of 8000 hours towards the service requirement and the successful completion of all relevant testing the apprentice will progress to Mechanic Grade 3 - Rate9 (Rate9 will be effective on the date that the testing is successfully completed). Upgradingto Rate 10 will occur after the employee has worked 2080 hours as a Grade 3 Mechanic.
For purposes of collective agreement administration the following job titles apply:
Machinist Mechanic Millwright Mechanic Electrician Mechanic
1,	Education Requirements- General requirements are 3 years High School approximately. Employeeswith less than 3 years High School are considered for apprenticeship, if their abilities and experience indicate they would be successful in training.
2.	Tests - When it is considered advisable to give apprentices written tests to show their progress, the apprentices will be advised of the test, and nature, at least three days before it is given.
65
3.	Apprenticeon JobTraining- Each apprentice will be given experience with various mechanics and will not remain with one mechanic for long periods.
4.	Apprentice Working Rights- Regularemployeesof the Mechanical Dept. will get preference for overtime, call back, and work on premium days. However, if an apprentice has been working on a job for all or most of the day and there is overtime involved on this job, the apprentice will stay on overtime to complete the job.
5.	Night School Courses-The Company will pay tuition fees for apprentices attending approved courses, with a minimum attendance requirement at the sessions.
66
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: YARD EMPLOYEES
It is agreedthat the job of Yard Hand includes the following:
1.	Continuation of existing Yard Hand duties.
2.	Working as mechanicalhelpersinthe Mechanical Division7:00-3:30, Monday to Friday.
3.	Operationof the bucket tractor.
4.	Corn unloading includingoperationof Marine Leg.
5.	Track repairs
6.	Assisting village as required for garbage pick-up.
Student employees will receive Rate 1S when assigned to the Mechanical Division except when working on corn unloadingwhen they will receive the rate of the job.
Job Titles pertainingto Yard Employees:
Tractor Driver Yard Hand General Labour
Rate 7 Rate 5 Ratel
There will be no "Replacement" Yard Hands.
Marine Leg Operation will be offered to Yard employees in order of seniority.
67
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
"PRIMARY SAFETY OBSERVER"
1.	There will be one Regular Primary Safety Observer.
The Regular Primary Safety Observer will be the Co-chair of the Joint Health and Safety Committee and the certified member representing workers on the Committee.
2.	Replacement Safety Observers will be maintainedfor use when Regular Primary Safety Observer is already being used or is unavailable.
The title "Primary Safety' Observer" (Replacement) will appear on each of these individual's Form 8's.
Extra Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be posted at the discretion of the Company.
Replacements will be paid Rate 10 only when performingthe duties of Primary Safety Observer for Confined Space Entry procedures. Confined Space entry work will be assigned to a replacement on a seniority/availability basis.
An employee's entitlement to hold regular and replacement jobs will not be affected by his selection as a Replacement Primary Safety Observer.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers will be selected from within the Mechanical Division.
Replacement Primary Safety Observers who move to anotherjob in another division forfeit their entitlement to hold the job title "Primary Safety Observer" (Replacement).
3.	When overtime is required, the man on the job will be entitled to the overtime. If he declines it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
68
When a call-back or weekend work is required it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
4.	Postings for Primary Safety Observer positions will contain the following restrictions:
1)	Applicants must be in good physical condition.
2)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence in the Company's Confined Space procedure and associated testing procedures.
3)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence in the use of self contained breathing apparatus.
4)	Applicants must pass a St. John Ambulance first aid training course.
5)	Applicants must successfully complete all courses and programs required for certification under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
69
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
A Twelve (12) Hour Schedule involving the Job Titles of "Process Operator" and "Finished Product Operator-" in the Refinery Division will be implemented within one (1) month of ratification.
In order to provide for a smooth transition into a Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule, an agreed on Twelve (12) Hour Shift Procedurewill be implemented subject to review at monthly Management Meetings, or renegotiation in the next Collective Agreement.
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT PROCEDURE
PURPOSE: The following procedure outlines the basic 12-HourShift Schedule involving the Job Titles "Process Operator" and "Finished Product Operator" in the Refinery.
SCHEDULE: The following is tabled as a schedule for employees working a straight Twelve (12) Hour Schedule:
BASIC TWELVE (12) HOUR SCHEDULE
Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Base O.T WK
1DAANNAA 24	12
2	A	D	D
3	N	A	A
4	A	N	N
A A N N D D A A A A D D
36	12
24	12
36.	12
120 48
12 Hr. D=Days N=Nights A = Assigned
70
* For employees working this schedule the Plant Day will be from 0700 to 0700
Day Shift: 7:00 am to 7:00 p.m.
Night Shift: 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
SHIFT BONUS
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am.
WORK GROUPS
The existing four Work Groups will rotate through a 28 day cycle.
Week#1 -36 Hour Normal Work Week Week# 2 - 48 Hour Normal Work Week Week #3-36 Hour Normal Work Week Week# 4 - 48 Hour Normal Work Week
The average work week is 42 hours.
OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at a rate in accordance with the Collective Agreement for hours worked in excess of the normal scheduled hours of work.
E.G. 1) After 12 hours continuouswork
2)	V\feek#1 & #3: Overtimeafter36 Hours
3)	Week #2 & #4: Overtime after 48 Hours
4)	Overtime on Saturday, Sunday and recognized Holidays
5)	Callbacks as per CollectiveAgreement
HOLIDAYS
Holiday allowance will continue to be eight (8) hours pay at Regular Hourly Rate for each of the eight (8) Recognized Holidays and each of the four (4) Floating Holidays.
71
VACATIONS
Vacations will be for a calendar week only. Employees will receive pay in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
Unless special permissionhas been given by the Company, employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacation. A calendarweek vacation isa40 hourweek, Sunday to Saturday inclusive.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, 80 hours of an employees vacation, consisting of 6 days of 12 hours and 1 day of 8 hours may be taken one, two or three days at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturdays.
Alternativelyifanemployee requests to splitone week of the above 80 hours it may consist of 3 days of 12 hours + one 4 hours segment and 1 day only may be taken on a Saturday.
VACATION RELIEF
Temporary Vacation Relief employees will be posted and awardedto Students at Rate 5. They will be trained and scheduled in the Lab Duty and will only be used when more than one operator is on vacation/training in any work group. Otherwise they will be scheduledon an eight (8) hour shift in the Refinery at Rate 1S as general labour.
1) CHANGES IN HOURS OF WORK
A)	If employee is required due to vacation, sickness, training, etc., he will be scheduledinon hisassigned day of inorder of seniority as long as it does not conflict with his regularscheduled shift, (i.e. Did not work the preceding shift, not scheduledto work the following shift). Operators who are on their assigned day off have no designated shift.
B)	If employee is required due to special circumstances, (i.e. Sickness with short notice given or absence with no notice.) man on
72
duty would be obligated to stay until other operators have been contacted in order of seniority. It is to be understood that this overtime coverage will be a responsibility of all 12 hour shift employees.
C)	For training purposes employees will be scheduled on eight (8) hour shifts or a combination of eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts.
It would be the practice to make the change, if it is possible, without the employee working a lesser number of hours then he would have, had there been no change.
EXAMPLE:	EXTRA TRAINING
	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Base	O.T
Wk.1	D	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr.	12Hr.
Wk.4	A	T	T	T	A	D	D	36 Hr.	12Hr.
D= 12 Hour Day Shift A= Assigned Day Off N= 12 Hour Night Shift T=8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00 am - 3:00 p.m.)
EXAMPLE:	Short DurationTraining (Maximum4 Hours)
Complete operating crew would be scheduled in on assigned day off for an eight (8) hour shift.
For a four (4) hour training session: Crew brought in on assigned day off would attend for training and would then go "Relieve" operating crew for four hours so they could attend training. At conclusion of four hours of training, operating crew would returnto complete their scheduled 12 hour shift.
73
2) Scheduled Hours worked on assigned day off will be included in the work week and paid at straight time.
An employee who is selected for a job will be given up to a five day training period - consisting of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts-to determine if he wishes to continue his training.
The following schedule is tabled as a training schedule for trainee operators and may be used in combination with the basic twelve (12) hour schedule until the operator is trained.
TRAINING SCHEDULE
	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Base	O.T.
Wk. 1	D	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr.	12 Hr.
Wk. 2	A	T	T	T	A	N	N	36 Hr.	12 Hr.
Wk. 3	N	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr,	12 Hr.
Wk. 4	A	T	T	T	A	D	D	36 Hr.	12 Hr.
D= 12 Hour Day Shift N= 12 Hour Night Shift T= 8 HourTraining Day Shift (7:00 am - 3:00 p.m.)
A= Assigned Day Off
Regular employees who have five years plant seniority, or more, will be guaranteed the opportunity of working the number of days equivalent to the grind week up to a maximum of the normal scheduled hours.
OR
Normal scheduled hours less 8 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours on a recognized holiday.
OR
74
Normal scheduled hours less sixteen (16) hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours for each of two (2) recognized holidays.
Regular employees who have less than five (5) years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of one hundred (100) twelve (12) hour shifts.
Sick Pay as provided under Article 17 (E) (4) will be calculated subject to the following waiting period determination where applicable.
Benefits will begin the earliest of:
1. The fourth consecutive day of illness and will be subject to a deductionof $83.00 the 1"year ($87.00 the 2nd year) for each day of the waiting period.
OR
2. The day following completion of 24 hours of continuousabsence from scheduledwork and will be subject to a deductionof $124.50 the 1s' year ($130.50 the 2nd year) from the benefit for each day of the waiting period.
Both parties acknowledge the above Memorandum is a deviation from the Collective Agreement.
75
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Cationic Operator and General Helper
Operate Cationic process and perform helper duties for Reinevelds previously performed by the Bulk Loader and General Helper.
7 Day-3 Shift Operation Rate 8
Add Job Title to Section 1 in Schedule B
Post Vacancy Notice Tuesday, December3 for 3 Regular Operators and 2 Replacement Operators.
Bulk Loader
Duties to include all bulk filling/loading/shipping on a three shift basis. Shipping duties to indudeSAP. (Bulk includes all bulk carrier vehicles.)
Dutiesto include all semi-bulk Cationic filling in Building 47 including SAP on a 3-shift basis.
Dutiesto include semi bulk starch filling and transfer into Warehouse 64 on a 2-shift basis (3-11/11 -7)- 7 days a week.
(Note: semi-bulk filling at each station would be one person operation. Some automation at the existing semi-bulk filler will be completed to facilitate one person filling).
Loading of semi-bulk starch may be done on 11-7 shift if there are space limitations in Warehouse 64 or Building 47.
Dumping of returned/rejected bagged products
Blend Pack Specialties
Staffed on a 7 day - 2 per shift basis
Rate 8
Add Job Title to Section 1 in Schedule B and delete Bulk Loader and General Helper
Positionswould be offered to present incumbents of the Bulk Loader and General Helpersjob on a voluntary basis and would post as necessary to achieve complement of 5 Regular Operators and 3 Replacement Operators. (in addition any incumbents who do not accept the position of Bulk Loader will be placed on maintenance of rate at Rate 6 for a period of 18 months.)
Post Vacancy Notice Tuesday, December3.
76
Warehouseman
Loading and Shipping of bagged starch products including SAP Filling of starch semi bulk (Building36 station) Monday- Friday days (Callback basis on Saturday and Sunday days)
Loadingand Shipping of semi-bulkstarch and Cationic from Warehouse 64, Building 36 and Building47 including SAP. (One Warehouseman operation)
Memorandum Dated January 23,1997
For the Company
Forthe Union
77
Memorandum re: Notification for MechanicalWeekend Work
December13, 2000
Todd Deschamps Vice President Local 483 RW/CAW Cardinal, Ontario
Delivered by Hand
Dear Todd,
Furtherto our meeting of November 17, 2000 the Company intendsto implement the following procedure for assigning planned weekend work to Mechanical Division employees effective Friday, December 15, 2000.
This procedure applies in situationswhere employees are absent on a Friday.
In all cases the foreman will call the employee’s principle residence.
1.	Employees-With Answering Machine
Foreman will call the employee’s phone number and leave a message that there is planned work and the expected duration of the work. The foreman will then notify Security to place a call to the same number and to leave a message that there is planned work.
If the employee wishes to avail himself of the opportunity he must phone back to the foreman priorto 2:00pm on Friday and either speak to the foreman personally or leave a message on the shop extension that he will be in at the establishedstarting time.
2.	Employees- No Answering Machine
Foremanwill call the employee’s phone number priorto 2:00pm on Friday to notify him of the availability of planned work. If there is no answer, the foreman will arrange for securityto place a call priorto 2:00pm and record the time and number dialed.
The above would also apply on a Thursday where a recognized holiday falls on a Friday.
78
Employees on vacation for a calendar week are ineligible for planned work for the weekend days of the calendar week.
Yours truly,
Ken Shaw
Manager Support Services
Cc. Kevin Patrick Frank Hitsman John Playford PaulChoquette
79
Memorandum re: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates
Employees who are currently listed in the collective agreement will have seniority in the order in which they are listed.
Employees hired on the same date after May 1,2001 will have their seniority established by the Company on their date of hire. The Company will furnish the Union with a list in seniority order at the end of each quarter when new employees have been hired.
Student employees will only be considered as applicants for jobs listed in Schedule B after all other employees have been considered except for “Temporary Vacation Relief”as provided for in the 12 Hour Shift Schedule for Continuous Operations.
It is mutually agreed the student probationary period will be May 1s'to Labour Day inclusive and students employed during the probationary period shall not acquire seniority.
80
Memorandum of Understanding Re: Receiver& Supplier-Stores
The Company agrees to maintain three Regular Operators in the Job Title "Receiver and Supplier— Stores" for the duration of this agreement.
The three Regular Operators will be responsible for coverage during any temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, or other similar cause. Article 6(D) does not apply-there is no replacement operator.
The job duties are expanded to include all chemical unloading.
The Company will post a Vacancy Bulletin for a Receiver & Supplier-Stores within seven calendar days of ratification.
If the current Replacements is not the successful applicant for the job vacancy he will be guaranteed a minimum of Rate 8 for the work done during a period of 18 monthsfollowing his displacement from this job in accordance with Article 11(D)(2).
Both parties acknowledge the above memorandum is a variation from the collective agreement.
81
Mechanical Division Memorandum
1.	The Company will provide the Union each week with a list of contractorswho were in the plantthe previous week.
2.	The Company will attempt to select repairwork to be undertaken by regular members of the Mechanical Division after hours and on weekends.
3.	Tinsmith duties will be assigned to the Millwright Shop when available and practical.
4.	All work associated with the repair and maintenance of pneumatic conveying lines will be transferred to the Millwright Shop.
5.	Two millwright shop employees have been trained in insulation. Whenever possible they will be given the opportunity for minor repairjobs.
6.	Whenever painting duties are to be performed by our own employees, whether after regular hours or on weekends, this work will be offered to the regular employees of the Mechanical Division by Seniority.
It is not the Company's intention to have contractorsworking on weekends. However situations can arise which necessitate the presence of contractors on weekends. When this occurs, and if possible, the Company will inform the Union beforehand.
82
561
154
730
741
733
52
359
738
737
97
131
98
145
281
480
584
739
226
220
732
313
660
a4
280
702
760
402
48
312
261
SENIORITY LIST
SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY
NAME	NAME	DATE
STITT JAMES COLLISON MITCHELL DESCHAMPS LESTER BRADFORD ANN STEINBURG HAROLD GILL	SHELDON
O'BRIEN WILLIAM
PERRY JAMES MCLAUGHLIN GRANT KAVANAUGH GARRY STEINBURG ROY PROSSER CARL SAYEAU JAMES MCDONALD ROBERT ROODE FRANCIS O’BRIEN JAMES KROONE BAREND MINKHORST ANTONIE MURPHY EDWARD AARON CHRISTOPHER DILLON-REIDJUNE SHAW CLAIRE WHITTEKER DONALD FERGUSON ROSS LATULIPPE FLOYD VELTKAMP WILLIAM STRADER WILLIAM WALKER NORMAN HUNEAULT HENRY TOUPIN CHARLES CHEETHAM DAVID
JUNE 25, 1958 OCT. 28, 1958 NOV. 3,	1959
JULY25, 1961 MAY 17,	1962
JUNE 1,	1962
JUNE 16,	1962
(AUG. 5, 1966) JUNE 19, 1962 JUNE 29, 1962 OCT. 10, 1962 JAN. 23, 1963 FEB. 23, 1963 FEB, 23, 1963 MAR. 5, 1963 MAR. 19, 1963 JUNE 1, 1963 JUNE 19, 1963 AUG. 10, 1963 AUG. 30, 1963 JAN. 24, 1964 JAN. 28, 1964 MAY 27, 1964 SEPT. 29, 1964 MAY 12, 1965 NOV. 3,	1965
NOV. 3,	1965
MAR. 1, 1966 MAR. 2, 1966 MAR. 17, 1966 SEPT. 2, 1966 SEPT. 7, 1966
a3
NO.
253
336
735
28
109
736
159
170
150
740
542
596
765
707
742
663
26
708
788
128
763
701
716
624
811
801
797
818
827
615
846
a47
849
848
850
851
SUR	CHRISTIAN
NAME NAME
WATSON DONALD GARLOUGH DONALD JANES SARA CROZIER SUSAN LLOYD GARRY JOHNSON SUSAN MCCURRIE MICHAEL ADAMS DANNY GRANT EDWIN MORRIS GREGORY LEVERE ROGER KAVANAUGH GEORGE SMITH CARL TOUPIN IVAN WALTER DONALD SIMPSON LARRY BOTTAN DANIEL SEELEY DALE HUTCHCROFT ROBERT JAMES ANDREW EARL KEVIN RICK
DALRYMPLE COLIN SHEEDY RAYMOND ROODE DANIELW. HAMILTON MARTIN WOODWARD STAN LEY FAHRNGRUBERJOHN GILMOUR DALE BEATSON THOMAS DOUGHERTY DONALD LAVERY JOHN CARKNER GARNET DEJONG ANDY TOBIN MICHAEL
READ
GILL
RIDDELL
MURRAY
WYATT
84
SENIORITY
DATE
SEPT. 9, 1966 FEE. 4,	1967
FEB. 9,	1967
SEPT. 28, 1968 SEPT. 10, 1969 JUNE 2, 1970 OCT. 14, 1970 SEPT. 27, 1971 SEPT. 3, 1974 NOV. 8,	1974
JULY 16, 1975 AUG. 11, 1975 OCT. 14, 1975 JAN. 5,	1976
JAN. 8,	1976
JAN. 22, 1976 JAN. 23, 1976 MAR. 30, 1976 MAY 11, 1976 JUNE 7, 1976 SEPT. 9, 1977 JULY 27, 1978 AUG. 25, 1978 SEPT. 7, 1978 OCT. 16, 1978 OCT. 16, 1978 FEB. 7,	1979
JUNE 25, 1979 JULY 20, 1979 AUG. 15, 1979 SEPT. 4,	1979
SEPT, 6, 1979 SEPT. 6, 1979 SEPT. 6,	1979
SEPT. 11, 1979 SEPT. 12, 1979 DEC. 5,	1979
611
892
731
830
833
887
655
695
872
649
25
614
579
621
647
662
674
425
426
427
428
430
436
437
438
440
443
SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY
NAME	NAME	DATE
GREY JAMES MERKLEY ANTHONY KENNEY WILLIAM SKAKUM MICHAEL BUSH	JOHN
PATTERSON RONALDK. JR. FOSTER DOUGLAS BERRY KENNETH DISHAW LARRY ROODE MARK ALLAN JEFFREY MACPHERSON GRAHAM BYERS RICHARD PATRICK KEVIN FOSS	DANNY
FOSTER JOHN MCCALLAM KIM ABRAMS CARL MCLAUGHLIN CHRIS HOOGWERF SHELDON JOHNSON JOHN MCCURDY STEVEN POOLE DANIEL WILLIAMS BARRY REILLY BRUCE MOORE BRIAN DIMOPOULOS GEORGE RAMDEEN JOHN LACROIX PAUL
MAY 5	1980
MAY 5,	1980
SEPT. 15, 1980 SEPT. 15, 1980 JAN. 8,	1981
FEB. 9,	1981
MAY 4,	1981
MAY 14, 1981 MAY 20, 1981 MAR. 10, 1982 MAY 10, 1982 MAY 26, 1982 APRIL 14, 1986 JUNE 29, 1987 JULY 13, 1987 SEPT. 14, 1987 SEPT. 21	1988
JAN. 13,	1989
JAN. 16,	1989
FEB. 12,	1990
FEB. 12,	1990
FEB.12,	1990
FEB. 12,	1990
MAY 6,	1991
AUG. 12,	1991
AUG. 12,	1991
AUG. 12,	1991
AUG. 12,	1991
JULY 14,	1992
85
444
441
442
446
302
301
303
304
306
305
710
712
711
715
720
410
411
412
413
414
510
511
516
517
518
519
520
522
524
526
528
532
SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY
NAME	NAME	DATE
LEARMONTH DAVE GARLOUGH WILLIAM RANGER STEPHAN SHERMAN JOHN DESCHAMPSTODD DILLABOUGH WAYNE BROWN MATTHEW GIBSON ALLAN GEURKINK MICHAEL ANDERSON ROBERT DISHAW MICHAEL KNUDSON REGINALD MURDOCK TIMOTHY LEVERE WAYNE ST. THOMAS JOHN ARCAND PAUL GLADSTONE SCOTT VELTKAMP MIKE WINTER TIM TOBIN TOM MCMULLEN ALLEN LATULIPPE REGINALD CAMPBELL RICHARD DEDEKKER DAN LEEMAN CHAD RUSSELL BRENDA GILLIS ALLAN RYLANDS MICHAEL BRENNAN DAN MAHON DAN ZAJAC WALTER ASTLEFORD MICHAEL
JULY 14,	1992
JULY 20, 1992 JULY 20,	1992
JULY 27,	1992
FEB. 22,	1993
FEB. 22,	1993
MARCH 8, 1993 MARCH 16,1993 MARCH 16,1993 APRIL 23, 1993 OCT. 18,	1993
OCT. 18,	1993
OCT. 18,	1993
NOV. 15,	1993
JAN. 3,	1994
JAN. 3,	1996
JAN. 4,	1996
JAN. 10,	1996
JAN. 11,	1996
JAN. 17,	1996
OCT. 7,	1996
OCT. 22,	1996
NOV. 18,	1996
JAN. 6,	1997
JAN. 6,	1997
JAN. 6,	1997
FEB. 10,	1997
FEB. 24,	1997
APRIL 15, 1997 APRIL 15, 1997 MAY 12,	1997
SEPT. 15, 1997
86
231
232
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
245
246
247
248
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
110
111
112
113
14
210
212
213
214
215
216
SUR	CHRISTIAN	SENIORITY
NAME	NAME	DATE
LAVERY CRAIG SARGENT JEFF TOUSIGNANT WADE GALLACHER BRENT REDDICK BRIAN BRUCE MARK FERGUS ON RICHARD ROODE	JOSEPH
HEWARD BRAD DESCHAMPS LESTER Jr. FINUCAN EDWARD SCOTT MARK GAW	BRAD
BELANGER CRAIG WINDSOR BRADLEY FREAKE LAUREL DISHEAU SHAWN MACINTYRE FRANK ROLES BRIAN MALCOMNSON ROB SHIPTON EDWARD MCDERMID CHRIS HODGE JOSH BROCK DIANE COOKE JOHN BUSH SARAH BOISVENUE JEFF BURNSIDE BRENT BLOOM	DARRELL
GRAHAM JILL DOWSON RHONDA CUGLIETTA DOMENICO VISSER SIES RODRIGUE PAMELA BARKER SHAWN JULIEN	CHRIS
MCNEIL DIANE GILL	PAUL
SEPT. 15, 1997 SEPT. 22, 1997 AUG. 18,	1998
AUG. 19,	1998
AUG. 24,	1998
JAN. 4,	1999
FEB. 26,	1999
MARCH 2, 1999 MARCH 10,1999 MARCH 15,1999 MARCH 16,1999 APRIL a, 1999 APRIL 12, 1999 JUNE 28, 1999 OCT. 25,	1999
JAN. 10,	2000
MARCH 2, 2000 MARCH 6, 2000 MARCH 13,2000 MARCH 27,2000 APRIL 3,	2000
JULY 31,	2000
OCT. 10,	2000
OCT. 11,	2000
NOV. 13,	2000
JAN. 4,	2001
JAN. 15,	2001
APRIL 9,	2001
APRIL10, 2001 APRIL 17, 2001 APRIL 18, 2001 APRIL 19, 2001 NOV. 26,	2001
NOV. 26,	2001
NOV. 26,	2001
MARCH 11,2002 MARCH 11,2002 MARCH 11,2002
87
CALENDAR FOR2003
5
12
19
26
January
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
23
W
1
8
15
22
29
T
2
9
16
23
30
F
3
10
17
24
31
February
August
2
9
16
23
3
10
17
24
T	W	T
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
25	26	27
7
14
21
28
4
11
18
25
T	W	T
5	6	7
12	13	14
19	20	21
26	27	28
F
1
8
15
22
29
S
2
9
16
23
30
2
9
16
23
30
March
September
3
10
17
24
31
T	W	T
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
25	26	27
7
14
21
28
M
1
8
15
22
29
T
2
9
16
23
30
W
3
10
17
24
T
4
11
18
25
F
5
12
19
26
5
6 13 20 27
April
October
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
28
T
1
8
15
22
29
W
2
9
16
23
30
T
3
10
17
24
F	S
4	5
11 12 18	19
25	26
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
26
W
1
8
15
22
29
T
2
9
16
23
30
F
3
10
17
24
31
S
4
11
18
25
4
11
18
25
November
5
12
19
26
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
28
T
1
6
15
22
29
F
2
9
16
23
30
3
10
17
24
T	W	T
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
25	26	27
7
14
21
28
S
1
a
15
22
29
5
1
6 15 22 29
M
2
9
16
23
30
T
3
10
17
24
W
4
11
18
25
T
5
12
19
26
F	S
6	7
13	14
20 21
27	28
M
1
8
15
22
29
T
2
9
16
23
30
W
3
10
17
24
31
T
4
11
18
25
F
5
12
19
26
13
20
27
June
December
3
10
17
24
31
M
6	7
13	14
20 21 27	28
January
w
5
12
19
26
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
28
15
22
29
F
2
9
16
23
30
February
M
2
9
16
23
T	W	T
3	4	5
10	11	12
17	18	19
24	25	26
F
6
13
20
27
March
s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S
		2	3	4	5	6					2	3	4
7	8	g	10	11	12	13	5	e	7	8	g	10	11
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	12	13	14	15	18	17	18
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
28	29	30	31				26	27	28	29	30		
April
5
12
19
26
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
28
T
1
8
15
22
29
F
2
9
16
23
30
May
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
25	26	27
7
14
21
28
June
T
1
8
15
22
29
W
2
9
16
23
30
T
3
10
17
24
F
4
11
18
25
July
w
5
12
19
26
13
20
27
7
14
21
23
August
M
2
9
16
23
30
T
3
10
17
24
31
W
4
11
18
25
September
October
4
11
18
25
November
15
22
29
T
2
9
16
23
30
W
3
10
17
24
December
w
1
6
13
20
27
7
14
21
28
15
22
29
15
22
29
T
5
12
19
26
5	6	7
12	13	14
19	20	21
26	27	28
T
4
11
18
25
T
2
9
16
23
30
16	17
23	24
F	S
6	7
13	14
M	21
27	2e
15
22
29
F	S
5	6
12	13
19	20
26	27
F
3
10
17
24
31
S'
D