Collective Agreement
Between
Casco Inc
and
United Food Processors Union Local 483
Begins:
2006
Terminates:
2009
00584(12)
Source:
Employees:
Received by:
04/03/2007
INDEX
ARTICLE SUBJECT
PAGE
1	Purpose of Agreement	6
2	Recognition- Exclusions	7
3	Reservation to Management	7
4	Union Security	&
Deductionof Dues	8
5	Wage Administration	9
(A)	Amendmentslo Schedule“B”	9
(B)	Nfarpre or lobs	9
Maintenanceofrate forjob	9
reclassification
Pay for work on more than one j ob	9
Pay for employee selected on ajob	9
Pay for substitutiononjob	9
Pay for temporaryj ob assignment	9
(C)	Pay Day	10
6	ffcurs ofWfcric	11
(A)	Working Hours	11
Recognized Work Week	11
Permission and notifications Absences	H
and return to work
Keeping Supervisoradvised of employee’s	11
personal phone number
Wash-up Time	11
Loss ofPay- reporting late and	12
quitting early
Overtime pay to nearest l/4hour	12
Overtime pay after 8 hours work	12
Responsibility^ work overtime	12
(B)	Normal HoursforDayWork	12
(C)	Normal Hours for 9iift work	12
Rotationof SWfts_
Remaining	,	13
Replacementf fierisphemftehas j" J f 'i(//13; been posted y '•-'■ / v- A? A-A 'j J [ l8'/ ;• Oil Refinery $cto&Ue	'	14
Laboratory Divisjon Schedule^	15
(D)	Replacemenf On^tor	jfj ] .ypM
Priority of Replacement Operators1-' \t Limitations ofjobstobeheld	16
l
ARTICLE
(E)
(F)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
(F)
(G)
(H)
(I)
(J)
(K)
(L)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)
(F)
(G)
SUBJECT
PAGE
Work Schedules
Posting of work Schedules
Rotation of Saturday relief work
Schedule Changes
Assigned Day Off
T^mrHng Time
Early StartingTime
Guaranteed Pay when Scheduled
Scheduling of Assigned Days Off
aid Down Days
Overtime
Payment of Overtime
Work on Saturday &• Sunday
Work on Recognized Holidays
Pay for work on Call Backs
Pay for work on Assigned Day QBE
or Down Day
Call Backs
Work on SplitShifts
Mutual Agreementto relieve at other
thann o d shift change time
Noon Hour Work
Minimum Pay for Work on Later S hi ft
Weekend Coverage
Minimum pay for stand-by
Early starting time pay
Scheduling overtime in one department to
avoid it in another
Distribution of extra Ratel overtimework within Division Shift Bonus Recognized Holidays
Disqualification for Holiday Pay
Recognized Holidays for Schedule C
Monday - Friday Work Week
Cancellation of Floating Recognized Holiday
Vacation Qualifications
Vacation Entitlement
Vacation Pay Calculation
No Accumulationof Vacations
Vacation of Calendar Weeks
Scheduling of Vacations
Limitation of Vacations Between
June 25th and Labour Day
VacationPayon Termination
Vacation* Plait Shutdown
Cancellation of Vacations
16
16
16
17
17
17
17
17
17
18
IS
18
18
IS
18
19
19
19
19
20 20 20 21 21
21
22
23
23
23
24
25
25
25
25
25
26 26
26
26
26
2
ARTICLE SVBJECI
PAGE
11
12
13
14
15
16 17
Employee Security
(A)	(1) Selectionfor Job Vacancies
SelectionofReplacement Operators
(2)	seniority status Probationary P eri o d
(3)	Severanceof Employment
(4)	SeniorityLists
(5)	Posting Job Vacancies Selectionof Applicants Training Varied
(6)	Seniority- employees not covered prior to June 16,1967
(7)	Recognitionof 12-houremployees Guaranteed Opportunity of W orking Reduction of Work Week General Plant Schedule
(D)	(1) Lay-offs
(2) Job Displacement
(E)	Contracting Out Work Staff Performing Bargaining Unit Work Facilitiespreviously occupied by Best Feeds Canada Inc,
Discipline
Union Officers and Committees
Stewardsand Zones
(B)	(1) GrievanceCommittee (B) (2) Labour Committee (B)(3) NegotiationCommittee
Union	and Representatives
Permission to Present Grievances Pay for lost time due to Joint Union-Management Meetings Leave of Absence to attendto Union Conventions
Leave ofAbsenceto attend to Union Business
Leave of Absence to attend a Labour School
Grievance Procedure Lockouts and Strikes Safety and Health General Provisions Bulletin Boards
Monthly Union-Management Meetings Amendments to Agreement
(B)
(C)
(F)
(A)
(C)
(D)
(E)
(F)
(G)
(H)
(A)
(B)
(C)
27
27
27
27
27
27
28 28 28 28 29
29
29
30 30
30
31 31 31
31
32
33
33
33
33
33
33
33
34
34
34
34
35
37
38
39 39 39 39
3
ARTICLE
(D)
(E)
(F)
(G)
(H)
(I)
(J)
(K)
(L)
(M)
(N)
(O)
(P)
(Q)
SUBJECT
Employee Leaving Plant because of injury on the job Welfare Plans Physical Examinations RemovalofPersonal or Company Property from Elant Entrance to Plant Bereavement Pay Apprentice Training Program Personal Cleanliness SecuritySearches Jury Duty Tool Allowance severance Allowance Pregnancy Leave Cost of Living Allowancc Duration of Agreement
Appendix A • Definitions
split Shift
Regular Rate
Normal Hourly Rate
Plant Seniority
Grind Shift
Grind Day
Grind Week
Starting Time
Quitting Time
Call Back or Call In
Schedule B - Rate Schedule
Section 1 • Oy Starch Division Section2 - Refinery Division Section 3 - Wet Starch Division Section4- Stores, Shipping and
Transportation Division Section 5- Mechanical Division Section 6 • Power IfalBS Division Section 7- Laboratory
4
PAGE
40
40
45
45
46 46 46 46 46
46
47 47 47 47 49
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
52
53 53
53
54
54
55 55
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE
Schedule C ■ Jobs on Monday to Friday	56
Work Week
Memoranda of Understanding	57
Re: Meal Allowance, Work Clothing and	57
Safety Shoes
Calculationof A.M.E, for Persons Retiring While on L.T.D,	57
MemorandaofUnderstanding	58
Re: Mechanical Division Apprentice Training Program	59
Memorandum of Agreement	60
Re;Yard Employees
Memorandum of Agreement	61
Re: Primary Safety Observer MemorandumofUnderstanding	63
Re: Twelve (12) Itur Shift Schedule For Continuous Operations MemorandumofUnderstanding	68
Memorandums: Notification for	69
Mechanical Weekend Work Memorandums: Resolutionof Same	70
Seniority Dates
MemorandumofUnderstanding re:	71
Receiver and Supplier Stores MechanicalDivision Memorandum	72
Memorandums: Callback Procedure	73
Memorandums: Make-upShifts	74
SeniorityList	75
Whereverthe words referring to the masculine gender are used herein, such as he, his or him the same ^ial include and cover females andmales.
5
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO AND AMENDED THIS 15TH DAY OF APRIL 2006
BETWEEN
CASCO INC.
Having its Head CBSas in the city ofTorontoOnt.,and plant at Cardinal,Ontario hereinafterreferred to as “The Company"
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION LOCAL N0.483
of Cardinal, Ontario, a local union chartered by the CAW -Canada {AFL-CIO-CLC}, hereinaftercaHed the “Union”
OF THE SECOND PART
WITNESSETH
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The purpose of this agreement is to promote the test mutual relationship between the Companyand the Union, define orderly collective bargaining and grievance procedures; and to prevent interruptions of work aid interference with the efficientoperation of the Company’s business.
6
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION- EXCLUSIONS
The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole and exclusiveBargainingAgency for ail the Company’s employees in its plant at Cardinal, Ontario, exceptthose employed within the following classifications:
Foreman, ChiefEngineers, those abovethe lank of Foreman,CfficB Workers, Plant ProtectionEmployees and HighwayTractorTrailer Drivers.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATIONTO MANAGEMENT
The location of the Plant, the operationand management of its business, the products to be manufactured, the schedulesof production,the methods, processes andmeans of manufacturing, togetherwith the determinationof the number of employees in any department, or in anyjob are exclusivelythe responsibility of the Company.
Subjectto the provisions of this Agreement, the Union recognizes the right of the Company (1) to hire, promote and tramfervriJhin the bargaining unit, (2) to discipline any employee forjustifiablecause, (3) to allocate work, describe, and classify] obs, and (4) to determine the number of employees in any classification.
7
ARTICLE 4 UNION SECURITY
The Company agrees to a modified Raid Formula which consists of the following provisions:
(a)	All Employes shall, as a result of this agreement, have the right to join the Union or to remain a member of the Union.
(b)	The Company will deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement an amount equal to the regular dues establishedby the Union. Such deductions, as authorized by the Union Executive, will be made weekly and the Company shall deliver to the designated office: of the Union the amount so collected by the end of the current month or as soon as possible.
No deduction of dues shall be made in any pay period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions requiredby law is not sufficientto cover the full amount. In sue/? cases, the duesshallbe deducted from the next regular pay period in which sufficienteamings are payable to cover such deductions-
8
ARTICLE 5
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
(A)	Schedule<(B” is part of this Agreement. Subsequent revisions and additions to Schedule"B" as agreedto by the parties hereto, will be incorporatedby amendment at the Union-ManagementMonthlyMeeting, next following such agreement.
(B)	(1) Before new j obs are created or the duties of oldj obs are merged during the term of the contract, the Company will meet with the Union executive ai a monthly managementmeeting to discuss the merger or newj obs. Such new or mergedjobs will be classified, and the rates put into effect by the Company. It is agreed that in the event the Union does not agree with the Company, the matter may be taken up under Grievance Procedure.
(2)	Jobs which are practically identical from the standpoints of duties shall be classifiedunderthe same occupational title,
(3)	Rates of compensationfor the same rate classification shall prevail
throughoutthe plant regardless of Department or Divisionin accordance	with
Schedule "BN
(4)	Therate of a present worker in any occupation which has been assignedto a lower Kate Classificationthan it carried previously will not be reduced; however, the proper and relatednew Rate Class'ificationas set forth inthe foregoing rate schedule will apply to any future workers in the occupations.
(5)	An employ eewho is required to perform in the regular manner, notan
emergency or substitution the work of more than one	will be paid at the
respectiverates assignedto eachjob for the number of hours spent on eachjob.
(6)	(a) When an employee is awarded aj ob in a higher wage group, he will receive iiis old rate until he takes over the full responsibility of thejob. He will then receive the rate of the new job to whichhe has been assigned.
(b)	When an employee is awarded ajob in a lower wage group he will receive the rate of thejob to whichhe has been assigned. For the days he would have been working from the general plant schedule, he will receive the lesser of Rate 1 or the normal hourly rate appearing on his Form “8”,
(c)	Employees who hold a regular j ob who have been awarded a j ob in a higher wage group, aid fad to get to their new fiob within 90 consecutivedays after the completionoftheir 5 day training period, will receive the rate of their new job until they begin to trainin thenewjob. When an employ eeretums to thejob to continue training, he will be paid in accordance with Article 5(B) (6)(a).
(7)	(a) If, when an employee would normally be working onhis ownjob, he is required to substitute on anotherjob, he shall be paid at his own rate or the rate of the otherjob, whichever is greater.
(b) An employee, temporarily assigned to other work for one or more days or shifts, when there is a lack of work in his regular occupation, shall receive the rate of thejob to whichhe is temporarily assigned except as provide under Article 11(B), paragraph 4,
(c) An employeewho has been working on his ownjob, and because of lack of work may be temporarily assignedto work for pat of the day or shift on another job, will be paid for the balance of the shift at his ownjob rate or the rate ofthejobto which he has been temporarily assigned, whicheveris the greater.
(C)	Employeeswillbepaid each Thursdayfor earnings up to7;00 am the preceding Sunday. Deductionswill be made as per schedule as mutually agreed upon. In the event of a payday falling upon a recognized holiday, wages shall be paid on the next bank business day.
The Company will provide notificationto employees if their pay has been altered.
10
ARTICLE 6 HOURS OF WORK
(A) Working Hues -
The working day begins at 7:00 am and ends at 7:00 am. As recognizedby the Company, Sunday begins at 7:00 am on the calendar day Sunday and ends at 7:00 am on the calendar day Monday. The same applies to recognized holidays.
The recognized work week shall consist of five days or shifts of eight (8) hours, or a total of 40 hours between7:00 am Sunday and 7:00 am the following Sunday. However, in the cases listed in Schedule C which is part of thisAgreement“Jobs on Monday to Friday Work Week” the recognizedwork week shall consist of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday, and work on Saturdays and Sundaysonthesejobs shall be on a call back basis. Nothing in this paragraph is to be interpretedas a guarantee of work or as a limitation on assignmentof overtime work outside the recognized work week.
It is the duty of all employeesto report for their scheduledwork periods unless they have obtained their supervisor’spermission to be absent. If an employee is prevented from reporting for duty through exceptional circumstances, he should notify his supervisorat least fourteen (14) hours before his work period begins indicating the anticipatedtime of return to work.
If an employee has been absent from his work for more than one day because of sickness or any other cause he must report to his supervisor at least sixteen(16) hours prior to the beginning of the work period in which he intends to begin duty.
Employeesare responsible for keeping their supervisoradvised of the phone number at their principal residence at which they can be contacted. Without such advice, the Company cannot be responsible for notifying employ eesconceming extra work, callbacks, schedule changes, etc. An employeewill not be considered available, for thatjob, if a phone call to the phone number given is unsuccessful in contactingthe employee.
Day workers will be allowed five (5) minutes before quitting time at noon and night to put their tools away and wash up.
n
Employeesup to 15 minutes late will lox 1/4 hour’s pay. Employees 16 to 30 minutes late will lox 1/2 hour’s pay, etc.
The same regulations will apply for employees leasing work ahead of time.
Employeeswofking overtime will be paid to the nearest 1/4 hour as authorizedby their supervisor,
An employee reporting late for work nust work eight (8) hours before overtime rates can be applied.
To neet. our product demand and ensure customra: Service, it is the duty of the employeesto remain on the job if required to meet special circumstances. If an employeedoes not wish to remain. the supervisorwill endeavor, in accordance with the Collective Agreementto locate another worker who is willing and able I o do the work, but failure to locate another worker who is willing and able to do the work without increasing the cost, to the Company, does not relieve the employee on the job of the responsibilitytowards his job.
(B) DayWork
The normal hours of work are:
or
7:00 am to 12:00 noon and l:00p.m, to 4:00 p,m.
7:00 am to 3:00 p,m,
or 8:00 am to 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m, to 5:00 p.m,
or 9:00 am to 12:00 noon and 1 :Q0 p.m, to6:00 p.m,
or 7:00 am to 12:00 noon and 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p,m,
or such other eight (8) hour schedules that may be necessaryto mast special conditions resulting from production demands, delivery schedules, the type of job, or seasonal variations which might affect the daylight hours. Except as otherwise provided, the Company will not schedule less than 8 hours.
(C)	adftWork-
The normal hours ofwork for shift workers are anyone of the following
Shifts:
FirstSKxft • 7:00 an- 3:00 p,m, SecondShift • 3:00p.m. ■ 11:00p.m. Third Shift -11:00p.m.- 7:00 am
12
Each revolving drift shall mtatein sequenceweekly. Employees are not to exchange shifts without permission from their supervisor.
When a drift begins each drift worker is requiredto be at his place. At the end of a shift no shift workermay leave his place to wash up or dress unless Ms mate has changedhis clothes and reported to take on the responsibilitiesof the position. If a shift worker does not report for his drift, and has not given the required notice, the employee onthejob shall notify the department supervisor. He shall then remain at his post until a substitute is secured.
When a replacementis required for a shift job or dayjob after the Schedule has been posted forthe foliowing work week, the supervisor will attempt to make the replacement in accordance with Article 6 (E) using the following priority provided no overtime results.
1.	Regular Operator,provided using the Regular operator does not involve
moving him firm one shift to one of the other two shi fts,
2.	Replacement Operators in order of priority,
If overtime cannot be prevented the Replacement will be made in the
followingpriority:
(1)	Persononthejob.
(2)	Regular Operator on his assignedday off,
(3)	Other Regular Operators in order of seniority,
(4)	Replacement Operators in order of priority.
The supervisor may at his discretion use any of the above in an eSot to minimize the amount of overtime or avoid the need for any operatorto work in excess of 16 hours continuously.
13
Oil Refinery Schedule
	Sun	Mon	Tues
Reg.	11-7	3-11	3-11
Reg.	A	7-3	7-3
Reg.	3-11	7-3	7-3
Reg.	7-3	A	A
RI	A	11-7	11-7
R2	A	GPS	GPS
Wed	Thurs	Fri	Sat
3-11	3-11	A	A
7-3	7-3	7-3	A
7-3	A	A	7-3
11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7
A	7-3	3-11	3-11
GPS	GPS	7-3	A
14
Laboratory Division
Schedule for Laboratory Operator Grade 2
	Sun	Mon	Tues	Wed		Fri	Sat
Regular	7-3	A	A	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7
Regular	11*7	3-11	3-11	3-11	3-11	A	A
Regular	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular	3-11	7-3	7-3	7-3	A	A	7-3
RI	A	11-7	11-7	A	7-3	3-11	3-11
R2**	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3 Relief A	
incumbent** The Company intends to exercisers rights to assign the duties currently undertaken by the incumbent to the Lab operator Grade 2 on ±ift when the incumbent retires or otherwiseleaves this job.
(Referencesigned item of agreementdated June 3,1998)
Replacement#2** -Normally scheduledinaccordancevifh. Article 6(D), Asa variation to Article 11 (C )whennot scheduledas areplacementoperatorforthe full recognized work week, the Replacement #2 is scheduledto work day shift on a Monday to Friday basis at the Rate Classificationfor the Laboratory operator Grade 2.
Relief Weekend Off Sun		Mon	Tues	Wed	Thurs	Fri	Sat
Regular	7-3	A	A	11-7	11-7	11-7	11-7
Regular	11-7	3-11	3-11	A	A	3-11	3-11
Regular	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3	A
Regular	3-11	7-3	7-3	7-3	A	A	7-3
RI	A	11-7	11-7	3-11	3-11	7-3	A
R2**	A	7-3	7-3	7-3	7-3 Relief 7-3		A
15
(D)	Replacement Operator - A ReplacementOperatoris an employee who
replaces a Regular Operator or other Replacement Operator during their temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, assigned	off, or other
similar cat/se. The Replacement Operator will have the same rightsand obligationsofthejob for the days he is on the job as if he were the regular operator, but he shall not have the rights and obligations of any other replacementjob he may have for those days. When there is more than one operator on a shift or days, a Replacement Operator will not have priority over the Regular Operator for any overtime assignments,
A Regular Operator who also holds a Replacement] ob vaH not have the rights and obligations of his Regularjob for the day he is working on his Replacementjob. ReplacementofRegular Operators Rate 5 orhigherwill be made from Replacements (in order of priority) who have received their jobs in accordance with Article 11 (A) (7) as a result of a bulletin. When a Replacement operator is replacing a Regular operator for one calendar week, he shall have no rights to his otherjobs for that seven day period.
When there is more than one Replacement Operator for a j ob the priority of the Operators shall be indicatedasReplacementOperatorNo. 1, ReplacementOperatorNo.2, • etc,, and such priority shall be indicated on the job bulletin when the vacancy is posted. A ReplacementOperator regularly on shift work is limited to that job, ie.: he may not hold another Regular Job or Replacementjob. Similarly,aRegularOperatorregularly on shift work is limited to that job.
A day worker is limited to holding one replacementjob plus a regularjob within the division or is limited to holding two replacementjobs.
(E)	Wfcak Schedules.
A work schedule is to be posted on the bulletin board in each department on Thursday on which is shown the plained working days and shifts, for the following week. This schedule will indicate “assigned day off and “down da^'jf any, aid in the event that anyworkwhichisRate2 or higher shown on this schedule is to be performed by an employee at overtimerates then such work will be scheduledto the Regular operator or the ReplacementOperator enjoyingthe rights of the Regular Operatorunless it is assigned in accordance with Articled (C),
As an exception to the preceding paragraph the existing system of scheduling week-end relief and days off will continue. The present common practice is the scheduling of the 3-11 shill Saturdayto Replacement Operators three Saturdays out of four, with the 4th such shi ft being scheduledto the Regular Operators. There are exceptions to t hi s general rule in various departments aid in situations where Replacement Operators are not available.
16
The schedulemay be changedby the supervisory advising the man concerned at least"25" hours before the shift or day concerned for an assignedday off or down day change if such change is caused by production demands, or by at least "17" hours notice if the change is for any other reason, provided, however, that not withstanding the foregoing, no notice of a changein scheduleis required if caused by serious breakdown. In any of these cases, the additionaltime worked is not on a "call back” basis. When an employee has had his schedulechangedhe will be given at least 17 hours notice ftm his previously scheduledstarting time. Without 17 hours notice the employeewill receive overtime rates and the time scheduledwill be included in calculating the workweek under Article 7 (A),
Assigned Day is a day of relief from the regularjob assigned to an employee to conform to the recognized work week.
When owing to a change in the work schedule aid the employee has not been advised that regular work is not availableand reports for work, he will be supplied with at least four hours work or pay, at straight time on week days, but such time will not be included in the work week. Ifona Sunday or holiday or assigned day <£E, his work will be treated as a call back. The above does not apply in the case of a serious breakdown.
When an employee is required to come in to work ahead of his regular starting time he will be given twelve (12) hours warning, Without twelve (12) hours warning his early starting time will he on a call back basis.
Exceptas otherwise provided, when employees arc scheduledfor 8 hours work on their regularjobs, they will be guaranteed 8 hours work or pay in lieu thereof.
All employees assigned to work at overtime rates, who are scheduledfor 8 hourswork on their regularjobs are not required to work 8 hours becauseoflack of work on their job will be guaranteed at least 4 hours work or pay on a call back basis.
(F)	For reasons ofproduct demand or efficiency, assigned days off and down days will be determinedbythesupervisorconcemed. Recognizing that employees would like their two days off consecutively, the supervisor will prepare the schedules accordingly when feasible, providing additional cost is not incurred.
17
ARTICLE?
OVERTIME
(A)	Overtime rates of time and one-halfthe regular rate will be paid for:
(]) a) work in excess of eight hours continuously
b)	work in excess of eight hours in any one day.
c)	hours worked between 3 p.tn, Saturday and7 am Monday
d)	hours worked between 7 sm Saturday and 3 pm, Saturday excepthours worked from the general schedule.
OR
(2) Scheduledtime worked in excess of40hours in anyone work week,
No more than 8 scheduledhours per day will be included in calculating the work week.
(B)	(1) When an employee is scheduledto work 8 hours on Sunday and is not required to work 8 hours because of lack of work on his job, the time worked will not be included in calculating the work week under Article 7 (A) and will not be includedas “opportunity of working” under Article 11 (B)
(2) When an employee is scheduledto work 8 hours on Sunday and has the opportunity of working 8 hours or more on Sunday, time worked up to but not exceeding 8 hours will be included in calculating the work week under Article 7 (A). Such time scheduledwill be includedas 8 hours in determining the “opportunity of working” under Article 11 (B),
(C)	Work onRecognizedHolidays- As shownin Article9 (A) will be paid atthe rate of time aid one-half of hourly rate with the exception that work onNew Year’s Day, Christmas Day and Labour Day will be paid at double time. If an employee works 8 hours or is scheduledto work 8 hours or is paid for 8 hours on a Recognized Holiday, such time worked or paid for will be included in computing the work week.
(D)	(1) Time worked on call back basis will be paid at time and one-half, and will not be included in the forty hour work week.
(2)	Call backs or overtime will terminate at the beginning of the employee’s regular scheduledday or shift. When an employee continues on his regular shi ft without interruption after a call back, overtimerates will again become effective eight hours after he started his callback work.
(3)	Work on an AssignedDayOff or aDownDay ■ When an employee is required to work on his assigned day off or his down day without sufficient notice as specifiedin Article 6 (E), he shall be paid on a call back basis.
18
(E)	(1) Call Back or Call In-With the exception ofwork normally performed by the mechanical division, the Company is not obligatedto call in any employees for any job of approximately one-halfEour duration, that can be done by other hourly employees in the plant availableto perform the work, in addition the Company is not obligatedto call in any employee for any mechanical task that can be done by the utility mechanics. Nor is the Company obligated to call in any employee who is scheduled on vacation, floatingholidays, Union business, labourrelations,or requestedtime cff.
Employees called in for non operationalactivitiessuch as crew meetings, safety meetings, safety training, training meetings, environmental meetings and otto: similar meetings mutually agreed to between the Companyand the Union will be paid on a call back basis.
(2)	Employees who are called in to work without sufficient notice as specified in Article 6 (E) for a limited period of time wi 11 get a minimum of four (4) hours regular pay, exceptthatthe minimumpay will be 6 hours regularpay if the employee is called in to work withoutnotice between 11:00 p,m, and 6:00 am, If the employee’s services are not required for two hours and forty minutes he can withthe supervisor’s permissionleave the plant, if, however, while he is in the plant on a callback another emergency arises requiring his attentionhe must remain on the job and subject to the instructions of the supervisor concerned,
OR
(3)	If an employee is called upon after his regular quitting time and after having been relieved from his work to work overtime he will be paid on a callback basis.
(F)	Work on SplitShifts ■ Employees may be required at the request of their supervisorto work a split shift. In such cases the actual hours worked within the span of their normal working hours will be paid for at regular rates, and anytime so worked outside of normal working hours will be compensated for at time and one-half.
(G)	Shift Relief- Overtimewillnotbepaidinthe case of amutual agreement betweentwo shift workers on the samejob to relieve at a time other the n o d shift changetime. This arrangement must have the permission of the supervisor concerned.
Employees may be requiredby their supervisor to work 12 hour shifts in situations in which two operators are only available to cover the 24 hours duty per day. Such 12 hour shifts will be considered as normal hours ofwork in accordance with Article 7<A)1.
(H)	Noon Hour Work • Employees who are advised before noon that they are required to do unscheduled work during the noon hour, will be paid one and one-half hours’ pay. Such time will be included in the 8 hourwork day.
19
Work during the nocn hour will be paid for on a call back basis only if the following conditionsprevail:
(1)	The employees concerned must have worked during the morning and be scheduledto work that afternoon,
(2)	The employee concerned was not advisedbefore 12 noonofthenoon hour work.
Such call back pay will terminate at the time the employee would normally begin his afternoon work.
(I) Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required at a definite time on a later shift during that day will be paid a minimum of two hours aid fortyminutes at time aid one-halftheir hourly rate,
An employeemay be required to standby at home for duty at an indefinite time later during that day forwhichhe shall receive a minimum pay equal to a call back whether or not his services are required.
Weekend Stand -by Coverage
During the period of Victoria Day weekend to Labour Day weekend inclusive,the followingprocedure of mandatory week end coverage for emergency repairs will be followed:
Mechanics from eachofthe following shops will be on stand-by from 3:30 p,m, on Friday until 7:00 am on the following Monday,
(7 :Q0 am on Tuesday for holiday weekends).
Mechanical Shop:	1 mechaiic
Electric Shop:	1 mechaiic
Each designatedmechanic on call will receive a rate of pay in the amount of $300,00 per weekend, (plus $150.00 for each additional day of coverage on holiday weekends), in addition to their pay for hours worked. For the purposes of this article where a recognizedholiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday the assigned day off continuousto the weekend shall be consideredpari of the holiday weekend.
Employees in the shops identified above will be scheduled for stand-byduty on a rotating basis.
A schedulewalL be posted in each shop by May I, each year
In addition to the above, employeesin each ofthe shops identifiedabove will be scheduled for stand-byduty on a seniorityvoluntarybasis for the remaining weekends. If a holiday falls in the middle of the week, each designatedmechanic will be paid $ 17 5,00 per day in addition to their callback or pay for hours worked.
Callbackswill be handled as before except designated individualsare obligated to come in when called.
20
(J)	Employees who during their normal working hours are notified that they will be required to start their day’s work the following morning before 7:00 am will be paid time and one-half for time worked before 7:00 am and time and one-haifafter eight (8) hours work.
(K)	It is not the intention of the Company to schedule overtime work in one department to avoid overtime in another department.
For example, an employee under ordinary circumstances, will not leave his regularjob to go to anotherjob to act as a replacement if so doing creates overtime on the regular job.
In the case of an R2 holding j obs of the same rate, he will be scheduled if possible on a rotating basis.
(L)	Distribution of extra Raie 1 overtimework within the Division:
The Company agrees not to use contractorstoperformrate 1 overtimework until eligible bargaining unit employees from the divisionhave beenaffordedthe opportunity to perform said work. For the purpose of this provision, extra Rate 1 overtimework is defined to be Rate 1 work to be performed by an employee, which work is deemed necessary by the Company, and in the opinionofthe Supervisor concerned will be in excess of two hours duration and cannot be done by employees within their recognized work week.
in order to distribute extra Rate 1 overtime work equitably among employees within a Division, a list, in seniority order of employees who hold a regular and/or replacementjob within the Division, and who wish such work will be kept. Employees are responsible for advising their Supervisor of their desire to be included on the list aid of a phone number by which they can be reached at ail times. As extra Rate 1 overtime work occurs, employees on the list will be given the opportunity on a rotational basis, providing the employee is capable of doing the work. Such time worked is not included in calculating the work day or work week. For such work, only one phone call to the phone number given is required of the Supervisor. If an employee does not wish to take advantage of the opportunity, he will forfeit his turn and be eligible again when his turn comes up on the next rotation. An employee who refuses to work Rate 1 overtime on 3 consecutiveoccasionswill forfeittheir right to be included in the Rate 1 overtimelist. Employeeswho forfeittheirrightwill be giventhe rightto renew theirposition on the Rate 1 overtime list on January 1 and July 1 each year.
When planned cleaning is required, procedure will he to call eligible employees on the Rate! overtimelist, during the preceding workday, on a rotational basis. When plained cleaning is required it will be scheduledto commence at 7:00 am. in order to be eligible employ eesmust either be on their assigned day off or working the 3-11 shift, Any refusals during the same scheduledweek shall be considereda total of one refusal.
21
ARTICLE 8 SHIFT BONUS
A shift bonus will be paid to:
(a)	employees whose working hours rotate on a three shift basis,
(b)	employees whose working hours rotate on a second aid third shift basis.
(c)	employees whose working hours are permanently on one of either of the two night shifts.
(d)	employees whose working hours rotate regularly on a day and night shift basis, and
(e)	day workerswhen they are required to work on a night shift.
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00 p.m. and7:00 am. EffectiveApril 15, 2008, the shift bonus is 5% ofRate7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am,
A shift bonus of 5% of Rate 6 per hour will be paid for hours worked at unloading comboatsbetween3:00 p,m. and 7:00 am.Effective April 15,2008, the shift bonus is 5% of Rate 7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am,
22
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS TO BE RECOGNIZED
(A)	The following holidays during the year shall be recognized
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
VictoriaDay	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
Alternativedays to any of those listed above may be settled by mutual agreement.
In addition to the above, and in lieu of Canada Day and Remembrance Day, each regular employeewill have four (4) “floating” recognized holidays each calendar year which may be taken at times desired by the employeeprovided they have approvalofthe Supervisor concerned. Any floating holidaysnot taken by December 31st, will be scheduledby the Supervisor concerned within the following two months.
(B)	The companywill pay all regular employeeseight hours straight time at their normal classificationrate for the recognizedholidays as named in Article 9 (A), provided that an employee shall not be entitled to be so paid
If he refuses to work on such holidays if assigned or if he refuses to respond to a “call hack” withoutjustifiable reason.
Ifhe is absent withoutjustifiable reason on the scheduledworking day immediately preceding or succeeding such holiday.
If such holiday occurs while he is on requested leave of absence of more than one month.
If such holidayoccurs when he is under suspension.
Ifhe is absent for any reason in excess of twenty-six (26) weeks prior to the
holiday.
(C)	In the cases listed in Schedule Cjobs onMondayto Friday work week, the following applies:
Where a recognized holiday fails on a Saturdaythe assigned day off shall be on the preceding Friday and where a recognized holiday falls on a Sundaythe assigned day off shall be on the following Monday.
Where two consecutive recognized holidays fall on a Friday and a Saturdaythe assigned day off correspondingto Saturday shall be on the preceding Thursday. Where two consecutiverecognizedholidays fall on a Sunday aid a Monday the assigned day off corresponding io Sunday shall be on the following Tuesday.
23
(D)	With at least 3 days notice or immediatelywhen hospitalized, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled Floating Recognized Holiday, if suchfloatingholidays cannot be rescheduledwithin die floating holiday deadlines, the employee will receive that floating holiday pay in lieu ofa floating holiday with pay.
24
ARTICLE 10
VACATIONS
(A)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) completemonths of continuous service.
(B)	(1) An employ eewith from one (1) to four (4) years seniority who has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of two
(2)	weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(2)	An employeewith from four (4) to eleven(l 1) years senioritywho has rendered regular service during the preceding calendaryear will be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(3)	An employeewith fim eleven (11) to seventeen(l 7) years senioritywho has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks at some time during the calendar year.
(4)	An employeewith seventeen (17) to twenty-five (25) years senioritywho has rendered regular services during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks during the calendar year.
(5)	An employeewith twenty-five(25)years or more semoritywho has rendered regular service during the preceding calendar year will be entitled to a vacation of six
(6)	weeks during the calendar year.
(C)	Thisvacationpay shall be computed as follows:
1.	Employees will be paid 2% of their total earnings of the preceding calendaryear or forty (40) hours pay at their normal rate, whichever is the greater for each week of vacation.
2.	If an employeeis called back to work while on vacation, he will be paid on a call back basis.
3.	All paid vacation time will be included in the work week.
(D)	Vacation time will not be accumulated from year to year except that the last two weeks of an employee’s vacation may be carried over to the following year with one week being completedby the end of March and the remaining week being completed by the end of May.
Forvacationpurposes the last calendar week ofthe year begins on the last Sunday of the year.
Unless special permissionhas been given by the Company employeesshall be scheduled for calendar week vacations.
25
Vacationswill not be granted after schedules have been posted without approval of the supervisorconcerned.
Vacation between lune 25th and Labour Day may be limited to two weeks to allow as many employees as possible to take a vacation during this period.
(E)	If an employee leaves the Company’s service at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to bis credit, he will be paid in accordance with the regulation of the Ministry of Labour for Province of Ontario,
(F)	nie Company may require all or part of employeessubject to this agreement, to take a vacation period and may close the Plant or any part of its operations for that purpose at any time convenientto the Company from June 30th to August 24th. If the Company decides to close all or part of the Plant for vacation purposes three months notice shall be given on bulletin boards. Any vacation taken by an employee outside of that time taken during a general Plant shut down will be scheduled insofar as possible as desired by the employee, but must be acceptable to the Supervisors concerned.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, the employee’s? day vacation will be scheduled in two parts, provided each part begins aid ends within the one calendar week and provided no overtimeis created. Furthermore, with special permission an additional two weeks of an employ ee’s vacation {i.e. 10 paid vacation days) maybe taken one, two, or three days ai a time and two days onlymaybe taken on Saturday’s.
Employees arerequestedto apply for vacation periods before May 1st, each year, giving 2nd and 3rd choices for dates. Such vacation schedules will be allotted by June 1st, giving priority according to seniority. Personnel who make their requests after May 1st will be scheduled on a “first come, first served”basis. Vacation schedules previouslyarranged will not be disturbedto accommodaterequests made after May 1 st, except in cases of urgency.
(G)	With at least 3 days notice or immediatelywhen hospitalized, an employee who is on sick pay benefits may cancel a scheduled vacation. If such vacation cannot be rescheduled within vacation deadlines, the employeewill receive that vacation pay in lieu of vacation with pay.
26
ARTICLE 11 EMPLOYEE SECURITY
(A)	Each of the parties hereto recognizes that employees are entitled to an
equitable measure of job security based on seniority, subjectta the following provisions:
(1)	In the selection of employees for job vacancies, appointments will be made to the most senior employeewith sufficient abilityto perform the duties of the position. Ability shall include skill, efficiency, responsibility and physical fitness to perform the duties of the position. Such appointments will be subject to the provisions of Article 11(A)(6).
The selection of Replacement Operators may be from the Regular employees within the division concerned. As an exception to Article 6 (D) which limits Employees to one division, that rule maybe set aside by mutual agreementwhen the parties agree there would he no conflict in so doing.
(2)	Seniority Status: Employees other than the employees hired by mutual agreementon a strictly temporary basis, shall have seniority status from their last date of hire, and shall come under the provisions of this Agreement, except that they shall be onprobationfor70 days worked. The Company shall have the exclusive and unlimitedright to determine if a probationary employee shall be retained, in determining whether an employee shall be retained, the Company shall not act in an arbitrary, discriminatoryor bad faith manner. The Company’s decision on retention or discharge of a probationary employee shall not he subject to the grievance procedure,
Not withstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph the Company and the Union may exclude specific employees from seniority status by mutual agreement in writing,
(3) An employeeshall have Ms senioritybroken and employmentseveredunder the following conditions:
If he voluntarilyresigns or quits.
If he is discharged for justifiable cause.
If he is absent fbarseven consecutive days without notifying !he Company unless there was justifiable reason for not notifying the Company.
If he does not work for a continuous period exceeding twelvemonths due to a lay-off.
If he does not return to work after a lay-off, within fourteen(14) consecutive days of being called without reason acceptable to the Company.
27
Provable sickness shall be considered an acceptable reason. The employee shall be notified by registeredmail to his last known address of recall after lay-off. Absence for which special permission in writing has been given by the Company shall not break seniority, or sever employment. An employee wishing to be absent from his work in excess of 3 working days for reasons other than lay-off or illness must apply for a Leave of Absence.
(4)	SeniorityLists:	The Companywill prepare senioritylists which will be
revised annually or whenever proof of an error has been submitted. Copies of revised lists will be furnished to the Union. Plant wide seniority shall be as of Article 11 (A) (2).
(5)	Posting lob Vacancies:	All hourlyjobvacancieswithinthe scope of this
Agreement, with the exception of Rate 1 jobs, temporary] obs not exceeding one month, or as mutually agreed, will be posted, in cases of temporary vacancy, the job will be posted if conditions warrant, affording protection for the regular employee to return to his regularjob. Where atemporaryvacancyispostedtoreplacean employee temporarily off work, it shall be posted subjectto permanency. Other temporary vacancies shall be limitedto one year at which point, thej obs will be r e posted or considered as permanent
When a vacancybecomes evidentthejob vacancy, if subjectto posting, will be posted on all bulletin boards immediatelyfor a period of eight (8) days, indicating job title, rate of pay and hours ofwork. The successful applicantwill be chosen within an additional fourteen days and, provided no replacement is required by bulletin on the successful applicant’ sjob, he shall begin training within21 days of the posting of the selection. If a vacancy results from retirement, the vacancy is to be posted sixty (60) days in advance of normal retirement date.
The Company will forward to the President and to the Secretary-Treasurerof the Union, copies of thejob postings, list of applicants aid selectee within the time limits. In addition, members of the Union Executive will, upon request, be shown lists of applicants at the Personnel Office.
The selection of applicants for job vacancies will be in accordance with Article 11 (A) (1). in selecting applicants for postedjob vacancies it is stipulatedthat the selectee’s appointment s temporary,but subject to permanencyif found satisfactoryaft er a reasonable period of training aid when previous incumbent’s appointmentto another job has been declared permanent, An employeewho is selected for a job will be given up to a 5 day training period to determine if he wishes to continue this training. After this five days of training, he shall have nogrievaiceif he loses the rights to his formerjob. This loss of rights to his former job does not apply if he proves to be unsatisfactoryon his newjob prior to being declared permaient. This also applies to hourly employ eesbeing selected for jobs listed in Article 2, During the above 5 day training period the employee will be paid Rate 1, Employeeswho continue to tram after this five (5) day training period will be paid in accordance with the Article 5 (6) retroactive to the beginning of the training period,
28
In the event that a selecteeproves during his training periodto be unsatisfactoryor desires to return to his former job then the next salactimwillbe made fromthosewho answered the bulletin, If none ofthe applicantsare qualified, an employee who has completed his probation or is currently serving his probationary period will be appointed. If the job is not filled within 90 days the job vmII be r e posted if requested by the Union. Applicantswho applied for the initial posting and apply for the re-posting, may not be considered if they were selected in the first instance, and withdrew after the training period had begun.
An employee with over five years senioritywho applies for and is selected to ajob, may apply for another job within 24 months of his previous selection but he shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the second instance. An employee with less then five years senioritywho is appointedto ajob, or who applies for and is selected to a j ob, may apply for anotherj ob within 36 months o f his previous selectionbuthe shall have no grievance if he is not selected in the secondinstance, Employees are restricted to an 18 month waiting period when moving from a regular job to a regular job with a higher rate classification The aboverestrictioas do not apply if an employee is improving his position in the replacement sequence, or moving to aposted regular dayjob or days (shift as required). The above does not applyto employees changing shifts within the samejob. Filling ofthe new vacancy will be accomplishedby selecting an applicantfrom the original list for that bulletin by continuing down the list.
When an employee bids to the samejob (moving in the replacement sequencers 36 or 24 month restriction perioddoesnotgetresettozero. When an employee bids io the samejob (moving to a different shift)his 36 or 24 month restriction period does not get reset to zero. If no additionaltraining is required, the restriction period for the employee does not get reset.
(6)	Those employees not covered by the Agreement prior to June 16,1967 have Ml seniorityfrom lst&te of hire forall purposesexceptawardingofbulletincdjobs. For the purpose of awarding bulletined jobs no time spent outside the bargaining unit shall be recognized.
(7)	Recognition of 12-houremployees outside the 12-HourMemorandum of Understanding • Unless specified in the 12 -Hour Memorandum of Understanding, both parties understand that all Articles in the Collectiveagreement pertain to all hourly employees. (Day workers, 8-hours shift workers and 12 hour shiftworkers). Where the collectiveagreement references 8 hours it is understood that it applies to and means the same as 12 hours where applicable. Where the guaranteed workweek providesfor40hoursitisunderstoodthatthe 12-Hourmemorandum of48 hours and 36 hours on a weekly rotation basis shall suffice.
(B)	Subj ectto Article 11 (D) all regular employees will be guaranteed the opportunityof working the number of days equivalenttothe grind week up to a maximum of 40 hours, or 32 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours on a recognizedholiday, or 24 hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, 8 hours for each of 2 recognized
29
holidays Regular employees who have less than 5 years seniority will be guaranteed the opportunity of working a minimum of 150 days in each contract year with recall rights fortheterm of this Agreement
(“Regular employees’ excludes probationary employees and student employees”)
Employees m the MechanicalDivision will be subjectto the above guarantee and any additionalwork undertaken by the MechanicalDivision will be handled by the regular members of the shop concerned
It is also agreed by both parties that certain active employees are limited for work under Article 11 (C) aid it is agreedthat these employees shall be assignedto duties that their limitations will allow them to perform Excluded finn the above are employees who qualify for LTD under the terms of the Agreement
When a regular assigned employee has been given an assigned day off because he had an expected work week of 40 hours, and his scheduledwork is reduced he will receive 8 hours work or 8 hours pay for each day’s work that he would have received, if he had not been given an assigned day off
(C)	General Plant Schedule • Extra Work as requisitionedby divisions will be
allocatedwith as much advance notice as practical by the SupportServices Department to employ eeswithout regular assigned jobs and to employees who are not scheduled for the full recognized work week on a divisional schedule Ail work for the following week requisitionedpnor to 4:00 p.m Friday will be allotted and posted by5:00p,m, Friday, m applying the foregomg, if senior employeeshave an expected workweek of less than the Recognizedwork week aid work on Rate I jobs is available on days they are not scheduled to work on a Divisional Schedule, then such Rate I work will be allocated to the more senior employeesprovided no extra cost results
Work allocatedunder this section will be distributed on a seniority basis, abilityto do the work required, availabilityand the expected work week It is recognizedhowever, that it is not practical nor possible to allocate such work strictly on a seniority basis
Work allocatedunder this section will be included in the work week for all employeesbut provisions covering call back pay, down day change, assigned day off change, starting tune change, and work reduction do not apply to such work
Employees will be paid the rate of the job to which they are assigned (except the application of Rate 1A to Probationary Employees)
(D)(1) Lay-offs. Where changes in methods, productionorpolicywouldrequire a permanent lay-off,the reduction in employees will be made by laying off the lowest PlanUeniority-employees. When additional employees are required, the former employees^will rbe re*hired in reverse order of lay*off.	: r; -	.'i.;
he-xhTVV.wi ! A ■' v- • i '■	v--	•
30
(2) In anyjob displacementthe Companywill transfer the Regular Operators and the Replacement Operators who are affected, to Rate 1 jobs provided they have sufficient seniority aid are able to do the work available. Vacancies in Rate 1 jobs will be created by transferringthe least semor employees with regular Rate 1 jobs from the Rate 1 jobs. The Regular aid Replacement Operators permanently displaced will be guaanteedammiirunof not less that the rate of their formerjob for the work done during a period of 18 months after the displacement.
(E)	The Company agrees except in cases of urgency, not to let or enter into contracts for Plant maintenancework or the performance of other bargaining unit work at the Plant, which work is normallyperformedby Mechanical employees or other bargaining unit employees, while Mechanical or other regular bargaming unit employees who are qualified and capable of doing the work are on layoff status.
Maintenance work is defined to mean repair and replacementof existing equipment in kind.
Exceptions to the foregoing are jobs which are normally contracted out such as roof aid road repairs, elevatormamtenance, etc., together with jobs that require special skills not possessed by employees, or equipmentwhich is not owned by the Company.
The Companywill give the Union five (5) days prior notice (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) of the letting of contracts mentioned above in Article 11 (E), paragraph 1.
The Companywill continue its efforts to undertake selectednon-routinejobs such as building demolitionwhen necessary skilled and unskilled regular employees are availablewithin the workforce. Such work will be undertaken by the Company only if it can be done safely aid at comparable cost. Unskilled labour on thesej obs will be paid at Rate 1, Qualified mechaiic when needed will be onthejob.
(F)	Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform routine work normally done by hourly employees. Violation of this provision is subject to the Grievance Procedure.
(G)	The facilities (excluding the office) previouslyoccupiedby Best Foods Canada Inc. at Cardinal shall be consideredas part of the plait as defined in Article 2 for the purposes of this agreement.
31
ARTICLE 12 DISCIPLINE
(A)	Subjectto the right of an employeeto file a grievance the Company reserves the right to discipline any employee for anyjustifiable cause.
A conduct record must be filed with the Support Services Office within 14 calendar days of the alleged offense becoming apparent. The employeeshall be notifiedof the discipline imposed within 12 calendar days after the filing of the conduct record and in the case of discharge or suspension,the President of the Union will be advised by registeredmail within this period.
<B) If a suspensionor discharge is disputed, an appeal must be made through the griev mice procedure within 14 calendar days of notification to the employee aid the Union, in case of suspension, the disciplinemust commence within 24 calendar days of the discoveryof the alleged offense.
If it is found that no penalty is justified the employee so reinstatedwill be reimbursed for loss of eamingsby payment of 2% of previous 12 months earning for each week’s loss of earnings or by payment for such time at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. As well the said2% penalty is also applied to unjustified, non-disciplinarysuspension, demotions or terminations.
If the penaltyis reduced, the employeewill be paid for the unjustified time off by payment of 2% of previous 12 months earnings for each week’s unjustified loss of earnings or by payment for such at his regular rate, whichever is the greater. From this amount paid to him, will be deducted any earnings or benefits he has received from any other source during the period of unjustified time off.
(C) Completerecords in writing will be kept of discipline administered. Upon the written request of an employeetothe Support Services Department, a record of his disciplinaryrecord will be made available to him. nie employ eehas the right to appeal through the Grievance Procedure in all cases of discipline.
nie Company agrees to remove quarterly each year, from the employee's files all disciplinerecords that are 2 years old or older.
In addition, the Companyhas agreed that an employeemay, if he wishes, be accompaniedby his stewardif he is being reprimandedas the result of a written conduct record. The employeewill be required to initial the conduct record to indicate only that he has received it.
32
ARTICLE 13
UNION OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES
(A)	The Union shall notify the Company from time to time of the names of the stewards and their respective zones. No zone or portion of azoneshallbe represented by more than one steward. Each steward shall have a definite designated zone and be a regular employee of that zone. Any change in this latter conditionmust be arrangedby mutual agreementwiththe SupportServices Manager.
(B)	(1) A Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) Plant Umon members for the purpose as outlinedin the Grievance Procedure. The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the National Representative or his designate fim lodi 483,
(B) (2) The Labour Committee which meets Management on a scheduled monthly basis shall consist of four (4) Plant Umon members, and the President of Local 483, The Committee may be accompanied at any time by the National Representativeor his designate from Local 483,
In Article 13 (B)(1) aid 13(BX2) it is understoodthatthe designatemay be firm outside the Bargaining Unit.
(B)	(3) The Union Committee which meets with Managementto negotiate renewal of the Agreement, will be paid by the Company, and shall not ex coed six (6) Union members of Local 483 plus representation from the National Union.
in Article 13(B) (3) any of the six (6) Union members may be from outside the Bargaining Unit.
In the case of (B) (1), (B) (2), aid (B) (3) above, the same limitation in numbers shall apply to the Company.
(C)	The Union agrees to certify to the Companythe names of its duly elected officers and any other representatives authorized by the Union under its constitution to negotiate with the Company on any matters covered by this Agreement.
It is agreed that no individual employee or group of employees shall represent the local Union at meetings with Management without proper authorization from the local Union.
<D) A Steward, with the approvalof his Supervisor, shall be permitted, during regula working hours without loss of time or pay, to leave his regula duties for a reasonableperiod to adjust aid present grievaices in his zone. If an employee has been instructed to report to maiagementhe may, if he so desires, be accompaiiedby a Union Representativebut only if he has been advisedby maiagement that the instruction is mandatory.
33
(E)	The Company agrees it will reimburse Union officers called in for monthly
Umon-Managementmeetings at regular rate for any hours between 7:00 am aid 3:30 p, m. Such time will not be included in the work week. When the Union 0 fficsrs or Committeesare scheduled for and paid for 8/12 hours in one day for attendingjoint Union-Managementmeetings, such 8/12 hours will be considered as 8/12 hours worked in computing the work week under Article 7 (A), and in determining the “opportunityof working” under Article 11 (B),
(Understandings that short duration meetings will be done on a call back
basis as current practice.)
Meetings convened by a Conciliation Officer or by a Conciliation Board during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed to be joint Union-Management Meetings.
Only Plait employeeswill be reimbursed by the Company as outlined in the Agreement, forjoint Union-ManagementMeetings as in 13 (B) (1) aid 13 (B) (2).
(F)	The Company shall grant a leave of absence of up to one month for a maximum of 4 Union Representativesto attend Union conventionsupon written request from the Union Executive. Arrangements for such time shall be made with the Support Services Manager giving as much notice as possible wti a minimum of 48 hours.
(G)	Subject to the efficiency of plant operations, the Company shall allowthe Union Executive and Stewards the required time off without pay to attend to necessaryUnion Business, upon the written request of the Union President or his authorized representative, Arrangements for such time a££ shall be made with the supervisor concemedgiving as much notice as possible with a minimumof 24 hours. Preferably such request shouldbe presentedto the Support Services Maiagerby 8:00 cm Thursdayof the week preceding the date the required time would begin. Such time off will be considered as 8 hours work for each day, for purposes of calculating the work week (Article 7 (A)), and opportunity! o work (Article 11 (B)).
(H)	Subjectto the efficiency of plant operation, the Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay or benefits of up to six months for a maximum of two Union Representatives in one calendar year to attend a Labour School upon the written request from the Union Executive with two weeks notice.
34
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
For the purpose of adjusting grievances arising from the interpretation, administration or alleged violation of any part of the Collective Agreementthis grievanceprocedure shall be followed. Any complaint of an employ eemust be taken up verbally by the employee and his steward with the supervisorconcemed. If the complaint is not settled, it becomes a grievance and shall be processed accordingly.
Grievances shall be taken up as follows:
(1)	As soonas possible after the alleged griev mice becomes apparent but in any event within 42 calendar days from the alleged occurrence, the grievance must be presentedtothe supervisor concemedby the Steward in writing onforms provided by the Company and agreedto by the Union. Within24 calendar days of presentationof the grievance, the Divisional Manager or his representative,will bold a meeting with the Union Steward, Chief Steward or his representative, and the supervisor, at which time an effort will be made to settle the grievance. The DivisionalManager or his representative will reply in writing to the Union Steward, advising him of his decision within7 calendar days after the meeting.
(2)	If the DivisionalManager’s decision is not satisfactory,the Union will make a request, within 7 calendar days ofreceiving the DivisionalManager’s decision, for a meeting with the Plant Manager or his representative. Within28 calendar days of receivingthe request, the Company will meet with the Union Grievance Committee. The Plant Manager or his representative will make his ruling on the dispositionof the grievance in writing and send it by registered mail to the Chairman of the Grievance Committee within 7 calendar daysofhismeeting with the Grievance Committee, Also copies of such decisions or rulings will be deliveredby the Support Services Department to the Union Secretary-Treasurer, Union President and National Representative. If the Union requests arbitration, the request must be made in writing within 14 calendar days after receipt of the Plant Manager’s decision.
(3)	By a single arbitratorupon the written request of either party to this Agreement. The functions of such Arbitrator shall be limited to the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such Arbitrator shall not have the authorityto add to, detract from, or alter any terms of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator shall be selected as follows: The Union and the Company shall endeavorto select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If an Arbitrator cannot be agreedupcn within one calendar week, the Minister of Labour will be requestedto appoint an Arbitrator. A hearing will be set within 21 days of receipt of the request by the Minister of Labour. The Arbitrator shall deliver his decision orallywithout reason as soon as practicable, mid his decision in writing with reasons, within twenty-one days of the hearing. The Union and the Company shall each pay half of the remunerationand expenses of the Arbitrator.
35
if either party fails to adhere to the time limits of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall lapse. in the case of a Union or employee grievance, if the failure is attributable to the Company, the demand will be granted by the Company without prejudice. In the case of a Company grievance, if the failure is amibutable to the Union, the demand will be granted by the Union without prejudice. Any of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extendedby the written consent of both parties.
36
ARTICLE 15
LOCKOUTS AND STRIKES
(A)	The Union shall not call or authorize and no officer, official, or agent ofthe Union shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful strike or slowdown. Any employeeviolating this provisionis subjectto discipline.
The Company shall not call or authorize and no officer. official or agent of the Company shall counsel, support, encourage or participate in an unlawful lockout, if the Companyviolates this provision, it shall reimburse the employee or employees for the time lost by reason of such violation.
(B)	Should any condition lead to a stoppage of work, the Union will, at the request ofthe Company, cause to remain at work such members of the Union as are necessary to maintain essential services for plant and town protection.
37
ARTICLE 16
SAFETY AND HEALTH
(A) The Company will maintain its plant aid its premises in safe conditions aid in accordancewith the regulations set out by the Province of Ontario and/or the Dominion of Canada and the Union agrees to assist the company in maintaining observanceof these regulations. The Company will continue to maintain adequate First Aid facilities, and to establish and maintain Safety and Health Rules and Regulations in accordancewith good safety aid health practice aid government regulations. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company concerning the health aid safety of employees. Employees arerequiredto work safely at all times and comply with the safety regulations, No employee shall be required to perform services that seriouslyendangerhis safety or health, and refusal to do such work shall not warrant discipline, or warrant discharge. Understanding is the above sentence would be applicable if the current provisions governing “Right to Refuse or to Stop Work Where Health or Safetyis in Danger” are revoked.
Ajoint Labour-MaiagementHealth aid Safety Committee shall be composed of three representatives of maiagement one of whom will be the Safety Supervisoraid three Plant Union members. The Union representatives shall be selectedby the Local Union.
The Committee Shall:
11. Promotesafety aid health aid report unsafe practices aid conditionsto the Safety Supervisoras they become apparent.
2. The SafetySupervisorandtheCommittee shall makeai inspection of the Plait once per month preceding the monthly meeting of the Safety Committee.
3. Make recommendationsto Management concerning safetymatters.
38
ARTICLE 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(A)	BulletinBoards shall be available for posting Union notices after they have been approvedby the Plant Manager or someone delegated by him for this purpose,
(B)	MonthlyitB^nngs will be held, normally on the 2nd Tuesday of eachmonth or as otherwise mutually agreed, A Union representativewil! iib± with the Support Services Manager on the preceding Mondayncarrirg to exchange agendas and arrange a time for the meting.
A record will be kept of the minutes of all such monthly meetings between Management and Union Committees, Such record of the minutes shall first be prepared in draft form and submittedto the Union	The Union shall then
signifyits acceptance of the record ofthenetdng,by signingthe draft copy, Emsl copies shall then be prepared which indicate acceptanceby bOth the Company and the Him and shall be distributedto the Union Officers and the National Representative.
(C)	Amendments lotheAgreementmaybe negotiated by the parties at anytime bynufctBl consent, but failure to agTee shallnot constitute a grievance nor be submittedto Arbitration. Copies of such amendments shall be signedbyihe Union Officers and the Company aid attached to the Master copies of the Agreement and shall be distributed to the Union Executive,Udm Stewards and the National Representative.
The following will become part of the Agreement:
Re: Calculation of A.M.E, for Persons Retiring while on Long Term
Disability
Re: Apprentice Homing Program Re: Primaiy Safety Observer Re: Yard Employees Re: 12 Hr, Softs Re: Mechanical Division
Re: MemorandumofUnderstandingDatedJanuary23, 1997 Memorandumre: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates Memorandum re: Notification for Mechanical WeekendWork Mem orandumof Understanding re: Receiver <& Supplier Stores MemorandumofUnderstandings: Meal Allowance, Work CLothing& Safety Shoes
Memorandumof Understanding re; MakeUpShifts
Theparties agree to abide by the following memorandums:
Com Unloading • May 26/95
Provincial Apprentice Program- May 26/95
MechanicalDivisionMemorandum
Vacation Scheduling and Floating Holidays • 12 Hr. Shifts
39
(D)	An employeewho is advised to leave the Plant by the Companybecause of an injury on the job, will be paid for the balance of the day of the injury at his rate of
pay-
(E)	'he Company shall continue to maintain in effect and will pay 100% of the premium costs aid any increases in cost of premiums for coverageand/or benefits as provided by the following plans for all employeeswho have completedtheir probationaryperiod.
A summary of the principal features of the insurance, medical and pension plans is outlined below.
Except as otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, all interpretations shall be governed by the Legal Plan Texts.
The coverage is effective on the I st day of the month coincident with or next following the end of the probationaiyperiod provided the employee is actively at work on that date.
(1)	O.H.I.P. aid Semi-Private Hospitalization
Ontario Ministry of Health Insurance Division Plan {Ifpremiums reinstated]
Blue Cross Semi-Private Hospital
(2)	LIFE INSURANCE
Basic Life Insuraice of $60,000 foractiveemployees.- Iflyea Basic Life Insuraice of $65,000 foractiveemployees.- 2nd yea Basic Life Insuraice of $70,000 for active employees. - 3rdyeai
An employee who qualifies for Long Term Disabilitywill be covered for the Basic Life Insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Optionfor active employeesto purchase additional $50,000 OptionalLife Insuraice aid $50,000 Optional Spousal Life Insuraice.
Optionto purchase Optional Life for dependants ($30,000 for spouse;
$ 10,000 for each child)
Note: Optional Insurances are subject to the Insurance Company's requirements for evidence of Insurability.
Upon retirement on pension, Basic Life Insuraice is replacedby $5,000 coverageuntil death.
For retirement between the ages of55 and65 due to ill-health or disability, the amount of Basic Life Insuraice in force immediately prior I o retirement will remain m force until the normal retirement date, at which time coverage will be reduced to $5,000, Optional insurance shall continue in force until age 65, providedthe employee continues to the pay the premium.
40
(3)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
Basic AD&D insurance of $30,000 for activeemployees.
An employee who qualifies for Long TermDisabilitywill be covered for the Basic AD&D insurance in effect on the last day worked.
Option for an active employee to purchase additional$35,000 coverage.
For retirement on pension between the ages of 55 and 65 due to ill health or disability, the amount of Basic AD&D Insurance in force immediatelyprior to retiremeni will remain in force until the normal retirementdate. Optional AD&D insurance shall continue in force until age 65 providedthe employee continues to pay the premium,
(4)	SICK PAY
A Companyprovided self-insuredplan providing a benefit to active employees who qualify,
To quality, an employ eemust not have been disabled due to the same illness for two weeks immediatelyprior to initiating a new claim.
The Benefit will be as follows:
Following a waiting period of 3 days of disability:
$700 (1** year) per week of disability.
$720 (2nd ye^) per week of disability $740 (3rd year) per week of disability.
OR
4/5 of $700(1" yea), $720 (2” year), $740 (3" yea) per week of disability that includes one paid recognized holiday.
OR
3/5 of$700(lnyea), $720 (2 yea), $740 (3" year) per work week of disability that includes two paidrecognizedholidays.
The above benefit will be reduced by any wages received from the Company during that week and less one seventhof the benefit per day for each waiting day where applicable.
41
Benefits will begin on the earliest of:
(a)	absence on first day following an accident
OR
(b)	first day of illness and hospitalization(i.e. employee is admitted as an inpatientfor a minimum hospital stay of 24 consecutive hours)
OR
(c)	retroactive to 1 st day of illness/disability if absence continues for at least 7 consecutivedays
Otherwise, benefits will begin on the 4th consecutive dayofillness.
Benefits will continue for a maximum of 26 weeks for any one disability.
The Company will require a Doctor’s verification in order to process a sick pay claim.
Employeesmay make use of their existing floating holidays entitlement retroactivelyas paid compensationfor sick leave upon presentation of a doctor’s note.
(5)	LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
Long Term Disability Insurance will pay 66-2/3% of current base earnings to amaxiimnn of $ 2150,00 per month less any applicable incomes, or in respect to a recurrent illness, an amount determined by the Long Term Disability Insurance Policy. Such benefits will begin after 26 continuous weeks of disabilityand will continue until the employeeis fit for employment,elects early retirement, or reaches age 65 whichever is the earliest. Disabilityis defined as disabled from own occupationfor the first 24 months aid any occupationthereafter.
The above increase applies only to employeesactively at work when the increase occurs.
(6)	PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
The Companywill nainfcam the Blue Cross prescription drug plan (FormularyThree (3)) that pays for prescriptiondrugs after a deductible of 35 cents per prescription.
42
(7)	DENTALPLAN
Blue Cross PreventativeBasic Dental Plan #7 which reimburses 100% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
in addition to the above, coverage equivalentto Rider 1 of the Blue Cross PreventativeBasic Dental Plan #7 whichreimburses80% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
Major Dental Plan which reimburses 50% of eligible expenses based on the current Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
The overall combined maximum for basic, preventativeand major services is $2500 per person for each benefit year.
Orthodontics - with lifetime maximum $2,000 (50% reimbursement)
(8)	PENSION PLAN
The Companyhas provided a Pension Plan for employeesrepresented by the Union which Pension Plan will be continued.
Upon completionof the probationaryperiod, membership in the pension plan is conferred retroactivelyto the latest date of hire as a full-time employee.
Upon completionof two years of plan membership, each employee is vested in the Plan.
Subject to legal requirements, all employees are required to retire at the end of the month in which they become 65 years of age.
Calculation of Average Monthly Earnings (A.M.E) will be based on the best three years earnings in the last ten years service, Employees who are eligible for earlyretirementandrequestapension estimate will receivea 10 year week by week earnings record to accompanythe estimate.
Minimum Yearly Earnings:
in selectingyearly earnings to be used in calculating the A.M.E,, each year’s earnings is compared with employee’s regular rate x 2080 hours and the greater amount is used.
43
The Pension Formula will bq as follows:
AtNormal Retirement Age of 65 years with 15 or more years' service: 35% of A.M.E.
plus 1/4% A.M.E for 15 through30 years' service, plus 1/2% A.M.E for 31 through 35 years' service, plus 3/4% A.M.E for eachyear over35 years' service, less (1/2 Canada Pension PlanBenedt minus$ 175,00)
Early Retirement between age 55 and 6 5 will be grantedonrequestof employees with at least 15 years of service,
The following Early IfetdiHimt Factors applyto employees with at least 15 years of service.
Early Retirement Factor Table:
PENSION
REDUCTION
RETIREMENT	EFFECTIVE
AT AGE	JAN. 1,1991
64	0%
63	0%
62	0%
61	0%
60	0%
59	3%
58	6%
57	9%
56	12%
55	15%
Premiumsfor existing Ontario Mrrstry ofHealth insurance DivisionPlan, Drugs, Dental and Semi-private hospital coverage for early retirees between age55andn o d retirement age will be paid by the Company.
Premiums for existing Ontario Ministry of Health insurance DivisionPlan, Drugs, Dental and semi-private hospital coveragewill be paid by the Companytoprovidesinglecoveragefor spouses of retirees. Such premiums will commence upon the death of the retiree or on the first day of the month followingthe month during which the retiree attains age 65 and will continue until the earliest of:
44
1.	The completion of twenty-fourmonths from the above mentioned date,
or
2,	The last day of the month during which retiree’s spouse attains age 65,
The above amendmentto 17 (E)(8) is applicable to retirements that occur afterApril 15, 2000
Up to I week education of two Union Representativeswill be provided by the Company in administration and operationof PensionPlan.
PensionPop-Up - The Companywill continuetoprovideforapensionpop-up in the Pension Plan as per the attached document.
(9)	The Company agrees to maintainin effect aid will pay 100% of the premium costs of Semi-Private Hospitalization, PrescriptionDrug Plan, Dental Plan coverage in effect for the employee’s spouse and dependents for a period of 12 months following an employee’s death.
(10)	The Union, on behalf of the employees, accepts the foregoing benefits as a full and complete settlementof the Company’s obligationsinrespect of any amounts required by the Employment insurance Act to be paid to or for the benefit of employeesas a consequence of the reduction of any insurance premiums payable by the Companyunder the aforementionedAct, and discharges the Company of the said obligation.
(11)	Vision- with maximum of $200 per 24 months including the cost of eye exams. (100% reimbursement)
One pair of orthopedic shoes or inserts are reimbursable at 80% up to an annual maximum of $300 per person, subject to the insurance Company’s approval (based on medical necessity). Note, coverage is not eligible if primary use is for athletic purposes.
Treatment by a licensed Chiropractor will be reimbursedupto $15 per visit to an annual maximum of $225 per person
(F)	All employees must submitto aphysical examination as a conditionof employment. All hourly employees will be re-examined annually or as required by the Company.
It is agreed that the Company will pay up to $15 for the cost of a medical certificate relatedto the above physical examination.
(G)	Property- Companyorpersonalpropertyshall not be removedfrom the Plant withoutapass duly authorizedby the Mechanical Supervisor or the Plant Manager.
45
(H)	EntrancetoPlant • anyemployeewishingtoenterthePlant propertyat anytime other than reporting for duty must obtain a pass from the Security Office. An exceptionis made to this rule in case of fire.
(I)	Employeeswill be entitled to 3 days bereavement pay at their regular rate for immediate family. Scheduled time lost due to bereavementwill be paid to an employee at his regular rate. Assigned days off and down days are not included in bereavementtime cff. Time cff will apply to the immediate family, which is defined as current spouse, son or daughter of the employee, father or mother of the employee, stepparentsof the employee,stepchildren of the employee, father-in-lawor mother-in-law of the employee, brother or sister of the employee and grandchildrenof the employee.
in the case of grandparents of the employee,brother’s or sister’s in-law of the employee, employeeswill be entitled to a I-day bereavement pay as above. In addition, payment for the remainder of his shift will be made when an employee is excused from work due to a death in the immediate family as defined above. This time and pay will not be consideredas bereavement time.
in the event of a death in the family, and an employee is either on, or about to commencevacationor a floating holiday that would be coincident with the bereavement leave, holidays will be cancelled at the request of the employee and rescheduled at a later date in accordance with the collective agreement.
(J)	An apprentice training program - maybe instituted aid continued at the discretion of the Company. The rate schedule for such a program is shown in ScheduleB, The selection and retention of employees as apprentices will be solely a responsibilityof the Company. If for any reason the program is discontinued, apprentices who are in training will be retained as regular members of the shop concerned and will follow the Apprentice Rate Schedule.
(K)	in order to rarirtain the high standards of sanitationdesirable in a food plait, all personnel irust observe the rules and regulations as they apply to their personal hygiene and cleanliness as well as to their performaice of their job.
(L)	The Company reserves the right to conduct searches on plait premises, of belongings and lockers of employees in their presence.
(M)	When an employee is required to serve onjury duty, the Company will pay to the employee the difference betweenjury duty pay and his base rate for scheduledtime lost. The Company agrees that employeesscheduledto work
11:00 p,m, - 7:00 am. or7:00 p.m, - 7:00 a.m. immediatelyprecedingthe day of jury duty, will be paid base rate for scheduledtime lost.
46
(N)	The Company agrees to pay a tool allowance of $225 to mechanics Rate 6 andhigherwithintheMechanicalDivision. Employees in the Mechanical Division with Rate 3 to Rate 5 (exclusiveof the Yard employees)will receive a tool bonus of $75 providing such employees maintain an adequate supply of tools. The allowance shall be made subjectto the recommendation of the Supervisor concerned aid paid not later thanFebruary 28th, each year.
(O)	The Company will pay severance allowance in compliancewith the Employment Standards Act to employ eespermanently laid off without rights to recall. The Company will also extend the severance provisions of the Employment Standards Act to non-probationaiyemployeeswith less than 5 years of service who are laid off without rights to recall.
(P)	Leaves of Absence for Pregnancy:
Female employeeswho are pregnant will be granted leave of absence without pay for a period of time in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act.
(Q)	C,0,L,A (Cost OfLiving Allowance): The Cost of Living Allowance will be based on the National Consumer Price index (1971 = 100). The first application of any wage increase resulting from this provision will be August
1,2007.
If the C.P.I, increases by more than 3.0% between December 2006 and lune 2007 the hourly wage rates will be increasedby 1c for each .45 point that C.P.I. increase has exceededthe 3.0% to the nearest cent. The increased wage rate will be effective 7 am August 1,2007,
Similarly,the wage rates will be increasedby 1 c for each .45 points that the C.P.I increase exceeds 3.0% between June 2007 aid December 2007 to the nearest cent, effective? a.m. February 1,2008.
If the C.P.I. increases by more than 3.0% between December 2007 and lune 2008 the hourly wage rates will be increasedby 1 c for each .45 point that C.P.I, increasehas exceededthe 3.0% to the nearest cent, Theincreased wage rate will be effective? am August 1,2008,
Similarly,the wage rates will be increasedby 1 c for each .45 points that the C.P.I increase exceeds 3.0% between June 2008 and December 2008 to the nearest cent, effective? a.ra, February 1,2009.
The maximum wage rate increase resulting from this provision will be as follows:
(1) maximum increase of 16cperhourinC.O,L,A, adjustment effective7:00 am. August 1,2007.
47
(2)	maximum increase of 16c per hour ii C.O.L.A. adjustment
effective 7:00 am February 1,2008.
(3)	maximum increase of 16c per how in C.O.L.A. adjustment
effective 7:00 a.m. August I, 2008.
(4)	maximummer ease of 16c per hour in C.O.L A, adjustment
effective 7:00 a.m. Februaxy I, 2009.
48
ARTICLE 18
DURATION CF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall commence at 12:01 am. on April 15, 2006 and except as otherwise provided will continue in full force and effect until 12:01 a.m. on the 15th day of April 2009 and from year to year thereafter unless eitherthe Company notifies the Union or the Union notifies the Company in writing within three (3) months prior to the renewal date of its desire to amend the Agreement. Negotiations shall commence not later than ten (10) days followingreceiptof suchnotice. Either party desiring amendments shall present its proposed amendments on or before the beginning of negotiations. Any amendments whichmay be agreedupcn shall become part ofthe Agreementwithout modifying or changing any other terms of the Agreement.
49
In Witness whereof the said parties have hereunto signed.
UNITED FOOD PROCESSORS UNION CAW, LOCAL 483, CARDINAL, ONTARIO
Harry Ghadban National Representative
Kevin Patrick	Todd Deschamps
President	Vice-president
Wade Tousignant Secretary - Treasurer
Daniel Roode Recording Secretary
CASCO INC. Cardinal, Ontario
Marc Harcus	Ken Shaw
Plant Manager	Manager, Support Seivices
Lee Whitley	John Playford
Operations Manager	Engineering Manager
50
APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
split soft- is a shift or regular day’s work split on the instructions of the Supervisor into two or more periods separated by more than one hour.
REGULAR RATE • is the classificationrate correspondingto the job title on the rate schedule i,e, ScheduleB,
NORMAL HOURLY RATE- is the highestactivehourlyrate appearing on the employees Form 8.
PLANT SENIORITY • is the length of recognized continuous service in the plant dating from the employee’s last date of hiring.
A GRIND SHIFT- is a regular shift (i.e. 7 an - 3pm, 3pm • 11pm, or 11pm • 7am) during which corn is being ground.
A GRIND DAY - is a working day (see Article 6 (A) jconsisting of 3 grind shifts. Thus one grind shift eqmlsone-thirdGrindD^, and two grind shifts equal two-thirds Grind Day.
A GRIND WEEK • consists of the number of days or fraction thereof in which corn is ground in accordance with Article 6(A),
STARTING TIME- is the time designated to be the beginning ofthe day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e, the beginning ofthe normal hours of work.
QUITTING TIME - is the time designatedtobethe end ofthe day or shift for which the employee is paid i.e, the end ofthe normal hours of work.
CALL BACK OR CALL IN • for the purpose of this Agreement, these two terms have the same meaning. A Call Back or Call In refers to the situation in which an employee is called in to work without notice for a limited period of time.
51
APPENDIX A
SCHEDULE RATE SCHEDULE
IS • STUDENT
[A • FUTURE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES IF • FUTURE EMPLOYEES
Rate IS, 1A and IF Employees will receivethatrate while doing rate 1 work. When such employees are working on jobsofrate 2 or higher, they willreceive the rate of the job. Probationary and StudentEmployees will receive Rate 1A when assignedpainting duties.
After completionofone yea/ at rate IF Future Employees will progress to
rate 1.
It is agreed that rate IS, 1A and 1F Employees v£l not be used from the General Plait Schedule if any Regular Employee is not receiving 40 hours work each week.
52
SECTION 1
DRY STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE	KATE
Dextrine Operator	9
Reinevelds# Bldg, 39 Operator	9
Cationic Operator	9
Bulk Loader and Packer	8
General Labour	1
SECTION 2 REFINERY DIVISION
JOB TITLE
RATE
Process Operator Finished Product operator Glucose Solids Operator (3ircse Solids Packer General Labour
9
9
7
1
SECTION 3
WET STARCH DIVISION
JOB TITLE
Feed House & Merco Operator
Wet Milling operator
Germ Process Operator
Bldg, #17 Operator
Oil Refinery operator
Bldg, #43 Operator#- Loader
operator Com Elevators
Feed, Merco # Mill House General Helper
Germ Dryer Cleaner
General Labour
'Change to Rate 6 effectiveApril 15,2007
RATE
9
9
9
9
9
7
5*
2
1
53
SECTION 4
STORES, SHIPPING AND TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Warehouseman	8
Bratanan	8
LocomotiveEngineer	8
Receiver^ Supplier- Stores	8
General Labour	1
SECTION 5
MECHANICAL DIVISION
JOB TITLE	RATE
Primary Safety Ogeeeust	10
ElectricianMechanic Grade 3	9
MillwrightMechanic Grade 3	9
MachinistMechanic Grade 3	9
Instrument Mechanic Grade 3	9
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 3	9
TinsmithMechanic Grade 3	9
Utility Mechanic Grade 4	9
ElectricianMechanic Grade 2	8
MillwrightMechanic Grade 2	8
MachinistMechanic Grade 2	8
Instrument Mechanic Grade 2	8
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade 2	8
TinsmithMechanic Grade 2	8
TtiTHy Mechanic Grade 3	8
Electrician Mechanic •Grade I	7
MillwrightMechanic Grade 1	7
Machinist Mechanic Grade I	7
Instrument Mechanic Grade 1	7
54
JOB TITLE		RATE
Pipe Fitter Mechanic Grade I		7
TmanLtii Mechanic Grade 1		7
Utility Mechanic Grade 2		7
Electrician Mechanic		6
Millwright Mechanic		6
Machinist Mechanic		6
Instrument Mechanic		6
Pipe Fitter Mechanic		6
Tinsmith Mechanic		6
Painter Mechanic		5
Tractor Driver		7
Yard Hand General Labour		5 1
APPRENTICE RATES		
		RATE
Enter Apprentice Program After Successful Completion of		7
112 Program Requirements		8
After Successful Completion of		
Full Program Requirements	SECTION 6	9
POWER HOUSE DIVISION		
JOB TITLE		RATE
Waste Treatment Operator General Labour	SECTION 7	9 1
LABORATORY DIVISI ON		
JOB TITLE		RATE
LaboratoryOperatorGrade 2 General Labour	55	9 1
SCHEDULEC
Jobs on Monday to Friday work week
Section4 - STORES, SHIPPING AND
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
Receiver & Supplier- Stores
Section5 - MECHANICAL DIVISION
All jobs except the following Utility Mechanic Grade 2 Utility Mechanic Grade 3 Utility Mechanic Grade 4 Corn Unloading
General Labour - Mechanical Division General Labour • 5&td
Marine Leg Operation • Cbm Unloading - When com unloading is lobe performed or has been performed in a work week, Yard Hands will be scheduled7:00 a.m. io 3:00 p.m. in accordancewith Article6( C), when available. When com unloadingis being performed, Yard Hands will be scheduledin accordancewith Article 6( C), When corn unloading is not scheduledto be done in a workweek, Yard Hands will be scheduled from ScheduleC, 7;00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m,
General - No Labour Assignments(i.e. Article 11(C) General Plait Schedule)are restricted to the Mondayto Friday work week.
56
MEMORANDUMOF UNDERSTANDING
Re:	Meal Allowance, Work Clothing & Safety Shoes
This is to confirm that the Company will provide each regular employ eea meal and clothing allowance of $100 no laterthan April 15theach contractyear. The Company will pay $225 during the first contractyear, $225,00 during the second contractyear, aid $225 during the 3" contractyear towards the purchase of safety shoes or boots for each regular employee. Employeeswho are absent due to sickness or other reasons, are not eligible for meal and clothing allowance or subsidy on safety shoes until they return to work.
MEMORANDUMOF UNDERSTANDING RE: CALCULATIONCF A,M.E, FOR PERSONS RETIRING WHILE ON LONG TERM DISABILITY
CalculationofA.M.E, for persons retiring while onLongTerm Disability will be based on the last 3 years (36 months) of active employment. In selecting these 3 years the individual concerned met have worked 1040 hours in each year. These 3 years (36 months) actual earnings will be compared to the Normal Hourly Rate the employee held during each of these years of service multipliedby 2080 hours aid the greater amount used.
In the above cases, the pension formula in effect on the day prior to retirement will be used to calculate the pension.
57
RE: MECHANICAL DIVISION
1)	If more permanent employees are required in another shop the Companywill discuss the possibilities of a permanent transfer with the Union before positions for new apprentices or employees are posted in the shop requiring the additional employees.
2)	if it is found necessary to reduce the work force in any of the mechanical shops the Companywill meet with the Union in an attempt to reach a satisfactorymethod of displacing employees. It is recognized that if skill and abilityto perform the work are equal then senioritywill govern,
3)	if a yard hand performing duties of amechanicalhelperhas been working on ajob for all or most of the day and there is overtime involvedonthisjob, the most semor yard hand will be affordedthe fist opportunity and so forth by seniorityto stay on overtime, provided no regular member of the shop concerned wishes to avail himself of the overtime.
The above only applies to a yard hand working with a regular member of the shop concerned.
4)	For callbacks,UtilityMechanics will be used onlyafter the regular employees of the shop concerned.
The sequence would be:
1)	Regular employees of shopconcemedby $eniority.(Apprentices are consideredto be Regular employeesof the shop concerned.)
2)	Regular or replacement Utility Mechanic on the job.
3)	Regular Utility Mechanic on his assigned day off.
4)	Regular Utility Mechanic in order of seniority.
5)	ReplacementUtility Mechanic in order of priority.
The Supervisor may, at his discretion, use any of the above in an effort to minimize the amount of overtime or avoidthe need for any operator to work in excess of 16 hours continuously,
58
vIORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RE: APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
In administering the Apprentice Training Program, the following U principles will be followed:
The er\ e sq\ e for ndustria! ei a ii< illwright),	i
Mechanic (Millwright) and Construction/Maintenance Electrician under the rial ipp i p gi is 8000 hours, rhe service requirement for ntation Mechanic is 8000 hours Should the Instrumentation Mechanic become a provincially regulated trade, the service requirement will be as provided for /the icial	I Program.
/ hours 1 as it]	[ii :1 lii g e i j) I 11 b it	as
hours worked towards the service requirement. M i it < hours towards the service requirement, the above apprentices will proceed to Rate 8 as provided for in Section S of Schedule B. After attainment F8000 hours towards the service requirement and the successful completion of all relevant testing the apprentice will progress to Mechanic Grade 3 - Rate 9 (Rate 9 will be effective on the date that the testing is successfully
li 1) I it t R 10 will occur after the employee has worked 2080 h as a 131
For purposes of collective agreement administrationthe followingjobtitles apply:
Machinist Mechanic MillwrightMechanic Electrician Mechanic
1,	Education Requirements • General requirements are 3 years High School approximately. Employeeswith less than 3 years High School are considered for apprenticeship, if their abilities and experience indicate they would be successful in training.
2,	Tests • When it is consideredadvisableto give apprentices written tests to show their progress, the apprentices will be advised of the test, and nature, at least three days before it is given
3,	Apprentice on Job Training • Each apprentice will be given experience with various mechanics and will not remain with one mechanic for long periods.
4,	Apprentice Working Rights* Regular employees of the Mechanical Dept, will get preference for overtime, call back, and work on premium d^s. However, if an apprentice has been working on ejob for all or most of the day and there is overtime involvedonthisjob, the apprentice will stay on overtime to completethejob.
5,	Night School Courses • The Companywill pay tuition fees for apprentices attending approved courses, withe minimum attendance requirement at the sessions.
59
MEMORANDUMOF AGREEMENT
RE: YARD EMPLOYEES
It is agreed that thejob of Yard Hand includes the following:
1,	Continuation of existing Yard Hand duties.
2,	Working as mechanical helpers in the MechamcalDivision7:00-3;30, Monday to Friday.
3,	Operation of the bucket tractor,
4,	Marine leg operation • Cbm unloading
5,	Trackrepairs
StudentemployeeswillreceiveRate IS when assigned to the Mechanical Division except when working on com unloading when they will receivethe rate of the job.
There will be no “Replacement”Yard Hands.
it is agreedthat con unloading duties are transferred to the Operator Com Elevators when corn is delivered and unloaded by a self unloading boat. When a replacement is needed i.e. where only one Operator Cbm Elevators is available,the Yard Hands will be used as replacements in seniorityorder.
Marine Leg Operation will be offered to Yard employees in order of seniority.
Snow Removal of sidewalks and walkways
As a variation of Article 6(A), Yard Hands may be scheduled6:00 a.m. to 2:30 p,m.> Monday to Fridays from December 1 to March 31, inthe event this provision is used, Yard Hands will be scheduled as a group to work these hours. When scheduledto work these hours, suchhours shall be considered as normal hours of work and employeewill be paid at straighttime.
if snow removal of sidewalks aid walkways is deemed necessary outside of these hours, the opportunity to perform this work will be affordedto the Yard Hands on a call back basis.
Article7(H) applies if YardHands arerequiredtoperformwork during the 30 minute meal break.
in instances where there is only one Receiver & Supplier Stores available, it is agreed that a Yard Hand may be used as a replacement for the job title Receiver & Supplier.
60
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
"PRIMARYSAFETY OBSERVER
1,	There will be one Regular Primary Safety Observer.
The Regular Primary Safety Observerwill be the Co-Chair of the Joint Health and Safety Committee and the certified member representing workers on the Committee.
2.	ReplacementSafety Observers will be maintained for use when Regular Primary Safety Observer is already being used or is unavailable,
The title "PdicsrySafety Observer” {Replacement] will appear on each of these individuaTs Form 8’s,
Extra ReplacementPrimary SafetyObservers will be posted at the discretion of the Company.
Replacementswill be paid Rate 10 only when performing the duties of Primary Safety Observer for Confined Space Entry procedures. Confined Space entry work will be assigned to a replacement on a seniority/availability basis.
An employee’s entitlementto hold regular and replacementjobs will not be affected by bis selection as a ReplacementPrimary Safety Observer.
ReplacementErimary SafetyObservers will be selected from within the MechanicalDivision.
ReplacementPrimary Safety Observers who move to anotherjab in another division forfeit their entitlementto hold the job title "Primary Safety Observer” (Replacement).
3,	When overtime is required, the man on thejob will be entitled to the overtime. If he declines it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a senioritybasis.
When a call-back or weekend work is required it will be offered first to the regular and then to the others on a seniority basis.
4.	Postings for Primary Safety Observer positions will contain the following restrictions:
1)	Applicantsmust be in good physical condition
2)	Applicantsmust be able to demonsbate competence in the Company’s Confined Space procedure and associated testing procedures.
61
3)	Applicants must be able to demonstrate competence^ the use of self contained breathing apparatus.
4)	Applicants must pass a St. John Ambulance first aid training course.
5)	Applicants must successfully completeall courses and programs required for rpfftifirahrn under the OccupationalHealth and SafetyAct.
62
MEMORANDUMOF UNDERSTANDING
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE FOR CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
A Twelve (12) Hour Schedule involvingthe Job Titles of “Process Operator” and “FinishedProduct Operator” in the Refinery Division will be implementedwithin one (1) month of ratification.
in order to provide for a smooth transition into a Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule, an agreed on Twelve (12) Hour Shift Procedure will be implemented subject to review at monthly Management Meetings, or renegotiation in the next Collective Agreement.
TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT PROCEDURE
PURPOSE: The followingprocedure outlines the basic 12-HourShift Schedule involving the Job Titles “Process Operator” aid “FinishedProduct Operator’’ in the Refinery.
Article 6(D) does not apply, there is no Replacement Operator for job titles referenced in this memorandum.
SCHEDULE The following is tabled as a schedule for employees working a straight Twelve (12) Hour Schedule:
BASIC TWELVE (12) HOUR SCHEDULE
Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat Base O.T Wk
1 DA A NNAA24I2
AD	D	A	A	N	N	36	12
NA	A	D D	A	A	24	12
N N
D D i 12
120 48
12 Hr, D=Days N^Nights A = Assigned
* For employees working this schedule the Plait Day will be ftm0700 to 0700
Day Shift:7:00 an to 7:00 p.m. Night Shift:7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m,
63
SHIFT BONUS
The shift bonus will be 5% of Rate 6 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pjn, and7:00 am. Effective April 15,2008, the shift bonus is 5% of Rate 7 per hour for hours worked between 3:00pm and 7:00am.
WORK GROUPS
The existing four Work Groups will rotate through a 28 day cycle,
Week# I - 36 HourN o d Work Week Week #2-48 Hour Normal Work Week Week# 3-36 HourN o d Work Week Week #4-48 Hour Normal Work Week
The average work week is 42 hours.
OVERTIME
Overtime will be paid at a rate in accordance with the Collective Agreement for hours worked in excess of the normal scheduled hours of work.
E.G. 1) After 12 hours continuous work
2)	Week #1 & #3: Overtimeafter 36 Hours
3)	Week #2 & #4: Overtimeafter 48 Hours
4)	Overtime on Saturday, Sunday and recognized Holidays
5)	Callbacks as per Collective Agreement
HOLIDAYS
Holiday allowance will continue to beeight(8) hours pay at Regular Hourly Rate for each of the eight (8) Recognized Holidays and each of the four (4) Floating Holidays.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be for a calendar week only. Employees will receive pay ii accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Agreement.
Unless special permission has been givenby the Company, employees shall be scheduled for calendar week vacation. A calendar week vacation is a 40 hour week, Sunday to Saturdayinclusive.
If it is acceptable to the Supervisor, 80 hours of an employees vacation, consisting of 6 days of 12 hours and 1 day of 8 hours may be taken one, two or three da^ at a time and two days only may be taken on Saturdays,
64
Altemativelyif an employ eerequests to split one week of the above 80 hours it may consist of 3 days of 12 hours + one4 hours segment and 1 day only maybe taken on a Saturday,
VACATION RELIEF
Temporary VacationRelief employeeswill be posted and awarded to Students at Rate 5, They will be trained and scheduledin the Lab Duty and will only be used when more than one operator is on vacation/training in any workgroup. Otherwise they will be scheduled on an eight (8) hour shift in the Refinery at Rate 1S as general labour.
1) CHANGES IN HOURS OF WORK
A)	If employee is required due to vacation, sickness,training, etc,, he will be scheduledin on his assigned day off in order of seniority as long as it does not conflict with his regular scheduledshift, (i.e. Didnot work the preceding shift, not scheduledto work the following drift). Operators who are on their assigned day offhave no designated shift,
B)	If employee is required due to special circumstances, (i,e, Sicknesswith shod notice given or absence with no notice. )man on duty would be obligatedto stayuntil other operatorshave been contacted in order of seniority. It is to be understood that this overtime coverage will be a responsibility of all 12 hour shift employees.
C)	For training purposes employeeswill be scheduled on eight (8) hour shifts or a combinationof eight (E) and twelve (12) hourshifts, It would be the practice to make the change, if it is possible, without the employee working a lesser number of hours then he would have, had there been no change.
EXAMPLE:	EXTRA TRAINING
Wk.l
Wk,4
Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Base	O.T,
D	A	T	T	T	A	A	24 Hr,	12Hr.
A	T	T	T	A	D	D	36 Hr,	12Hr.
D= 12 HourDayShifl	A= AssignedDayOff
N= 12 HourNight Shift T-8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00 am - 3:00 p,m.)
EXAMPLE:	Short Duration Training (Maximum 4 Hours)
65
Complete operating crew would be scheduled in on assigned day off for an eight (SJhour shift.
For a four (4) hour training session: Crew brought in on assigned day off would attend for training and would then go “Relieve” operating crew for four hours so they could attend training. At conclusionof four hours of training, operating crew would return to complete their scheduled 12 hour shift.
2) Scheduled Homworked on assigned day offwill be included in the work week aid paid at straight time,
An employe who is selected for ajob will be given up to a five day training period • consisting of five (5) eight (8) hour shifts • to determine if he wishes to continue his training.
The following schedule is tabled as a training schedule for trainee operators aid may be used in combinationwith the basic twelve (12) hour schedule until the operatoris trained,
TRAINING SCHEDULE
	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri
Wk. 1	D	A	T	T	T	A
Wk. 2	A	T	T	T	A	N
Wk. 3	N	A	T	T	T	A
Wk. 4	A	T	T	T	A	D
D= 12 Hrrr Day 3rifh
A N	N	36 Hr.	12 Hr,
T A	A	24 Hr.	12 Hr,
AD	D	36 Hr,	12 Hr,
N= 12 Hour Night Shi ft
T= 8 Hour Training Day Shift (7:00 am • 3:00 p.m.) A= Assigned Day Off
Regular employeeswho bave five years plant seniority, or more, will be guaanteedthe opportunity of working the number of days equivalentto the
grind week up to a maximum of the normal scheduled hours.
OR
Natmal scheduledhours less 8 hours during a week in which ai employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours on a recognized holiday.
66
OR
Normal scheduledhours lessixteen (16) hours during a week in which an employee is paid for, but does not work, eight (8) hours for each of two (2) recognizedholidays.
Regular employees who have less than five (5) years seniority will be guaranteedthe opportunityof working a minimumof one hundredO 00) twelve (12) hour Shifts.
Sick Pay as providedunder Article 17 (E) (4) will be calculated subjectto the followingwaiting period determinationwhere applicable.
Benefitswill begin the earliest of:
1,	The fourth consecutive day of illness and will be subject to a deduction of $100,00 for each day of the waiting period.
OR
2,	The day following completion of 24 hours of continuous absence from scheduledwork and will be subjectto a deduction of $150.00 from the benefit for each day of the waiting period,
Both parties acknowledge the above Memorandum is a deviation from the CollectiveAgreement.
The parties agree to implementa 12 hour shift schedule for the followingjob titles using a 12 hour shift schedule similarto the 12 hour shift schedule in place in the Refinery Division. Either party may discontinue the 12 hour shift schedule by providing 30 days writtm notice
Dry Starch Division: Bulk Loader and Packer
Refinery Division Glucose Solids Packer
67
MEMORANDUM CF UNDERSTANDING
Cationic Operator
Operate Cationic process.
7	Day-3 Shift Operation Rate 9
Add Job Title to Section 1 in Schedule B Bulk loader and Packer
Duties to include all bulk filling/loading/shipping on a two shift basis. Shippingdutiesto include SAP. (Bulk includesall bulk carrier vehicles,) Duties to include all semi-bulkCationic filling in Building 47 including SAP ona2*shiftbasis.
Duties to include semi bulk starch filling aid transfer into Warehouse 64 on a 2-shiftbasis7 deg a week.
(Note: semi-bulk filling at each statim would be one person operation,
Some automation at the existing semi-bulk filler will be completed to facilitate one person filling).
Duties include helper duties for Reinevelds,
Loading of semi-bulk starchmay be done on 11-7 shift if there are space limitationsin Warehouse64 or Building 47.
Dumping of return ed/rejected bagged products Blend Pack Specialties Staffed on a 7 day basis Rate 8
Add Job Title to Section 1 in ScheduleB and delete BilkLoader and General Helper
Warehouseman
Loading and Shipping of bagged starch products including SAP
Loading and Shipping of semi-bulk starch and Cationic from Warehouse64,
Building 36 and Building 47 including SAP. (One Warehouseman operation)
Memorandum Dated January 23,1997
68
For the Company
For the Union
Memorandum re: Notification for Mechanical Weekend Work
December 13,2000
Todd Deschamps Vice President Local 483 RW/CAW Cardinal, Ontario
Delivered by Hand
Dear Todd,
Further to our meeting ofNovember 17,2000 the Company intends to implement the following procedure for assigning planned weekend work to Mechanical Division employees effective Friday, December 15, 2000,
Thisprocedure applies in situations where employees are absent on a Friday.
in all cases the foremanwill call the employee’sprinciple residence.
1.	Employees ■ With Answering Machine.
Foremanwill call the employee’s phone number aid leave a message that there is plained work and the expected duration of the work.
If the employee wishes to avail himself of the opportunity be must phone back to the foreman prior to 2:00pm on Friday and either speak to the foreman personally or leave a message on the shop extension that he will be in at the establishedstarting time.
2.	Employees - No Answering Machine
Foremanwill call the employee’sphonenumberpriorto2:00pm onFridayto notify tom of the availabilityof planned work.
The above would also apply on a Thursday where a recognized holiday falls on a Friday.
Employees on vacation for a calendar week are ineligible for planned work for the weekend days of the calendar week.
Yours truly,
Ken Shaw
Manager Support Services
Cc, Kevin Patrick Frank Hitsman JohnPlayford Paul Choquette
69
Memorandum re: Resolution of Same Seniority Dates
Employees who are currently listed in the collective agreement will have seniority in the order in which they are listed.
Employees hired on the same cfete, after May 1 > 2001 will have their seniority establishedby the Company on their date of hire. The Company will furnish the thim with a list in seniority order at the end of each quarter when new employees have been hired.
Student employees will only be considered as applicants forjobs listed in ScheduleB after all other employeeshave been considered except for "TemporaiyVacationRelief'aspro\idedforinthe 12 lixnr Shift Schedule for Continuous Operations.
It is mutually agreed the student probationary period will be May 1s to Labour Day inclusive and students employed during the probationary period shall not acquire seniority.
70
Memorandum of UnderstandingRe: Receiver & Supplier-Stores
The Company agrees to maintain threeRegular Operators in the JobTitle “Receiver and Supplier- Stores” for the duration of this agreement.
The three Regular Operators will be responsiblefor coverage during any temporary absence due to sickness, vacation, or other similar cause. Article6(D) does not apply-there is no replacement operator.
Thejob duties are expanded to include all chemical unloading.
Ebth parties acknowledgethe above memorandum is a variation firm the collective agreement.
71
Mechanical Division Memorandum
1,	The Companywill provide the Union each week with a list of contractors who were in the plant the previous week.
2,	The Companywill attempt to select repair work to be undertakenby regular members of the MechanicalDivision after hours and on weekends.
3,	Tinsmith duties will be assigned to the Millwright Shop when available and practical.
4,	All work associatedwfh. the repair and maintenanceof pneumatic conveying lines will be transferred to the Millwright Shop.
5,	Two millwright shop employees have been trained in insulation. Wheneverpossible they will be given the opportunity for minor repair jobs.
6,	Wheneverpainting duties are to be performed by our own employees, whether after regular hours or on weekends, this work wl be offered to the regular employeesof the MechanicalDivision by Seniority.
It is not the Company’s intention to have contractors working on weekends. However situations can arise which necessitate the presence of contractors on weekends. When this occurs, and if possible, the Companywill inform the Union beforehand.
72
Memorandum - CallbackProcedure
Mechanical Division
Employeeswill be called ftm the shop concerned in seniority order in accordance with Article 6(A) paragraph5 and Article 7(EX1).
If additional employees are required to help with the job, the list firm the shop concerned will be exhaustedbefore returning to the top of the seniority list for that shop and calling the employeesa second time,
When the list of available employees in the shopconcemedhas been exhausted, employees in the subsequent shop will be called in seniority order providing they have sufficientabilityto perform the work.
Mechanical-Electrical-Yard-TractoDriver-SafetyObserver Electrical-Mechanical-Yard-Tractor Driver-SafetyObserver Yard-MechanicalDivision in seniority order
Prior to leaving the plant, mechanics will make areasonable attempt to notify the supervisorconcerned that they have completed the job.
Callbacks -Mechanic in the plant for planned work
If a breakdown occurs while mechanics are in the plant carrying out plained work, employees firm the shop concerned will be called as per the above procedure.
Once the list of Mechanics from the shop concemedhas been exhaustedthe employ eescarrying out the plained work will be directed to work on the breakdown.
Callbacks - Mechanic already in the plait on another callback
The employee will be contacted and advised thathe/they maybe required for another breakdown.
Once the list of mechanics fim the shop concerned has been exhausted, the employeeson the initial callback will be directed to work on the subsequent breakdown as a continuationof the same callback.
73
Memorandumre: Make Up Shifts
The Mak e-upshift provisionwill be applied when an employee is unable to complete his scheduledshift asaresultofnumberofconsecutivehoursworkedandbeing subsequently seat home by his supervisor.
Employee will be scheduledto work the hours lost, beyond his normal scheduled hours.
His schedule will be posted as pari of the normal weekly schedule on Thursday for the following week with the understanding that the work will be scheduled on a day that otherwise would be an assigned day off.
Hours worked will be excluded from the calculation of the workweek for the purposes of calculating overtime, (in the event, the work is scheduled for the weekend then the hours worked would be paid on the basis ofthe weekend overtime premiumof time aid one half).
The scheduling of work will be done as soon as reasonably practicable.
If the employee declines the scheduled work or fails to report for work on the scheduledday, thsnhe forgoeshis rights under ihisrrerDrandum.
Mak e-upshifts will not interfere with normal scheduling and call-inprocedures,
It is agreed that the Union would not process any grievance on behalf of any employee once the make-up shift provisionhas been administeredas described above.
74
561
281
584
739
220
732
702
48
253
336
109
159
170
150
740
542
596
765
707
742
663
26
708
128
763
701
716
624
811
801
797
818
827
615
846
847
849
848
855
718
682
611
892
SENIORITY LIST
SUR	CHRISTIAN
NAME	NAME
COLLISON MITCHELL ROODE FRANCIS KROONE BAREND MINKHORST ANTONIE AARON CHRISTOPHER DTT.T .ON-RETD JUNE VELTKAMP WILLIAM HUNEAULT HENRY WATSON DONALD GARLOUGH DONALD LLOYD GARRY MCCURRIE MICHAEL ADAMS DANNY GRANT EDWIN MORRIS GREGORY LEVERE ROGER KAVANAUGH GEORGE
SMITH
TOUPFN
WALTER
SIMPSON
BOTTAN
SEELEY
READ
GILL
RIDDELL
MURRAY
WYATT
CARL
IVAN
DONALD
LARRY
DANIEL
DALE
JAMES
ANDREW
EARL
KEVIN
RICK
DALRYMPLE COLIN SHEEDY RAYMOND ROODE	DANIEL W,
HAMILTON MARTIN WOODWARD STANLEY FAHRNGRUBERJOHN GILMOUR DALE BEATSON THOMAS DOUGHERTY DONALD LAVERY	JOHN
TOBIN
GREY
MERKLEY
KENNEY
SKAKUM
MICHAEL
JAMES
ANTHONY
WILLIAM
MICHAEL
SENIORITY
DATE
OCT. 28, 1958 MAR. 19,1963 JUNE 19, 1963 AUG. 10, 1963 JAN. 24, 1964 JAN, 28, 1964 NOV. 3, 1965 MAR. 17, 1966 SEPT, 9, 1966 FEB. 4,	1967
SEPT. 10, 1969 OCT. 14, 1970 SEPT. 27, 197! SEPT. 3, 1974 NOV. 8,	1974
JULY 16, 1975 AUG. 11, 1975 OCT. 14, 1975 JAN. 5,	1976
JAN. 8,	1976
JAN, 22, 1976 JAN, 23, 1976 MAR. 30, 1976 JUNE7, 1976 SEPT, 9, 1977 JULY 27, 1978 AUG, 25, 1978 SEPT, 7, 1978 OCT. 16, 1978 OCT. 16, 1978 FEB, 7,	1979
JUNE 25, 1979 JULY 20, 1979 AUG. 15, 1979 SEPT. 4, 1979 SEPT. 6, 1979 SEPT. 6, 1979 SEPT. 6, 1979 DEC, 5,	1979
MAY 5	1980
MAY 5,	1980
SEPT, 15, 1980 SEPT. 15, 1980
75
731
830
833
887
872
649
614
579
621
647
662
674
425
426
427
428
430
436
437
438
440
444
441
442
446
302
301
303
304
306
305
710
712
711
715
720
410
411
412
413
414
510
511
516
517
518
519
SUR	CHRISTIAN
NAME	NAME
BUSH	JOHN
PATTERSON RONALD K, JR, FOSTER DOUGLAS BERRY KENNETH ALLAN JEFFREY MACPHERSON GRAHAM PATRICK KEVIN FOSS	DANNY
FOSTER JOHN MCCALLAM KIM ABRAMS CARL MCLAUGHLIN CHRIS HOOGWERF SHELDON JOHNSON JOHN MCCURDY STEVEN POOLE DANIEL WILLIAMS BARRY REILLY BRUCE MOORE BRIAN DIMOPOULOS GEORGE RAMDEEN JOHN LEARMONTH DAVE GARLOUGH WILLIAM RANGER STEPHAN SHERMAN JOHN DESCHAMPS TODD DILLABOUGH WAYNE BROWN MATTHEW GIBSON ALLAN GEURKJNK MICHAEL ANDERSON ROBERT DISHAW MICHAEL KNUDSON REGINALD MURDOCK TIMOTHY LEVERE WAYNE ST, THOMAS JOHN ARCAND PAUL GLADSTONE SCOTT VELTKAMP MIKE WINTER TIM TOBIN	TOM
MCMULLEN ALLEN LATULIPPE REGINALD CAMPBELL RICHARD DEDEKKER DAN LEEMAN CHAD RUSSELL BRENDA
SENIORITY
DATE
JAN, 8,	1981
FEB, 9,	1981
MAY 4,	1981
MAY 14, 1981 MAY 10, 1982 MAY 26, 1982 JUNE29, 1987 JULY 13, 1987 SEPT. 14, 1987 SEPT, 21	1988
JAN. 13,	1989
JAN, 16,	1989
FEB, 12,	1990
FEB. 12,	1990
FEB. 12,	1990
FEB. 12,	1990
MAY 6,	1991
AUG. 12, 1991 AUG. 12, 1991 AUG. 12, 1991 AUG. 12, 1991 JULY 14, 1992 JULY 20, 1992 JULY 20, 1992 JULY 27, 1992 FEB, 22,	1993
FEB, 22,	1993
MARCH 8, 1993 MARCH 16,1993 MARCH 16,1993 APRIL 23, 1993 OCT. 18,	1993
OCT, 18,	1993
OCT. 18,	1993
NOV. 15,	1993
JAN, 3,	1994
JAN, 3,	1996
JAN, 4,	1996
JAN. 10,	1996
JAN, II, 1996 JAN. 17,	1996
OCT, 7,	1996
OCT. 22,	1996
NOV. 18,	1996
JAN, 6,	1997
JAN, 6,	1997
JAN. 6,	1997
76
NO.
520
522
524
526
528
532
533
534
230
231
232
234
235
236
238
239
240
241
242
243
245
246
247
248
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
110
111
112
113
114
210
212
213
214
215
216
217
219
320
321
SUR
NAME GILL1S RYLANDS BRENNAN MAHON ZAJAC ASTLEFORD LAVERY SARGENT TOUSIGNANT WADE GALLACHER BRENT REDDICK BRIAN BRUCE	MARK
FERGUSON RICHARD ROODE	JOSEPH
DESCHAMPS LESTER Jr.
CHRISTIAN
NAME
ALLAN
MICHAEL
DAN
DAN
WALTER
MICHAEL
CRAIG
JEFF
FINUCAN
SCOTT GAW
BELANGER WINDSOR HOOPER DISHEAU MACINTYRE FRANK ROLES	BRIAN
MALCOMNSON ROB
EDWARD
MARK
BRAD
CRAIG
BRADLEY
LAUREL
SHAWN
EDWARD
CHRIS
JOSH
DIANE
JOHN
SH1PTON MCDERMID HODGE BROCK COOKE LEARMONTH SARAH BOISVENUE JEFF BURNSIDE BLOOM GRAHAM DOWSON CUGLIETTA V1SSER RODRIGUE BARKER
JULIEN
MCNEIL
GILL
RYAN
ANDERSON
ROBINSON
JANSMAN
BRENT
DARRELL
JILL
RHONDA
DOMENICO
SIES
PAMELA
SHAWN
CHRIS
DIANE
PAUL
JAMES
MATTHEW
GLENN
WILLIAM
SENIORITY
DATE
FEB. 10,	1997
FEB. 24,	1997
APRIL 15, 1997 APRIL 15, 1997 MAY 12,	1997
SEPT. 15, 1997 SEPT. 15, 1997 SEPT. 22, 1997 AUG. 18,	1998
AUG. 19,	1998
AUG. 24,	1998
JAN, 4,	1999
FEB, 26,	1999
MARCH 2, 1999 MARCH 15, 1999 MARCH 16, 1999 APRILS, 1999 APRIL 12, 1999 JUNE28, 1999 OCT, 25,	1999
IAN. 10,	2000
MARCH 2, 2000 MARCH 6, 2000 MARCH 13, 2000 MARCH 27, 2000 APRIL 3,	2000
JULY 31,	2000
OCT. 10,	2000
OCT. 11,	2000
NOV. 13,	2000
JAN, 4,	2001
JAN. 15,	2001
APRIL 9,	2001
APR1L1Q, 2001 APRIL 17,	2001
APRIL 18,	2001
APRIL 19,	2001
NOV, 26,	2001
NOV, 26,	2001
NOV, 26,	2001
MARCH 11, 2002 MARCH II, 2002 MARCH 11, 2002 MAY 21,	2002
MAY 21,	2002
NOV, 4,	2002
JAN. 2,	2003
77
ii.L
416
4(7
418
419
420
421
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
422
423
432
434
433
435
535
536
537
538
501
SUR	CHRISTIAN SENIORITY
NAME NAME	DATE
GAMBLE WILLIAM HARNUM BRUCE WORKMAN DERRICK LOWE DEBBIE GRANT MICHAEL NIELSEN ERIK DOEF	PETER
BUELL ROBERT WILSON TREVOR BOLES KATHLEEN BROWN JAMES DIETSCHWE1LER CARL LOCHTIE GEORGE EDEN	DARIN
SAYEAU TROY LAPLANTE MARK ROBERTS STEVE WEBSTER CHRIS MERKLEY DAVID CLAXTON KEITH SCHAPELHOUMAN BEN BYRNES BRIAN DOHERTY GLEN CARRIERE GUY MUSTARD BEN STEWART KEVIN
JAN. 2,	2003
MAY 20	2003
JULY 14,	2003
JULY 14,	2003
JULY 14,	2003
SEPT, 8,	2003
SEPT, 8,	2003
JAN, 5,	2004
FEB. 16,	2004
FEB. 16,	2004
MARCH!, 2004 JUNE 21,	2004
JUNE 21,	2004
JULY 5,	2004
AUG. 16,	2004
SEPT 7,	2004
SEPT 7,	2004
SEPT. 27,	2004
NOV, 8,	2004
NOV, 8,	2004
NOV. 15,	2004
NOV. 22,	2004
JAN, 4,	2005
MARCH 14, 2005 MARCH 14, 2005 OCT, 24,	2005
2006
January 2006
Su Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
February 2006
Su Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	1 1
12 13	14	15	16	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27 28
March 2006
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12	3	4
6	7	8	9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
April 2006
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	il	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
May 2006
Su Mo Tu we Th Fr Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
June 2006
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30
July2006
Su Mo Tu we Th Fr Sa
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30 3 1
August 2006
Su Mo	Tu	we	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	18	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28	29	30	31
September 2006
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 il 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
October 2006
Su Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	1 1
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
December2006
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1	7
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	28	29	30
| January 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12	3	4	5	6
8	9 10 11 12 13
14	15 ]6 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 ! 28 29 30 31_____
	April 2007		
Su	Mo	Tu We Th Fr	sa
1	2	3 4 5 6	7
8	9	10 11 12 13	14
15	16	17 18 19 20	21
22	23	24 25 26 27	28
29	30		
July 2007
Su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	SA
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30 31
October 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
February 2007
Su Mo	Tu	V\fe	Th	Fr	Sa
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26 27 28__________
May 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1	2	3	4	5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
November 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
	March 2007					
su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
				1	Z	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
June 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2
3	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24	25 26 27 28 29 30
September 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
December 2007
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
January 2008
Su Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	18	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28	29	30	31
February 2008
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	28	29
April 2008
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1	2	3	4	5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
March 2008
Su .Mo Tu V6 Th Fr Sa
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
	May 2008		
Su	Mo	Tu We Th Fr	Sa
		1 2	3
4	5	.6 7 8 9	10 .
11	12	13 14 15 16	17
18	19	20 21 22 23	24
25	26	27 28 29 30	31
	June 2008					
Su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
July 2008 Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa		August 2008 Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12		1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
13 14 15 16 17 18 19		10 11 12 13 14 15 16
20 21 22 23 24 25 26		17 18 19 20 21 22 23
27 28 29 30 31		24 25 26 27 2$ 29 30 31
September 2008
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1	2	3	4	5	6
7 $ 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
	October 2008							November 2008						
Su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa		SU	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
			1	2	3	4								1
5	6	7	8	9	10	11		2	3	4	5	6	7	8
12	13	14	15	16	17	18		9	10	11	12	13	14	15
19	20	21	22	23	24	25		16	17	18	19	20	21	22
26	27	28	29	30	31			23	24	25	26	27	28	29
								30						
December 2008
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
January2009
Su mo Tu We Th Pr Sa 12	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
April 2009
Su mo Tu V\fe Th Pr Sa 12	3	4
5	6	7	6	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
February 2009
Su Mo	To	We	Th	Fr	Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
May 2009r	Sa
Su Mo	Tu	We	Th	FI	2
3	8	9
18	4	5	6	7	5	16
18 11	12	13	14	12	23
» 18	19	20	21	29	30
31	25 26 27 28 2	30
	July 2009					
Su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
August 2009
March2009
Su.Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June 2009
su Mo Tu we Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
Su	Mo	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
						
November2009						
su	no	Tu	We	Th	Fr	sa
l	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
September 2009
Su	MO	Tu	We	Th	Fr	Sa
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
						
Decern ber2009						
SU	no	Tu	We	Th	Fr	sa
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
October2009
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr sa 12	3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31