Collective Agreement Between
Unilever Canada
and
Bakery- Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and grain Millers International Union A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C.
Local 327G
Begins:
02/16/2006
Terminates:
02/15/2010
00590 (10)
Source: Employees: Received by: Date: 07/20/2007
INDEX
PAGE
Purpose ! \J	3
n5#Ptiort-'	4
t URel'ationship	4
Management Rights	6
5	Union Grievance Committee	7
6	Gjrieyance-Procedure	10
7	— ------^ Arbitration	13
8	Management Grievances	15
9	Suspensions over 1 week or Dismissals	15
10	No Strikes-No Lockouts	16
11	Wages	17
12	Hours of Work and Overtime	18
13	Vacations with Pay	24
14	Statutory Holidays	29
15	Seniority	30
16	Job Postings and Transfers	33
17	Reductions of Workforce and Recall Procedure 39
18	Severance Pay	43
19	Leave of Absence	44
20	General	45
21	Benefits	48
22	Maintenance Department Section	50
23	Termination	54
24	Health & Safety	56
APPENDIX A	Wage Schedule	57
APPENDIX B	Salary Plan	61
Letters of Understanding -Guidelines to Overtime Distribution -Alternative Shift Agreement -Inclement Weather -Inventories
63
67
76
78
1
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 28th day of
May, 2006.
BETWEEN:
UNILEVER CANADA INC.
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART AND
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327G
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT February 16, 2006 - February 15, 2010
-2-
ARTICLE 1 Purpose
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions and other conditions of employment as set out in this agreement, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
1.02	It is the intention of the Company and the Union to work together to become the most cost effective and high quality producer of packaged food products which recognizes the importance of employee health, consumer safety and the environment in which we work and live.
To achieve this goal the parties are committed to developing an environment of open communication at all levels, effective leadership, mutual trust and respect. A diverse workforce will be developed through the promotion of equitable and nondiscriminatory employee policies and practices, timely opportunities for employee development, and the design of meaningful, challenging and responsible work roles.
■3-
ARTICLE 2 Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees of the Company who have acquired seniority by the terms of 15.01 in its plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisors, laboratory personnel, office and sales staff.
ARTICLE 3 Relationship
3.01	Employees who are presently members of the Union must continue their membership in the Union as a condition of employment. Employees hired after the effective date of this agreement must, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union.
3.02	The Union will not engage in union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager and his or her designee.
3.03	All employees who have completed the probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct initiation fees and whatever sum may be so authorized for Union dues from the pay due for the
-4-
pay period which includes the first calendar day of the calendar month following that in which the authorization is received by the Company.
Back dues owing will be collected by the company at the rate of one (1) months dues per week from the wages of an employee who has been on lay off.
The Company shall remit same by the 15th of every month promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made.
The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employees, subject to the terms and conditions of the BCTGM International Constitution and bylaws of Local327G, who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
3.04	Each month the Company will provide to the Union President or his or her designee a listing of the names of new employees and the dates they completed their probationary period during the previous month.
■5-
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
4.01	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer and suspend employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause, provided that a claim by an employee, who has acquired seniority, that he or she has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. All records of discipline involving suspensions will be disregarded after thirty (30) months from the date the employee received it. All records of discipline involving written warnings will be disregarded after eighteen (18) months from the date the employee received it.
4.02	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. The location of the plants, and products to be manufactured, the schedules of production,the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees at the plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the
•6-
Company. The Company also has the right to make, alter from time to time, and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees.
4.03	The Company will provide seven (7) days advance notice to the Union of changes to Plant Rules in writing prior to their implementation except with respect to safety and legal issues.
4.04	Without limiting the generality of the forgoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the plant rules, or of any of the provisions of the agreement may be deemed to be sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal of an employee.
ARTICLE 5
Union Grievance Committee
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select, a plant Committee, otherwise known as the Union Committee, which shall be composed of a Steward representative(s) for each of the following Departments:	Process Maintenance; Packaging
Maintenance; Receiving and Warehouse; Mix Room; Utility and Sanitation; Line Operators; Palletizing, Shipping and Warehouse; Stock Room; Noodle Room and Reclaim.
■7-
There must be at least one (1) representative from each area, and the total number of Stewards must not exceed twelve (12).
All Stewards shall be regular employees of the Company, actually at work, who have completed their probationaryperi-od. The Company will recognize and deal with the said Committee as hereinafter set forth.
5.02	The name of each of the stewards who are members of the Union committee from time to time selected, shall be given to the Company in writing and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the name of the same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the stewards and Union Officers in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity, in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances is granted on the following conditions:
■8-
5.05	(a) An employee has the right to request the presence of a Steward in any formal discipline or performance discussion.
5.05	(b) A steward or his/her designee will request the permission of his/her Supervisorto leave his work station to participate in the processing and investigation of grievances after the completion of the grievance procedure as outlined in 6.01 and/or preliminary meetings with management. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Compensation for such time off shall be at the employees then current rate of pay. Except in the case of a discharged employee or in a suspension over one week which procedure is outlined in Section 9.03, employees having a grievance shall not leave their work station to discuss it with the steward or his or her designee during working hours without permission of the Supervisor.
5.05	(c)The Company reserves the right to limit such time if it deems the time so taken to be excessive.
5.05	(d)The Company agrees that stewards shall be compensated for such time off from their regular working hours as necessary to investigate grievances. The Company further agrees that Union stewards and the Union President or his/her designee shall be compensated for such time off from their regular working hours as is necessary to investigate and attend meetings under the grievance procedure. In all cases compensation shall be at the employee’s then current rate of pay.
5.05	(e) There shall be no coercion, restraint, or discrimination by the employer or any of its agents, against any members of the Union because of membership therein, or the carrying on of any proper Union activity.
5.06	Any discipline, written or verbal, must occur within ten (10) working days of the alleged offence, or the Company’s knowledge thereof. The Company will advise a member of the Union Executive in the event a reasonable extension of the timelines is necessary for investigation purposes.
ARTICLE 6
Grievance Procedure
6.01	It is the intention of the parties to settle as equitably and as quickly as possible, any grievance which might arise related to a violation of this agreement. A formal grievance shall not be filed until the employee has presented his/her complaint to his/her immediate Supervisor verbally within three (3) working days after the employee might reasonably have become aware of circumstances giving rise to such grievance. The Supervisor will orally render his/her decision on the complaint within three (3) working days.
6.02	The employee may consult with the available steward following the procedure outlined in 6.01 above providing the employee first obtains his/her Supervisor’s permission.
10-
6.03	Should the aggrieved employee be unsatisfied with the result of the procedure outlined in 6.01, he or she shall present his/her written grievance to his/her immediate Supervisor within three (3) days of receiving the response from the Supervisor. During this process, the employee shall have the assistance of a Steward or an officer of the Union.
Step 1: The Step 1 grievance meeting shall be held within five (5) working days from receipt of the grievance. The Supervisor shall render his/her disposition to the grievance in writing within three (3) working days of the meeting. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee is not reached, the employee may then proceed to the next Step of the grievance procedure any time within three (3) working days thereafter.
Step 2: The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the relevant Department Manager with the assistance of a Steward or an officer of the Union. The Step 2 grievance meeting shall be held by the Department Manager and Human Resources Manager within five (5) working days from receipt cf the request to proceed to the second stage. The Department Manager’s decision shall be rendered in writing, within three (3) working days of such meeting, and failing satisfactory settlement, the employee may proceed to the next Step within three (3) working days thereafter.
Step 3: The aggrieved employee shall present his/her grievance to the Plant Manager, or his/her designee, with the
11
assistance of a steward or an officer of the Union. Within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance, the Plant Manager and whoever he/she deems necessary to assist in the disposition cf the grievance will meet with the employee concerned together with the Union President or his/her designee and a representative of the International Union and a Steward if their presence is requested by either party. The Plant Manager, or designee, will render a disposition in writing to the grievance within seven (7) working days subsequent.
6.04	Failing satisfactory settlement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration, in writing, as provided in Article 7, at any time within thirty (30) days thereafter.
6.05	If a grievance is not processed or referred to arbitration within the time limits set forth above, it will be deemed to have been withdrawn. All time limits listed within the grievance clause may be extended by mutual agreement.
6.06	A group grievance is defined as one alleging a violation of the agreement and which concerns more than one (1) employee of the Bargaining Unit. Such a grievance should be brought forward in writing at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure. Such grievance will be processed through the balance of the Grievance Procedure and to Arbitration in the same way as an individual grievance. The names of all the aggrieved employees shall be attached to the written grievance at the time it is filed with the Company as set forth above.
-12-
6.07	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this agreement affecting the Union as such, the Union President or designee shall have the right to bring forward to the Plant Manager or his/her designee any such complaint. If such complaint is not settled to the mutual sat-isfactionof the conferring parties, it may be treated as a Third Step grievance and referredto arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee. No such grievance shall be filed with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed by an employee under Section 6, nor shall any grievance be filed by an employee with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed by the Union under this section.
ARTICLE 7 Arbitration
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to Arbitration, at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
7.02	A single arbitrator may be appointed by mutual agreement between the parties or by application to the Ministry of Labour.
13-
7.03	Within ten (10) normal working days of the request by either party for a board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee. However, both parties should attempt to appoint its nominee at the earliest possible date.
7.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third (3rd) person within seven (7) days of the notification mentioned in 7.03 above, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a Chairperson.
7.05	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
7.06	The Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.07	Each of the parties to this agreement will share the expenses of the Arbitrator.
7.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
14.
ARTICLE 8
Management Grievances
8.01	It is understood that the management may bring forward to the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its Officers or stewards and that, if such complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance of an employee. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to step 3 will be omitted in such case.
ARTICLE 9
Suspensions over One Week or Dismissals
9.01	In the event that an employee who has attained seniority is dismissed from employment, or suspended from employment for more than one (1) week, and the employee alleges that the dismissal or suspension was improper, the case may be taken up as a grievance as outlined in the following clause. A suspension of one (1) week or less may be taken up through the normal grievance procedure.
9.02	A claim by an employee, who has attained seniority, that he/she has been unjustly dismissed or suspended for over one (1) week from his/her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his/her designee within
-15-
three (3) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such case. All such cases shall be taken up within three (3) working days and replied to within seven (7) working days of the date the employee is notified in writing of his/her dismissal or suspension over one (1) week, except where a case is taken to arbitration.
9.03	When an employee has been dismissed or suspended over one (1) week without notice, he/she shall have the right to interview his/her steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
9.04	If the matter is not settled through the grievance procedure and is taken to arbitration, and it is finally determined by a Board of Arbitration that dismissal or suspension over one (1) week was too severe a penalty, the employee shall be reinstated, either with or without compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which the Board of Arbitration finds just and equitable.
ARTICLE 10
No Strikes - No Lockouts
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this
-16-
agreement, it will not sanction, counsel, procure or encourage any picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
10.02	The Company shall have the right to dismiss or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any illegal strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust dismissal or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
10.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 11 Wages
11.01 During the term of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments of wages will be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth in Schedule "A" hereto which is hereby made a part of this agreement.
-17-
ARTICLE 12
Hours of Work and Overtime
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal working hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) hours per week, and eight (8)hours per day. The duration of each shift is to be eight (8)hours. Two (2) fifteen (15) minute paid rest periods will be provided and a thirty (30) minute paid meal period will be provided for employees on an eight (8) hour shift.
12.03(a) An overtime rate of time and one-half of the employee’s basic rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8)hours in any normal work day.
12.03(b) Time and one-half will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday except for work on a Saturday that is performed as a part of a shift commencing Friday night or a lieu day at straight time which may be worked at the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03(c) Except as outlined in 12.03(b) double time will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday in excess of an eight (8)hour shift, provided that the eight (8)hour shift is not part of the employees’ regular scheduled work week.
-18-
12.03(d) All work performed on a Sunday will be paid for at double the employee’s basic rate except for shift work commencing Sunday night which is considered as a Monday shift.
12.03(e) An employee who has completed his/her regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate or one and one half times the employee’s rate for hours actually worked, whichever is the greater. Employees called in to work on Sunday shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate or double the employee’s regular hourly rate whichever is the greater.
12.03(f) Section 12.03 does not apply to the provisions for payments for the alternative shift pattern, as outlined in the Alternative Shift Pattern Letter of Understanding.
12.04(a) The Company will attempt to provide an employee two (2) hours of notice for overtime at the end of a shift. Should the Company fail to provide such notice, the working of such overtime will be voluntary.
12.04(b) When overtime is required to be worked through the failure of a shift mate to appear on time for an employee’s shift, the Company will require the affected employee to work up to the first four (4) hours of the extra shift only. Employees will not leave their work station until they are relieved by another employee, or obtain permission to do so
19-
from their Supervisor. The two (2) hour notice period referred to in 12.04(a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisorwill, whenever possible, endeavour to obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines. Shift mate is the person who has the lowest overtime hours worked in the particular classification on shift.
For the Maintenance Department, if overtime is required to be worked through the failure of a relieving maintenance employee on the following shift to appear on time, the qualified employee with the lowest overtime hours on the shift that is ending will be required to work. The two (2) hour notice period referred in 12.04(a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisorwill, whenever possible, endeavour to obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines.
12.04(c) Whenever two (2) hours or more of overtime are being worked consecutively beyond the first eight (8) hours of normal work, a fifteen (15) minute rest period will be provided before the overtime commences. This constitutes the required meal break which must be providedat such intervals so that no employee works longer than five (5) consecutive hours without an eating period. This will be the only rest period provided if the overtime work is less than four (4) hours. If four (4) hours or more of overtime is worked the provisions of 12,02 apply in addition to this Section.
12.05(a) All overtime including weekend overtime will be
•20-
evenly distributed as circumstances permit. A master qualification list of employees will be maintained by Human Resources.
When overtime is required, the Supervisor will offer the overtime beginning with the lowest cumulative overtime hours, exhausting the list in each of the following categories in order:
(1st) The permanent posted employee in the job. This includes successful applicants of permanent and temporary job postings who retain overtime rights of their previous job classification until they become qualified and are entitled to overtime in their new job classification.
(2nd) The qualified employee in the department.
(3rd) The qualified employees temporarily transferred into the department.
(4th) The qualified employees working outside the department.
(5th) The qualified probationary employees will be offered overtime last.
Note: Qualified refers to someone who has fulfilled the requirements as per the appropriate training master.
Note: The cumulative hours list will be comprised of hours worked and hours charged. Hours will be charged at straight time regardless of rate paid.
■21
12.05(b) When an employee moves from one (1) job classification to another, if the employee is within 10% of the average cumulative hours within the new classification, he or she will carry their hours with them. If the employee enters the new classification and is outside the 10% band, he or she will enter with the average cumulative hours in the new classification for the purpose of equal distribution of overtime. The employees hours worked will continue regardless of job classification.
12.05(c) The Company will not schedule more than 12 consecutive hours of work to an employee.
12.05(d) The Company agrees that overtime will be equally distributed and records kept of the distribution for discussion as necessary with the Union representatives and/or employees and that such overtime will be distributed among regular employees. If a discrepancy in the posted overtime lists, cumulative or hours worked, is raised and verified by Thursday at 12:00pm, it will be rectified or corrected before the posting of weekend overtime.
12.06	The Company shall endeavour to schedule as many employees as possible, in accordance with good operating procedures to work on a Monday through Friday basis. Changes from the schedule to Continuous Shift operations shall not be made arbitrarily and it is recognized that the following are examples of situations which may require the change to Continuous Shift:
(a) Introduction of new products or processes into the Plant.
-22-
(b)	Additional production requirements for existing products
or processes.
For the purpose of this Agreement, a continuous shift will be a situation that incorporates an ongoing seven (7) day a week production schedule. It is understood and agreed between the parties that when Continuous Shift operations are established, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)	That five (5) days notice will be given before such Continuous Shift schedule is instituted.
(2)	That a Continuous Shift schedule, once established, shall remain in effect for a minimum of ninety (90) days.
(3)	All work performed on the seventh (7th) consecutive day shall be paid at the rate of double time.
(4)	The Company will continue its past practice of paying time and one half for work performed on a Saturday, double time for work performed on a Sunday and double time for time worked on the seventh (7th ) consecutive day during a continuous shift. The sixth (6th) consecutive day worked will be compensated according to provincial law at straight time for the first four (4) hours and time and one half the next consecutive four (4) hours worked.
12.07	The work week of the plant cleaners will be scheduled by the Company in accordance with the requirements of production.
■23-
12.08	No employee shall be required to take time off from his/her regular work week in order to off-set overtime hours worked.
12.09	Normally, employees on shift work will rotate shifts every week. Shift employees will not be required to change shifts more than once per week (a change is from one shift to another, then back to the original shift) and if such a shift change is necessary it will commence with the most junior qualified person in the department, and a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours noticewill be given. It’s understood that five
(5)	days notice will be given of the start up of a third (3rd) shift and that once established it will not be changed mid week.
12.10	Employees scheduled on three (3) shifts will start the “A“ shift Sunday night.
ARTICLE 13 Vacations with Pay
13.01	The Company agrees to grant regular employees vacation with pay as set forth below at times convenient to the Company consistent with production requirements. Employees who have been laid off and have not completed a minimum of 750 hours in the preceding vacation year will only receive their vacation pay calculated as a percentage of payroll earnings. (The 750 hours mentioned above, includes regular and overtime hours worked, and all hours paid by the
•24-
salary plan, time spent on Weekly Indemnity, WSIB Compensation and Maternity Leave).
Vacation pay will be issued when vacation is taken. Employees will have the option to notify the Company before December 15th of the prior year that they would prefer to receive vacation pay as a lump sum.
All employees whose employment has terminated will have any vacation pay still owing to them paid at the time of their termination, based on the appropriate percentage of gross earnings under Article 13. For the purposes of this clause, on retirement, employment terminates.
In the vacation year an employee’s employment has terminated, the Company will include in the calculation of gross payroll earnings for the purpose of calculating Vacation pay, one (1) week‘s pay at the worker’s regular rate (permanent posted rate) for each week that the worker has spent receiving WSIB benefits in his/her last vacation year.
13.01	(a) Up to one (1) year of completed service - vacation pay at the rate of 4% of the employee’s earnings for the year ending May 31st, as required by the Vacations with Pay Act of the Province of Ontario.
13.01(b) One (1) completed year of service - and up to four (4) completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - two (2) weeks’vacation with pay or at the rate of 4% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
■25-
13.01(c) Four (4) completed years of service - and up to eight (8) completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - three (3) weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 6% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01	(d) Eight (8) completed years of service or more prior to June 1 st of the year concerned- four (4) weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 8% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 1 st in that year, whichever is the greatest.
13.01(e) Eighteen (18) completed years of service prior to June 1 st of the year concerned - five (5) weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 10% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01(f) Twenty-seven (27) completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - six (6) weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 12% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.02	When an employee’s vacation entitlement changes as a consequence of service achieved subsequent to June 1st and prior to December 31st, the employee will be granted the higher vacation entitlement in the current vacation period between June 1st and December31st.
■26-
13.03	For purposes of determining the vacation pay of employees, earnings shall include all premium pay, and pay for statutory holidays and vacations as set out in Article 14.
13.04	Vacation entitlements will be taken by the end cf the calendar year. Employees wishing to extend this period must apply in writing to their Supervisor for approval by April 1st of that year.
13.05	The Company agrees to notify employees of the date of plant shutdown, should there be one, by February 1st of each year. Employees will normally take their vacation during plant shutdown. Plant shutdown, should there be one, will occur during the months of July and/or August.
13.06	Vacation entitlements will be awarded based on seniority for each department. Employeeswill submit their vacation requests in writing to their Supervisor before March 1st and the Supervisor will reply in writing by March 15th of the same year. Employees who do not receive their requested dates, must submit a revised request before March 21st of that year. The Supervisor will reply in writing by March 31st of the same year. All other vacation requests will be answered within five (5) working days, on a first come, first served basis.
13.07	Employees who work in departments scheduled to operate during plant shutdown will be advised by February 15th of each year, as to the number of employees by job classification that will be required to work during plant shutdown. By March 1st it will be determined which employees will work during plant shutdown.
-27-
13.08	In departments operating during plant shutdown, employees in the department will be given first preference by seniority whether they wish to work or schedule these weeks as their vacation.
In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to take their vacation during plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled to work if necessary.
13.09	Employees who are required to work during plant shutdown will be so informed by their Supervisor and the employee will take his/her vacation at a mutually agreed upon time.
13.10	Approval in writing of the fourth (4th), fifth (5th) and sixth (6th) weeks of vacation will be given prior to March 30th of the same year.
13.11	As of April 1st, any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will within thirty (30) days determine with their supervisor the time that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from the remaining weeks available.
13.12	Employees who are hospitalized while on vacation may defer their vacation and commence receiving full sickness benefits.
13.13	For the purpose of scheduling vacations, classifications containing twenty (20) or more employees will allow three (3) employees per week; classificationswith fifteen (15)
-28-
to nineteen (19) employees will allow two (2) employees per week; and classifications with fourteen (14) or less employees will allow one (1) employee per week.
These amounts will be reviewed annually with the Union thirty (30) days before the first submission to ensure they reflect the current operating requirements to ensure that together they maximize the number of employees that get vacations during the prime period.
13.14	The prime vacation period will be deemed to be the months of July and August. Employees with vacation entitlements greater than three (3) weeks will not be permitted to schedule more than three (3) weeks during the prime period.
ARTICLE 14 Statutory Holidays
14.01	The Company recognizes the following statutory holidays: New Year’s Day, the third (3rd) Monday in February or the day legislated as Heritage Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day immediately before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and two (2) Floating Holidays which date will be by mutual agreement between the parties to a total of 13 Statutory Holidays. All employees who qualify in accordance with Clause 14.04 shall receive payment for such holidays based on a normal day’s pay. When a Statutory Holiday falls
•29-
on a Saturday or Sunday it will be celebrated on the preceding Friday or the following Monday at mutual agreement between the patties. Failure to reach mutual agreement the Company will select either the Friday or Monday. Employees required to perform any work on any of these holidays shall be paid the rate of time and one half of the employee’s basic rate, in addition to receiving holiday pay.
14.02	When one of holidays listed in Section 14.01 is observed during an employee’s annual vacation, the employee shall be allowed one (1) additional day’s vacation with pay in conjunction with his/her vacation unless mutually agreed to take a day’s holiday at a later date.
14.03	All employees who have gained seniority and are actively on the payroll for at least nine (9) working days in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding a statutory holiday will be entitled to such holidays as outlined in 14.01 above. Actively on the payroll in this instance shall mean actively at work or on Company sick leave (ie. first five [5] days of sickness).
ARTICLE 15 Seniority
15.01 An employee will be considered probationary until such time as he/she has accumulated sixty (60) working days of service in a twelve (12) month period. Sixty (60) working days in this instance shall include full days worked on
-30-
Saturdays and Sundays, Statutory Holidays and Plant Shutdown. Employees, who have completed the above work period, will have their names placed on the seniority list and their seniority date will be coincident with their date of hire except in cases outlined in 15.02 (c).
15.02	An employee shall accumulate seniority when he/she is:
a)	Actively at work for the Company following comple tion of the probationary period.
b)	Prevented from working for the Company as a con sequence of injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and which is compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
c)	Absent due to certified illness for up to twenty-four (24) months and maintained after that only if the employee is on the Long Term Disability Plan.
d)	Absent due to pregnancy leave under the terms of the Employment Standards Act.
15.03	Seniority shall terminate when an employee:
a)	S discharged and not reinstated as a consequence of the grievance or arbitration procedure.
■31
b)	Has been on lay-off from the Company for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or has received severance underthe provisions of clause 18.01 of this Collective Agreement.
c)	Quits the employ of the Company for any reason.
d)	Fails to return to work on the date of recall without a satisfactory explanation. Recall shall be by telephone, failing telephone contact, then by registered letter to the employee’s last known address. When the laid off employee(s) are contacted by registered mail, the employee(s) will contact the employer with in three working days of receipt of such letter. Employee(s) are requiredto keep the Company informed at all times of where they can be reached and must be available to return to work within three (3) days.
e)	Fails to return to work on his/her first scheduled working day subsequent to a leave of absence or vacation, unless such failure was reasonable because of illness or other circumstances beyond this individual’s control.
f)	IS absent from work for two (2) consecutive days without a satisfactory explanation or a Doctor’s note.
g)	Is absent due to illness for more than twenty-four (24) months. Not applicable if on Long Term Disability Plan.
■32-
15.04	There will be plant wide seniority and one (1) seniority list will be maintained for all employees. This list will be revised and posted in the Plant each four (4) months and a copy provided for the Union. Grievances concerning alleged inaccuracies in the lists must be filed with the Human Resources Manager within five (5) working days of the date the list is posted. Any employee absent from the Plant at the time a seniority list is posted will have five (5) working days from the date of their return to challenge the accuracy of the seniority list. Otherwise the lists will be deemed to be conclusive.
If one (1) or more employees seniority date is coincident, seniority will be determined first by shift (A), (B) and (C) and second by alphabetical order.
Change of name shall not effect the employee’s original position on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 16
Job Postings and Transfers
16.01(a) All job openings after exhausting recall shall be posted in the Plant for three (3) working days and employees in the bargaining unit may make application for such jobs. The name, grade, qualifications and training time for the specific job that is open will be typed on each posting form.
■33-
Probationary employees may apply for plant job postings but their applications will only be considered should no employee with seniority have applied.
16.01(b) Job posting application forms are to be handed in person or by proxy to Supervision or the Human Resources office. Supervision or the Human Resources office will record date and time of receipt on application form. A copy of receipted application form will be provided to employee or proxy as provided by 16.01(f).
16.01(c) The name of the successful employee shall be posted in the Plant normally within three (3) working days but not exceeding five (5) working days. An employee who has successfully posted to a role may only decline the role within two (2) weeks of being placed in the job.
Successful applicants of job postings will retain overtime rights as posted employees of their previousjob classification until they become qualified and are entitled to overtime as posted employees in their new job classification.
16.01(d) From the date of actual movement and successful completion of the job qualification process, an employee may not bid on another job posting before a one (1) year period has elapsed.
Employees who voluntarily decline a job within the two (2) week acceptance period outlined in 16.01 (c) are restricted from posting for any job for a period of three (3) months.
■34-
Employees disqualified by the Company from the new job will return to their previously held job and may not repost for the job disqualified from for a period of two (2) years.
16.01(e) An employee who has successfully bid on a job posting shall be released within a four (4) week period from the time of acceptance. If the move is delayed beyond the four (4) week period the employee will be paid at the higher rate of pay and the Union will be informed of such delay.
16.01(f) Employees who are absent from work due to sickness, injury or bereavement, may indicate to the Human Resources Office in writing in advance of, or during, their leave that they are interested in being considered for specific job postings that may arise during their leave. Such employees must be medically cleared to return to work within thirty (30) days of the date of the posting. An application may be submitted in person or by proxy by a Union Steward.
Job openings will not be posted during a Plant Shutdown. Should a job opening be posted less than three (3) working days before a Plant Shutdown, it will continue to be posted after Shutdown to fulfill the required three (3) working day period.
16.01(g) Employees going on vacation must indicate to the Human Resources Office in advance in writing their interest in specific job postings in order to be considered for such job postings.
■35-
16.02(a) Applications will be reviewed and postings awarded on the following basis:
The senior employee who:
1)	Achieves a minimum of fifty per cent (50%) score on selected industrial tests as agreed by the parties and,
2)	Successfully completes the specified training process within the defined time frame.
16.02(b) In the event of disqualification for a job posting the employee concerned and subsequent employees posting behind will return to their former posted jobs regardless of seniority. Employees other than the employee being disqualified, will establish bumping and recall rights on that posting provided they had fulfilled the requirements of 16.02 (c).
The next applicant will be found through selection of the next senior qualified bidder, from the original job posting, provided the requirement still exists and the next senior qualified bidder has not accepted any other job posting. Failing any qualified applicants, the job will be reposted.
16.02(c) From the date of actual movement to a job posting the incumbent must complete the job training period as outlined in the job specification. The Company will not disqualify an employee prior to completing a minimum of two (2) weeks of training in the new role, excluding holidays and other absences. To establish bumping and recall rights, the employee must complete the job training as outlined in the job specification.
■36-
16.02(d) Should the Company for any reason require an
extension of the qualifying period referred to in 16.02(c), a written request will be made to the Union President or designee in advance of expiry date of the qualifying period.
16.03	When an employee is transferred to a job other than his/her regularjob for the convenience of the Company, the employee will have his/her rate maintained if the rate of the job scheduled is lower than the employee's regular job rate. Should the rate of the job the employee is scheduled to be higher than the employee's regular rate, then the employee will be paid the higher job rate on an exception basis.
This clause does not apply in the case of a temporary posting where an employee will be paid at the rate of the job that the employee has successfully posted to, effective at the time of the actual physical move to a temporary position.
No person shall be transferred to a job position, above grade three (3) unless they are capable of performing the work. Days spent in a job under this clause, are not to be deemed as "training days" for other contractual applications.
16.04	Employees transferred to or relieving on a higher rated job for:
(a)	fifteen (15) consecutive minutes up to two (2) hours, will be paid for the duration of the transfer
■37-
(b)	two (2) hours or more, will be paid the higher rate for
the whole shift, including any overtime which continues from the shift.
Employees who are transferred and scheduled for the week to a higher ratedjob in which a statutory holiday is observed, will be paid the rate of the job for the statutory holiday.
16.05	In the event that an employee is transferred to a position outside the scope of this agreement, seniority will be treated as follows if and when he/she returns to the Bargaining Unit. Temporary transfer has a maximum duration of twenty-six (26) weeks.
Expected temporary transfer: The Company will specify the expected time period in advance of the transfer, and during this period seniority will continue to accumulate.
Expected permanent transfer: Seniority will continue for the first six (6) consecutive months and employ ees may be returned to the bargaining unit with accrued seniority. In the event that the employee has insufficient seniority to return to his/her previous posted position, his/her seniority will be exercised bumping laterally or downward. Employees who are not returned to the bargaining unit within six (6) months may do so after six (6) months as an employ ee who has completed the probationary period only.
(a)
(b)
■38-
(c)	An employee accepting a permanent job with the
Union will continue to accrue seniority, and they may be returned to the Bargaining Unit with accrued sen iority at anytime, and bumping laterally or down.
ARTICLE 17
Reduction of Workforce and Recall Procedures
17.01(a) In a reduction of workforce, the Company may transfer the employees affected to any other job in the plant, providing that the rates of pay of the transferred employees are maintained. No person shall be transferred to a job above grade three (3) unless they are qualified to perform the job.
(b) If the Company does not exercise this right, then the affected employee(s) will:
Exercise their seniority plant wide bumping laterally or downward to and including Job Grade 4, provided the employee is qualified to perform the job.
Qualified in this instance will be defined as a person having been
a)	permanently posted as described in 16.02(c)
b)	temporarily posted or;
■39-
c)	trained as outlined, under Job Evaluation, always provided the job has not significantly changed since the employee last performed the job. Management shall determine if there has been a significant change.
The intent of this clause is to allow employees to bump by seniority into jobs that they can perform immediately in a competent manner. An objective measure of this intent is that an employee would be able to perform the job competently with up to a maximum of ten (10) days refamiliarization.
2)	Will exercise their seniority alone to bump into Job Grades 1, 2 and 3 plant wide, with the exception of Night Sanitation jobs.
3)	Will exercise their seniority alone to bump into Night Sanitation jobs providedthey have not waived this right under the terms of
17.01	(c). Employees may only bump into Night Sanitation jobs if they have insufficient seniority to bump into Grade 1,2, & 3 jobs outside the Sanitation Department.
(C)	(1) Employees who wish to waive their right to bump
into Night Sanitation jobs must sign a waiver to this effect. Such a waiver may be signed on the first Monday of any calendar month. Bumping rights into Night Sanitation may be reinstated by job posting under the terms of 16.02(c) or by the terms of (2) below.
•40-
(2) An employee who has signed a waiver limiting his/her right to bump into Night Sanitation may revoke this waiver during the second week of January to be effective the first Monday in February or during the second week of September to be effective the first Monday in October.
(d)	Movement brought about by a reduction in the work force of one (1) or more employees shall start with the most junior affected employee who shall bump the most junior employee of same or lower job classification into which the employee may bump and consequently there will be no job preference. Bumping movement at all job classification levels will be lateral or downwards with the exception of job grades 1,2 & 3.
(e)	In the event that a person would be laid off, upward bumping will be exercised after exhausting lateral or downward opportunities. The employee will exercise their seniority plant-wide, upward, provided the employee is qualified to perform the job. Qualified is defined as in 17.01(b)(1).
After exhausting all bumping options outlined above, the employee will exercise their seniority to move into Job Grades 4 to 10 displacing the person with the lowest seniority. The employee will be trained and required to meet the terms of 16.02(c).
■41
(g) Employees who have exercised their rights under
17.01	(e) or 17.01 (f) will be subject to recall to their previous position whether it is to a higher or lower grade job.
17.02(a) The recall procedure will be exercised when a job opening is expected to exceed and does exceed one (1) scheduled work week due to an increase in production or when an incumbent permanently vacates the job classification in question.
17.02(b) An employee will also be considered as having been recalled should they return for twenty (20) worked days to the job classification from which they were reduced previously due to the need to replace another incumbent who is absent for any reason.
17.02(c) In recalls to job Grades 4 and above after a lay-off, seniority will be the governing factor provided the employees involved are qualified to perform the available work by the terms of 16.02(c) and that the recall does not take them to a job grade above their last permanent posted position.
Seniority alone will be the determining factors on recalls to jobs in Grade 1, 2 and 3.
17.02(d) Fora recall of one (1) week or less, employee(s) will be contacted by telephone only (from layoff from outside the plant). In the case where the employee is given less than four (4) hours notice and may have prior commitments that prevent them from returning to work, they will waive their recall right until the next recall requirement.
-42-
17.03(a)Employees who have gained seniority, and are informed in writing that they are downgraded as a reduction of the workforce and seniority has been exercised shall:
(1)	retain their rate for the balance of the week.
(2)	retain their rate for the three (3) following full weeks.
17.03(b) Employees will re-qualify for rate retention when they meet the terms of 17.02(a), or 17.02(b), or are downgraded to a position for a period exceeding one (1) scheduled week, following the completion of any previous period of rate retention.
17.03(c) The provision of 17.03(a) concerning rate retention shall not apply in the cases of temporary transfers and temporary job postings.
ARTICLE 18 Severance Pay
18.01	Severance Pay
Employees with three (3) years seniority at the time of lay off and who remain on lay off for more than two (2) years (as per 15.03(b)) will receive severance pay at the rate of two (2) weeks pay (80 hours at the employee’s straight time classified job rate) for each year of service.
■43-
18.02	The two (2) year period the employee has been on lay off, in this instance will not be considered to be part of the employees service for severance pay calculation purposes.
18.03	In the case of the Company closing and relocating the plant, all present employees would be offered employment before any new employees would be hired within three (3) months of the move. If no employment is available, the employee would receive severance as outlined in article 18.01. Should an employee choose not to relocate, the above provisions for severance pay would continue to apply.
ARTICLE 19 Leave of Absence
19.01	The Company may grant a leave of absence without pay to an employee. Application for leave of absence will be made in writing by the employee to his/her immediate Supervisor. The employee should provide as much notice in writing as possible. A written decision on requests for leave of absence will be provided within thirty (30) days of the request and such approval will not be revoked. A leave of absence may be granted for legitimate personal reasons.
■44-
ARTICLE 20
General
20.01	Reasonable and necessary leave for Bereavement and Jury Duty will be provided normally without loss of pay.
20.02	Employees reporting for work as usual on a regular working day, unless notified prior to the beginning of his/her shift not to report, and for whom no work at his/her regular job is available, shall be offered at ’least four (4) hours employment in other work at the employee’s current rate of pay, or, at the Company’s option, will be paid four (4) hours pay in lieu of work.
This provision shall not apply if the failure to provide work is caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause beyond the control of the Company.
20.03	Officers and representative of the Union who are not employees of the Company will be admitted to the Company premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of handling matters involving the relationship between the Company and the Union arising from this agreement, provided that they first notify and obtain the approval of the Plant Manager or designee. It is understood that such approval will not be unreasonably withheld and that any person so admitted will not abuse the privilege of admittance.
■45-
20.04	The Company will provide the Union with adequate separate notice board space for the purpose of posting notices of Union Activities. All such notices must be signed by the Union President or the Vice President, in the absence of the President.
20.05	The Company agrees to give thirty-six (36) hours’ notice of lay-off or eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s regular rate in lieu thereof, except where such lay-off is a consequence of machinery breakdown, an act of God, fire, flood, power failure or other like causes beyond the control of the Company.
20.06	When an employee changes his/her address and/or phone number he/she shall notify his/her Supervisor, in writing, of such change. The Company will accept no liability until it is notified of such changes.
20.07	Supervisory employees shall not perform work on a job classification within the bargaining unit except: (1) in emergencies, limited expressly to immediate breakdown of equipment, or danger to the equipment or to the employee, when regular employees are not immediately available, (2) in the instruction or training of employees.
20.08	The Company will appoint hourly Coordinator Roles at the rate of pay set forth in Appendix A of this agreement. It is understood that the responsibility of a Coordinator will not include the right to discipline employees.
46-
The Company will describe the duties cf a Coordinator in writing and such description will be retained on record between the parties hereto agreed.
20.09	Appendices A and B hereby form part of this agreement.
20.10	Students who indicate by signing to that effect that they intend to return to school will not gain seniority. Should a student wish to become a full time employee they must apply and be accepted by the Company into a permanent job.
20.11	Any reduction in E.l. Premiums, including the employees portion received by the employer, will be shared through improved benefits.
20.12	Calendars will be printed in the back of the Collective Agreement.
20.13	Any Letters of Understanding or Memorandums of Agreement duly signed by both parties currently in effect will remain in effect unless specifically modified by this Agreement.
20.14	In the event a new position is introduced into the factory, the Company will designate the classification and rate for the new position. In the event of a dispute between the two (2) parties regarding the designated rate or classification, the issue will be subject to the grievance procedure.
•47-
ARTICLE 21
Benefits
21.01(a) The cost of the Ontario Hospital Insurance plan shall be paid 100 percent by the Company from the date of the Contract and all additional increases to the cost of this plan will also be borne by the Company during the contract period.
21.01	(b) All eligible employees will be covered for the following benefits:
Life Insurance - .5 x base pay plus credit dollars, Weekly Indemnity- 70% or 100% for twenty-five (25) weeks based on service Long Term Disability - 70% or pre-disability base pay for eligible disabled beyond twenty-six (26) weeks.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OPTIONS:
Eligible employees make personal choices regarding:
Health coverage Dental Coverage
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Optional Life Insurance.
Benefit Credits and Prices:
Annual adjustments to Benefit Credits and Prices for Health
-48-
and Dental coverage will be made using the following principles:
1.	Benefit prices and credits will be set annually by the Company in line with the economy and with the plans’ prior year experience.
2.	Credits will be reviewed annually and may be adjusted to reflect market place wage increases.
3.	Prices of individual benefits will be set annually based upon two (2) factors; plan experience and health and dental cost trends.
Life Insurance Credits remain a set percentage of base pay.
21.01(c) Employees retiring after February 16, 1999 will receive a Paid Up Life Insurance Policy of $4,000.
21.01	(d) From July 1,2003, employees who opt for the 55 -65 post retirement benefit plan will be entitled to major medical coverage following age 65 to a lifetime maximum of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000).
21.01(e) The above coverage and payment schedule and any other company benefits applies only to employees with seniority who are actively at work for the Company with the following exceptions:
1)	an employee who is absent from work as a
consequence of an injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and who is compen sated underthe Workers’ CompensationAct for up to two (2) years from date of injury.
-49-
2)	a female employee who is on pregnancy leave and/or parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act and/or a father or adoptive parent on parental leave up to thirty-seven (37) weeks.
3)	up to the end of the month in which any employee is laid off. Except for life insurance which continues up to the end of the month following the month in which the layoff occurred.
4)	up to the end of the month following the month in which an employee commences a leave of absence.
5)	up to one (1) year for employees absent due to sickness.
ARTICLE 22
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT SECTION
Reference for Maintenance Employees only: Items contained in the Maintenance Department Section in Article 22 supersedes similar articles in the Collective Agreement.
22.01	Call-In Procedure
A list for maintenance personnel will be posted, reflectingthe current practice of call-ins. (Subject to change based on business requirements.)
-50-
22.02 Tool Allowance
Tool allowance will be paid to Maintenance Mechanics, Packaging Mechanics, Machinists and Electricians who are on the payroll on January 15th and have completed their probation period:
Year 1	$175.00
Year 2	$175.00
Year 3	$175.00
Year 4	$175.00
Upon reaching the first anniversary of their start in the apprenticeship program, the apprentices would receive their first year tool allowance.
After that they would receive it on January 15 with the rest of maintenance.
The purpose of the tool allowance is to replace tools worn or broken on the job or lost through pilferage. The Company agrees to replace required tools that are stolen from a sturdily locked tool chest on the employees off shift.
The Company also agrees to pay up to $1,200.00 should the entire tool chest and its contents be lost through burglary or fire.
■51
22.03	Vacations
The Company agrees that by February 15th cf each year that maintenance employees will be informed of the number of maintenance employees that will be required to work the plant shutdown.
Scheduling will be by job classification and plant seniority. Preferences will be given to senior employees as to whether they wish to work or take vacation during the plant shutdown.
"In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to schedule their vacation during the plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled and required to work."
22.04	Licences
The Company will pay the full cost of all compulsory trade licences as required by the Province.
22.05	Contractors
Trades and/or Technicians outside the Bargaining Unit may be utilized as follows, however, they will not assume Union employees jobs:
1)	When employees who have the necessary skills are not available.
■52-
2)	Capital Projects - Company will provide notification of capital projects one (1) month in advance.
3)	For unique skills (HVAC, Steam, Air, for example).
4)	Equipment suppliers on their own equipment.
5)	Overhead conveyors, palletizing systems, glue systems and guarding. Note: For item five (5), these areas will not be the domain of outside contractors exclusively, but will be managed by volume and timing.
6)	On a weekly basis, the Company will record the number of contract trade personnel employed in the categories covered under items number four (4) and five (5) above during that week (items 1-3 are exempt).
During the following week, the Company will offer overtime opportunities to an equivalent number of internal trades people for the maximum allowable hours under the overtime allocation agreement, if possible under the Employment Standards Act.
The specific trades people will be selected on the basis of the overtime allocation agreement.
Should the selected trades people work the hours offered, they will be charged in the normal manner. Should the selected trades people refuse the hours offered, they will be charged in the normal manner. If the entitled tradesperson is unable to attend for the available overtime, it is the trades-person’s responsibility to offer those hours to the next available tradesperson.
■53-
22.06	Education/Training
It is agreed that Maintenance Personnel will be trained on new equipment but not necessarily by seniority.
22.07	Apprenticeship Programs
The apprenticeship program now in place is subject to the guidelines of the document presented by the Company. The document may be obtained from the Human Resources Department upon request.
22.08	The list used currently for shift rotation for each of the trade groups will be posted by the Supervisor within the specific areas. Future requirements may cause the method of rotation to change.
22.09	All other provisions of the Collective Agreement not contained in this section of the Collective Agreement also apply to Maintenance Employees.
ARTICLE 23 Termination
23.01	This agreement shall remain in force for a period of four (4) years from February 16, 2006 and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more than sixty (60) days, and not less than thirty (30) days, before
■54-
the date of its termination, either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of or proposed revision of this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives as cf the day and year first above written.
FOR THE COMPANY. UNILEVER CANADA INC.
M. Miller HR Generalist
FOR THE UNION BAKERY, CONFECTIONARY TOBACCO WORKERS AND GRAIN IVLLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AND ITS LOCAL 327G
■55-
ARTICLE 24 Health & Safety
24.01	The company shall make reasonable provisions for the Health and Safety of its employees during working hours. The Company and the Union shall use their best endeavour to require all employees to comply with the Brampton Health and Safety Policy.
24.02	(a) In the case of safety footwear, the Company will establish an arrangement with a supplier where employees will return their used footwear to the supplier for assessment and will be provided with a replacement. The established cost parameter is a maximum of $140.00 per pair. Safety footwear will be replaced as needed.
24.02	(b) All employees will be permitted to maintain a supply of two (2) pairs of safety footwear. To allow the opportunity to acquire a second pair of safety footwear, all employees will be provided with a one-time coupon entitling them to acquire one (1) pair of safety footwear without providing a replacement. Following use of the one-time coupon, the replacement program identified in clause 24.02(a) will apply.
24.03	The Company will pay full cost of purchase of prescription safety glasses and replacement lens as required (up to a maximum limit set by t
he Company) to employees required to wear prescription safety glasses on their job. Purchases must be made from a supplier designated by the Company.
-56-
APPENDIX A
WAGE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 16, 2006 PAYMENT OF WAGES - Weekly
COORDINATOR ROLES
The Coordinator Rate is $1.00 per hour. Job Grades for Coordinators are as follows:
Sanitation Warehouse
Soup Packaging Department Process Department Maintenance Department
An acting Supervisorwill receive the rate of 75 cents per hour in addition to the Job Rate. Should a Coordinator be appointed to Acting Supervisor, 75 cents per hour will be paid in addition to the Coordinator rate cf $1.00.
Grade 7 Grade 8 Grade 9 Grade 9 Grade 11
■57
Job Effective Effective
Grade Feb. 16. 2006 Feb. 16. 2007
2.5%	3.0%
1	$19.61	$20.20
2	$20.85	$21.48
3	$21.45	$22.09
4	$22.21	$22.88
5	$22.68	$23.36
6	$23.36	$24.06
7	$24.14	$24.86
8	$24.84	$25.59
9	$25.77	$26.54
10	$27.28	$28.10
11	$27.97	$28.81
Effective Feb. 16, 2008
3.5%
$20.91
$22.23
$22.87
$23.68
$24.18
$24.90
$25.73
$26.49
$27.47
$29.08
$29.82
Effective Feb. 16, 2009
3.5%
$21.64
$23.01
$23.67
$24.51
$25.03
$25.77
$26.63
$27.42
$28.43
$30.10
$30.86
MAINTENANCE GROUP
General
Labour $20.85 MM4 $29.55 MM3 $30.24 MM2 $31.10 MM1 $32.00
$21.48	$22.23
$30.44	$31.51
$31.15	$32.24
$32.03	$33.15
$32.96	$34.11
$23.01
$32.61
$33.37
$34.31
$35.30
$0.25 premium for Gas Fitter Maintenance Certificate on Grandfathered basis for current maintenance employees only.
Effective April 28, 2003, mechanics without Millwright certification, and who have 20+years of service in that role, will be treated as having Millwright certification for the purposes of pay.
■58-
Rate Group
MM4
MM3
MM2
MM1
Mechanic
Millwright Certificate PLC Certificate Packaging Mechanic Certificate Dual Millwright/ Electrician
Electrician
Electrician’s License PLC Certificate Packaging Mechanic Certificate Dual Millwright/ Electrician
Notes:
•	All existing Mechanics and Electricians as of February 15, 2006 will be grandfathered at their existing Rate Group.
•	The order of PLC education and Packaging Mechanictraining can be interchanged.
•	It is expected that skills developed by employees as they progress through the Rate Groups will be utilized.
Job List - February 16. 2006
Job Grade 2 Job Grade 3
Job Grade 4 Job Grade 5 Job Grade 6
General Labour (Packer)
Chute Filler Palletizer
Building Cleaner - Sanitation Packaging Machines Cleaner Process/General Cleaner Soup Operator
■59-
Job Grade 7
Job Grade 8
Job Grade 9
Job Grade 10 Job Grade 11
Utility Person - Soup Side-Seam GluerOperator/Packer Reclaim Operator Sidedish Operator Warehouse Person
Palletizing Operator Line Operator
Receiver- Raw MaterialsWhse.
Stockperson- Process Turret/Counter Balance Operator Noodle Operator Pest Controller
Mixing Operator
Job List - Maintenance
Processing Maintenance Mechanic Packaging Maintenance Mechanic Electrical Maintenance Mechanic Lift Vehicle Maintenance Mechanic
•60-
APPENDIX B
Salary Plan
On December 1, 1970 the hourly-rate system was replaced with a salary plan system. It is designed to protect one's income when prevented from attending work for occasional illness or reasons judged by the Company to be bona fide. The plan provides continuity of your salary system during the so-called "waiting period" in cases of lengthy illness and then the Weekly Indemnity Plan will go into effect.
Calculation of the Salary Plan
Your weekly salary will be forty (40) times your current hourly rate as established by the collective agreement.
The arrangement will not affect your employment insurance coverage. You and the Company will continue to make the usual contribution and you will be eligible for the same benefits that you are now.
The Salary Plan, as outlined above will be paid on a weekly basis.
Administration of the Salary Plan
The essential rule is that you keep your Supervisor fully advised of any absence and the reasons for them. There will also be some circumstances when he/she will request a statement from a doctor regarding the state of your health during or after an illness.
■61
The Company will require medical documentation on the third (3rd) consecutive day of any absence. The documentation will be utilized to adjudicate the entitlement for Short Term Disability pay for that absence.
Effective June 1, 2006 the Attendance Policy, including the Occurrence System, will be removed and all employees will be reinstated to the Salary Plan.
The plan is a means of income continuance, not an approval for truancy. Therefore, if an employee is frequently absent -regardless of the reasons for the absence - his/her case will come under review just as it does now. It is costly and unfair to continue to extend privileges to any who abuse them and it is the Company’s responsibility to discontinue their services if they prove they are unwilling to successfully maintain satisfactory levels of attendance.
It is important that we remember, continued excessive plant absenteeism may jeopardize the continued existence of Salary Plan benefits as they exist at present.
■62-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - Guidelines to Overtime Distribution
1.	It is recognized that the plant exists to supply the business with saleable product as needed to support the demands of the market. Therefore, effective communication with the Union is necessary in order to keep employees informed of ongoing and future production demands
2.	It is expected that all employees will share in the responsibility for fulfilling overtime requirements. During periods of high demand, where insufficient volunteers are available, employees will be scheduled to fulfill overtime requirements. For weekend overtime, volunteers will be assigned overtime prior to employees being scheduled.
3.	Overtime will be requested on the basis of lowest cumulative hours. In the event, the cumulative hours are equal, the senior employee will be offered the overtime. Cumulative hours will be based on the total overtime hours worked and any overtime hours offered and refused. Cumulative overtime lists will be updated once per week and will be available by Monday at 2:00 p.m.
4.	In the event employees are required to be scheduled, scheduling will be done on the basis of lowest overtime hours worked. In the event overtime "hours worked" are equal, the junior employee will be scheduled. An overtime "hours worked" list will be updated on a weekly basis and will be available Monday at 2:00 p.m.
■63-
5.	Employees will not be scheduled for more than eight (8) overtime hours in the same work week. (Monday - Sunday inclusive)
6.	Employees who volunteer or are scheduled for overtime and do not show may be subject to the discipline process. This will not apply to situations that have occurred due to an emergency, illness with documentation or injury.
7.	Overtime requirements will be posted by 10:00 a.m. Wednesday and removed by 8:00 a.m. Thursday. The overtime requirement will clearly state the number of shifts required and number of employees for each classification.
8.	The overtime list must be posted for weekend overtime by Thursday at 3:00 p.m. Overtime requirements which occur following the posting of the list at 3:00 p.m. on Thursdays will be considered voluntary.
9.	For the purposes of this agreement, the maximum allowable weekly worked hours will be fifty-six (56). (sick days, vacation days, & overtime given away will be considered as worked)
10.	Employees scheduled for weekend overtime may solicit a qualified replacement. In such circumstances, the working employee may not exceed the maximum allowable weekly hours, and both employees will be charged for the hours worked.
■64-
11.	Upon return from a minimum layoff of 4 weeks, the employee will be allotted the average cumulative overtime hours for their classification
12.	If employees wish to be considered for overtime in more than one classification, they must be qualified and sign the posted overtime volunteer list for each classification. Employees must, however accept overtime in their own classification first.
13.	Employees, who are off work at the time of the overtime posting, must advise their supervisor of their wish to be placed on the volunteer list prior to 8:00 a.m. on Thursdays in order to be considered.
14.	For Maintenance employees, Call-ins will be defined as when an employee has completed their regular shift, leaves the premises and is then recalled to work. The employee is expected to work immediately, within a reasonable period of time. The employee will receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay at their regular straight time rate or one and one half times their regular rate of pay for actual hours worked, whichever is greater. Call-ins on Sunday shall be paid at a minimum of four (4) hours regular straight time pay or double time pay for hours actually worked, whichever is greater. Call-ins are recorded on the overtime tracking list. The regular overtime cumulative hours list will be used for determining the order of call-in for tradespeople.
■65
Note: It is not a call-in when the employee is called at home and is asked to report for work priorto their regular shift start for a predetermined early start time. This is an offer of overtime, which is voluntary and is recorded on the overtime tracking list. Overtime is offered according to the cumulative overtime hours list.
Dated May, 2006.
Signed for the Company
D. Dobbin	S. Dryburgh
R. W. Owen	M. Miller
Signed for the Union
S. Kelly	S. Ward
D. Brammall	J. Hof
M. Smith
R. Hedley
■66-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING- Alternative Shift Agreement
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide a socially acceptable six (6) day shift schedule which fulfils the needs of the employees and meets the demands on the Business.
2.	This agreement will apply to all employees who are required to work on a six (6) day shift schedule.
3.	Employees will work either twelve (12) hour shifts, or a combination cf eight (8) and twelve (12) hour shifts, on a continuous shift rotation, as shown on the attached schedule. The shift pattern will start at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday and end at 6:30 p.m. on Saturday.
4.	Withdrawal from this shift pattern will require a minimum notice period of four (4) weeks.
5.	Payment for the twelve (12) hour shift pattern will be as follows:
a)	Regular Time
All hours worked as part of the regular six (6) day will be paid at the rate of forty (40) hours per week.
67-
k)	Overtimed & 1/2 time)
All hours worked on any off-day an employee is called in or scheduled to work, except as provided in item #5, (c). (maximum twelve (12) hours)
c)	Double Time
All hours worked on any Sunday.
All hours worked on a Statutory, Public, or Selected Holiday.
6.	Employees agreeing to work another employee’s overtime must understand that they will only receive payment equivalent to the original employee’s entitlement.
7.	Statutory or Selected Holidays
a)	It is the intention of the Company to suspend operations for twenty-four (24) hours on these holidays. The shutdown will occur from 6:30 p.m. the evening priorto the Holiday until 6:30 p.m. on the Holiday.
b)	Should employees be required to work on those Holidays, they will be scheduled, at least one (1) week in advance, according to the normal shift rotation, and the hours worked will be considered overtime.
■68-
Vacation
8. ____________
a)	Vacation must be scheduled in blocks of three (3) shifts when on the twelve (12) hour portion of the shift pattern, and employees will be guaranteed the scheduled days off in the calendar week of the scheduled vacation.
b)	Vacation will be charged on the basis of scheduled hours during that calendar week and will be paid on the basis of the standard weekly payment.
9.	Sick Pay
a)	Sick pay, for individual days, will be paid on scheduled hours which are part of the regular shift rotation.
b)	Sick pay for a block of three (3) - twelve (12) hour shifts will be forty (40) hours.
10.	Meal Periods
a)	Employees will be entitled to two (2) - thirty (30) minute meal periods during a twelve (12) hour shift.
b)	In any event, employees will not be required to work more than five (5) consecutive hours without a meal period.
c)	Two (2) - fifteen (15) minute breaks will be provided during each twelve hour shift.
■69-
11.	Employees have the right to mutually switch shifts/davs
provided:
a)	The appropriate Area Manager has been notified and the replacement employee is a "suitable replacement".
b)	No employee works more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, or more than the agreed allowable weekly hours as a result of the switch.
c)	Any employee who is switching shifts, and who has worked twelve (12) hours, has had at least twelve (12) hours off between shifts.
d)	There is no additional cost to the Company as a result of the switch.
e)	If the switched shift is to be paid back, the pay-back shift must be indicated at the time the switch is requested.
f)	Should the employee owing the shift be absent on the pay-back shift, the right to switch shifts will be withdrawn for a minimum of three (3) months. Once the right is reinstated, a second occurrence would result in withdrawal of the right for a period of one (1) year and any further incidents will result in withdrawal of the privilege for that employee.
■70-
12.	Coverage Regulations
Each Department will develop guidelines for the provision of coverage for scheduled and unscheduled absences, understanding that, in every instance, the requirement for overtime is at Management's discretion. In the absence of department specific guidelines, the following will apply:
In the event an employee working on the eight (8) hour portion of the rotation is re-allocatedto cover an absent employee for the complete calendar week, the employee will be paid the standard weekly payment for the pattern.
For unscheduled vacancies, the following will apply:
a)	Operate with reduced crewing, (not cover the vacancy)
b)	A suitable replacement, without involving overtime.
c)	A suitable replacement on the shift, on the basis of low overtime hours.
d)	Re-allocate suitable replacement to the vacancy, on the basis of low overtime hours.
e)	Call-in from off days using the following criteria:
• There will be a volunteer list of employees who wish to be considered available for call-ins from their off days. The list will be in
■71
effect for the designated four (4) week cycle, beginning at 6:30 p.m., Sunday.
•	For scheduled overtime, employees will be scheduled from the volunteer list, on the basis of low cumulative hours, to a maximum of one (1) dF day per off-period. Should there be insufficient volunteers, employees will be scheduled, on the basis of reverse seniority, to a maximum of one (1) off-day per calendar week.
•	For unscheduled vacancies, volunteers will be solicited on the basis of low cumulative hours to a maximum of one (1) off-day per calendar week. Should there be insufficient volunteers, employees will be scheduled, on the basis of reverse seniority, to a maximum of one (1) off-day per calendar week.
13.	Scheduled Overtime
a)	Notice for scheduled overtime must be posted a minimum of thirty-six (36) hours prior to the end of the employee’s last shift in that work period.
b)	In all cases, employees have the option of giving overtime away to a suitable replacement, provided overtime limits are not exceeded.
■72-
14. Unscheduled Overtime
a) There will be a volunteer list of employees who wish to be considered available for overtime on their off-days. The list will be finalized on Tuesday day shift and will be in effect for the designated four (4) week cycle, beginning at 6:30 p.m., Saturday.
b)	When suitable replacements are unavailable without involving overtime, unscheduled vacancies will be filled using the volunteer list. Volunteers will be called or scheduled beginning with the lowest year-to-date overtime hours.
c)	In the event that insufficient volunteers are available, employees will be scheduled beginning with the lowest cumulative overtime hours.
d)	In any event, employees will not be permittedto work more than the agreed maximum allowable hours in a calendar week.
15.	Employees not holding posted positions in the department who are required to work this shift pattern, will be assigned for a minimum of two (2) weeks.
16.	Disputes should be resolved through discussions within the department which could result in suggested modifications
■73-
or amendments to the agreement. Those suggested modifications or amendments would have to be approved by both parties to be implemented.
17.	Should this shift pattern be implemented in any area of the plant, the following methodology will be used to determine which employees will work on the shift pattern:
a)	A notice will be posted in the areas affected indicating the number of employees required for the shift pattern and asking for volunteers from the classifications required to fulfill the requirement. Only employees from within the classifications affected may volunteer.
b)	Should insufficient volunteers be obtained, employees will be assigned to the shift pattern in reverse order of seniority from within the affected classifications.
c)	If the requirement is expected to be longer than twenty (20) weeks, the resulting vacancies will be posted in the normal manner outlined in the Collective Agreement.
d)	If the requirement is expected to be less than twenty (20) weeks, the resulting vacancies will be filled using temporary transfers and cross trained fill-ins.
e)	In the event the production requirements no longer support the need for the pattern, employees will exercise their bunping rights into the regular five (5) daywork pattern.
•74-
In the event there is no requirement for production in the assigned six (6) day pattern area, the affected employees may be reassigned to perform any available work they are capable of performing.
Dated May, 2006.
Signed for the Company
D. Dobbin	S, Dryburgh
R.W. Owen	M. Miller
Signed for the Union
S. Kelly	S. Ward
D. Brammall	J. Hof
M. Smith R. Hedley
•75-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - Inclement Weather re: Article 20, 20.04
Should the Company decide to close the plant due t( extremely bad weather conditions, (i.e. severe snow storm) every reasonable effort will be made to:
a)	Contact employees of the affected shift prior to the start of the shift.
b)	Request the local radio station, CFRB Radio 1010 and CFTR 680 News, to announce closure of the plant.
Employees should, in such circumstances, attempt to contact the Company to determine whether it will be operating o> not.
As such a plant closure is beyond the control of the Company, affected employees will not be paid reporting pa) whether they manage to report or not.
If, during a period of bad weather conditions, the Company decides to continue its operations, employees reporting foi work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours work. Employees who do not report for work as scheduled when the plant continues operations will not be paid. The exceptions to the above will be when an employee is on Company sick leave, is hosptialized, received emergency treatment or
■76-
is treated by a physician, for reasons which would have prevented him or her from working on the day(s) of inclement weather. The above exceptions must be certified in writing by a medical practitioner.
The Salary Plan does not supersede the provisions of Article 20, 20.04 of the Collective Agreement which addresses itself to the Company’s inability to provide work not an individual’s ability to report to work as outlined in the Salary Plan.
Dated May, 2006.
Signed for the Company
D. Dobbin	S. Dryburgh
R.W. Owen	M. Miller
Signed for the Union
S. Kelly	S. Ward
D. Brammall	J. Hof
M. Smith R. Hedley
■77-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Inventories
The taking of inventories is not considered to be bargaining unit work; however, when extra personnel are required in addition to the management and clerical staff, such employees will be selected in the following manner.
■I) Senior qualified employees working in the Department.
2) Senior qualified employees working outside the Department.
All interested employees must sign a posted list in order to be considered for work on an inventory.
Dated May, 2006.
Signed for the Company
D. Dobbin	S.	Dryburgh
R.	W. Owen	M. Miller
Signed for the Union
S.	Kelly	S. Ward
D. Brammall	J. Hof
M. Smith
R. Hedley
78-
Year-End Holiday Schedule
2007
Monday 24 STAT 31	Tuesday 25 STAT 1 STAT	Wednesday 26 STAT 2 :	Thursday 27 FLOATER 3	Friday 28 FLOATER 4	Saturday | Sunday
^Schedules subject to change with prior notice
•79-
2006
January
5 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
6	9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 5 9 10 11 12 131415 161718 19 20 2122 23 24 26 26 2728 29 30 31
February
8 M T W T F S 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011
12	1314 15 16 1718
19	20 21 22 23 24 25
26	27 28
August
5	M T W T F 8
1 2 3 4 6
6	7 8 9 10 11 12
13	14 15 16 17 1819
20	21 22 23 24 25 26
27	28 29 30 31
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213141616 17 16 1920 21 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30 31
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 28 26 27 2829 30
S M T W T F S
1
2 3 4 8 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1617 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 28 28 27 28 29 30
October
5	M T W T F 8
6	9 io li 12 1314 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 28 29 30 31
May
$ M T W T F 8
1 2 3 4 6 $ 7 8 9 10 11 1213 1415 16 17 18 1920 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
3	M T W ff f *
4	5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 151817 16 19 20 21 22 23 24
28 26 27 28 29 30
November	December
M T W J F I SHTWTfS
' ' "	3 4 8 6 7 9 9
5 6 7 6 9 10 11	.	... ...
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	10	11 1213141516
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 26 27 28 29 30	24	25 26 27 28 29 30
2007
January
8 M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13
14	1516 17 1919 20
21	22 23 24 25 26 27
28	29 30 31
July
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 9 10 11 12 13 14
15	16 17 18 19 20 21
22	23 24 25 28 2726
29	30 31
April
M T W T I 3 4
T F S S M T
4 5 6 7 8 9 10	4 S 6 7 B	9	10	6 9 1011 121314	6 7 8	9	10 11 12	3	4
11121314151617	1112131415	16	17	15 16 17 1B 19 20 21	131415	16	17 18 19	10	It
18 19 20 21 22 23 24	18 19 20 21 22	23	24	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	20 21 22	23	24 25 28	17	18
August M T W T
September M T W T F
October
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6
56789 10 11 2346678	789 10 11 12 13
1213141516 17	15	9 10 11 12 13	1415	1415 1617 18 19 20
19 20 21 22 23 24	25	18 17 18 19 20	21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
26 27 26 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 27	28 29	28 29 30 31
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1617 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
5 6 7 8 9 12 13 14 15 16
.. .8 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30
2 3 4 5 6 7 t
9 10 11 12 131415
16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2008
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
July
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13141516 1718 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 2726 29 30 31
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 26 29
10 11 12 1314 15 16 17 1819 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30
March
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 1011 1213 14 15 16 17 IB 1920 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 1213 14 16 16 17 18 1920 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
April	May
8MTWTFS SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5	1 2 3
6 7 6 9 1011 12 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 13 1415 1617 19 19 11 12131415 16 17 20 21 22 2324 25 26 16 19 20 2122 23 24 27 28 29 30	25 26 27 26 29 30 31
October	November
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4	1
56789 10 11 2345678 12 1314 15 16 17 16	0 10 1112 13 14 15
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 28 27 28 29
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 151617 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2009
8MTWTFS SMT
May
W T F :
8 8 7 8 9 1011 3456789
mnunmn Mmsitisat
28 2728 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
November
izu	’	M T W T F S
J 10 1112 13 1?4 15	163 1?4 1B5 190	U U	ti h h 14 1B| 16 1?	^It
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	18 17 18 19 20 21 22	20 21 22 23	24 25 26	16 19 20 21 22 23 24	22	23 24 25 26 27 26
2Q 2y 28 29 30 31	A4 A< 41 AS m nfi u	A A A© A© aa	as	©e	a©	nfl	AA	©rt
S M T W T F !
September
25 26 27 26 29 30 31 29 30
-80-
14 15 16 17 10 19 20
21 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30
December
SMTWTFS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November