INDEX
ARTICLE TITLE
PAGE
1	Purpose.......................................3
2	Recognition...................................3
3	Relationship..................................3
4	Management Rights.............................5
5	Union Grievance Committee.....................6
6	Grievance Procedure...........................8
7	Arbitration..................................12
8	Management Grievances........................13
9	Suspensions over 1 week or Dismissals........14
10	No Strikes • N) Lockouts.....................15
11	Wages........................................16
12	Hours of Work and Overtime...................16
13	Vacations with Pay...........................22
14	Statutory Holidays...........................27
15	Seniority....................................28
16	Job Postings andTransfers....................31
17	Reductions of Workforce and Recall Procedure.38
18	Severance Pay................................42
19	Leave of Absence.............................43
20	General......................................44
21	Benefits.....................................48
22	Maintenance [Department Section..............§1
23	Termination.................................
24	Health & Safety..............................57
APPENDIX A Wage Schedule..................................57
APPENDIX B Job Evaluation System..........................62
APPENDIX C Salary System..................................66
Letter of Understanding
-Inclement Weather..........................68
-Inventories................................70
Hf^emium.........................71
ertime Distribution...........73
ne Volunteer List Guidelines....78
00590 Cc?)
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 17th day of August, 1997.
BETWEEN:
LIPTON
A DIVISION OF UL CANADA INC. (Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) OF THE FIRST PART AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L. • C.I.O., C.L.C.
AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1997 - 1999
ARTICLE 1
Purpose
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the Company and its employees and to providemachineryfor the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions and other conditions of employment as set out in this agreement, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 2
Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees of the Company who have acquired seniority by the terms of 15.01(a) in its plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman and forelady, laboratory personnel, office and sales staff and persons covered by a Certificate of the Board dated March 31st, 1964.
ARTICLE 3
Relationship
3.01	Employees who are presently members of the union must continue their membership in the union as a condition of employment. Employees hired after the
-3-
effective date of this agreement must, as a condition of employment, become members of the union.
3.02	The Union will not engage in union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager and his or her designee.
3.03	All employees who have completed the probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct initiation fees and whatever sum may be so authorized for Union dues from the pay due for the pay period which includes the first calendar day of the calendar month following that in which the authorization is received by the Company.
Back dues owing will be collected by the company at the rate of one months dues per week from the wages of an employee who has been on lay off.
The Company shall remit same by the 15th of every month promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made.
The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employees, subject to the terms and conditions of the AFGM International Constitution and bylaws of Local 327, who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contributiontowards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
4-
3.04	Each month the Company will provide to the Union President or his or her designee a listing of the names of new employees and the dates they completed their probationary period during the previous month.
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
4.01	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer and suspend employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause, provided that a claim by an employee, who has acquired seniority, that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. All records of discipline up to and including written warnings will be removed after 12 months from the date the employee receives it. All other discipline will be disregarded after 36 months.
4.02	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. The location of the plants, and products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees at the
• 5-
plant at 307 Orenda Road, Brampton, Ontario are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company. The Company also has the right to make, alter from time to time, and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees.
4.03	The Company will provide 7 days advance notice to the Union of changes to Plant Rules in writing prior to their implementation except with respect to safety and legal issues.
4.04	Without limiting the generality of the forgoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the plant rules, or of any of the provisions of the agreement may be deemed to be sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal of an employee.
ARTICLE 5
Union Grievance Committee
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select, a plant Committee, otherwise known as the Union Committee, which shall be composed of not more than nine stewards. All stewards, shall be regular employees of the Company actually at work who have completed their probationary period. The Company will recognize and deal with the said committee as hereinafter set forth.
5.02	The name and jurisdiction of each of the stewards who are members of the Union committee from time to time selected, shall be given to the Company in writing
and the Company shall not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the name and jurisdiction of the same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the stewards and Union Officers in the carrying out of the terms and requirementsof this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representingthe Company in a supervisory capacity, in the carrying out of the terms and requirementsof this agreement.
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances in their own departments is granted on the following conditions:
5.05	(a) An employee'may have the right to have a Steward present when a recorded verbal discipline or a written discipline is being presented to the employee.
5.05	(b) A steward or his/her designee will request the permission of his/her Supervisor to leave his work station to participate in the processing and investigationof grievances after the completion of the grievance procedure as outlined in 6.01 and/or preliminary meetings with management. Such permissionwill not be unreasonably withheld. Compensation for such time off shall be at the employees then current rate of pay. Except in the case of a discharged employee cr in a suspensionover one week which procedure is outlined in Section 9.03, employees having a grievance shall not leave their work station to
-7-
discuss it with the steward or his designee during working hours without permission of the Supervisor.
5.05	(c) The Company reserves the right to limit such time if it deems the time so taken to be excessive.
5.05	(d) The Company agrees that stewards shall be compensated for such time off from their regular working hours as necessary to investigate grievances. The Company further agrees that Union stewards and the Union President or his/her designee shall be compensated for such time off from their regularworking hours as is necessary to investigate and attend meetings under the grievance procedure. In all cases compensation shall be at the employee’s then current rate of pay.
5.05	(e) There shall be no coercion, restraint, or discrimination by the employer or any of its agents, against any members of the Union because of membership therein, or the carrying on of any proper Union activity.
5.06	Any discipline, written or verbal, must occur within ten (10) days of the alleged offence, or the Company’s knowledgethereof. This may be extended by a reasonable period, for investigation purposes.
ARTICLE 6
Grievance Procedure
6.01	It is the intention of the partiesto settle as equitably and as quickly as possible, any grievance which might arise relatedto a violation of this agreement. A for-
mal grievance shall not be filed until the employee has presented his/her complaint to his/her immediate Supervisor verbally within 3 working days after the employee might reasonably have become aware of circumstances giving rise to such grievance. The Supervisor will render his/her decision on the complaint within 1 working day.
6.02	The employee may consult with the available steward following the procedure outlined in 6.01 above providing the employee first obtains his/her Supervisor’s permission.
6.03	A formal grievance to be recognized shall be reduced to writing on a form provided by the Company and presented to the Supervisor concerned within three working days of the Supervisor’s decision on the verbal complaint.
Step 1 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to his/her immediate supervisor at which time the employee shall have the assistance of a department steward or if the department steward is absent, the assistance of an available steward or an officer of the Union. The Supervisor shall render his/her disposition to the grievance in writing within three working days, if a settlement satisfactory to the employee is not reached, the employee may then proceed to the next Step of the grievance procedure any time within three working days thereafter.
-9-
Step 2	The aggrieved employee shall present his/her
written grievance to the Human Resources Manager and at that time the steward shall be present. The Human Resources Manager’s decision shall be rendered in writing, within three working days of such meeting, and failing satisfactory settlement, the employee may proceed to the next Step within three working days thereafter.
Step 3 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her grievance to the Plant Manager, or his/her designee. Within five working days of receipt of the grievance, the Plant Manager and whoever he/she deems necessary to assist in the disposition of the grievance will meet with the employee concerned together with the Union President or his/her designee and a representative of the International Union and a Steward if their presence is requested by either party. The Plant Manager, or designee, will render a disposition in writing to the grievance within seven working days subsequentto such meeting.
6.04	Failing satisfactory Settlement, the grievance may be referred by either party to a Board of Arbitration, in writing, as provided in Article 7, at any time within twenty-one days thereafter.
6.05	If a grievance is not processed or referred to arbitration within the time limits set forth above, it will be deemed to have been withdrawn. All time limits may be extended by mutual agreement.
- 10-
6.06	A group grievance is defined as one alleging a violation of the agreement and which concerns more than one employee of the Bargaining Unit. Such a grievance should be presented to the Supervisorverbally at any time within three working days after the circumstances giving rise to such grievance occurred or when such employees might reasonably become aware of the occurrence. The Supervisor will respond verbally to the grievance within one working day and failing satisfactory resolution of the grievance it may be brought forward in writing at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure within three working days after the Supervisor has rendered his/her decision. Such grievance will be processed through the balance of the Grievance Procedure and to Arbitration in the same way as an individual grievance. The names of all the aggrieved employees shall be attached to the written grievance at the time it is filed with the Company as set forth above.
6.07	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the provisions of this agreement affecting the Union as such, the Union President or designee shall have the right to bring forward to the Plant Manager or his/her designee any such complaint. If such complaint is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a Third Step grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee. No such grievance shall be filed
• n •
with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed by an employee under Section 6, nor shall any grievance be filed by an employee with respect to the same subject matter that is already the subject of a grievance filed by the Union under this section.
ARTICLE 7 Arbitration
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to Arbitration, at the written request <f either of the parties hereto.
7.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board. A single arbitrator may be appointed by mutual agreement between the parties or by application to the Ministry of Labour.
7.03	Within 10 normal working days of the request by either party for a board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee. However, both parties should attempt to appoint its nominee at the earliest possible date.
12-
7.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third person within seven days of the notification mentioned in 7.03 above, the Minister of Labourfor the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a Chairperson.
7.05	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
7.06	The Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.07	Each of the parties to this agreement will share the expenses of the Arbitrator.
7.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 8
Management Grievances
8.01	It is understood that the management may bring forward to the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its Officers or stewards and that, if such complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance of an employee. All preliminary
13-
steps of the grievance procedure prior to step 3 will be omitted in such case.
ARTICLE 9
Suspensions over One Week or Dismissals
9.01	Inthe event that an employee who has attained seniority is dismissed from employment, or suspended from employment for more than one week, and the employee alleges that the dismissal or suspension was improper, the case may be taken up as a grievance as outlined in the following clause. Asuspension of less than one week may betaken up through the normal grievance procedure.
9.02	A claim by an employee, who has attained seniority, that he/she has been unjustly dismissed or suspended for over one week from his/her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his/her designee within three working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such case. All such cases shall be taken up within three working days and replied to within seven working days of the date the employee is notified in writing of his/her dismissal or suspension over one week, except where a case is taken to arbitration.
9.03	When an employee has been dismissed or suspended over one week without notice, he/she shall have the right to interview his/her steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
9.04	If the matter is not settled through the grievance procedure and is taken to arbitration, and it is finally determined by a Board of Arbitration that dismissal or suspension over one week was too severe a penalty, the employee shall be reinstated, either with or without compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which the Board of Arbitration finds just and equitable.
ARTICLE 10
No Strikes - No Lockouts
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this agreement, it will not sanction, counsel, procure or encourage any picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
10.02	The Company shall have the right to dismiss or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or instigate any illegal strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust dismissal or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
10.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
- 15 -
ARTICLE 11
Wages
11.01	During the term of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments of wages will be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth in Schedule "A'hereto which is hereby made a part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
Hours of Work and Overtime
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal working hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty hours per week, and eight hours per day.
12.03	(a) An overtime rate of time and one-half of the employee’s basic rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight hours in any normal work day.
12.03	(b) Time and one-half will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday except for work on a Saturday that is performed as a part of a shift commencing Friday night or a lieu day at straight time which may be worked at the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03	(c) Except as outlined in 12.03(b) double time will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday in excess cf
an 8 hour shift, provided that the 8 hour shift is not pari of the employees’ regular scheduled work week.
12.03	(d) All work performed on a Sunday will be paid for at double the employee’s basic rate except for shift work commencing Sunday night which is considered as a Monday shift.
12.03	(e) An employee who has completed his/her regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four hours pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate or one and one half times the employee’s rate for hours actually worked, whichever is the greater. Employees called in to work on Sunday shall receive a minimum of 4 hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate or double the employee’s regular hourly rate whichever is the greater.
12.03	(f) None of the foregoing Section 12.03 concerns the special provisions for premium payment on continuous shift operations as these payments are described in Section 12.07.
12.04	When work on a Saturday or Sunday is not part of a regularly scheduled shift, the Company shall endeavour to post the schedule 40 clock hours in advance of the commencement of such work. Otherwise such overtime work shall be voluntary.
12.05	(a) The Company will attempt to provide an employee two hours of notice for overtime at the end of a shift. Should the Company fail to provide such notice, the working of such overtime will be voluntary.
17-
12.05	(b)When overtime is required to be worked through the failure of a shiftmate to appear on time for an employee’s shift, the Company will require the affected employee to work up to the first four hours of the extra shift only. Employees will not leave their work station until they are relieved by another employee, or obtain permission to do so from their Supervisor. The two hour notice period referred to in 12.05(a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisor will, whenever possible, endeavourto obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines. Shiftmate is the person who has the lowest overtime hours in the particular classification on shift.
12.05	(c) Whenever two hours or more of overtime are being worked consecutively beyond the first eight hours of normal work, a ten minute rest period will be provided before the overtime commences. This will be the only rest period provided if the overtime work is less than four hours. If four hours or more of overtime is worked the provisions of Section 20.01(a) apply in addition to this Section.
12.06	(a) All overtime including weekend overtime will be evenly distributed as circumstances will permit in the spirit of the overtime distribution guidelines.
When overtime is required, the supervisor will start by asking the employee with the lowest overtime hours charged and moving up the charging list in each of the following:
(1 st) the permanent posted employee in the job.
(2nd) the temporary posted employee working
18
in the job.
(3rd) the qualified employee in the department.
(4th) the qualified employees temporarily transferred into the department.
(5th) qualified employees working outside the department.
(6th) qualified probationary employees will be offered overtime last.
At steps 3 and 5, overtime will be distributed first to people qualified by having been permanently posted for six (6) weeks or more and then to those having served ten (10) days in the position as per the training master. It is understood that these ten (1Q days of training are representative of the normal job content. After exhausting all the steps of 12.06(a) and no one was found to work the overtime, the “permanent posted” person with the lowest overtime charged will be required to work. Employees eligible to be asked for overtime, but not available for overtime, will be charged the actual number of hours, if entitled under equal distribution, in their job classification during the period. The only exceptions would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
When weekend overtime is required, an Overtime Volunteer List will be used. Volunteers will be selected following the steps listed above. Weekend Overtime Volunteer List Guidelines will be followed.
12.06	(b) When an employee moves from one job classification to another, the employee will enter with the average between high and low overtime hours in that classification for the purpose of equal distribution of overtime.
-19 -
12.06	(c) The Company will not schedule more than 12 consecutive hours of work to an employee. If due to absence, etc. 16 hours of work is available, not more than 12 hours need be worked by any one employee.
12.06	(d) The Company agrees that overtime will be equally distributed and records kept of the distribution for discussion as necessary with the Union representatives and/or employees and that such overtime will be distributed among regular employees and lastly among temporary (those hired for specific temporary periods) and Summer (student) employees. The departmental Supervisor will keep accurate records of all overtime worked in the department and make same available for employee review upon request. To provide for equal distribution of overtime, a charging system has been developed, a copy of which may be obtained from the Human Resources department.
12.07	The Company shall endeavour to schedule as many employees as possible, in accordance with good operating procedures to work on a Monday through Friday basis. Changes from the schedule to Continuous Shift operations shall not be made arbitrarily and it is recognized that the following are examples of situations which may require the change to Continuous Shift:
(a)	Introduction of new products or processes into the Plant.
(b)	Additional production requirements for existing products or processes.
For the purpose of this Agreement, a continuous shift will be a situation that incorporates an ongoing seven day a
-20
week production schedule.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when Continuous Shift operations are established, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)	That five days notice will be given before such Continuous Shift schedule is instituted.
(2)	That a Continuous Shift schedule, once established, shall remain in effect for a minimum of ninety days.
(3)	All work performed on the seventh consecutive day shall be paid at the rate of double time.
(4)	The Company will continue its past practice of paying time and one half for work performed on a Saturday, double time for work performed on a Sunday and double time for time worked on the 7th consecutive day during a continuous shift. The sixth consecutive day worked will be compensated according to provincial law at straight time for the first 4 hours and time and one half the next consecutive 4 hours worked.
12.08	The work week of the plant cleaners will be scheduled by the Company in accordance with the requirements of production.
12.09	No employee shall be required to take time off from his/her regular work week in order to off-set overtime hours worked.
12.10	Normally, employees on shift work will rotate shifts every week. Shift employees will not be required to
-21
change shifts more than once per week (a change is from one shift to another, then back to the original shift) and if such a shift change is necessary it will commence with the most junior qualified person in the department, and a minimum of 48 hours notice will be given. It's understood that five days notice will be given of the start up of a third shift and that once established it will not be changed mid week.
12.11	See Letter of Understanding re: Inventories.
12.12	Commencing no later than July 1, 1990, employees scheduled on three (3) shifts will start the “A" shift Sunday night.
12.13	When a job is scheduled for three (3) shifts, the duration of each shift is to be eight (8) hours including a one half hour eating period.
ARTICLE 13 Vacations with Pay
13.01	The Company agrees to grant regular employees vacation with pay as set forth below at times convenient to the Company consistent with production requirements. Employees who have been laid off and have not completed a minimum of 750 hours in the preceding vacation year will only receive their vacation pay calculated as a percentage of payroll earnings. (The 750 hours mentioned above, includes regular and overtime hours worked, and all hours paid by the salary plan, time spent on Weekly Indemnity, Workers Compensation and maternity leave).
-22-
Vacation pay will be issued when vacation is taken. Employees will have the option to notify the Company before December 15th of the prior year, that they would prefer to receive vacation pay as a lump sum.
All employees whose employment has terminated will have any vacation pay still owing to them paid at the time of their termination, based on the appropriate percentage of gross earnings under Article 13. For the purposes of this clause, on retirement, employment terminates.
In the vacation year an employee’s employment has terminated, the Company will include in the calculation of gross payroll earnings for the purpose of calculating Vacation pay, one week’s pay at the worker’s regular rate (permanent posted rate) for each week that the worker has spent receiving Worker’s Compensation Board benefits in his/her last vacation year.
13.01	(a) Up to one year of completed service - vacation pay at the rate of 4% of the employee’s earnings for the year ending May 31st, as required by the Vacations with Pay Act of the Province of Ontario.
13.01	(b) One completed year of service - and up to four completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - two weeks’ vacation with pay or at the rate of 4% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01	(c) Four completed years of service - and up to eight completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - three weeks vacation with pay or at the
23-
rate of 6% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01	(d) Eight completed years of service or more prior to June 1st of the year concerned -four weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 8% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greatest.
13.01	(e) Eighteen completed years of service prior to June 1 st of the year concerned - five weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 10% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.01	(f) Twenty-seven completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned -six weeks vacation with pay or at the rate of 12% of such employee's gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.02	When an employee’s vacation entitlement changes as a consequence of service achieved subsequent to June 1st and prior to December 31st, the employee will be granted the higher vacation entitlement in the current vacation period between June 1st and December 31st.
13.03	For purposes of determining the vacation pay of employees, earnings shall include all premium pay, and pay for statutory holidays and vacations as set out in Article 14.
24 •
13.04	All vacation entitlements should be taken by end of calendar year. By mutual agreement between the Supervisor and the employee, vacation entitlement may be re-scheduled between January 1st and March 31st of the following year.
13.05	The Company agrees to notify employees of the date of plant shutdown, should there be one, by February 1st of each year. Employees will normally take their vacation during plant shutdown. Plant shutdown, should there be one, will occur during the months of July and/or August.
13.06	Those employees with vacation entitlements greater than the plant shutdown will submit requests in writing to their Supervisor before March 1st, and the Supervisor will reply in writing to the employee by March 30th, finalizing their vacation schedule.
13.07	Employees who work in departments scheduled to operate during plant shutdown will be advised by February 15th of each year, as to the number of employees by job classification that will be required to work during plant shutdown. By March 1 st it will be determined which employees will work during plant shutdown.
13.08	In departments operating during plant shutdown, employees in the department will be given first preference by seniority whether they wish to work or schedule these weeks as their vacation.
In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to take their vacation during plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled to work
• 25 •
if necessary.
13.09	Employees who are required to work during plant shutdown will be so informed by their Supervisor and the employee will take his/her vacation at a mutually agreed upon time.
13.10	Employees with vacation entitlements greater than the plant shutdown period shall submit their request for such vacation in writing to their Supervisor prior to the March 1st of the vacation year, stating their preferred dates, and vacations will then be scheduled by order of seniority and production requirements prior to end of calendar year.
13.11	Approval in writing of the 4th, 5th and 6th weeks of vacation will be given prior to March 30th of the same year.
13.12	As of April 1 st, any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will within 30 days determine with their supervisor the time that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from the remaining weeks available.
13.13	Employeeswho are hospitalized while on vacation may defer their vacation and commence receiving full sickness benefits.
13.14	In the event there is no shutdown scheduled:
1)	Those employees with vacation entitlements will submit in writing to their Supervisor, before March 1st, requests for vacation stating their preference.
• 26 -
Vacations will be scheduled by order of seniority and production requirements prior to the end of the calendar year.
2)	The Supervisor will reply in writing to the employee by March 30th, finalizing their vacation schedule.
3)	As of April 1st, any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will, within 30 days, determine with their Supervisor the time that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from the remaining weeks available.
ARTICLE 14 Statutory Holidays
14.01	The Company recognizes the following statutory holidays: New Year’s Day, the third Monday in February or the day legislated as Heritage Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day immediately before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and one Floating Holiday which date will be by mutual agreement between the parties to a total of 12 Statutory Holidays. All employees who qualify in accordance with Clause 14.04(a) shall receive payment for such holidays based on a normal day’s pay. When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it will be celebrated on the preceding Friday or the following Monday at mutual agreement between the parties. Failure to reach mutual agreement the Company will select either the Friday or Monday. Employees required to perform any work on any of these holidays shall be paid the rate of time and one half of the employee’s basic
-27-
rate, in addition to receiving holiday pay.
14.02	When one of holidays listed in Section 14.01 is observed during an employee’s annual vacation, the employee shall be allowed one additional day’s vacation with pay in conjunction with his/her vacation unless mutually agreed to take a day’s holiday at a later date.
14.03	All employees shall be eligible for holiday pay irrespective of whether they are required to work on the holiday or not, subject to the provisions of paragraph 14.04(a).
14.04	(a) All employees who have gained seniority and are actively on the payroll for at least 9-working days in the 4 weeks immediately preceding a-statutory holiday will be entitled to such holidays as outlined in 14.01 above. Actively on the payroll in this instance shall mean actively at work or on Company sick leave (ie. First five days of sickness).
14.04	(b) The provision of 14.01 does not apply to probationary employees.
ARTICLE 15 Seniority
15.01	An employee will be considered probationary until such time as he/she has accumulated 60 working days of service in a 12 month period. 60 working days in this instance shall include full days worked on Saturdays and Sundays, Statutory Holidays and Plant Shutdown.
-28
Employees hired subsequent t< February 16th, 1979, who have completed the abovew jrk periodwill have their names placed on the seniority lis and their seniority date will be coincident with their date of hire except in cases outlined in 15.02(c).
15.02	An employee shall ac< umulate seniority when he/she is:
a)	Actively at work for the Company following completion of the probationary peri :id.
b)	Prevented from working for the Company as a consequence of injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and whicn is compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
C) Absent due to certified illnr ss for up to 24 months and maintained after that euly if the employee is on the Company Group Life Disability Plan.
c) \	Absent due to pregnancy leave (17 weeks), parental
leave (18 weeks).
15.03	Seniority shall terminate when an employee:
a)	b discharged and not reins ated as a consequence of the grievance or arbitration procedure.
b)	Has been on lay-off from th * Company for a continuous period of twelve morl ns.
c)	Quits the employ of the C<J< ipany for any reason.
• 29 -
d)	Fails to return to work or the date of recall without a satisfactory explanation Recall shall be by telephone, failing telephone contact, then by registered letter to the employee’s ast known address. When the laid off employee(s) ire contacted by registered mail, the employee(s) wi I contact the employer within three working days of receipt of such letter. Employee(s) are required to keep the Company informed at all times of' vhere they can be reached and must be available to return to work within 3 days.
e)	Fails to return to work on his/her first scheduled working day subsequen: to a leave of absence or vacation, unless such failure was reasonable because of illness or o her circumstances beyond this individual’s control.
f)	Is absent from work for two consecutive days without a satisfactory explaration or a Doctor's note.
g)	Is absent due to illness ■ or more than 24 months. Not applicable if on Conpany Group Life Disability Plan.
15.04	Seniority list for ea< h separate Seniority group specified below will be revisi d and posted in the Plant each four months and a co| y provided for the Union. Grievances concerning alleg< d inaccuracies in the lists must be filed with the Human Resources Manager within five working days of the d£ te the list is posted. Any employee absent from the Pla it at the time a seniority list is posted will have five workin days from the date of their return to challenge the acc iracy of the seniority list.
Otherwise the lists will be deeme d to be conclusive.
If one or more employees ser irity date is coincident, seniority will be determined firs ay shift (A), (B) and (C) and second by alphabetical ord
Change of name shall not effec the employee's original position on the seniority list.
15.05	Plant Wide Seniority
One seniority list will be maintai ad for all employees.
15.06	Subject to the above 3rovisions and as elsewhere set forth in this contract seniority shall be on a Plant-Wide basis.
ARTICLE 16
Job Postings ant Transfers
16.01	(a) All new jobs and es iblished permanent job openings after exhausting reca shall be posted in the Plant for three working days ai 1 employees in the bargaining unit may make applies ion for such jobs. The name and grade of the specific job that is open will be typed on each posting form, ’robationary employees may apply for plant job postings out their applications will only be considered should no 5mployee with seniority have applied.
-31 -
16.01	(b) Job posting applica ion forms are to be handed in person or by proxy to S upervision or the Human Resources office. Supervisio i or the Human Resources office will record date and tin le of receipt on application form. A copy of receipted ap| Jication form will be provided to employee or proxy as povided by 16.01 (j).
16.01	(c) The name of the siccessful employee shall be posted in the Plant normally w ithin three working days but not exceeding five working dc ys.
16.01	(d) From the date of actual movement to a permanent posting by job posting, a i employee may not bid on another permanent job posting | before a twelve week period has elapsed. An employes may make only three lateral or downward moves per 'ear as a result of job posting. If the employee is disqu alified by the company, the twelve week period mentioned above is waived.
16.01	(e) An employee who f as successfully bid on a job posting shall be released witl in a four week period from the time of acceptance. If tt e move is delayed beyond the four week period the en ployee will be paid at the higher rate of pay and the Un on will be informed of such delay.
16.01	(f) In the event of a t< mporary job opening for a period expected to be less than 30 worked days, whenever possible the employee v ho was previously reduced from that job classification wil be returned first. If this is not feasible then the most se lior qualified employee will be considered for transfer n axt and so on. Temporary transfers to job grades 1,2 ar d 3 will be by seniority only, except into the Night San tation Department where
employees who waived their rig it will not be considered eligible.
16.01	(g) In the event of a temp rary job opening expected to exceed 30 worked day: whenever possible the employee who was previouslyre Juced from that job classification will be returned first.
Failingthat, a temporary job will ae posted and be identified on the face of the posting a!s :emporary and also state the expected time period of the < pening.
Temporary postings will normally be limitedto a maximum duration of 26 weeks.
Extension may be necessary if omplications arise from uncertainties such as W.l. and V CB situations.
16.01	(h) A temporary opening or job grades 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 which is expectedto excee d 30 worked days will be posted and be identified on the U ce of the posting as temporary. The Company will ma<e a selection from the applicants on the basis of senio ity only.
A temporary opening for job grai Ies6 and above which is expectedto exceed 60 worked d lys will be posted and be identified on the face of the po ting as temporary. The Company will make a selectionf omthe applicants on the basis of seniority only.
A temporary opening for jobs gr< de 6 and above which is expected to exceed 30 worker days but less than 60 worked days, will be posted and be identified on the face
33
of the posting as temporary, selection from the applicants < first and seniority second. T 10 worked days in the job the
The successful applicant will i previously on completion < Experience gained on a ten considered in filling a no Employees who have succe: posted job must complete th< job before being eligible to bic ferent classification, but may ings and will move accor< 16.01(e). It is understood f training are representative of
16.01	(i) The Company shall itations as set forth in Sectior if applicants with sufficient qu; the Company retains the right
16.01	(j) Employees who art sickness or injury at the time temporary job posting of over application for the posted job from the date of such posting able amount of time for emploj are interested in and other because of illness. Employee posting must be medically cle in 30 days of the date of the p be submitted in person or by Job openings will not be post
The Company will make a n the basis of qualifications e minimum qualification is is posted.
iturn to the job he/she held
1	the temporary posting, corary posting will not be i-temporary job posting, sfully bid into a temporary duration of the temporary on a temporary job of a dif->id on permanent job post-ng to the provisions of at these ten (10) days of he normal job content.
ae subject to the same lim-16.02. It is recognized that ifications are not available, *o hire outside.
absent from work due to permanent job posting or
2	weeks occurs may make up to thirty calendar days
This will allow a reason-ses to bid on jobs that they rise would have missed applying for a temporary red to return to work with-sting. An application may roxy by a Union Steward, d during Plant Shutdown.
Should a job opening be posted less than three working days before Plant Shutdown, itw ill continue to be posted after Shutdown to fulfil the reqi ired three working day period.
16.01	(k) Employees going on v jcation must indicate to the Human Resources Office in advance in writing their interest in specific job postings ii order to be considered for such job postings.
16.02	(a) In all cases of movemi nt as a result of permanent job postings, other than a promotion to a position outside the bargaining unit, the 1 blowing factors shall be considered:
(1)	Seniority
I n the event that there is rrc rked difference between the top applicants (2) shall 3e invoked otherwise (1) shall apply.
(2)	Skill, efficiency, experience and past work record with the Company.
16.02	(b) In the event of failure on a job posting the employee concerned and subseqpent employees posting behind will return to their former posted jobs regardless of seniority. Employees other than employee being failed, will establish bumping and rece II rights on that posting provided they had fulfilled the requirements of 16.02(c).
The next applicant will be found through selection of the next senior qualified bidder from the original job posting, provided the requirement still e> ists and the next senior
-35
qualified bidder has not aco pted any other permanent job posting. Failingqualified a >plicants, job will be reposted.
16.02	(c) From the date of a< ital movement to a permanent job posting the incumb frit must complete the job training period as outlined in he job specification. In all cases, minimum of six calen lar weeks will be provided excluding shutdowns, holiday >, and other absences, for the incumbentto demonstrati that they can satisfactorily perform the job and thus es ablish bumping and recall rights. To establish bumping a id recall rights, the employee must complete the job tra ling as outlined in the job specification.
16.02	(d) Should the Compar / for any reason require an extension of the six week qu< lifying period referred to in 16.02(c), a written request v ill be made to the Union President or designee in adv ince of expiry date of the qualifying period.
16.03	When an employee s transferredto a job other than his/her regular job for the convenience of the Company, the employee will h ive his/her rate maintained if the rate of the job schedulei I is lower than the employee’s regular job rate. Shou cl the rate of the job the employee is scheduled to be ligher than the employee’s regular rate, then the employe) will be paid the higher job rate on an exception basis.
This clause does not apply i the case of a temporary posting where an employee w I be paid at the rate of the job that the employee has su cessfully posted to, effective at the time of the actual pt rsical move to a temporary
-31 ■
position.
No person shall be transferred grade three (3) unless they are c work. Days spent in a job under deemed as “training days” for o tions.
a job position, above able of performingthe s clause, are not to be ir contractual applica-
16.04	Employeestransferre to or relieving on a higher rated job for:
(a)	fifteen consecutive minute; up to two hours, will be paid for the duration of the transfer
(b)	two hours or more, will be paid the higher rate for the whole shift.
Employees who are transferee and scheduled for the week to a higher rated job in wh ch a statutory holiday is observed, will be paid the rate o the job for the statutory holiday.
16.05	In the event that an ei jployee is transferred to a position outside the scope of i lis agreement, seniority will be treated as follows if and w, len he/she returns to the Bargaining Unit. Temporary tf-jnsfer has a maximum duration of twenty-six (26) week >.
(a)	Expected temporary tran: fer: The Company will specify the expected time >eriod in advance of the transfer, and during this pt riod seniority will continue to accumulate.
(b)	Expected permanent transl er: Seniority will continue
for the first six consecutive be returned to the bargainir I n the event that the employ return to his/her previous pc ty will be exercised bumi Employees who are not re within six months may do employee who has complr only.
(c)	An employee acceptir Union will continue to £ be returned to the B seniority at any time, a
ARTK
Reduction of Workforo
17.01	(a) In a reduction of i transfer the employees affe plant, providing that the rai employees are maintained, ferred to a job above grade 11 ified to perform the job. Qu i defined as a person having I normal job content of the jol,
snths and employees may unit with accrued seniority, has insufficientseniority to ed position, his/her seniori-ig laterally or downward, ned to the bargaining unit o after six months as an d the probationary period
a permanent job with the irue seniority, and they may gaining Unit with accrued bumping laterally or down.
ill 7
md Recall Procedures
rkforce, the Company may d to any other job in the of pay of the transferred Jo person shall be trans-e (3) unless they are quailed in this instance will be !en trained 10 days in the
(b) If the Company does n >t sxercise this right, then the affected employee(s) v >il:
(1) Exercise their seniority p ant wide bumping laterally or downward to and ircl iding Job Grade 4, provided the employee is qu ili ied to perform the job.
3(
Qualified in this instancewi be defined as a person having been
a)	permanently posted as described in 16.02(c).
b)	temporarily posted or;
c)	trained as outlined, nder Job Evaluation, always provided the j b has not significantly changed since the emp oyee last performed the job. Management shal determine if there has been a significant char je.
The intent of this clausa is to allow employees to bump by seniority ini jobs that they can perform immediately in a :ompetent manner. An objective measure o this intent is that an employee would be competently with uptc refamiliarization.
2)	Will exercise their seniority- alone to bump into Job Grades 1,2 and 3 plant wi e, with the exception of Night Sanitation jobs.
3)	WII exercise their seniority alone to bump into Night Sanitation jobs provided tl ay have not waived this right under the terms of 1 ’.01(c). Employees may only bump into Night Sar tation jobs if they have insufficient seniority to bu ip into Grade 1, 2, & 3 jobs outside the Sanitation "Department.
(c)	(1) Employees who wish to waive their right to
bump into Night Sanitation iobs must sign a waiver
-39-
to this effect Such a w aiver may be signed on the first Monday of any cale idar month. Bumping rights into Night Sanitation m£ y be reinstated by job posting under the terms of 11 i.02(c) or by the terms of (2) below.
(2) An employee who hai signed a waiver limiting his/her right to bump nto Night Sanitation may revoke this waiver di ing the second week of January to be effective' le first Monday in February or during the second we k of September to be effective the first Monday in fctober.
(d)	Movement brought aboi force of one or more er most junior affected err most junior employee o cation into which the err sequently there will be r movement at all job cla eral or downwards with 1, 2 & 3.
(e)	In the event that a perse bumping will be exercise downward opportunities their seniority plant-wi employee is qualified to is defined as in 17.01(b)
by a reduction in the work-ployees shall start with the rloyee who shall bump the same or lower job classifi-rloyee may bump and con-■) job preference. Bumping sification levels will be lat-re exception of job grades
r would be laid off, upward I after exhausting lateral or Fhe employee will exercise e, upward, provided the oerform the job. Qualified 1).
(f)	After exhausting all fcjmping options outlined above, the employee wi exercise their seniority to move into Job Grades 4 5, 6 and 7 displacing the person with the lowest s miority. The employee will
be trained and required to meet the terms of 16.02(c).
(g)	Employees who havi exercised their rights under 17.01(e) or 17.01(f)' /ill be subject to recall to their previous position whi ther it is to a higher or lower grade job.
17.02	(a) The recall procedure' /ill be exercised when a job opening is expected to exce ;d and does exceed one scheduled work week due to an increase in production or when an incumbent permanent vacates the job classification in question.
17.02	(b) An employee will also be considered as having been recalled should they retur ifor 20 worked days to the job classification from which they were reducedprevi-ously due to the need to replao another incumbent who is absent for any reason.
17.02	(c) in recalls to job Grade 4 and above after a layoff, seniority will be the gover ing factor provided the employees involved are qualifie to perform the available work by the terms of 16.02(c) a'r i that the recall does not take them to a job grade above i teir last permanent posted position.
Seniority alone will be the detei nining factors on recalls to jobs in Grade 1, 2 and 3.
17.02	(d) For a recall of one w ek or less, employee(s) will be contacted by telephone c lly (from layoff from out-
-41 -
side the plant). In the case v> less than 4 hours notice and n that prevent them from return their recall right until the next
17.03	(a) Employees who ha informed in writing that they a tion of the workforce and se shall:
(1)	retain their rate for the fc
(2)	retain their rate for the tf
17.03	(b) Employees will re when they meet the terms of downgraded to a position fc scheduled week, following the period of rate retention.
17.03	(c) The provision of retention shall not apply in thi fers and temporary job postin
ARTICI
Severan
18.01	Severance Pay
Employees with 3 years senioi who remain on lay off for mi 15.03(b)) will receive severa'
ere the employee is given ly have prior commitments ig to work, they will waive scall requirement.
3 gained seniority, and are s downgraded as a reduc-iority has been exercised
fiance of the week.
ee (3) following full weeks.
qualify for rate retention 7.02(a), or 17.02(b), or are a period exceeding one completion of any previous
7.03(a) concerning rate cases of temporary trans-
b.
318 3 Pay
at the time of lay off and i than one year (as per i pay at the rate of one
- 4£
weeks pay (40 hrs. at the employe i's straight time classified job rate) for each year of serv :e. Effective February 16,1994 the rate of severance pa; will be two weeks pay (80 hours at the employee's stra jht time classified job rate) for each year of service.
18.02	The one year period the jmployee has been on lay off, in this instance will not be < jnsidered to be part of the employees service for severar :e pay calculation purposes.
18.03	In the case of the Com >any closing and relocating the plant, all present emplc 'ees would be offered employment before any new emj: oyees would be hired within three months of the move, If no employment is available, the employee would rec ive severance as outlined in article 18.01 and the or : year waiting period would not apply. Should an emplo ee choose not to relocate, the above provisions for seV ranee pay would continue to apply.
ARTICLE 1S Leave of Abse ice
19.01	The Company may gr nt leave of absence without pay to an employee provic ed that such absence does not adversely affect the op orations of the Plant. Leave of absence may be granted for legitimate personal reasons.
19.02	Application for leave of a >sence will be made in writing by the employee to his/her mmediate Supervisor.
43-
The employee should provide as much notice inwriting as possible.
Awritten decision on requests for leave of absence will be provided within thirty days of the request and such approval will not be revokec.
However, written approval lor leaves of absence during June, July and August may not be given prior to May 31 of the same year as requesls for vacations by employees with vacation entitlements greater than the Plant shutdown must first be satisfied
19.03	Leave of Absence for Pregnancy (natural or adoptive mother) and Parer ta I Leave (natural and adoptive parents) will be in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
Employees shall continue o accrue seniority up to the end of the seventeenth wee < of maternity leave, at which time the employee shall be -equired to decide whether to return to work or lose senio ity as of that date.
ARTI !LE 20 Ge ieral
20.01	(a) Employees shall be granted a fifteen minute rest period in each conseci ive four hours worked.
Such rest periods shall be f aid for at the employee's regular rate and shall not res It in lengthening the regular working day.
20.01	(b) Lunch periods will be :me-half hour duration, and will be completed within one- and-one half hour period after the first lunch break he > commenced in each shift.
20.02	Reasonable and n scessary leave for Bereavement and Jury Duty will be provided normally without loss of pay.
20.03	Reference for Mainten mce Employees only: Items contained in the Maintenah ::e Department Section in Article 22 supersedes similar a tides in the Collective Agreement.
20.04	Employees reporting fc r work as usual on a regular working day, unless notifie i prior to the beginning of his/her shift not to report, anc for whom no work at his/her regular job is available, s lall be offered at least four hours employment in other v 'ork at the employee’s current rate of pay, or, at the Co npany’s option, will be paid four hours pay in lieu of worh
This provision shall not apply if thf failure to provide work is caused by reason of a strike o other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, flood, power failure or other like cause beyond the control of tt e Company.
20.05	Officers and represents live of the Union who are not employees of the Compan; will be admitted to the Company premises at all reason, ble times for the purpose of handling matters invo ving the relationship between the Company and the l 'nion arising from this agreement, provided that they firs t notify and obtain the approval of the Plant Manager oi designee. It is under-
-45-
stood that such approval wi held and that any person sc privilege of admittance.
20.06	The Company will quate separate notice boar posting notices of Union Acti be signed by the Union Pre in the absence of the Presid
20.07	The Company agi of lay-off or eight hours pay i in lieu thereof, except whe quence of machinery breal flood, power failure or other trol of the Company.
20.08	When an employ and/or phone number it is notify his/her supervisor, in \ Company will accept no liat changes.
20.09	It is recognized as following exception clauses applied only in the spirit < employees shall not perforn within the bargaining unit ex ited expressly to immediate danger to the equipment or lar employees are not imm instruction or training of emf als and equipment, and (4) sary work when production <
I not be unreasonably with-admitted will not abuse the
provide the Union with ade-
I	space for the purpose of /ities. All such notices must ident or the Vice President, int.
3es to give 36 hours’ notice
II	he employee’s regular rate e such lay-off is a conse-down, an act of God, fire, ike causes beyond the con-
e changes his/her address nportant that the employee riling, of such change. The lity until it is notified of such
a matter of principle that the are not to be misused, but f their intent. Supervisory work on a job classification ;ept: (1) in emergencies, lim-breakdown of equipment, or o the employee, when regu-jdiately available, (2) in the loyees, (3) in testing materi-■i the performance of neces-ifficulties are encountered.
20.10	The Company will ap| oint Lead Hands and Acting Supervisors at the rate of p >y set forth in Appendix A of this agreement. It is underst< od that the responsibility of a Lead Hand will not includ ! the right to discipline employees.
The Company will describe the di ties of a Lead Hand in writing and such description will be retained on record between the parties hereto agre d. The appointing of Acting Lead Hands or Acting Sup rvisors are limited to a twenty-six (26) week duration.
20.11	Employees in the bargaining unit shall select a representative from their membership to the Lipton Employees' Pension Committee.
20.12	Appendices A, B, & C, I ereby form part of this agreement.
20.13	Summer students who indicate by signing to that effect that they intend to retur i to school will not gain seniority. Should a student wist to become a full time employee they must apply anc be accepted by the Company into a permanent job. 'or the purpose of this clause a student may be employe I between May 1 st and September 30th of a calendar ye* v
20.14	The Company agrees tc pay the full cost of one pair of safety boots or shoes perl velve month period for employees to a maximum cost of &90.00.
The wearing of safety footweai is mandatory for all employees covered by this Agreer lent in all work areas of
■ 47-
the Plant. Failure to wear safety shoes will result in the employee being denied acce ss to their work area without pay until compliance is obs srved. The Union endorses this safety measure. The anniversary date is to remain a constant except in instance where an additional pair of safety footwear has been supplied at no cost within the twelve month time frame.
20.15	The Company will pay full cost of purchase of prescription safety glasses and replacement lens as required (up to a maxrnum imit set by the Company) to employees required to wea prescription safety glasses on their job.
20.16	Any reduction in E:.l. Premiums, including the employees portion received by the employer, will be shared through improved be lefits.
20.17	Calendars will b< printed in the back of the Collective Agreement.
20.18	Any Letters of Understanding or Memorandums of Agreemei duly signed by both parties currently in effect will remai in effect unless specifically modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21 Ben sflts
21.01	(a) The cost of the Or :ario Hospital insurance pian shall be paid 100 percent by the Company from the date of this Contract and all addit anal increases to the cost of
-18 •
ie by th! Company during the
servic es of a Chiropodist. ctorf< rfoot care is extendec um $3 10.00.
ical plai, paid 100% by the maximu n yearly deductible ol amily anc 100% payment of eli->lan also in :ludes out of Province
he weekly indemnity plan will be mpany and will provide 70% ot maximum ol 36 weeks.
or $40,000 Life Insurance will be
after Fe
nee I ’olicy of $3,500. pr ivide
100 -to cost to the Company lent; I Assc lenent.
,00 ).0
co- ns
100% paid Ly the Company, provl Ie
which will pay up to a maximum o $125.00 per 24 month
-49-
period for prescription eye g asses and contact lenses for employees and eligible depi ndents.
21.01	(h)The above covei ige and payment schedule and any other company bei efits applies only to employees with seniority who are a tively at work for the company with the following except ins:
1)	an employee who is a sent from work as a consequence of an injury a sing out of his/her employment with the Compa y and who is compensated under the Workers’ Co npensation Act for up to two years from date of inju /.
2)	a female employee \ ho is on pregnancy leave and/or parental leave < f up to 35 weeks (17 weeks of pregnancy leave, m I including week of delivery, plus 18 weeks of pare tal leave). A father or adoptive parent on paren si leave up to 18 weeks. Benefits will be exter fed if there are pregnancy related complications, p to a maximum of one year.
3)	up to the end of the mo ith in which any employee is laid off. Except for life i lsurance which continues up to the end of the month following the month in which the layoff occurred.
4)	up to the end of the n onth following the month in which an employee cor imences a leave of absence.
5)	up to one year for empli yees absent due to sickness.
- 50 -
ARTICLE 2
MAINTENANCE DEPART IENT SECTION
22.01	(a) Overtime
Overtime in the Maintenance Dei irtment will be equally distributed as follows:
Overtime, excluding call-ins, wil be distributed to the employees who are qualified tc perform the required overtime work. Overtime hours r fused will be recorded as if worked. For the purpose f equal distribution of overtime, a list of all overtime hours worked will be recorded whether the employee forks or declines or is not available to work overtime. Tl 3 employee(s) with the lowest overtime hours recorded ' ill be required to work as assigned if other employees ar unavailable or decline the overtime offered.
The term equal distribution will be defined as a maximum of 24 hours between the qualifie employee(s) with the most overtime hours recorded af I the qualified employee^) with the least hours recorde I.
If the difference in hours is moret an 24 between the low qualified employee(s) in recorde f hours and the high qualified employee(s) in recorded I lours as of Wednesday at 7:00 a.m., of each work we ik, then the qualified employee(s) with the lowest hour; i recorded will be paid the difference between the high qualified employee(s) hours recorded in excess of 24 f ours. Employees will start with zero overtime hours reco rded each January 1 st.
-51 •
22.01	(b) Failure of a Relic f Employee to Appear
If overtime is required to be vorked through the failure ol a relieving maintenanceemf loyee on the following shift to appear on time, the qualifU d employee with the lowesl overtime hours on the shift t iat is ending will be required to work. The two hour notic 3 period referred in 12.05(a) does not apply to the circum tances stated in this section. The Supervisor will, when* ver possible, endeavour to obtain another qualified repl icement.
22.02	Call-in Proceduri
A list for maintenance perso mel will be posted, reflecting the current practice of call-ir s. (Subject to change based on business requirements.)
22.03	Tool Allowance
Tool allowance will be paid 3 Maintenance Mechanics, Packaging Mechanics, Mac nists and Electricians who are on the payroll on Janus ' 15th and have completed their probation period:
$125.00
Upon reaching the first anr versary of their start in the apprenticeship program, the apprentices would receive their first year tool allowance.
After that they would receiv t on January 15 with the rest of maintenance.
52
The purpose of the tool allowanc or broken on the job or lost Company agrees to replace reqi from a sturdily locked tool chej shift.
is to replace tools worn rough pilferage. The sd tools that are stolen on the employees off
The Company also agrees to pa; jp to $1,200.00 should the entire tool chest and its coni its be lost through burglary or fire.
22.04	Vacations
The Company agrees that by Facruary 15th of each year that maintenance employees will I le informed of the number of maintenance employees 1 hat will be required to work the plant shutdown.
Scheduling will be by job classification and plant seniority. Preferences will be given to : enior employees as to whether they wish to work or ta <e vacation during the plant shutdown.
"In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to schedule their vacation during the plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classific, ition will be scheduled and required to work."
22.05	Licences
The Company will pay the full cos of all compulsory trade licences as required by the Provir ::e.
22.06	Contractors
A fist of capital projects will be orovided by the Plant
53-
Manager to the Union Prescient no later than January 31st of each year. Contractors will be limited to completing Capital Project work.
22.07	Education/Tralnir (/
ft is agreed that Maintenance Personnel will be trained on new equipment but not nece ssarily by seniority.
22.08	Apprenticeship P rograms
The apprenticeship programi now in place is subject to the guidelines of the document :resented by the Company. The document may be cbtained from the Human Resources Departmentupor request.
22.09	The list used curre Uly for shift rotationfor each of the trade groups will be p< sted by the Supervisor within the specific areas. Future 'equirements may cause the method of rotation to change.
22.10	All other provision: of the Collective Agreement not contained in this section of the Collective Agreement also apply to Maintenance E mployees.
ARTK L£ 23 Termi latlon
23.01 This agreement si all remain in force for a_peri^ _od of two years from Februa y 16, 1997 and shall^contin-~ue in force froco.year to year hereafter unless in any^ear not more than sixty days, a id not less than thirty days,
■ I4-
before the date of its termination, < her party shall furnish the other with notice of terminate i of or proposed revision of this agreement.
55-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF ee :h of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be >igned by its duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first above written.
LIP ON
A DIVISION OF l L CANADA INC.
D. DOBBIN, Vice-Pre ident, Manufacturing P. LYNCH, Vice Preside it of Human Resources L. CADEAU, Human Resources Manager J. GROVES, f lant Manager
AMERICAN FEDERATIC N OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL Uf ION, AFL-CIO, CLC AND ITS LOO L UNION 327
C. Wambolc , President Loca 327
S.	GRIMM, Internat mal Vice President American Federati n of Grain Millers T. WINSTONE, Vice 'resident, Local 327
R.	HEDLEY, Tre; surer, Local 327 G. McBRIDE, Recordir ) Secretary, Local 327
ARTICLE 2-
Health & Saf< y
24.01 The company shall m: ke reasonable provisions for the Health and Safety o its employees during working hours. The Company ar i the Union shall use their best endeavour to require all employees to comply with the Brampton Health and Safi ty Policy.
APPENDIX/
WAGE SCHEDIILE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUAF V 16, 1997
PAYMENT OF WAGES - Weekly
SHIFT PREMIUM
Employees assigned to the afternron (C) shift, night (A) shift or Night Sanitation crew, will l sceive a shift premium per hour as set out below:
C	A
.40	.60
The shift premium will be paid on c vertime worked at the rate of the scheduled shift. Such si ift premium will not be added to the employee's rate wher computing overtime.
* 57
LEAD HANDS
The Lead Hand Rate is $1.10 per hour. Job Grades for Lead Hands are as follows:
Sanitation
Warehouse
Soup Packaging Departmer Process Department Maintenance Department
■ Grade 7
-	Grade 8 • Grade 9
-	Grade 9
-	Grade 11
An acting Supervisorwill ie< eive the rate of 75 cents per hour in addition to the Job F ate. Should a Lead Hand be appointed to Acting Supervi or, 75 cents per hour will be paid in addition to the Lead rand rate of $1.00.
Effective Effective
Job Grade	Feb. 16. 1997	eb. 16. 1998
	25%	2.5%
1	15.55	15.94
2	16.54	16.95
3	17.03	17.46
4	17.65	18.09
5	18.03	18.48
6	18.58	19.04
7	19.21	19.69
8	19.76	20.25
9	20.51	21.02
10	21.73	22,27
11	22.28	22.84
	MAINTENANCE tfROUP	
General Labour 16.54		16.95
MM4	22.28	22.84
MM3	22.84	23.41
MM2	23.53	24.12
$0.25 premium for Gas Fitter Maintenance Certificate on		
Grandfathered basis for current r only.		Tiaintenance employees
Maintenance Plus Rate: paid wh< n an additional certifi-		
cate is acquired above the MM2 li ivel and the applicable practical training is completed. F lecognized certificates include: Industrial Electrician, Electrician, Industrial Mechanic (Millwright), Lipton lr dustriat Maintenance Mechanic Program, Programatjle Logic Control or Packaging Maintenance Certified e or completion of a
• 59 -
recognized Packaging Maint mance Program.
Plus Rate effective:
February 16,1997-$0.71 February 16,1998 - $0.73
uarv 16. 1997,
Job Grade 2
Job Grade 3
Job Grade 4 Job Grade 5
Gener I Labour (Packer) Storek seper Helper Ingred ant Feeder (Taco)
Chute :iller Palleti: er
Packa ling Machines Cleaner L-Bar iealer/Edson Operator Buildir 3 Cleaner - Sanitation
Store I ieeper
Proce: s/General Cleaner
Job Grade 6	- Reclai n Operator - Process
Wareh juse Person Utility ’erson - Taco Bartelt Operator Taco C perator soups and Gravies Food Ser. ice Operator
Job Grade 7	- Palleti:! ing Operator
Utility :,erson - Soup
- so-
Side-Seam Bluer Operator/Packer
Job Grade 8 Job Grade 9
Job Grade 10 Job Grade 11
Turret/Coun er Balance Operator Receiver - F aw Materials Whse.
Noodle Ope ator Stockpersor - Process Pest Contro ler Mixing Opei ator
Baker
Maintenance Mechanic Classification
Processing Maintenance Meehan z Packaging Maintenance Mechanic:
Electrical Maintenance Mechanic Taco Maintenance Mechanic
•61 •
APPE IDIXB
JOB EVALIM ION SYSTEM
This letter refers to the Job -valuation system for jobs in the Bargaining Unit at Bram on, put intoeffect in October 1970.
Both the plan and its admi Oration are modelled after,
but not exactly the sam< Detergents Ltd. The followii
1.	The classification of j which such classificat Schedule A hereto.
as, that used by Lever guidelines are adopted.
s and the wage scale to 1 is related is set out in
2. Subject to clause (4) beiow there shall be no change during the life of this A jreement in the job rates as set forth in Appendix 'A", except to add to those
rates established to co' If subsequently, as tt Evaluation Plan, the re be retroactive to the However, if the resultir tative rate, the rate ac rently.
3.	(a) New jobs establi
promptly as is ree Evaluation Comn Job Evaluation PI mitted to the Unio
(b)	If the Union is not
er any new jobs established, e result of the Lipton Job suiting rate is higher, it shall date the job commenced, g rate is lower than the ten-ustment shall be made cur-
hed shall be evaluated as onable by the Management ttee on the basis of Lipton n, with the result being sub-for review.
n agreement with the evalu-
ation made by the Management Evaluation Committee, they shall, within ten regularworking days of the date o i which the evaluation was submitted for their review, file in writing a protest with the Human Resources Manager.
(c)	If such a protest is fik d, a meeting shall be arranged within ten egular working days between the Man igement Evaluation Committee and the Un on Review Committee to discuss such differen ces as may exist.
(d)	Within five regular work ng days cf such meeting, the Human Resour< es manager shall communicate to the Union the decision of the Management Evaluatioi Committee.
(e)	The evaluated rate shal then be made effective as of the commenceme nt date of the new job, subject to Clause (2) at ove.
(f)	If the decision of the k lanagement Evaluation Committee is not satisfs itory to the Union, they shall within ten regular working days, request that the matter be subrr itted to the Umpire.
(9)
The umpire shall then sented solely on the t Evaluation Plan, and hi and binding on both pa
dge the issue as pre-sis of the Upton Job decision shall be final es.
(h) Each party shall bear < the Umpire.
le-half the expense of
-63-
(I) In respect to all m v jobs and jobs involving reevaluation, the Cc npany agrees to adhere to a 30 calendar days me limit, in regards to a final decision on the al )ve said new job or re-evaluation.
(j) Time limits provic id above may be extended by mutual consen of the parties.
4.	Jobs shall be re-evalt sonable by the Manag on written request by < the Company, providir submitted to show th change in job content degree in one or mor anticipated. The re-e solely with the change followed to resolve difi jobs, except that the re effective on the date was received by the Hi question of whether or change in job content Umpire.
»ted as promptly as is reament Evaluation Committee ther employee, the Union or there is sufficient evidence I there has been sufficient lat a change of at least one factors can be reasonably aluation shall concern itself The same process shall be rences as provided for new valuation rate shall become le request for re-evaluation man Resources Manager. A lot there has been sufficient lay also be submitted to the
5.	Any rate for a new job < r a re-evaluation job shall be implemented on the s icond Monday following the date Management's n ting is officially provided by the Union.
6.	During the life of the Agreement, the Umpire in respect to job evaluatic n will be a person as may be mutally agreed by the \ arties. Failing mutual agree-
- 34 -
merit, either party may r< quest the Minister of Labour for Ontario to appoi it a person who is conversant with Job Evaluation as an Umpire.
7.	An employee holding a Red Circle Rate will receive no increase as long as he/sf 3 holds the job and until the rate for the job equates with his/her Red Circle Rate. At that point he/she will cease to be Red Circled.
To facilitate the prompt dispositio n of jobs being evaluated, it is the intent of the parties t< schedule meetings no less than once per month until si ch time as all jobs are current.
APPEf DIX C
Salafj Plan
On December 1, 1970 th 3 hourly-rate system was replaced with a salary plan s ’stem. It is designed to protect one's income when pre rented from attending work for occasional illness or reas ins judged by the Company to be bona fide. The plan provides continuity of your salary system during the £ )-called "waiting period" in cases of lengthy illness and then the Weekly Indemnity Plan will go into effect.
Calculation of ihe Salary Plan
Your weekly salary will be fo ly times your current hourly rate as established by the cc llective agreement.
The arrangementwill notaffc :t your unemployment insurance coverage. You and tt 3 Company will continue to make the usual contribution < nd you will be eligible for the same benefits that you are r >w.
The Salary Plan, as outlinqd above will be paid on a weekly basis.
Administration the Salary Plan
The essential rule is that yi advised of any absence anc will also be some circumstai a statement from a doctor health during or after an illn
keep your Supervisor fully ie reasons for them. There rs when he/she will request igarding the state of your
The plan is a means of incom continuance, not an approval for truancy. Therefore, if an employee is frequently absent - regardless of the reasons for the absence - his/her case will come jnder review just as it does now. It is costly and unfai to continue to extend privileges to any who abuse them nd it is the Company’s responsibility to discontinue their services if they prove they are unwilling to successful! maintain satisfactory levels cf attendance.
It is important that we remembe continued excessive plant absenteeism may jeopardi: e the continued existence of Salary Plan benefits as tl 5y exist at present.
-67-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANIING - Inclement Weather
re: Article 20, 20.04
Should the Company decic 3 to close the plant due to extremely bad weather cc iditions, (i.e. severe snow storm) every reasonable eff< ti will be made to
a)	Contact employees of he affected shift prior to the start (f the shift.
b)	Request the local radi > station, 530 CIAO AM, to announce closure of th 3 plant.
Employees should, in suet circumstances, attempt to contact the Company to det< mine whether it will be operating or not.
As such a plant closure ii Company, affected employe pay whether they manage t<
If, during a period <f to Company decides to contin reporting for work will be pi hours work. Employees wl scheduled when the plant cc paid. The exceptions to employee is on Company received emergency treater cian, for reasons which wou from working on the day(s) above exceptions must bee practitioner.
beyond the control of the ss will not be paid reporting report or not.
d weather conditions, the ie its operations, employees ovided with a minimum of 4 o do not report for work as itinues operations will not be he above will be when an sick leave, is hosptialized, lent or is treated by a physi-d have prevented him or her of inclement weather. The ertified in writing by a medical
The Salary Plan does not supers Article 20, 20.04 of the Collect addresses itself to the Company work not an individual’s ability to lined in the Salary Plan.
the provisions of Agreement which lability to provide irt to work as out-
Datedthis 11th day of August 198ik
Signed for the Company
M.E. DOUGLAS	J.B. KHOEZE
S.	ASHBY	G.B. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union this 11th dav, August, 1985
F. YUSUF	L. McCpOMBS
Fi. HEDLEY	G. McBRIDE
R. CARVER-SMITH
-69 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Inventories
The taking of inventories is lot considered to be bargaining unit work; however, when extra personnel are required in addition to the management and clerical staff, such employees will be selected in the following manner.
1)	Senior qualified emoioyees working in the Department.
2)	Senior qualified employees working outside the Department.
All interested employees miust sign a posted list in order to be considered for work oi i an inventory.
Dated this 17th day of August. 1987.
Signed for the Company
M.E. DOUGLAS	KROEZE
S. ASHBY
5. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union
C. WAMBOLDT R. HEDLEY B. TIMBERS
LI. McCOOMBS d. McBRIDE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Skilled Trades Premium
The Company and Union agree to the institution of a skilled Trades premium by the Company of $1.43 per hour to all Maintenance Personnel in addition to the previously negotiated rates of pay. This premium is to be a one-time adjustment and will remain separate from the negotiated rates of pay. For example, Job Grade 10 (Pkg., Gen. Maint. Mechs., Elects. & Machinist) will receive $14.82 + $1.43 = $16.25 per hour effective December 1, 1987 and on February 16/88 they will receive $15.43 + $1.43 = $16.86 p/h and on February 16/89 they will receive $16.20 +$1.43 = $17.63 p/h. The same formula would apply to all other skilled job classifications in the Maintenance Department. Overtime rates will be calculated on the total of the negotiated rate and the skilled Trades Premium combined.
Subject to the terms and conditions above, it is further agreed that effective upon implementation of the agreed to Apprenticeship Program, the company agrees that based on the criteria described in the program, the Company will post for two apprentices in the required trades.
Agreed to this date November 26th, 1987 at Brampton, Ontario.
-71
Signed for the Company
M.E. DOUGLAS	J.B. KROE2E
S. ASHBY	G.B. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union
C. WAMBOLDT	L. McCOOMBS
R. HEDLEY	G. McBRIDE
B. TIMERS
-72-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Guidelines to Overtime Distribution
1.	When overtime is required, the supervisor will ask the person with the lowest overtime as per 12.06 (a) (1st). The critical issue here being “posted” to the job and ism overtime. If “posted” employee, for whatever reason, has been temporarily assigned somewhere else, he/she is still entitled to be asked to work overtime.
2.	After exhausting all the steps of 12.06(a) and no one was found to work the overtime, “permanent posted” person with the lowest overtime charged will be required to work.
3.	12.06 (a) Step 5: Qualified employees working outside the department.
A procedure, for distributing overtime equally outside the department are not available, therefore, the clause is not applicable.
A master list of employees “qualified” for all jobs will be kept and updated by Human Resources. This will provide guidance for selection at Step 5.
4.	Qualified has two definitions.
(a)	permanently posted for six (6) weeks or more
(b)	someone who has served ten (10) days in the position
It is understood that these ten (10) days of training are representative of the normal job content.
-73-
Therefore, in steps 3 and 5, overtime will be distributed first to people qualified under definition (a) and then under definition (b) before moving to the next step.
5.	If two (2) people have equal overtime charged, the senior person will be asked first.
6.	If person refused overtime, providing the 2 hour limit of 12.05 (a) ce the 40 hour limit of 12.04 have been met, the person will be charged regardless of the reason with these exceptions:
If a member of the union executive, steward or committee member is required to attend and attends a union activity, then no charging will take place on refusal.
A two-tier charging method will be established. One list is just for work in their classification. The second list is all overtime worked in or outside classification and department. This way working outside one’s class does not limit one’s availability for work inside their classification.
7.	If the conditions of 12.05 (a) and 12.04 are not met, but the person works the overtime, the person will be charged. If a person refused, no charging will take place.
8.	Employees eligible to be asked to work overtime, but not available for overtime, will be charged the actual number of hours if entitled under equal distribution, in their job classification during the period.
-74
Employees who are laid off will have their overtime hours averaged when they are recalled. The only exception would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
9.	If the Company has a duty to call a person at home, then a refusal will be charged. If no contact is made with the person, no charging will take place.
10.	If a person is late, and works overtime at the end of the regular core shift hours, the person will be charged overtime hours worked after the end of the core shift hours.
11.	All overtime will be charged at straight hours and regardless of rate paid.
12.	On a (2) shift operation, if overtime was required:
(I) provision of 12.04 must be met.
(ii) The “posted” person with the lowest overtime would be asked first (12.06)(a), then the “posted” person with the next lowest overtime would be asked and so on (until the requirement is met) regardless of what shift they worked on Friday, filling the B shift first and then the C shift if required.
All hours scheduled to be worked on Saturday are added to overtime hours before Sunday selections. Sunday shift would follow the same procedure as Saturday.
-75-
(iii) In all these cases, if scheduling is required, the person with the lowest O.T, would be required to work.
13.	Shiftmate - Is the person who has the lowest overtime hours in the particular classification on shift.
14.	f two (2) or more people are posted in a temporary job:
(a)	the temporary with the lowest overtime would be asked first as in 12 above.
(b)	the temporary posted employee would enter the job with the average of the “high” and “low” overtime hours of the other temporaries.
15.	Overtime will be scheduled as per the Employment Standards Act.
16.	On a three (3) shift operation, if overtime was required overtime will be scheduled like in Section 12 in order of shifts, A B, and C.
Signed this 8th day of June, 1990.
For the Company:
K.V. BASSETT	B. RESCH
PLANT MANAGER	PERSONNEL MANAGER
G.B. MURDOCH	J. GROVES
PRODUCTION MANAGER PROJECT CO-ORDINATOR
-76-
For the Union:
K. EATON	R. H ED LEY
LOCAL PRESIDENT	LOCAL TREASURER
T.	WINSTONE	G. McBRIDE
LOCAL VICE PRESIDENT LOCAL RECORDING
SECRETARY
S. GRIMM
INTERNATIONAL VICE-PRESIDENT A.F.G.M.
•77
WEEKEND OVERTIME VOLUNTEER LIST GUIDELINES
P.QSJING
-	Anticipated requirement by classification.
' Posted in cafeteria on Tuesday by 11:00 a.m. until Wednesday at 10:00 a.m.
-	Confirmation of employees working posted Wednesday by 3:00 p.m. (Both volunteers and if required, scheduled employees)
OVERTIME HOURS CHARGED
■	Employees eligible for overtime who did not volunteer by signing the volunteer list will be charged refusal.
■	Should scheduling of employees for overtime be required due to insufficient volunteers, then all qualified employees who did not volunteer will be charged refusal as the posting of the requirement list is equivalent to asking employees if they wish to work overtime.
VOLUNTEERING FOR MORE THAN ONE CLASSIFICATION
* If employees wish to be considered for overtime in more than one classification they are qualified for, they must indicate this by signing the list(s).
-78-
Employees must accept overtime opportunity in their own classification and department first.
OFF SICK DURING POSTING OF O.T. REQUIREMENT
I 1ST
■ Employees off sick at time cf posting must advise the appropriate Supervisor(s) of their wish to wok prior to posting expiration in order to be considered.
CONSIDERATION OF ADDITIONAL VOLUNTEERS AFTER POSTING EXPIRATION
■ Only if scheduling is required, will additional volunteers be considered for O.T. after the posting expires.
RATE OF PAY
• Paid at employees basic rate or rate of the job, whichever is higher.
It is understood that the parties may agree to amend
these guidelines from time to time.
-79-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Signed this .
1 7 th
day of August
SIGNED AND AGREED TO FOR UPTON
David Dobbin Vice President, Manufacturing
Paul Lynch Vice President. Human Resources
, 1997.
SIGNED AND AGREED TO FOR AFGM LOCAL 327
t^AkkiM	'	f'olariM U/tlivikAMi
CaJrin Wamboldt Local President
Tom Winstonc Local Vice President
c

Lily Ca&au
Human Resources Manager
A a .•
Gloria McBride
Local Recording Secretary

Pdbert Hedley Local Treasurer
Y
Shawn Grimw

Shawn Grin International Vice-President A.F.G.M.
-80-
>•( WITNESS THEREOF, the parties mentioned have executed (his Agreement this i5th da; i October	. 1997.
OR THE EMPLOYER:
HOMASJ LIPTON l DIVISION OF UL CANADA INC
)avid Dobbin
/ice President, Manufacturing
'aul Lynch I
/ice President, HLman Resources
FOR THE UNION:
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L • C.I.O, C.L.C AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327
Calvin Wamboldl Local President
Tom Winstone Local Vice President
-ily Cadet
luman Resources Manager

djtJLas
Gloria McBride
Local Recording Secretary
Robert Hedley I
Local Treasurer
JCL

Shiwn Grit
International Vice-President A.F.G.M.
-81 •