HERSHEY CANADA INC.
- and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, AEL-CIO-CLC '
k.,, LOCAL 461 :■
Effective: February I, 1987 Expiry Date:'January 31,-1989
INDEX
ARTICLE
1.	Recognition ..,... -	■
2.	Management: Rights'....
3.	No Strikes or Lockouts.
4.	Union, Representation..... .
PAGE
.....1
......I
......1
.......2
5.	Grievance Procedure, A .... ■	......3
6.	Discharge Cases.-.	............4
7.	Arbitration ..... .•Av..A..... . ..7 - •... 5
8.	Seniority . ~ ........................;... 6
9.	Holidays.... . . .....;. ■•---------10
10.	Vacations......................... 12
<tll. Hours of work.'................... .14
12. Overtime.,.-...,. . . .	.... ...■:.....17
13.	Call-In Pay......................- . .18
14. Reporting for Work Pay................. .19
: 15. Miscellaneous Provisions.............19
16.	Bulletin Boards..,..... ........... ■... - .23
17.	Job Posting............................ .23
18.	Funeral Leave..... ..:................25
19i Deduction of Union Dues... U .. . . ..... .25
20.	Leave.of Absence. ......... .........27
21.	Wages...................... ... • ■ 27
22.	Health- and Welfare................... Ai.,
23.	Duration ... ........ A .	.^35.0
Letters of Intent. ...........................37
38
39
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
HERSHEY CANADA INC., Smiths Falls, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) and
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
ARTICLE 1 — RECOGNITION:
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Smiths Falls, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, laboratory staff, students employed during the school vacation period, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
ARTICLE 2 — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS:
2.01	Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company’s operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
2.02	Discipline and Discharge:
The Company has the right to discipline or discharge employees subject to the right of an employee, who has completed his probationary period, to file a grievance alleging such discipline or discharge was without just cause.
ARTICLE 3 — NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS:
3.01	The Company will not lock out employees, nor
will there be any strikes on the part of the Union or the employees.
3.02	The terms “strike” and “lockout” as used above shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 — UNION REPRESENTATION:
4.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint oi otherwise select a committee of three (3) employees plus the Plant President of the Union, to participate in the negotiation or administration of this or subsequent agreements.
4.02	The Union shall further have the right to select or otherwise appoint one (1) steward for each department, plus two (2) stewards for the night shift, to assist employees in presenting grievances to the supervisor, if such assistance is requested. Where a third shift exists, the Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select one (1) steward to represent employees on such shift.
4.03	An employee will not be eligible to act as a Steward or member of the Union Committee until aftei he has completed the probationary period of employment.
4.04	Employees of the Company who are members of the Union Committee, or stewards, have regular duties to perform. Such employees will not leave their work for conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees, without receiving permission from their immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
2
4.05	The Company will reimburse four (4) members of the Committee for up to eight (8) hours straight rime pay for time spent during the employee’s regular working hours, Monday to Friday, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement up to the making of an application for conciliation.
ARTICLE 5 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
5.01	Any complaint raised by an employee with his supervisor which is not settled within one (1) full working day will within a further period of two (2) working days, be referred to the Personnel Manage] as a written grievance, which will be dated and signed by the employee. During any discussion of a complaint with the Supervisor, the employee’s steward will be present if requested by either the employee or the supervisor.
5.02	Step HI
Within three (3) working days following receipt of a written grievance, the Personnel Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company will meet with the employee and the steward to discuss the grievance. Within three (3) working days thereafter, the Personnel Manager or his designate will give a written reply to the grievance.
5.03	Step HI
If the reply of the Personnel Manager is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance may, within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step # 1, be referred to the Plant Manager. Within five (5) working days thereafter, the Plant Manager and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company, will meet with the
Union Committee to discuss the grievance. At this meeting, any regular member of the Union Committee may be substituted by the steward of the department where the grievance arose. A full-time representative of the Union (i.e. Business Agent, etc.) will be present if his presence is requested by either the employee, the Union Committee or the Plant Manager. Within five (5) working days following this meeting, the Plant Manager or his designate will give his written reply to the grievance.
5.04	As used in this Article only, the term “working days” shall mean Monday to Friday inclusive.
5.05	Any of the time allowances provided above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties involved, such extension of time to be in writing.
5.06	If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, it shall be done within ten (10) days following the date of the reply at Step #2.
5.07	The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged circumstances of which arose more than eight (8) working days before it was referred to the supervisor.
ARTICLE 6 — DISCHARGE CASES:
6.01	An employee who has completed the probationary period and who is subsequently discharged by the Company, may submit a written grievance, dated and signed, to the Plant Manager, provided such grievance is submitted, within three (3) working days after the discharge occurs.
6.02	Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirming the Company’s action, or by reinstating the discharged person with full compensation or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable.
6.03	A Union Steward or other officer of the Union shall be present when an employee is to be disciplined or discharged.
ARTICLE 7 — ARBITRATION:
7.01	No grievance may be submitted or arbitration which has not been properly processed through the stages of the Grievance Procedure, as herein provided.
7.02	When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the party making the request shall do so in writing addressed to the other party, and at the same time appoint an arbitrator. Within five (5) days thereafter, the other party shall appoint an arbitrator. The two arbitrators so appointed shall attempt to select, by agreement, a third person to act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree on a Chairman within five (5) days, they will request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a chairman.
7.03	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to settle the grievance, or who is employed by either party to this Agreement
7.04	Each of the parties will bear the expenses of the arbitrator it appoints. The parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman.
7.05	The Arbitration Board shalt not render any decision which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, nor shalt the said Board add to, alter, amend or deal with any matter not contained herein.
7.06	A unanimous or majority decision of an Arbitration Board wilt be final and binding on the parties to this Agreement. If no majority decision is given, the decision of the Chairman will be final and binding.
ARTICLE 8 — SENIORITY:
8.01	Any employee hired as a new employee by the Company will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing until after he has completed sixty (60) days of work. His seniority wilt then date back sixty (60) working days from the sixtieth (60) day worked. A probationary employee will have twelve (12) months from the date of hire to accumulate his sixty (60) days. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Collective Agreement, the discharge of an employee during his probationary period shalt be at the sole discretion of the Company.
8.02	(a) 1 Lay-Off
in all cases of lay-off and recall to work following such lay-off, except lay-offs pursuant to Article 8.02
(a)	2., Article 8.02 (c) and Article 8.03, seniority shall be the governing factor providing the employee has the reasonable skill and ability to perform the work required. For the purposes of lay-offs under this section, the senior employee will be provided with up to five (5) working days of training. Such an employee wilt be assigned by the Company to dis-
fi
place an employee with less seniority in his classification or a tower classification subject to the following conditions:
i)	an employee shalt retain his rate in his nor-mat classification for a period up to three (3) months;
ii)	employees who have completed the probationary period will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of lay-off except when it is beyond the reasonable con-trot of the Company.
iii)	if an employee in Class 1 or 2 is displaced
from his job and there is no vacancy within the employee’s present class nor in a class below the employee’s present class and a job is being performed by an employee with less seniority than the displaced employee, the Company will assign the displaced employee to a job in Class 1, 2, or 3.
8.02	(a) 2 Temporary Lay-Offs A temporary lay-off shalt be any lay-off for a period not exceeding five (5) working days or less. For the purposes of such lay-offs, a seniority employee who possesses the necessary skills and is fully qualified to immediately perform the work required will be assigned by the Company to displace an employee with less seniority in his classification or a lower classification subject to the following conditions:
i)	if an employee in Class 1 or 2 is displaced from his job and there is no vacancy within the employee’s present class nor in a class below the employee’s pres-
ent class and a job is being performed by an employee with less seniority than the displaced employee, the Company will assign the displaced employee to a job in Class 1, 2 or 3.
8.02	(b) In transferring employees temporarily from one department to another, other than a lay-off situation, the Company will transfer the junior employee from the department from which the transfer is to be made provided:
i)	That such employee is fully qualified to perform the normal duties of the work required;
ii)	That employees remaining in the department are fully qualified to perform the normal duties of the work required in the department from which the transfer is made.
iii)	That senior employees remaining in the department do not volunteer.
8.02	(c) In cases of permanent lay-off due to amalgamation of jobs or discontinuation of a job, the following procedure will apply:
i)	The newly created job will be posted as per Article 17.01 and filled as per Article 8.02.
ii)	Any employee displaced by such job change, or whose job becomes redundant will displace the most junior employee in his class, i.e., Class 6, Class 5, and will be given training for the job. An employee must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfill the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time.
iii)	Any further employees displaced as a result
of employee bumping in (ii) above, will displace the most junior employee in the next lower class and such bumping will progress through each class.
iv)	In this type of situation, Article 8.02 will
not apply to paragraph (ii) and (iii) above.
8.03	The Company will not be required to observe the provisions of 8.02 above for lay-offs of one (1) full shift or less. However, this section shall not be applied for a total of more than six (6) full shifts in any twelve (12) months’ period.
8.04	Seniority previously accumulated will be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
(a)	quits his employment or is discharged for just cause;
(b)	is absent from work without an explanation
satisfactory to the Company. Employees will be required to notify the supervisor or his designate of any absence from work prior to the commencement of his shift;
(c)	fails to return to work when recalled from a
lay-off;
(d)	is laid off for a continuous period of (12)
twelve months.
8.05	The Company will contact employees to advise of a recall to work following lay-off. Employees not contacted will be sent a registered letter or telegram addressed to the last address recorded with the Company by the employee.
9
A person being recalled by registered letter shall signify his intention to return to work within five (5) days after the notice has been sent out and shall return to work within a further two (2) days.
8.06	An up-to-date seniority list, showing the names and seniority dates of employees will be posted on the bulletin boards every three (3) months.
8.07	Where the Company terminates the work day for a portion of the work force of packers before eight (8) hours have been worked, those employees amongst the packers who have the greatest seniority will be allowed to leave the plant, provided there are sufficient qualified employees remaining to perform the work.
8.08	In the event of an extensive lay-off due io lack of work, the chief steward will be retained in employment provided the said chief steward has more than three (3) years of seniority and further, provided there is work available he is qualified to perform.
ARTICLE 9 — HOLIDAYS:
9.01	The following days will be recognized by the Company as paid holidays:
New Year’s Da> Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Da>
Civic Holiday Floater Holiday, one (1)
Labour Day
Thanksgiving
The Day before Christmas
Christmas Day
The Day after Christmas
Day
10
The Company will add one (1) additional floating holiday in year two (2) of the collective agreement Feb. 1/87 - Jan. 31/89. Floating holidays will be celebrated by each employee on a date to be decided by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks’ notice as to the day they intend to celebrate the floating holiday. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, the holiday must not interfere with the Company’s ability to meet production requirements. In the event either the Provincial or Federal Government declares another holiday which must be observed and paid, then such holiday shall replace the holiday referred to above.
9.02	To qualify for holiday pay, an employee will be required:
(a)	to have completed the probationary period;
(b)	to have worked the scheduled shift on the day
immediately preceding the holiday and the scheduled shift on the day immediately succeeding the holiday. However, payment for the holiday will be made if an employee worked during the week in which the holiday occurred, but was prevented from working the days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday because of lay-off by the Company, due to lack of work, or verified personal illness. Such verification will be in the form of a doctor’s note to be presented upon returning to work.
9.03	Where a paid holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged with his supervisor, provided the employee is otherwise qualified to receive pay for the said holiday.
II
9.04	In the weeks in which paid holidays occur, for purposes of weekly overtime, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday and overtime will, in such weeks be paid for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and the appropriate reduced work week, but not both.
9.05	Where a paid holiday occurs on Saturday, it will be celebrated on the immediately preceding Friday, Where a paid holiday occurs on Sunday, it will be celebrated on the immediately succeeding Monday. Holidays shall be deemed to be on the actual calendar day on which they fall except where changed by Federal or Provincial legislation.
9.06	Except for engineers, maintenance and milk receiving, no employees shall be compelled to work on a paid holiday.
ARTICLE 10 — VACATIONS:
10.01	For vacation purposes only, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30th. However, should an employee who is approaching three (3) weeks’, four (4) weeks’, five (5) weeks’, or six (6) weeks’ vacation attain the required amount of continuous service within thirty (30) days following June 30th, he will be eligible to receive the added vacation after he completes the required amount of continuous service.
10.02	Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective for 1987 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service — two (2) weeks.
12
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service — three (3) weeks.
(c)	Eleven (1 I) years of continuous service — foul
(4)	weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continuous service — five
(5)	weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service — six (6) weeks.
Effective for 1988 Vacations:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service — two (2) weeks.
(b)	Five (5) years of continuous service — three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service — four (4) weeks.
(d)	Eighteen (18) years of continous service — five (5) weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service — six (6) weeks.
10.03	Employees with less than one (I) year of continuous service as of June 30th will be paid a vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
10.04	Payment for vacations will be on the basis of two percent (2%) of an employee’s earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation to which he is entitled.
10.05	All earned vacations must be completed during the twelve (12) months succeeding June 30th. No more than four (4) weeks vacation can be taken at one time without the Company’s permission.
13
10.06	Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by departments, with senior employees being given the first selection of vacation dates. However, this shall not be applied to the detriment of the Company maintaining sufficient employees who are qualified to perform the work. A vacation list will be posted not latei than March 15th in each department and choice of available dates will be made by April 15th. Once the dates have been chosen, no changes may be made except with the consent of the Company. However, those employees who wish to take all or part of theii vacations between October 1st and June 30th shall not be required to select the available dates until September 1st. An employee who does not exercise this selection by April 15th or who does not notify the Company by that date that he wishes to postpone his selection until September 1st, will forfeit any right to exercise the terms thereof.
ARTICLE II — HOURS OF WORK:
11 .01 The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours, or for any othei hours.
11.02	The regular work week will consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day. The clays of work, starting and quitting times will be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements. When employees are required to work a shift on Saturday as a part of their regular work week, then a premium of one dollar and twenty.-five cents ($1.25) per hour will be paid for each regular hour worked on the Saturday
14
shift, and two dollars ($2.00) per hour premium will be paid for each regular hour worked on the Sunday shift up to I 1:00 p.m. the Saturday and Sunday premiums shall not be considered a part of an employee’s hourly rate and will not be paid for any hours where the overtime rate is applicable.
I 1 .03 Except where it is beyond the reasonable con-trot of the Company, where the days to be worked in a work week are to be changed, any employee involved in the said change will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice.
1 1 .04 The lunch period will be one-half (1/2) hour without pay.
I I .05 (a) A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes duration will be provided in each half shift, at times designated by the Company.
(b)	Where an employee is required to continue working overtime at the end of his shift without a break being provided before the overtime commences, and such overtime exceeds two (2) consecutive hours, and additional paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes will be provided during the period of the overtime work.
11.06	The regular work week for Stationary Engineers will consist of forty-two (42) hours to be averaged over a four (4) week period. Changes in work schedules will be posted as far in advance as practical.
I 1 .07 A Stationary Engineer who is completing his 15
shift will be required to remain on the job until the reporting employee is available and ready to take over the succeeding shift, or until other arrangements have been made by the Maintenance Manager. No employee will be allowed to work more than two (2) consecutive shifts.
11.08	Those packers with four (4) years or more of seniority will be given the opportunity in the ordei of seniority to select the shift on which they wish to work subject to the number of jobs on each shift being available and the seniority of the employees already on each shift. Once having made a choice of shift, an eligible employee shall remain on the chosen shift for twelve (12) consecutive months subject to work being available. It is the intent of the Company to apply the following guidelines covering “change of shift” to accommodate employees wherever possible. Where employees mutually agree to change shift, the change must comply with the following format.
(a)	Jobs must be within the same Department.
(b)	Both employees must be qualified to perform
the work.
(c)	Both employees must be on the same job.
(d)	Supervisor must have final approval for the change in order to maintain a reasonable balance on both shifts between more senior and junior employees.
11.09	The Service Floor Attendants in the Wrapping Room who normally perform the functions of that position and have completed four (4) years on this job will rotate on all Service Floor Attendant jobs as equitable as possible.
16
11.10	As of the date of ratification all employees with five (5) years or more seniority, except packers (covered under 11.08), maintenance department personnel and stationary engineers shall have the opportunity of selecting the shift on which they wish to work on their present job according to seniority.
The Company will implement these shift selections for all employees on August 4, 1987.
After the date of ratification employees will have the opportunity of changing shifts and/or jobs only through the posting procedure as outlined in Article 17.00 and shall be restricted to receiving two jobs, through the posting procedure in a twelve month period.
After the date of ratification all notices of job vacancies posted shalt state the job and the shift to be worked.
ARTICLE 12 — OVERTIME:
12.01	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly, but not both, Monday through Saturday. Overtime rate for all Sunday hours worked will be twice the regular hourly rate. Overtime for work on a statutory holiday will be twice the regular hourly rate.
12.02	(a) Overtime opportunities will be distributed by the Company as equitably as practicable amongst those employees regularly performing the work on which overtime is required.
17
Overtime for Class 1 Packers, Class 2 Nut Room Inspectors, Class 3 Service Floor Attendants, Class 4 Machine Operator/Packer, Machine Opera-tor/Packer Leadhands, and Pan Goods Dept. employees will be worked by those employees in theii classification with the most seniority who are fully qualified to perform the work.
(b)	the Company reserves the right to deviate from the above if employees health or work is deemed to suffer as a result of excessive overtime.
(c)	an employee who is performing overtime work in a classification lower than his own, will be paid the overtime rate which is applicable to his own classification.
(d)	no employee will be allowed to work more than two (2) consecutive shifts.
ARTICLE 13 — CALL-IN PAY:
13.01	An employee who is called in to work to meet emergency conditions after having completed his shift and having left the Company property, will be guaranteed the equivalent of not less than four (4) hours pay at the employee’s applicable hourly rate of pay or one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, or twice the employee’s hourly pay for all hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory Holiday whichever is greater. In addition, the Company will pay one hour bonus pay at an employee’s regular hourly rate of pay for all call-ins.
IX
13.02	If the call-in occurs less than one (1) houi before the regular starting time, the call-in pay will be limited to the time remaining prior to the said regular starting time.
ARTICLE 14 — REPORTING FOR WORK PAY:
14.01	An employee who reports for work at the start of his shift, without having been notified in advance not to report, and no work is available for such an employee, will be paid four (4) hours’ pay at his regular rate. This obligation on the part of the Company will not prevail where an employee does not keep the Company notified of his current address and the telephone number if any, or where the Company is prevented from providing work because of fire, flood, lack of hydro or steam power, strike, or any similar circumstances.
ARTICLE 15 -MISCELLANEOUS PROVISION:
15.01	Where used in this Agreement, and where applicable, the male pronoun will be deemed to include the female pronoun.
15.02	Employees who are required by the Company to wear uniforms will be provided with such uniforms as follows:
i)	Year One — Effective as soon as possible after the date of ratification each employee will be provided with four (4) uniforms:
ii)	Year Two — Effective twelve (12) months from the date of the receipt of the first uniform issue referred to in (i), each employee shall receive (4) additional uniforms;
19
iii)	All employees hired after the date of the first uniform issue referred to in (i) shall receive foul (4) uniforms and four (4) additional uniforms twelve (12) months from the date of receipt of the first issue.
The cleaning and maintenance of uniforms and any additions to the number- supplied by the Company shall be the responsibility of employees. Uniforms shall be kept clean and in good condition. All uniforms worn shall be of the design and colour required by the Company.
15.03	Effective on Ratification the Company will pay each seniority employee a sixty-dollar ($60.00) safety shoe allowance. All present seniority employees will receive a further sixty-dollar ($60.00) safety shoe allowance one year from the ratification date. Any employee who completes his probationary period after the ratification date shall receive a sixty dollar ($60.00) safety shoe allowance and a further sixty dollar ($60.00) safety shoe allowance on the anniversary date of the completion of his probationary period. Safety shoes shall only be worn in connection with work for the Company and shall be left at the plant.
15.04	(a) An employee with one (1) year or more of service who becomes pregnant, will be given leave of absence without pay or without loss of accumulation of seniority from the end of the sixth month of the pregnancy. Should the employee wish to work beyond the sixth month of pregnancy, she will furnish the Company with authentic proof stating that
20
she can safely perform all the functions of her job. The Company has the right to contact the Doctoi to discuss the employee’s job functions. The employee shall normally return to work within sixty (60) days after delivery. The sixty (60) days can be extended to a total of fifteen (15) weeks after delivery.
(b) The Company agrees to continue paying for all benefits during an employees pregnancy leave.
15.05	An employee who is required by law to serve as a juror or crown witness will be paid his full regu-tar wages based on forty (40) hours per week during the time of such service provided;
(a)	he turns over to the Company the amount received from the court;
(b)	he reports for work on any days he is not
required to be in attendance in the courtroom.
15.06	The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety of its employees during their hours of work. The Union will co-operate with the Company in the promotion of safe working habits and practices.
J 5.07 Supervisors and foreladies will not perform work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
(a)	in cases of emergency conditions;
(b)	when performing development or experimental work;
21
(c)	when checking production on machines or on
any lines;
(d)	when instructing employees or other supervisory personnel;
(e)	when regular employees are not available due
to being late or otherwise absent from their work or jobs.
15.08	Each tradesman or apprentice who is required by the Company to supply tools to be used in connection with his work will be given an allowance of
(a)	$120.00 effective February 1, 1987
(b)	$120.00 effective February 1, 1988
each twelve (12) months of work for the purchase and replacement of tools. Payment will be made June 30th of each year.
15.09	(a) The Company agrees to continue the present practices in the rotation of packers on lines fot the duration of this Agreement. However, packers who have completed three (3) months of employment will not be required to work continuously on one (I) line for a period longer than one (1) week except in unusual circumstances. This is subject to sufficient work being available.
Excluded from this provision will be:
(i) Leadhands in the Wrapping Department.
22
15.09	(b) Permanent employees who work as packers will be rotated on lines at least each 2 hours. Where there is no effective rotation in the Wrapping Room, packers in the Wrapping Room will rotate with O.S.&D.
ARTICLE 16 — BULLETIN BOARDS:
16.01	The Company bulletin boards will be available to the Union for posting notices of Union activities. All such notices will be submitted to the Personnel Manager for approval before posting.
ARTICLE 17 — JOB POSTING:
17.01	(a) Notices of job vacancies, which will include the shift to be worked, will be posted on the bulletin hoards for two (2) days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and Paid Holidays. During that period, employees who have completed the probationary period may make written application to the Personnel Department, the Company will give preference to the applicant with the greatest amount of seniority who has the necessary qualifications to perform the work assigned. If none of those applying has the qualifications established for the job, the Company may fill the vacancy from any source available.
If applicable, the Company will include qualifications and experience required on job postings.
(b)	Neither Class 1 jobs nor temporary jobs which are to be of less than three (3) months duration will be posted.
(c)	If a job posting is not filled by employees at work, the Company will recall employees on lay-off in
23
order of seniority on a temporary basis until their former jobs become available again, provided the employee can perform the functions of the job within five (5) days of training. Then the Company will repost the position.
17.02	Only the original vacancy and the first two (2) subsequent vacancies resulting from filling the original vacancy will be posted. However, where furthei vacancies occur, consideration will be given to filling such vacancies with qualified employees already in the employ of the Company in the bargaining unit.
17.03	An employee who receives a job through the posting procedure shall receive the rate for the new job in fourteen (14) working days from the date the posting was made or the date on which he is placed on the job, whichever occurs first. The successful applicant will be notified within five (5) days aftei posting period is completed.
17.04	Employees will be restricted to receiving two (2) jobs through the posting procedure in twelve month period.
17.05	An employee who is going to be absent from work and who thinks there may be a vacancy in a job where he desires to work may leave his name with the Personnel Department. If there is a vacancy in the work specified, he will be given full consideration along with other bids received. The employee must report for the job within two (2) weeks of successful bidding or be disqualified.
24
17.06	A job which has been discontinued for more than twelve (12) months and becomes reactivated will be filled through the posting procedure as per 17.01 (a).
ARTICLE 18 — FUNERAL LEAVE
18.01	An employee who has completed the probationary period will be allowed up to three (3) working days’ leave of absence with pay in the event of the death of his father, mother, sister, brother, wife (husband), child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepchild and grandparents. Such leave shall be for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral, and shall terminate on the day following the day of the funeral. Only that portion of the three (3) days that would otherwise have been regular time worked will be paid at regular hourly rates of pay.
18.02	Where a death of a brother-in-law, sister-inlaw, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of an employee occurs, one (I) working day off with pay will be allowed on the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral.
ARTICLE 19 — DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES:
19.01	On receipt of authorization forms individually and voluntarily signed by employees, the Company will deduct Union dues in the amount as designated by the Union from the pay accumulated to the credit of such employees for the first pay period of each calendar month. Amounts so deducted will be forwarded to a designated official of the Union within fifteen (15) days after the deductions have been made.
25
19.02	Authorization for the deduction of Union Dues will be made on copies of the following form:
I. .	.	. hereby authorize
Hershey Canada to deduct my monthly dues to Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers’ Union, Local 461 and forward the dues so deducted IO the Secretary-Treasurer of the Retail, Wholesale, Bakery and Confectionery Workers’ Union, Local 461, whose receipt therefore shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amounts so deducted. Such authorization shall be irrevocable.
Signed
Address
19.03	New employees hired by the Company shall be required to authorize the deduction of Union dues from their pay. The deduction of such dues shall commence after the employee has been employed foi thirty (30) calendar days. When a new employee is hired, he will be advised there is a collective agreement in effect and, within two (2) days after he commences work, such new employee will be introduced to the department steward.
19.04	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
26
ARTICLE 20 — LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
20.01	Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted by the Company to employees for personal reasons. An employee requesting leave shall make such request in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date when the leave is required. Under normal circumstances, personal leave, when granted by the Company, shall not extend beyond thirty (30) days.
20.02	Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority, will be granted by the Company to not more than two (2) employees at a time to attend Union Conventions, provided the request for such leave is made at least two (2) weeks in advance of the effective date of the said leave. The total accumulation of leave of absence for Union conventions shall not exceed twenty (20) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
20.03	Leave of absence without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company for the adoption of a child up to a period of six (6) months without any form of compensation.
ARTICLE 21 — WAGES:
21 .01 The Company will classify employees and pay applicable wage rates in accordance with the following:
27
Effective February 1/87 Effective February 1/88
			Less than	2 Years	Less than	2 Years
			2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over
CLASS 7 Cocoa Press	and	Cocoa Mill				
Operator Cocoa Press	and	Penuche Press	$10.29	$10.58	$10.79	$11.08
Operator CLASS 6
Combination Operator (Chocolate, Nut and Candy, Processing)
Liquor Milling & Refiner Operator Bean Roaster & Cleaner Condensing & Crumb Operator Moulding & Nut Roasting Operator Plow and Double Mixer Operator Pan Goods, Colour, Coating Operator
Candy Department, Sugar Boiler
$9.98	$10.27	$10.48	$10.77
Combination Operators — Will be required to perform more than one operator’s function either in combination or at different periods of time, and will be assigned the class six (6) operator’s functions at the discretion of the Company. If an employee in this classification operates only one machine, he will maintain his rate.
Liquor Mill Operator Syrup Maker (Cocoa Section)
Cocoa Press Operator Plow Room Operator / Assistant Moulding & Nut Roasting ' Operator
/ Pan Goods Polishing & Blending ' Operator Shipping & Receiving f Case Packing, Minor Machine v Adjustment & Syrup Filling Peanut Butter Cup Line Attendant /Process Department Helper ' (Utility, Relief, etc.)
Blender & Pulverizer Conche Operator/Penuche Mixing Pan Goods Department Helper 2 y Stokes Operator, Triangle V Operator
and Poucher Operator ( Instantizer/Syrup Maker/Cocoa Syrup: Ins. Mix Dept.
(Utility, Relief, etc.)
$9.57
$9.86
$ 0.07
$10.36
CLASS 4
Peanut Butter Maker Mixing and Refining Pan Goods Department Helper I / Pan Goods Shaping & Sorting ' Operator Refiner Operator Syrup Maker (Pan Goods) Moulding Machine Helper Machine Operator Packer Grounds Keeping & Sanitation Cocoa Mill Operator
Effective February 1/87 Effective February 1/88
Less than	2 Years	Less than	2 Years
2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Ower
$9.41	$9.70	$9.91	$10.20
CLASS 3 Service Attendant Shipping Department Helper / Cocoa/Syrup/Instant/Brown Cow V Line Attendant / Chocolate Milk Mix Operator and ' Baggers
CLASS 2 Sanitation Bean Cleaner Double Mixer General Labour Nut Room Inspector
CLASS I Packers Pan Pushing
$9.23
$9.52
$9.73
$10.02
$9.07	$9.36	$9.57
$9.86
$9.00
$9.29
$9.50
$9.79
HIRING RATE Class 1 Class 2
MAINTENANCE Tradesman A Tradesman B Tradesman C Helper/Apprentice
Engineers — 2nd Class Engineers — 3rd Class
Effective February 1/87 Effective February 1/88
Less than	2 Years	Less than	2 Years
2 Years	& Over	2 Years	& Over
$8.71		$9.21	
$8.98		$9.48	
$11.02	$11.31	$11.62	$11.91
$10.22	$10.51	$10.82	$11.11
$9.96	$10.25	$10.56	$10.85
$9.68	$9.97	$10.28	$10.57
$12.65	$12.94	$13.25	$13.54
$12.21	$12.50	$12.81	$13.10
SPECIALISTS
No Ticket	$12.03	$12.58	$12.63	$13.18
1 Ticket	$12.23	$12.78	$12.83	$13.38
2 Tickets	$12.43	$12.98	$13.03	$13.58
Year 1 — 50<t Effective February 1, 1987 (Engineers, Maintenance, and Specialist receive IOC above general increase)
Year 2 — 50C Effective February 1, 1988 (Engineers, Maintenance, and Specialist receive 10<t above general increase)
All hours worked from February 1, 1987 will be increased by the above wages for all employees retroactive. All other rate increases and newly classified jobs will be effective on ratification of the contract.
21.02	Employees hired at the hiring rate will attain the rate of the classification to which they are assigned on completion of twenty (20) days of work.
21.03	(a) A leadhand appointed by the Company will receive a rate of forty cents (40®) effective May 3 1, 1987 in excess of the highest classification rate in the group of employees he is required to lead.
(b)	Leadhands will have no authority to hire or discharge or discipline, and shall not be used in the assessment of any employee’s performance for the purposes of discipline, promotion or an employee attaining seniority.
(c)	Leadhands will be selected from those employees with seniority and will not be selected from the ranks of temporary or probationary employees.
(d)	Leadhands will be paid the leadhand premium all year.
21.04	Effective February I, 1987 an afternoon shift premium of forty cents (40®) per hour will be paid for all hours worked on shifts which commence from 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. A midnight shift premium or forty-five (45®) per hour will be paid for all shifts which commence from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
21.05	(a) an employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company, and not as a result of lack of work on his regular job, will be paid the higher rate for the duration of such temporary transfer.
34
(b) An employee who is temporarily transferred from a lower to a higher rated classification will receive, the higher rate upon working one (I) full shift on the higher rated classification.
ARTICLE 22 — HEALTH AND WELFARE:
22.01	The Employees shall have Health and Welfare benefits as outlined in the “Employee Handbook” dated December 1986.
22.02	Insurance benefits contained herein are within the control of third parties (ie. the carriers of the said plans). Therefore, the Company shall not be responsible for any decisions made by the said parties with respect to the payment or non-payment of benefits.
22.03	Severance Pay — In the event of the closure of all of the Company’s operation in Smiths Falls or the closure of a portion leading up to the total closure, resulting in the permanent lay-off, the Company agrees to pay all terminated employees a severance pay for those employees with more than five (5) years seniority, amounting to one (1) week’s regular wages for each year of service and one-half (1/2) week’s regular wages for each year of service foi those employees with less than five (5) years seniority.
ARTICLE 23 — DURATION:
This agreement, which supersedes all previous Agreements, will remain in full force and effective from and including the 1st clay of February 1987 to and Including the 31st day of January 1989. Notice by either party that it intends to terminate or seek revisions to this Agreement may only be given during
35
a period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days preceding the 31st day of January 1989.
Signed at Smiths Falls this Wednesday, June 24, 1987
For the Company Richard W. Meyers W.B. McKiernan B.E. Seward David Yach
For the Union Carole M. Currie Marlene Gray James Donnelly James Coughlin Brent Whiten James Evoy
36
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to use Hershey employees on lay-off as contractor helpers, when possible, in order to provide as much work to employees on lay-off as possible.
Whenever this arrangement is made, it must be a feasible type of work assignment and must be agreed by the contractor at the time the work is being performed.
Dave Yach,
Plant Manager
DY/cm
37
LETTER OF INTENT
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to have Monday through Friday as the normal work week. However, the Company will experience times when it is necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days to accommodate what would be considered unusual circumstances.
If, in the future the Company finds it necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular work days, other than for temporary periods of time they will meet with the Union to discuss and mutually agree upon a system and procedure for the selection of work days on the basis of seniority.
Dave Yach,
Plant Manage)
DY/cm
38
LETTER OF INTENT RE LAY-OFF
This letter will serve as a confirmation of the Company’s intent to maximize the lead time for all layoffs which exceed five working days, except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To aid in this commitment, it is the Company’s intent to review manning requirements at each Communication Meeting held monthly.
Dave Yach,
Plant Managet
DY/cm
39