COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UNILEVER CANADA INC.
AND
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS,
DAIRY EMPLOYEES CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL UNION NO. 647 AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2013 TO
APRIL 30, 2016
1
EMPLOYEE CONTACT INFORMATION SHEET
Pension & Benefits Contact Information	
Employee Benefit Plan Services (EBPS) Policy #901699 45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON, L3R 8C7	P: 905-946-9700 F: 905-946-8535
Short Term Disability (STD) Manulife Financial 2 Queen St. East PO Box 4606 Station A Toronto, ON, M5W 422	P: 1-877-277-5297 F: 1-877-329-4431
Long Term Disability (LTD) Manulife Financial Claims Adjudicator - Josephine Chan	P: 416-687-4435 F: 416-687-5191
Unilever Canada Pension Plan (UCPP) Pension Administrator: Simon Chan	P: 416-963-4086 F: 416-963-9742
General Contact Information ■ ■ ■ v_' ■ . ■■■;'X:'-	
Teamsters Local Union 647 Martin Cerqua - Business Agent 2180 Steeles Avenue West, Suite #305 Concord, ON, L4K 2Z5	P: 905-760-0209 P: 800-387-9924 - Outside GTA F: 905-760-8615 martinceraua@bellnet.ca
Unilever Canada - Rexdale Site 195 Belfield Road Toronto, ON, M9W 1G8	P: 416-240-4747 - 24 Hour Security P: 416-240-4757 - Packaging Plant P: 416-240-4750- Refinery Plant P: 416-240-4734-Lab F: 416-240-4741
Unilever Canada - Enterprise Support HR Services (Includes Payroll)	P: 866-379-7314 General Inquiries: es.hrservicesca@unilever.com Payroll: pay.es.hrservicesca@unilever.com
Employee Assistance Program; EAP Source Line: Corporate Wellness Services	P: 416-234-1316 P: 800-394-8015 asecord@sourceline.ca rsparrow@sourceline.ca
2
	INDEX	
Article		Page
i	Bargaining Unit	4
2	Recognition	5
3	Check-off	5
4	Stewards	6
5	Grievance Procedure	7
6	Rules Applying to Termination of Employment	8
7	Establishing Seniority	9
8	Days and Hours of Work	14
9	Paid Holidays and Vacations	20
10	Uniforms	23
11	Social Welfare Benefits	24
12	Bidding for Vacant Positions	28
13	General Notes	30
14	Supervisors	32
15	Jobbing Out	32
16	Severance Pay	32
17	Safety Committee	33
	Expiration and Renewal of Agreement	34
	Appendix "A" Wages	36
	Appendix "B" Tool Allowance & Shift Premium	36
	Appendix "C" COLA	36
	Letters of Understanding	37
	Welfare Plan Summary	46
3
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made this 4th day of June, 2013.
BETWEEN:
UNILEVER CANADA INC. ,
Rexdale, Ontario
(hereinafter referred to as the "Employer")
- and -
MILK AND BREAD DRIVERS, DAIRY EMPLOYEES,
CATERERS AND ALLIED EMPLOYEES LOCAL UNION NO. 647,
affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
WITNESSETH:
It is the desire of the parties to this Agreement to establish, promote and foster a good relationship that will be enduring and of mutual benefit to both the Union and the Employer.
It is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of cooperation and of help from the employees of the Employer to obtain all possible business and expand the operation of the Employer, and the parties hereto pledge their full support and cooperation in this regard.
ARTICLE 1 BARGAINING UNIT
1.01	This Agreement shall cover every employee of the Company
working at Unilever Canada Inc., Rexdale, Ontario, save and except Supervisors (as defined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario), persons above the rank of Supervisor, office staff, research and development staff, sales staff, and persons covered by
4
subsisting collective agreements.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
Now THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
2.01	The Employer agrees to recognize the Milk and Bread Drivers,
Dairy Employees, Caterers and Allied Employees Local Union 647, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters as the sole collective bargaining agency for all such employees coming within the bargaining unit.
UNION CONDITION
2.02	The Employer agrees to inform all new employees hired (who are to be covered by this Agreement) , that Union membership is a condition of employment after sixty (60) working days as per Article 7.07.
2.03	The Union office and the steward concerned shall be informed at the time of all such new employees (cards for this purpose to be supplied by the Union) . They shall be required to submit an application card to the steward at the end of sixty (60) working days. Failing to do so, they shall be taken off the job at the request of the Union. Such request must be in writing.
2.04	All members of the Union must maintain membership in the Union during the life of this Agreement as a condition of employment.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.05	The Employer retains all rights and privileges of management as not otherwise amended by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 CHECK-OFF
3.01	The Employer agrees to a deduction from employee's wages of
monthly union dues and assessments for union purposes, effective with the week in which the employee is hired, as well as a deduction for initiation fee, so that the full initiation fee is deducted from the employee by conclusion of the employee's probationary period. The deduction for dues and assessments must be forwarded to the Union
5
office no later than the 10th day of each month for the previous months' deductions.
3.02	Initiation fees shall be held by the Employer until conclusion of probation and then forwarded to the Union. If the employee is not employed at the conclusion of probation, amounts deducted toward the initiation fee will be refunded to such employee.
3.03	The Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, as to the prevailing rate of Union dues and any assessments.
3.04	The Employer further agrees that in the event of an employee being on vacation at the time of a regular deduction, such deduction shall be made from the employee's vacation pay.
3.05	In the case of the Union member being off through sickness on the dues deduction pay, his or her dues shall be taken off his or her first full pay following.
3.06	Annual union dues payment will be reported on the employee's T-4 slips.
ARTICLE 4 STEWARDS
4.01	There shall be six (6) stewards at the plant to provide
leadership and representation for the members of the Union. They shall also work together with the department managers and supervisors to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Agreement. The stewards will represent the following areas and employees:	1) refinery, 2)
packaging plant day shift, 3) packaging plant afternoon shift, 4) packaging plant night shift, 5} female employees, 6) maintenance. From the aforementioned group of stewards, the Employer shall recognize one (1} steward as the Chief Steward. The Chief Steward will be elected by the entire membership at Unilever Canada Inc.
The Union agrees -to remove the refinery steward at the later of December 31, 2014 or the complete refinery shutdown.
4.02	Such stewards shall be elected by Union members in the area concerned, and shall be an employee of the place in which he or she is a steward. There shall be no discrimination against the steward for Union activities. Craft Group 2 will receive representation and will be eligible to represent as stewards of the packaging plant.
4.03	The stewards shall have no authority to alter, amend, violate or otherwise change any part of this Agreement. The stewards shall report to the business agent of the Union any violation of this
6
Agreement.
4.04	The stewards will be considered the senior employees in their craft groups in the event of a lay-off only. Should the lay-off involve stewards in the same craft group then years of service will govern.
4.05	Layoffs or other changes effecting Union members will be communicated to Stewards by Management and will be considered confidential until that discussion has taken place to discuss the communication plan.
4.06	A copy of the Employer's bulletin pertaining to Union members shall be given to all the Stewards.
4.07	The stewards shall be allowed time to service any grievance. Representatives of the Union shall be allowed to contact stewards by asking permission of the department manager or plant manager.
4.08	The elected stewards shall act as the negotiating committee. The Employer will pay employees on the negotiating committee for up to eight hours per negotiating meeting with the Employer, up to, but not including conciliation.
4.09	Paid Union Education Leave for Stewards: The Company shall cover the lost wages for 1 working day for each Union Steward each calendar year. Only if stewards attend such training shall they be paid. However, the Union may carry forward this day to the following year only. As much advance notice shall be provided to the Company and such training shall take place on mutually agreeable dates.
ARTICLE 5
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01	It is the intention of the parties to settle as quickly and
as equitably as possible, any grievance which might arise related to a violation of this agreement as listed below:
Step 1:
The employee with the assistance and presence of his/her department/shift Union Steward shall verbally present their complaint to their Immediate Supervisor within three (3) working days after the employee might be reasonably have become aware of the circumstances giving rise to such grievance. The immediate Supervisor will respond as soon as possible but no longer then three (3) working days. If the
7
supervisor's verbal response is unacceptable the parties will proceed with next step.
Step 2:
The aggrieved employee with assistance and presence of his or her department/shift Union Steward shall submit a written grievance to the applicable Department Manager.
The Department Manager shall schedule monthly 2nd step grievance meetings (for all shifts) in advance to ensure any outstanding grievances are addressed promptly.
The Department Managers decision shall be rendered in writing within five (5) working days of such meeting. If the Department Manager's written response is unacceptable the parties will proceed to the next step within eight (8) working days.
Step 3:
The aggrieved employee with assistance and presence of his or her department/shift Union Steward, Chief Steward and Union Business Representative shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager or his/her designee. The Plant Manager and Union shall schedule. monthly grievance meetings (for all shifts) following the scheduled Department Managers meetings. The Plant manager shall provide a written response within five (5) working days of such meeting
In all steps of the grievance procedure the Company will provide responses to the Grievor, Stewards and Chief Steward. The Business Representative will receive all 3rd step responses. ,	.
Grievances resulting from termination of employment, or Union Policy grievances shall proceed directly to the 3rd step and efforts will be made to ensure the meeting happens as soon as possible.
Nothing in the above language stops the parties from scheduling additional meeting as required.
If the Company does not respond according to the time lines of this article, for disciplinary grievances only, the Company shall automatically resolve the grievance in the Unions favour.
If the grievance remains unsettled after step 3, it will be subject to arbitration as follows:
5.02	(a) Within two (2) calendar weeks after the final
discussion between the Union and the Plant Manager, the party desiring arbitration shall notify the other party in writing. A
8
Board of Arbitration shall be immediately established consisting of one (1) appointee of the Union and one (1) appointee of the Employer, and a third (3rd) member to act as a Chairman, appointed on the recommendation of the first two (2) appointees. Should the members fail to agree on a Chairman within one (1) calendar week, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario, who shall appoint a Chairman.
(b)	Alternatively, either party may exercise its right to apply for an expedited arbitration under the Labour Relations Act, but will notify the other party in advance for the purpose of finding a mutually agreeable date for the initial Arbitration hearing.
5.03	Notwithstanding the foregoing time limits defined in the grievance procedure, the time limits for second and third stages of the grievance procedure may be extended as agreed between the two parties.
5.04	Employees must be present at any stage of the grievance procedure, if so requested by either party.
5.05	The Board of Arbitration shall not have the right to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of their appointee to the Board and will equally bear the fees and expenses of the Chairman. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding on both parties.
5.06. It is further agreed that the Union and the Employer shall have the right to originate a grievance at a time not later than three (3) months from the date of the alleged grievance with regard to any dispute in the interpretation or manner in which the contract is being complied with. The Union and the Employer representative shall first discuss the complaint, such complaint to be either discussed or resolved within a period of three (3) working days. If no actual agreement is reached either party shall submit to the arbitration procedure, provided all other steps of the grievance procedure (Article 5) have been utilized.
5.07	Payment of time and one-half will be made to the griever and steward for attendance at off-shift grievance meeting - basis time spent in the meeting.
5.08	If the time limits, as stated above cannot be met, the griever may elect to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure but not beyond third stage.
9
ARTICLE 6
RULES APPLYING TO TERMINATION OP EMPLOYMENT
6.01	An employee's record of written disciplinary action shall be removed from his or her record, twelve (12) months for verbal & written warnings and eighteen (18) months for suspensions, from the date that the disciplinary action was first entered on his or her record. Any employee may request to attend with or without a Steward.
The employer shall not discipline or discharge an employee except for just cause. Further, the employer shall not discharge an employee unless reasonable, progressive discipline has taken place, except in the case of gross or willful misconduct. Copies of all written disciplinary action will be provided to the Chief Steward in a timely manner.
6.02	In the event an employee leaves the Company for any reason, they will be entitled to a confirmation of employment letter, upon request.
6.03	When an employee has been dismissed, the Employer shall, send a copy of the dismissal notice to the Union office within forty-eight (48) hours of the dismissal with the reasons for the dismissal.
6.04	The Company shall provide all discipline within eight (8) working days of first becoming aware of any incident that justifies disciplinary. ..action. An extension may be provided in extenuating circumstances that prevents the Company from completing a proper investigation within those eight (8) working days. Such extension will not be unreasonably denied.
However, the above article does not justify management waiting to notify both the applicable employee and applicable Union Steward as soon as possible of the issue and the possibility of discipline.
ARTICLE 7
ESTABLISHING SENIORITY
7.01	Lists showing seniority of service by Craft Group and plant-
wide shall be compiled and kept posted on all bulletin boards. These lists will be revised as needed, but not more than every six (6) months, and new employees' names will be added immediately and verified by the steward for posting. Where two employees establish seniority on the same date, seniority will be in alphabetic order of surname. A
10
copy of the seniority list will be sent to the Union office.
7.02	There shall be five (5) craft groups for the purpose of differentiation in the matter of seniority. There is no intention to modify the classifications listed below in the term of this agreement, except as outlined in the memorandum of agreement.
Packaging
Classifications:	Packaging Technician
Milk Room Operator Machine Operator Sanitation Operator Process Technician Hygiene Technician
Group II________Material Handling
Classifications:	Shipper/Receiver
Distribution Operator Warehouse Operator
Group III_______Maintenance
(A)	Central Classifications:	Refinery Mechanic
Electronic Technician
(B)	Packaging Classifications: Automatic Packing Equipment
Mechanic
Note: There will be no change in the existing practice with respect to the assignment of Mechanical Tradespeople to work areas and/or the plant-wide opportunities for overtime.
Group IV________Refinery
Classifications:	Refinery Operator
Unloading/Acidulation Operator General Help
Note:	Refinery Operator includes the following components:
Hydrogenation, Control Room, Formulation, Batch, and Water Treatment.
11
7.03
7.04
Group V_________Laboratory
Classifications:	Chief Technician
Skilled Technician
Leave of Absence
(a)	In the event of sickness of an employee, or in the event
of sickness in the employee's family necessitating time off, leave of absence may be granted for a period up to six (6) months by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union without loss of seniority.	When
requesting leave of absence because of sickness in an employee's family, a doctor's certificate must accompany the request before it can be considered.
(b)	Where definite proof is given of extreme necessity, this leave of absence may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer,
(c)	Leave of absence for any other reason may be granted subject to the operational requirements of the business.
(d)	No employee shall be given leave of absence for the purpose of going into other employment.
(e)	Requests for leave of absence must be made in writing with a copy given to the Union steward..
(f)	Leave of absence for any other reason than sickness of an employee or sickness in an employee’s family should be requested with a maximum of six (6) month's notice in advance. If more than one (1) person applies for the same time period, leave will be granted on a first come first serve basis.
(g)	The Employer will advise the employee within 30 days of request, as to whether leave of absence has been approved.
Lay-offs
{a) In the event of a layoff, workforce reduction, or job elimination the affected employees would have the option to accept layoff or bump within their own craft group. In the event of a multiple layoff the senior employees would have the choice of the junior jobs available {eg.
12
if three people are bumping the most senior would have first choice of the three most junior jobs. The second most senior has choice of the two remaining jobs and the least senior takes the last remaining junior job.}
(b)	Employees who are scheduled for layoff within their own Craft Group, may bump between craft groups. Exceptions would be Craft Groups III and V where special qualifications are necessary and layoffs in those groups would be by seniority within the group.
(c)	Any person who has	bumped into another job and	fails	to
qualify within the	training period will be laid off and
placed on the re-employment list. This assessment will be made after the first three weeks of training.
(d)	Employees who have bumped retain their classifications
for	six (6) months	and	are subject to	recall	to their
former positions.	At	the conclusion	of the	six (6)
month period, employees will assume their new classification.
(e)	In the event of a major force reduction where a	clean	up
crew is required,	the most senior employees	will	be
retained.
(f)	If a layoff in Craft Group III is extended beyond five (5) working days, surplus employees having appropriate seniority in:
i)	Group III (A)	Mechanic role may	bump into Craft
Group III (B)
ii)	Group III (B)	may	bump into Craft Group	III (A)
Mechanic role.
{g} During the training period, the right to preferential shift selection by seniority, may be temporarily suspended.
(h)	Employees to be laid off will be notice if a layoff is to extend except in case of emergency.	given beyond	five one	(5) (1)	days week
(i)	For the purpose of layoff, Craft	Group	III	shall be	
considered to contain two categories. (A) General Mechanics
13
(B) Electronic Technician
Layoff will affect the most junior person in the affected category A.
Layoff in category B will be by seniority within the trade.
7.05	Re-Employment Lists
All employees hired prior to April 30, 2013 who are laid off by the Employer shall be placed on the Employer's seniority list for re-employment for five (5) years. Employees hired after April 30, 2013 who are laid off by the Employer shall be placed on the Employer's seniority list for re-employment for three (3) years. Separate lists shall be maintained for each Craft Group.
7.06	Temporary Vacancies
(a)	Where the Employer	wishes	to	fill	a	temporary	vacancy,	it
will do so in the following order:
i.	With the senior employee having the same classification
working as a spare employee or working as a re-assigned employee on that shift.	..
ii.	With the senior qualified general help available on the
shift in question,	provided	such	re-assignment	does	not
result in overtime.
iii.	If there are no spare unassigned or general help employees available, then the overtime procedure will be followed.
iv.	Unscheduled daily vacancies in Group 1 (Machine Operator} shall be filled by senior unoccupied employees in the Group I Machine Operator classification and, in the case of multiple vacancies, qualified operators will have the right to choose in order of seniority.
(b)	Long Term Vacancies - When an employee is accepted for LTD benefits, the job shall be posted as a temporary vacancy with the following conditions:
i.	The posting will reflect the temporary status of the
14
position and state that there is potential for the bidder to be returned to his/her original classification if the employee who vacated the position returns to work.
ii.	The bidder will return to his/her original classification and the junior employee in that craft group will be subject to lay-off.
iii.	If the temporary position becomes permanent, the bidder will automatically retain the position and the job will not be posted.
(c) Maternity Leave - In the event an employee notifies the Company of their intent to exercise their right to maternity and/or parental leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act, the Company, at their discretion, will post the position as a temporary vacancy prior to the commencement of the leave. The employee will inform the Company of their expected return date a minimum of 4 weeks prior to that date. The conditions of the temporary vacancy are outlined in 7.06 (b) i, ii, iii.
(d) Indefinite Absence - An employee who has a catastrophic medical event and is able to provide medical certification that the absence will extend beyond the 26 week period, The Company will at their discretion, post the position as a temporary vacancy as soon as such medical documentation is received.
7.07	Probationary Employees
When a new employee is hired the Employee shall consider the first sixty (60) working days of his or her employment as probation.
The Company shall inform the employee and the department/shift Steward of performance concerns prior to terminating the probationary employee.
7.08	The Employer will advise the Union of the elimination of any job classification.
7.09	The Company may hire Children or Grandchildren of the bargaining unit as summer student employee subject to the following:
Summer students shall not displace any bargaining unit employees and shall not be employed when regular employees are on layoff or reduced hours. They shall be limited to performing the following duties only-.
15
1)	The Company will hire a maximum of six (6) summer students to perform the following duties only:
a)	Box former Flex
b)	Bag inserter Flex
c)	Box flap closer Flex
d)	Relief for the Flex positions above
e)	Moving by hand mayonnaise 16 and 20 litre pails
f)	General cleaning
g)	Hot Box/Waste recovery
h)	Hand Palletizing
i)	Safety F-Tag administration
j)	TPM/WCM activities
k)	General office duties
2)	It shall be a violation of this agreement if any summer student performs any work other than outlined above. In the unlikely event this should occur, the Company agrees the remedy of this violation shall be a resolution with pay for the applicable full-time employee who should have been offered the work.
3)	Summer students may be utilized from May 1st until August 31st in each year of this agreement.
4)	The Company will hire Children and/or Grandchildren of members of the Teamsters bargaining unit only.
5)	Management will select candidates from the applicants consistent with article 2.05 of the collective agreement.
6)	In the event that less than six (6) applicants apply or qualify, the Company may hire other applicants.
7)	All summer students must pay dues as per article 3.01.
8)	All summer students shall receive: WHIMIS & safety orientation training by the Company ans Union orientation provided by the Chief Steward before starting work,
9)	Summer student will receive shift premiums as per Wage Appendix "A"
- Shift Premium.
10)	Summer students will be provided lockers and uniforms per article 10.01, 10,02 and 17.03a).
11)	Summer students will be paid a base wage rate of $22.00 per hour.
12) Summer students will not work overtime unless all full-time employees have first refused and if applicable they will be paid overtime rates as per the CBA.
13) Summer students will be forced to perform assigned overtime (provided they are trained) before any full-time employee is assigned overtime against their wishes,
14)	Summer students will not accrue seniority rights or receive pension or benefits under the collective agreement. They shall be considered probationary. However, the Company shall provide students that have already worked a summer period preference before hiring new students.
15)	Students shall be paid all applicable statutory holidays as per the
16
CBA.
7.10	In the event an employee is hired into a position outside the scope of this agreement, seniority will be adjusted to 0 years and 0 days. However, 6 months from date of transfer all service shall be protected for wage rate, amount of vacation & vacation pay, severance pay, notice, and pension. Union dues shall be paid by the Company for this time period. They will not be required to serve a second probationary period.
ARTICLE 8
DAYS AND HOURS OF WORK
8.01
(i)
(a) Five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours shall constitute a working week for all employees. The regular work week begins Sunday at 11:00 p.m. and ends Friday at 11:00 p.m.
Shift times are as follows:
A shift	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
B shift	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
C shift	3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Should the Company determine there is a requirement for extended production capabilities, it may implement the Alternative Shift Pattern as agreed and attached to this Collective Agreement.	The Company will
discuss the implementation plans with the Steward Committee and the Union Business Agent.
(b)	Employees will be assigned work as needed. However such assignments will not be managed arbitrarily or without business need. No employee (except qualified backup operators) on completion of their probationary period shall be required to move jobs or duties unless no work exists. If no backup operator is available the Company may as a last resort displace the most Jr. qualified
17
employee in the applicable classification by reverse seniority where practicable.
(c)	Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 & M) the base rate of the job for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day. Employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 & M) the base rate of the job for all overtime hours worked on a Saturday. In no case shall more than one (1) premium apply.
(d)	The Employer will offer overtime in four (4) or eight (8) hour maximum blocks.
(e)	All Sunday shifts shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the base rate of the job and in no case shall more than one (1) premium apply.
(f)	All work started before an employee's normal starting time shall be paid at the appropriate premium rate,
(g)	When working on a five (5) day shift pattern only, the Company may introduce a staggered "A" shift for the applicable classifications below. This shall only be done on a voluntary basis. Employees will be able to select the staggered shifts by seniority. This shift will be performed at regular time consistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
-	Hygiene Technician / Sanitation Operator
-	Packaging Technician / Machine Operator
One component of the staggered "A" shift shall commence with the Sunday 11:00 PM through Monday 7:00 AM shift and finish with the shift commencing Thursday night at 11:00 PM through Friday 7:00 AM shift.
The other component of the staggered "A" shift shall commence with the Monday 11:00 PM through Tuesday 7:00 AM shift and finish with the shift commencing Friday night at 11:00 PM through Saturday 7:00 AM shift.
When an employee is absent due to vacation, the applicable hours will be filled by overtime as per the collective agreement, unless there is a qualified spare operator on the current shift to backfill and where it does not create over-time in another classification.
18
(ii) Six day pattern:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide a socially acceptable six day pattern which fulfils the needs of the employees and meets the demands on the Business.
2.	This agreement will apply to all employees who are required to work on a six day shift schedule.
3.	Employees will work either twelve (12) hour shifts, as shown on the attached schedule. The shift pattern will start at 7:00 p.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 p.m. on Saturday. For the purposes of this shift agreement, a day is a twelve (12) hour shift, (e.g. one sick day taken = 12 hours paid, and annual entitlement reduced by 12 hours)
4.	Withdrawal from this shift pattern will require a minimum notice period of three(3) weeks.
5.	Payment for the twelve (12) hour shift pattern will be as follows:
a)	Regular Time	.	.
-	All hours worked as part of the regular six (6) day will be paid at the rate of forty (40) hours per week.
b)	Overtimed & 1/2 time)
-	Overtime will be offered according to the terms of the Collective Agreement.
-	All hours worked on any off-day an employee is called in or
scheduled to work, except as provided in item #5,	(c) .
(maximum twelve (12) hours)
c)	Double Time
-	All hours worked on a Sunday, Statutory, Public, or Selected Holiday.
6.	Statutory or Selected Holidays
a)	It is the intention' of the Company to suspend operations for twenty-four (24) hours on these holidays. The shutdown will occur from 7:00 p.m. the evening prior to the Holiday until 7:00 p.m. on the Holiday.
7.	Vacation
a)	A week of vacation must be scheduled in blocks of three
19
(3)	shifts when on the twelve (12) hour shift pattern., and employees will be guaranteed the scheduled days off in the calendar week of the scheduled vacation.
b)	Vacation will be charged on the basis of scheduled hours during that calendar week and will be paid on the basis of the standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5 (a).
c)	In the event an employee has a need for a single day of vacation, arrangements must be made at least one full week in advance to allow for the arrangement of coverage. In these circumstances, vacation will be charged on the basis of scheduled hours and the weekly payment for that week will be unaffected subject to an adjustment under the provisions of clause 9.05.
8.	Sick Pay	.
a)	Sick pay, for individual days, will be paid at one-third (1/3) of the standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5 (a) .
b)	Sick pay for a block of three (3)	- twelve (12) hour
shifts will be standard weekly payment outlined in Item 5
(a), provided the employee has no waiting period.
Waiting days will be charged on the basis of a "scheduled day", and the remaining days of that week will be paid at one - third of the weekly rate per day worked.
9.	Meal Periods
a)	Employees will be entitled to two (2)	- thirty (30)
minute meal periods during a twelve (12) hour shift.
b)	In any event, employees will not be required to work
more	than five (5) consecutive hours without a meal period.
c)	three (3) - fifteen (15) minute breaks will be provided during each twelve hour shift.
10.	Employees have the right to mutually switch shifts/days provided:
a)	The appropriate Supervisor has been notified and the replacement employee is a "suitable replacement".
b)	No employee works more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, or more than the agreed allowable weekly hours as a result of the switch.
20
c)	Any employee who is switching shifts, and who has worked twelve hours, has had at least twelve (12) hours' off between shifts. ‘
d)	There is no additional cost to the Company as a result of the switch.
e)	If the switched shift is to be paid back, the pay-back shift must be indicated to the appropriate supervisor as soon as it is known,
f)	Should any employee create disruption and additional costs due to unreasonable absenteeism in these circumstances, the Company may revoke that employee's right to switch shifts.
11.	Implementation
Should this shift pattern be implemented the following methodology will be used to determine which employees will work on the shift pattern:
a)	A notice will be posted in the areas affected indicating the number of employees required for the shift pattern and asking for volunteers from the classifications required to fulfill the requirement. Only employees from within the classifications affected may volunteer.
b)	Should insufficient volunteers be obtained, employees will be assigned to the shift pattern in reverse order of seniority from within the affected classifications.
c)	The Company shall only move to this shift pattern for a minimum of eight (8) consecutive weeks for all applicable employees
d)	In the event the production requirements no longer support the need for the pattern, employees will return to their previously held positions.
12.	In the event there is no requirement for production in the assigned six (6) day pattern area, the affected employees may be reassigned to perform any available work they are capable of performing.
13.	Shift premium will be paid @ $1.25 per hour on the night
21
(N)shift only, paid on the standard weekly payment outlined in 5 (a)
{iii) 3 consecutive day 12 hour shift pattern:
The company and the union agree to implement, on an as needed basis, a 3 consecutive day 12 hour shift pattern, that begins Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday as outlined below:
Compensation will be 37.5 hours for 36 hours worked at regular base rate of pay for the job.
Overtime rates will be consistent with the collective bargaining agreement.
Employees will be entitled to two (2) thirty minute periods and two (2) twenty minute breaks during each twelve (12) hour shift.
(iv)	"E" pattern:
The company and the union agree to implement, on an as needed basis, a weekend shift "E" pattern as outlined below:
- Two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts/one (1) crew.
Friday 11:00 pm to Saturday 11:00 am and Sunday 11:00am to Sunday 11pm
Compensation will be 37.5 hours for 24 hours worked at the regular base rate of pay for the job.
Overtime rates will be consistent with the collective bargaining agreement.
Employees will be entitled to two (2) thirty minute meal periods and two (2) twenty minute breaks during each twelve (12) hour shift.
(v)	"D" pattern;
The company and the union agree to implement, on an as needed basis, a weekend shift "D" pattern as outlined below:
- Two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts/ two (2) crews.
1st crew; Friday 11:00pm to Saturday 11:00 am and Saturday 11:00pm to Sunday 11:00am
22
2nd crew:	Saturday 11:00am to Saturday 11:00pm and Sunday
11:00am to Sunday ll;00pm.
Compensation will be 37,5 hours for 24 hours worked at the regular base rate of pay for the job.
Overtime rates will be consistent with the collective bargaining agreement.
Employees will be entitled to two (2) thirty minute meal periods and two (2) twenty minute breaks during each twelve (12) hour shift.
(vi)	"4X10" pattern:
(a) The Company may provide a maximum 25% of employees, four
(4)	consecutive 10 hour shifts in the following mixed manner:
1. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday & Thursday
Or
2. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday & Friday
(b)	Transferring to and from this shift will be in accordance
with article 8.02.	.
(c)	Shift times shall be offered by senioirty or sheduled by reverse seniority if required
(d)	Vacation and sick time will be in accordance with article 8.13
(e)	Employees working on this shift pattern shall be covered under all other rights in accordance with the CBA.
8.02	No shift change of any employee shall take place until notification and written explanation has been given to the applicable department/shift Steward and the applicable employee involved. Such notification shall be provided a minimum of one (1) week in advance of the required change. The one (1) week notice may be waived if the employee agrees to the proposed change.
8.03	Absenteeism by an employee without just cause or notification to the Employer shall be considered abuse of this Agreement, and may be cause for dismissal or suspension by the Employer or discipline by the
23
Union.
8.04	All employees shall be entitled to a rest period allotted by management during each half shift. Lunch periods shall not be within three (3) hours of starting time or after five (5) hours worked.
Breaks and meal periods shall be:
Shift	A	B	C
Breaks	two 15 minute two 15 minute two 15 minute
Meals	30 minutes	30 minutes	30 minutes
For relief employees only the Company may schedule lunches to start no earlier than 2 hours and 45 minutes into the shift and no later than 5 hours and 15 minutes into the shift.
8.05	Employees required to work (10) consecutive hours on one (1) shift shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute break within the first overtime hour and a meal allowance in the amount of $9.00.
8.06	(a) Any call-in, or off-day overtime schedule shall guarantee the employee four (4) hours, however the employee may be assigned work to occupy the entire four hours.
(b) In the event an employee is called in more than four (4) hours prior to their starting time, they will be required to perform the work for which they were called provided the work exists, and will be entitled to the four (4) hours pay at time and one-half (1&1/2) or double (2) time, whichever is appropriate. However if the work no longer exists the Company may assign work to occupy the entire four hours. It will be the employee's discretion to accept the work or be allowed to leave without pay for the remaining hours.
8.07	There shall be no split shifts unless jointly agreed to by the steward and the employee concerned together with management.
8.08	Shift Overlap
To protect the continuity of operations an employee will remain on his or her job until relieved for a period of up to fifteen (15) minutes maximum. Normal overtime rates will prevail during this additional period.	.
Employees working shift overlap will be paid 15 minutes for any time worked while waiting to be relieved. The late-arriving employee's wages will be deducted accordingly.
8.09	When an employee is absent from work due to negotiations, he or
24
she will not be penalized or charged as refusing hours on overtime schedule for his or her department.
8.10	An employee transferred from one shift to another, will carry-over his or her existing overtime hours, to his or her new shift, should no other employees exist within his or her job classification on the new shift.
8.11	Weekend overtime will be filled on a voluntary basis by "low-man" hours. Should the required overtime not be filled through this manner the remaining spots will be assigned by qualified employees through reverse seniority. However, the Company shall make every effort possible to cover this overtime on a voluntary basis. This shall include providing as much notice as possible to. all applicable employees and asking all qualified employees in the entire bargaining unit before assigning overtime. Employees will be required to work such overtime so long as forty-eight (48) hours notice was provided and the overtime is consistent with the Employment Standards Act. Additionally, no employee will be assigned more than once in every 5 consecutive weeks unless no employees are contractually or legally available.
8.12	Employees will be paid weekly on each Thursday.
8.13 Employees won't be advantaged or disadvantaged when working alternate shifts. The maximum payment of sick time shall be 80 hours (bank) every calendar year regardless of shift pattern.
Example:	8 hours shift = 8 hours sick ,day (-8 hours from bank) .	10
hours shift = 10 hours sick day (-10 hours from bank), 12 hours shift = 12 hours sick day (-12 hours from bank).
ARTICLE 9
PAID HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
9.01	Vacations
Subject to all other applicable provisions of this Article, vacation entitlements shall be based on the following schedule:
(i) Up to one (1) year seniority: One (1) day for each five
(5)	weeks completed service between July 1st and June 30th, inclusive.
(ii)	The two (2) week, or ten (10) day entitlement is awarded in the calendar year following the first (1st) anniversary of the employee's seniority date.
25
(iii)	The three (3) week, or fifteen (15) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the fifth (5th) anniversary of the employee's seniority date.
(iv) The four (4) week, or twenty (20) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar . year as the tenth (10th) anniversary of the employee's seniority date.
(v)	The five (5) week, or twenty-five (25) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the seventeenth (17th) anniversary of the employee's seniority date.
(vi) The six (6) week, or thirty (30) day entitlement is awarded in the same calendar year as the twenty-eighth (28th) anniversary of the employee's seniority date.
(vii)	The vacation year is a twelve (12) month period from July 1 to June 30. Employees accrue vacation in the current twelve month period to be used in the next 12 month period. For the purposes of calculating part year vacation entitlement or vacation entitlement in the first year of employment the following criteria will be used:	For each five week
period between July 1 and June 30 an employee will earn vacation based on the following schedule.
2 week entitlement = 1 day 3 week entitlement = 1.5 days 4 week entitlement = 2 days 5 week entitlement = 2.5 days
9.02	In consideration of the staffing requirements of the business, employees entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six
(6)	weeks' vacation may request additional vacation during the regular vacation period. Such additional vacation will be scheduled by the Employer and will be assigned on the basis of seniority. The Employer shall determine the number of employees in a classification who may be granted additional leave.
9.03	Employees with four (4) weeks vacation or less may bank up to a maximum of 40 hours per year to be utilized during layoffs and shut downs only.
Summer shut downs should there be any will be restricted to the time period between the last week of June and the week immediately prior to Labour Day.
26
9.04	For the purpose of determining holidays, the year shall be considered as of the First of July of any calendar year; that is, an employee would have to be employed for six (6) months prior to July 1st in order to be eligible for a vacation in that year. The following dates are to be observed with regards to scheduling of employee vacations according to seniority.
On February 1st a vacation list will be posted. Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period July 1st - December 31st must submit a request to their supervisor indicating vacation weeks preferred by February 21st. The supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than March 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
On September 1st a vacation list will be posted. Employees wishing to schedule a vacation in the period January lBt - June 3 0th must submit a request to the supervisor indicating vacation weeks preferred by September 21st. The supervisor will advise employees which weeks are granted no later than October 15th by posting a vacation schedule.
Seniority will be taken into consideration by supervisors in resolving any scheduling conflicts in the three (3) week period following filing dates providing the original request was submitted by filing date.
Seniority will not apply to scheduling of vacation weeks requested after March 21st and September 21st. These requests will be considered solely on the basis of remaining weeks available at date of request. Management will provide a response (approval or denial) to these requests within two (2) weeks of the request.
9.05	Vacation pay for each week of vacation entitlement shall be computed at the rate of two percent (2%) of the previous years' earnings as per T-4 slips less vacation pay, taxable benefits and allowances, or the equivalent of forty (4 0) hours at the base rate of the employee at the time of vacation, whichever is the greater. Employees will be paid their regular wages for requested vacation days during the normal weekly payroll, and any excess vacation due employees will be paid out in a lump sum once per annum, no later than the third week of July.
All vacation must be taken in the vacation year. No Employee will be permitted to carryover any vacation without up front written agreement from his or her Supervisor and Department Manager.
Employees who have been absent for a period in excess of thirty (3 0) days during the vacation year as defined in 9.04 shall be eligible only for vacation pay based on the percentage calculation applied to their T-4 slip of the year prior excluding employees who have been on WSIB and/or Weekly Indemnity.
27
New employees shall receive 4 percent {4%) of their total earnings up to July 1st of the vacation year, plus the A day entitlement of Article 9.01.
The Company will commit to providing employees with notification, of their total vacation pay in July.
9.06	Any employee terminating his or her employment with the Employer who is entitled to two (2) , three (3) , four (4) , five (5) or six (6) weeks' vacation, depending on his or her length of service, shall receive vacation pay at the rate of 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12% of his or her earnings as the case may be for the period worked since the previous July 1st.
9.07	Persons who are on lay-off because of shortage of work for
any part of the vacation year but who have sufficient seniority to qualify for more vacation payment than provided under Employment Standards Act, shall receive vacation pay based on their vacation credits, ie. 4, 6,	8,	10 or 12% as the case may be, for such vacation
year for time actually worked for the Employer.
9.08	Paid Holidays
Employees shall qualify for payment at the rate of eight (8) hours at their regular rate, for the following paid holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Day
In addition to the 12 Fixed Paid Holidays Employees shall qualify for one (1} Floater Day per calendar year. This day will be booked as per vacation selection guidelines and granted at the discretion of Management.
9.09	Probationary employees, persons on weekly indemnity, persons off on WSIB benefits, and persons on lay-off up to thirty (3 0) days at the time of the paid holiday, shall qualify for payment. Persons on lay-off in excess of thirty (30) days or on leave of absence shall not qualify for paid holiday payment.
9.10	If an employee is required to work on any paid holiday, in addition to the payment referred to in 9.08, he or she shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked, or, at the discretion of
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year's Eve Family Day
28
the employee, shall receive lieu time to a maximum of two (2) days, depending on hours worked. The Employer must be notified within three (3) days of the employee's decision. Available lieu days as determined by the Employer will be posted, and employees will bid on seniority basis for available days. All Lieu days will be tracked on the site Vacation Spreadsheet and must be utilized within a 12 month period from when they were earned.
9.11	Should any paid holiday occur during an employee's vacation or day off, he or she shall receive either a day in lieu thereof or a day's pay at the employee's choice. If a day in lieu, is requested by the employee, it will be scheduled consistent with production requirements.
ARTICLE 10 UNIFORMS
10.01	All employees will be provided with uniforms suitable to perform their work assignments. Uniforms must be worn, in full, by all employees.
(a)	Employees required to work outside will be provided with appropriate uniforms including parkas or vests, raincoats and rubber boots.
(b)	Parkas, vests and raincoats will be replaced as required. Rubber boots will be replaced as required.
10.02	The Employer shall pay 100% of the initial cost and subsequent cleaning of uniforms.
ARTICLE 11
SOCIAL WELFARE BENEFITS
11.01	Pension Plan
All employees hired prior to January 1, 2009, will remain in the pension plan they are presently enrolled in, and will be subject to all conditions contained therein. All employees hired subsequent to January 1, 2009, must join the pension plan offered by Unilever Canada at the time of their hiring, as a condition of employment.
The standard waiting period for the Pension Plan will be according to
29
the terms and conditions of the Unilever Canada Pension Plan.
11.02	Welfare Plan
(a)	The Employer will contribute a weekly amount to provide for the following benefits effective July 1, 1986, as scheduled in the Milk Driver Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund. The plan contract shall be the determinant document in all respects of eligibility and schedule of benefits.
Effective May 1, 2013 employees will contribute $10.00 per week towards benefit coverage.
Effective May 1, 2014 employees will contribute $15.00 per week towards benefit coverage.
Effective May 1, 2015 employees will contribute $20.00 per week towards benefit coverage.
(i)
Life	Insurance	-	$40,000.	with	double	indemnity
coverage. Effective May 1, 2010.
Life	Insurance	-	$60,000.	with	double	indemnity
coverage. Effective May 1, 2015.
(ii) Short Term Disability (STD)
Years of Service	Weeks Paid at 100% of base wage	Weeks Paid at 70%
Less than 1	1	25
1	2	24
2	4	22
3	6	20
4	8	18
5	10	16
6	12	14
7	14	12
8	16	10
9	18	8
10 or more	26	0
-	Paid beginning on third (3rd) day of absence(i.e two(2)waiting days)
-	Medical certification via adjudication required for payment -3rd day and beyond
30
Adjudication contracted out by Company - forms to be supplied through HR submitted directly to adjudication contractor by employee or their Doctor
Paid through Company payroll in the normal cycle LTD after 2 6 weeks .
New STD plan begins effective date of ratification
All employees currently on STD will stay on old plan until
eligible for LTD benefits
Refer to the Unilever Canada STD Policy for further clarification
In all cases of STD or LTD, employees are required to be approved to return to work by the third party adjudicator prior to returning. The completed page 3 of the Statement of Impairment Form (Functional Level Form} will be accepted to allow employees to return to work for leaves of short duration (i.e. 3“5 days) where the return to work approval from the adjudicator is not available yet.
(iii)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment.
(iv)	Semi-private and Ambulance
(v)	The Employer shall contribute the	appropriate
premium per week per employee towards the funding of the Union major medical rider.
(b)	All contributions shall be forwarded to:
Employee Benefit Plan Services Ltd.,
45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON L3R 8C7
(c)	The Employer agrees to pay the full premium for each week the employee has money coming to them while absent from work. The premium will then be paid by the Welfare Plan for a period to be arrived at by the Trustees for absences due to sickness or accident.
(d)	All new permanent employees shall become eligible for the benefits described under the Welfare Plan on the first day of the month following the conclusion of their probationary period (sixty (60) working days). New Union employees or employees returning from lay-off or leave of absence shall be entitled to the above benefits from the first week of re-employment.
31
11.03	Prescription Drug Plan
(a)	The Employer will pay the premium cost of a pay direct prescription drug plan equivalent to Blue Cross. Effective September 1, 1990, prescribed vitamins will be included as part of Drug Plan coverage. Effective July 1, 1996, prescribed preventative drugs will be included as part of Drug Plan coverage. When a drug card is not in effect, payment of Prescription Drugs will follow the process below: Receipts will be submitted in sealed envelopes to Human Resources (envelopes will be provided by Human Resources). All receipts received by 12:00pm on Wednesday will be forwarded to the Benefit Plan Administrator for approval. All receipts approved by Friday of each week will be submitted to payroll for reimbursement on the following week's pay. Receipts received in Human Resources after 12:00pm on Wednesday will be submitted the following week for approval.
11.04	Sick Pay Plan
The Employer agrees to provide a sick pay plan on the following basis
(a)	A bank of ten (10) days sick pay credits will be established for each employee beginning on the ■ 16th day of December of each year. This bank of (10) days will be reduced by one-half {%) day each month not worked, as per letter of Understanding dated January 29, 1970.
I.	Where an eligible employee is absent because of sickness or non-occupational accident and has established a claim under STD, or is absent due to occupational accident, such employee shall continue to receive sick pay credits at one half day per month during the period of absence, up to a maximum of six months.
II.	An eligible employee who is laid off in any calendar month must have 10 working days credit in that calendar month to qualify for sick pay credit.
III.	An eligible employee who is on leave of absence must have 10 working days credit in a calendar month to qualify for sick pay credit.
32
(b)	Pay-Out: It is agreed that the Employer will pay off any unused sick pay credits at the end of each calendar year. This payment will be made by December 15th of each year. Payments will be calculated on the basis of current wage rates.
(c)	Use: -	First Day of Sick Absence: Unpaid Waiting Day -	Second Day of Sick Absence: Unpaid Waiting Day -	Third Day of Sick Absence: STD Adjudication For approved STD leaves longer than 10 calendar days, or if the employee is hospitalized from day one, payment will be made effective the first day of leave It is agreed that the Employer will apply a sick pay credit (s) to cover for waiting day(s) when an employee is booking off sick. If an Employee exhausts his earned bank the waiting day(s) will be unpaid.
11.05	Dental Plan
(a)	The Employer agrees to pay the full cost of the Preventative Basic Dental Plan 9 and Rider 2, or its equivalent and 50% of the cost of major procedures (inlays, onlays, crowns, caps and bridges) to an annual maximum of $1000. The basis of payment for services and supplies will be on a one year lag per the current ODA fee guide. This will refresh January 1st of each year. (ie. On January l, 2008 services and supplies will be reimbursed based on the 2007 ODA fee guide)
b)	Effective May 1, 2014 the Employer agrees to pay 50% of the cost of orthodontics for children of employees to a life time maximum of $2000.00 per dependant.
11.06	LTD
provide	The Employer will provide LTD premium contributions to the Monthly Income Benefits, effective with disabilities
commencing bn or after: (2 years own occupation)
~ May 1," 2013	May 1, 2014	] ^Ma^Tr^QlS ~
$2450	$2450 ~	[	$2550
Prescription Drug coverage will be offered to employees who are accepted onto LTD and the Company will pay 5 0% of the cost of
33
prescription Drug coverage. It will be optional for employees to select or refuse this coverage at the time they are accepted onto LTD.
Life Waiver of Premium for Life Insurance is provided for all employees on L.T.D. under "own occupation" or "any occupation" conditions.
11.07	Vision Care
The Employer will contribute the appropriate premium per employee per month to fund a Vision Care plan, effective July 1, 1996.
11.08	Retirement Benefit
Employees aged 55 or more who have a combined age plus service of 80 years or higher and elect to take early retirement will have prescription drug plan, Vision Care and Dental Plan premiums paid on their behalf to age 65 years.
11.09	Lay-off Benefits
General Benefits for 4 months - not including STD or LTD. Major Med, including drugs, for 6 months - not including STD, LTD, dental, or Life Insurance.
NOTE:	If during the course of this agreement OHIP is reinstituted,
then the Employer will pay premiums for each eligible employee under the prior terms and conditions of the previous contract.
ARTICLE 12
BIDDING FOR VACANT POSITIONS
12.01	(a) All new positions and vacancies shall be publicly posted
and shall remain on all the plant notice boards for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Postings will include the number of vacancies in the classification, qualifications where appropriate (trades, laboratory)., as well as the opening and closing time for applications to be submitted. No applications will be accepted after the closing time listed on the job posting.
(b) Current laboratory employees will be grandfathered in their roles, and will not be required to meet the new
34
qualifications; however, any new employees posting into the Laboratory will be required to meet Qualifications as determined by Management.	Employees bidding into the
Laboratory who have held a position in the laboratory craft group within the last eight (8) years will not be required to meet the revised qualifications or retake the written test.
(c)	Vacancies . from different classifications may be posted simultaneously and in such situations employees may bid on more than one role at the same time.
12.02	All applications for job postings must be submitted by the employee, in writing, on the Job Application form, with one (1) copy provided to the Human Resources Department and one (1) copy provided to the appropriate Steward.
12.03	(a) Applications will be reviewed and postings awarded on the following basis:
The senior employee who:	.
(a)	has no applicable medical restriction preventing them from performing the essential duties of the job (e.g. LTD) .
All vacant positions and all new positions shall be publicly posted as stated in Clause .12.01.
12.04	The successful candidate will be offered the position and will have twenty-four hours to decide whether they accept or decline.
12.05	(a) A notice, indicating the successful applicant, will be posted within forty-eight (48) hours of the acceptance of the position and the employee will be moved to the position within seven (7) weeks of the notice.
(b)	Employees accepting positions through the job posting process, or. through external recruitment, will not be permitted to accept another position for a minimum of twelve (12) months from the date of the notice in (a) or the date of hire, whichever is applicable.
12.06	Vacancies resulting from a termination of employment will not
be posted until the conclusion of the third step of the resulting grievance, or until the Union confirms a grievance will not be forthcoming.	.
12.07	Packaging Technician Roles As of May 1st, 2004 the parties agreed to the implementation of a Packaging Technician classification
35
in Group I. In addition to all regular duties of a Machine Operator, Packaging Technicians are required to perform the following job functions on all lines within their cell team.
1)	Mechanical Changeover
2)	Minor Lubrication	'
3)	Minor Adjustments
4)	Sanitation
Opportunities to move into the Packaging Technician classification will occur when new positions are posted.
In the event that overtime is required to complete mechanical changeovers, it will be offered to Packaging Mechanics before being offered to the Packaging Technician.
Current Machine Operators and Sanitation Operators are grandfathered and will remain in their position unless they choose to bid out or the classification is eliminated, however no further Machine Operator or Sanitation Operator vacancies will be posted.
The Company will start paying the Packaging Technician rate within four (4) weeks of being awarded the position regardless of whether the employee has completed the required training.
12.08	Should the Company require volunteers to train as back-up
operators in various classifications, it will post the opportunity to volunteer for such training. Opportunities will be provided to those volunteering in order of seniority. Should no employees volunteer, the Company may assign the training to employees by reverse seniority.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL NOTES
13.01	This Agreement shall not take from the employees any privileges they have hitherto enjoyed, except as are specifically dealt with in this Agreement.
13.02	Employees will be paid at the rate of the highest job class they perform during the course of a shift or at the rate of the job they regularly perform, whichever is greater.
13.03	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the Agreement.
In the case of lock-outs or strike of any Union, it shall not
13.04
be considered a violation of this Agreement for any member of the Union to refuse to deliver goods where such a controversy is going on.
The Union will not call or sanction, or enforce., any sympathetic strike of its ' members and the Employer shall not aid other Employers in any fight that may be waged against the Union.
It is agreed that the participation of any driver or any employee in any such controversy shall not interfere with his or her regular duties with the Employer.
13.05	It is also agreed that the wage summary outlined in the Appendix is recognized as part of this Agreement.
13.06	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to grant the employee the necessary time off without loss of. pay up to five (5) days. Immediate family shall be considered as. father, mother, stepfather, step-mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, wife, husband, common law spouse, sister, brother, son, daughter, step-son and step daughter.
Two days bereavement time off with pay. will be allowed for the death of grandparents, grandchildren, sister-in-law or brother-in-law,. son-inlaw, daughter-in-law.	.
The bereavement time off referred to in this clause must include the funeral date of the deceased party. Exceptions to this will require an agreement, in advance, between the employee and the Company.	.
13.07	Where it is necessary for any employees to be absent from work on Union business, the Employer agrees to release such employee for the time necessary at the request of the Union, at no expense to the Employer.
13.08	Where an employee is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as
a witness, the employee shall be paid his or her full pay by the Employer. Such employee will give their jury pay or witness pay cheque to the Employer in.return.	.	.
13.09	Shift staffs for groups I, II, III, and y. shall be by choice of seniority. Employees are only permitted to exercise this privilege once within a rolling twelve month period and this time period will not be shortened or eliminated in the event the employee accepts a voluntary shift change. Group IV shall continue as presently practised. When an employee exercises his/her seniority to fill a requirement for a shift that is in place for less than one year, the
37
employee's obligation to remain on that shift shall end when the shift is removed.
13.10	Before any changes to a rotational shift, the Employer, and
the Union agree to discuss and mutually agree to change in the present system.	.
13.11	(a) The Employer will continue training programs as required by the operation.
<b) The Employer will create a joint training committee to give recommendations regarding all job training requirements.
13.12	The contract shall be printed in booklet form with the cost of printing borne by the Employer. The Employer will provide the Union with a supply of printed contracts.
13.13	The Union shall be provided with three (3) locked, glassfaced notice boards in Refinery, Packaging Plant and Maintenance. Additionally the Company will provide locked file cabinets arid endeavour to locate workspace for the Union/Health & Safety committee to store this information.
13.14	One hundred percent (100%) of Tuition fees and textbooks are paid by the Employer for any course an employee is asked to take or is required to take as a condition of employment. The Employer will pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost initially and fifty percent (50%) after the employee successfully completes the course.
13.15	It is the duty of all employees to'make sure they are clean and tidy while processing food, and it is agreed that an employee failing to comply with this request will be subject to discipline by management.
ARTICLE 14 SUPERVISORS
14.01	No person who is excluded from the bargaining unit will be allowed to perform duties of an employee in the bargaining unit except in the case of emergency or for the purposes of training an employee.
ARTICLE 15 JOBBING OUT
38
15.01	For economic and/or capacity reasons it may from time to time be necessary for the Employer to assign work to individuals outside the scope of the Collective Agreement. Should this be necessary, the Employer and Union will meet and discuss the reasons for such work assignment.
ARTICLE 16 SEVERANCE PAY
16.01	(a) Employees hired prior to April 30, 2013 who are
laid off by the Employer shall be placed on the recall list for a period of five (5) years. Employees hired after April 30, 2013 who are laid off by the Employer shall be placed on the recall list for a period of three (3) years. Such employees will be eligible to receive severance pay any time after four (4) consecutive weeks of lay off, provided they abandon their recall rights and any associated rights under the Collective Agreement.
(b)	Severance pay for normal lay offs will be calculated at ten (10) days, plus three hundred dollars ($300.00), per year of service (pro-rated for partial years) calculated at the employee's base rate of pay as outlined in Appendix "A"', Under this normal lay-off protocol, employees will be entitled to either, one thousand dollars ($1000.00) retraining allowance or outplacement services provided through the normal. Company provider.
(c)	In future circumstances which result in permanent layoffs, not including a total plant shutdown, the Company will offer voluntary enhanced severances, by seniority, to a minimum of 30% of the total number of layoffs announced in any individual circumstance. Employees who volunteer and receive the enhanced severance will be required to abandon their recall and associated rights as outlined in (a), however the retirement option in 11:08 would also be available to employees in this scenario.
Employees accepting the enhanced severance would not be subject to the four (4) week delay in qualifying for their severance payment.
In the event of a total plant closure, which is defined as
39
a total bargaining unit closure, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the severance conditions applicable to that situation.	. . .	.
(d)	The enhanced severance option applicable in item (c) will be paid at fifteen (15) days, plus.three hundred and fifty dollars ($350) per year of service (pro-rated for partial years). This payment will be calculated at the employee's base rate of pay as outlined in Appendix "A".
All employees, severed under the enhanced severance option outlined herein, will be entitled to Company paid benefits (prescription drugs, vision care and dental only) to age sixty-five (65), provided the conditions of age and service outlined in Clause 11:08 are met.
(e)	In all the preceding severance language, the "days" referred to are eight (8) hour days
ARTICLE 17 SAFETY COMMITTEE
17.01	Both the Employer and the Union recognize their mutual obligations to assist in the prevention, correction and elimination of all unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices.
In support of this stated obligation, a Joint Health and Safety Committee, represented equally by Management and Union, will operate and meet on a' regular basis, not less than once each'three (3) months, during the life of this agreement. The purpose of this committee will be to develop and recommend safe guidelines and procedures in an effort to eliminate accidents.	Further, individual plant and maintenance
committees will function in a like manner.
(a)	The worker member of the safety committees will be
elected for a two (2) year period.. The worker certified member will be elected for a three (3) year period,
17.02	Any employee identifying a safety problem which needs attention should relate this concern directly to their immediate Supervisor, with the involvement of Department Health and Safety representatives.
An employee will not initiate a grievance regarding safety unless he or she has been unable to resolve the issue by the above procedure.
40
17.03
a)	Company-specifled safety footwear and eye protection is mandatory for all employees and must be worn at all times while on site. The Employer will provide facilities . for the replacement of	this
equipment. In the event an employee has special requirements, preapproval will be necessary for an external purchase and payment will be made upon receipt of an invoice.	.
(b)	In the case of footwear, the Employer will establish a supply arrangement with at least two suppliers. Employees will return their used footwear to the supplier for assessment and will be provided with a replacement according to mutually agreed parameters.
(c) All employees will be permitted to maintain a supply of two pairs of safety footwear.	All new employees will be provided with two
coupons entitling them to acquire two initial pairs of footwear without providing a replacement. Following use of the coupons, clause (b) will apply.	.
17.04	No employee shall work alone when cleaning out tank trucks, tank cars or the large storage tanks.
41
ARTICLE 18
EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement will be in full force and effect from May 1st, 2 013 until April 3 0th, 2016 and thereafter from year to year until terminated or amended by either party as hereinafter provided. Not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to April 30th,	2016 or any subsequent anniversary date, either party may
notify in writing of its desire to negotiate amendments. Negotiations with respect to the proposed amendments must commence no later than thirty (30) days after the notice of such changes have been received.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties mentioned have executed this Agreement
this 4th day of June, 2013.
FOR THE EMPLOYER;
UNILEVER CANADA INC.
UNION 647
FOR THE UNION: MILK DRIVERS DAIRY EMPLOYEES,
CATERERS AND ALLIED
EMPLOYEES,	LOCAL
42
WAGE APPENDIX "A"
Wage
1st year - lump sum signing bonus of $1,100.00 paid within 30 days of ratification.
2nd year Annual Production Bonus Program (described below) with guaranteed 2% payout
3rd year Annual Production Bonus Program (described below) with guaranteed 1% payout
Starting in January 1st 2014, the Annual Production Bonus Program focuses on plant-wide measures that drive Supply Chain initiatives and creates accountability to deliver against goals. The overallobjective is to improve productivity and manufacturing efficiencies, and reward the efforts of all participants towards achieving these goals.
The performance year is January 1 through December 31.
Bonuses will be paid out annually by the end of the first quarter of the following calendar year.
All bonus payouts are subject to federal, provincial, and local tax withholdings at the time of payment, as required by law.
It will be prorated based on the number of eligible months and it will be calculated as a percentage of the following base:
Hourly Base. Wage x 40 hours/week x 52 weeks/year.
Metrics
Overall performance against three plant-specific metrics will determine the final payout award: OEE (Determines 40% of the bonus payout), raw material waste (Determines 30% of the bonus payout), and production cost (Determines 30% of the bonus payout).
Goals for each metric will be set by the Supply Leader before or as soon as possible after the start of the performance year. Once goals are set, they cannot be changed during the performance year.
For each metric:
'Threshold' is the minimum point beyond which an award is earned Reaching the goal set as threshold will result in no payout 'Target' is the level of achievement at which the target award can be earned
'Outstanding' is the level of achievement at which the maximum award can be earned
These goals should be clearly communicated to all employees as soon
43
as possible once they are finalized.
At the end of the performance year, achievement against each metric will be measured separately, and the payout will be calculated for each on a simple linear scale between 'threshold'1 (zero payout) and 'outstanding' (200% of target).
If all target measures of plant goals are met, employees could receive a payout at their target bonus. A higher performance against goals could result in a higher payout and a lower performance against goals could result in a lower payout. If none of the goals are met, employees may receive zero payout. No payout can exceed 200% of target.
.^ccntaqes:
Metric	Metric Weight	Threshold	Target	Outstanding
OEE	40%	0%	2%	4%
Raw' material waste	30%	0%	2%	4%
Production Cost	30%	0%	2%	4%
Targetsi
Metric	Metric Weight	Threshold	Target	Outstanding
OEE	40%	(A)	(B).	(C)
Raw material waste	30%	(D)	(E)	(F)
Production Cost	30%	(G)	<H)	(I)
If Year End OEE is equal to OEE "Outstanding" (C) , Year End RM waste is equal to "Target" (E) , and Year End Production Cost is equal to "Threshold" (G) payout will be pay as follow:
$34.08 x 40 hours/week x 52 weeks/year a $70,886.40
* OEE payout = 4% x $70,886.40 x 40% (metric weight) $1134,18
•	RM waste payout = 2% x $70,886.40 x 30% (metric weight) = $425.31
•	Production Cost waste payout = 0% x $70,886.40 x 30% (metric weight) = $0
44
For this example Total payout will be * $1,559.49 Eligibility
All Unilever full-time permanent hourly employees, working in the Rexdale Plant are eligible to participate in this program, ,	.
New HiresV Employees who join prior to October 1 of the performance year are eligible for a prorated bonus award as described under Program Administration. Employees .who join Unilever on or after . October 1st of the performance year will not be eligible for a bonus until the next performance year.	.	.
Termination as a Result of Reduction in Workforce:	Employees who are
laid off from active employment will receive a prorated bonus award for the time in which they were actively employed during the	•
performance year. These awards will be paid out by the end of the first quarter of the following calendar year.
Retirement:	Employees who retire during the performance year will be
eligible for a prorated bonus award. These awards will be paid out by the end of the first quarter of the following calendar year.
Death:	In the event of a participant's death, the employee's
designated beneficiary will receive a prorated bonus payout. This award will be paid out by the end of the first quarter of the following calendar year.
An employee who leaves the Company during the performance year for any other reason will not be eligible for. a bonus payout.
WSIB:
Time on approved WSIB should be counted towards eligible time when considering prorate months.
LTD:	.
Not eligible.
Shift Premium
There shall be a premium of ninety-five cents ($0.95) for all hours worked between 3:00pm and 11:00pm and a premium of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) for all hours worked between 11:00pm and 7:00am of the following day.
Welding Premium
A "Welding Premium" of eighty cents ($0.80) is to be paid to four (4) holders only of a current high-pressure welding certificate. These positions shall be, accepted by seniority from the Maintenance department.	.	.
Trades
All Mechanics hired or transferred after May 1, 2010 will be required to be a certified Construction Millwright or Industrial Maintenance
45
Millwright as well as have a minimum of five (5) years practical experience in related work.
All Electronic Technicians hired or transferred after May 1, 2010 will be required to have an Ontario certification as an electronic electrician and have a minimum of five (5) years practical experience in related work.
This will not restrict current. Refinery Mechanics from being awarded Packaging Mechanic roles or for Packaging Mechanics from being awarded Refinery Mechanic roles.
Tool Allowance
A "Tool Allowance" of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) to be paid during the first week of May each year on a separate cheque, with no receipts and no banking.
Employees in the service of the Craft Group for less then twelve (12) months shall receive an allowance on a pro rata basis'upon completion of their probationary period.
Hourly Wages		May 1, 2013	May 1, 2014	May 1, 2015
Group E - Packaging				
Classifications				
Packaging Technician		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
Milk Room Operator		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
Machine Operator		$33.63	$33.63	$33.63
Sanitation Operator		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
Hygiene Technician		$34.08	$34,08	$34.08
Process Technician		$34,08	$34.08	$34.08
				
Group II - Material Handling				
Classifications				
Shipper/Receiver		$33.63	$33.63	$33.63
Distribution Operator		$33.63	$33.63	$33.63
Warehouse Operator		$33.63	$33,63	$33.63
				
Group Eli - Maintenance				
Classifications				
(A) Central				
Mechanic		$36.27	$36.27	$36.27
Electronic Technician		$36.27	$36.27	$36,27
46
(B) Packaging				
Automatic Packaging Equipment Mechanic		$36.27	$36.27	$36.27
				
Group IV - Refinery				
Classifications				
Refinery Operator		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
Unloading/Acidulation Opr.		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
General Help		$33.09	$33.09	$33.09
				
Group V - Laboratory				
Classifications				
Chief Technician		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
Skilled Technician		$34.08	$34.08	$34.08
47
June, 2010
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: TPM Activities
As an integral component of our TPM/WCM initiatives, management employees are required to undertake Autonomous Maintenance activities on a selected "pilot" line within the Packaging Plant.
These activities will be confined to the one (1) pilot line as selected by the Steering Committee. Activities will not involve actual operation of the line for production purposes.	.
The purpose of these activities is to facilitate practical learning and understanding of TPM/WCM principles as well as barriers to TPM/WCM implementation for the Management team. This practice is consistent with fundamental TPM/WCM philosophies to reinforce theoretical principles with practical experience.
Activities will be focused on A.M. Steps 1 to 3 . They will begin on the first month following ratification and will finish upon the completion of Step 3, 9 months from the starting date.
Step 3 includes operators performing tentative standards for cleaning, inspection and minor lubrication.
Major lubrication activities remain the responsibility of the Maintenance Department.
At no time will the presence of management employees in these activities result in a reduction of the normal crewing of hourly
48
June, 2010
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Clarification of Work Responsibilities Operating Engineers
The Plant Services Manager has total responsibility for Building Services site-wide for which purposes he will utilize skilled tradesmen from the I.O.U.E. Local 772, Teamster Local 647, and contractors.
Operating Engineers are designated to provide a service function to all areas of the site and are specifically responsible for the following duties, to monitor, maintain and service:
•	all steam, water, condensate and air lines up to and including isolation valves, off the mains in the Packaging Plant Building
» utility meters (site-wide)
•	all ammonia equipment, piping and instrumentation. To isolate NH3 from equipment.
•	steam heating equipment and connecting lines located in the Packaging Plant Building
•	all	sprinkler equipment and	systems site-wide
•	all	hot-water tracing equipment and piping in the oil room
•	oil	room hot water tank and	controls
•	all	chilled water equipment	and piping
•	buildings and services including sewers, and washrooms for Packaging Plant
•	all	steam boilers site-wide	and associated equipment
•	air	compressors, associated	equipment and pipelines in the
boiler room, and mainline air receivers site-wide
•	all air handling and air conditioning units installed site-wide
•	all gas fired heaters and piping site-wide
49
§
all building supply and exhaust fans site-wide (exception process in refineries)
Packaging Plant utility loops originating in Boiler Room, up to and including isolation valves
maintain cooling tower chemical treatment systems site-wide
inspection and maintenance of all emergency response equipment.
perimeter fence gates and Packaging Plant Roll up doors
Under any emergency situation, the Plant Services Manager is expected to use his best judgement in selecting personnel to secure the Plant and Services.
The! abnvfi cmideline. is snbnect to review and updating at anytime by
re subject to Management acceptance.
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
50
June, 2010
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Maintenance Training
In order to promote the development and upgrading of the trades group, it is the intent of the, Employer to provide training opportunities, both technical and experiential during the term of this collective agreement.
The training opportunities will be discussed and agreed with the department management, department steward and chief steward prior to implementation and the numbers of trades allowed to participate will be entirely dependent on the needs of the business. Opportunities will be offered in order of seniority within the
AcKndwledge for the Employer:
Kelly Sheppard Supply Leader
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
51
June, 2010
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Contract Work
Each Department Manager and respective Steward(s) will meet as required to inform the Steward(s) of contract work required within that Department, as per Article 15.01,
It is the intention of the Company to utilize internal trade resources for maintenance and repair of all core operations.
The criteria for employment of external resources will be:
1.	Urgent and no resources available
2.	Non-resident skills and competencies
3.	Expediting of backlogged work requests where internal resources are unavailable
For any scheduled external resources the Company will provide information to the Chief Steward prior to initiation of the work.
For urgent requirements information will be provided to the Chief Steward, or designate, as soon as practically possible.
i^k^wl^ge^foj^^he Employer:
Kelly Sheppard^
Supply Leader
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
Union
52
June 4, 2013
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
As discussed during negotiations, there are ongoing discussions with a third party regarding who will own the edible oil inventory on site at Rexdale following the completion of project T-Rex. One option is for the third party to own the inventory and as part of that, they have offered to unload it from their trucks to our tanks at no extra cost which represents a considerable cost savings to the Company.
As this particular issue represents a barrier to achieving a settlement, the Company is willing, for the length of this contract only, to agree to have all edible oils unloaded by bargaining unit employees. The job will be posted within the 4 ’ ' “	~	issifloation.
Kelly Sheppard Supply Leader
Acknowledge fox the Unioni Martin Cerqug£/
Business Agent
53
June, 2010
NOTICE
PACKAGING PLANT OVERTIME
The following procedure for obtaining overtime in the Packaging Plant has been agreed between the Employer and the Union after study by an Overtime Committee.
Overtime is a most sensitive subject and all parties involved in these discussions acknowledged that there is no system that will be considered best by everyone.
It is most important however that we do adopt a system and it is everyone's interest to make this system work.
In order that you can be easily contacted for overtime, please ensure your current phone number is registered with Packaging Plant Supervision.
There is no change in the system to be adopted for packers except that sample checkers (when applicable) will be placed on the bottom of the packers rota and receive priority for the overtime in their classification.
The agreed system is then as follows:
1. Vacation positions are first filled by any spare trained
persons before an overtime list is consulted.
2.	Overtime lists are formed as follows:
Personnel are listed by classification and shift. When overtime is offered, the appropriate hours are listed against the person's name. New employees are inserted in their place of seniority and new or transferred employees will be charged with the average hours of the list to which they are transferred. (New employees are those who have recently started with the Employer and successfully completed probation.)
3.	An acceptance, refusal, or failure to contact is counted
equally. Persons unavailable due to sickness, leave of absence, compensation, absence, other
54
business or vacation will be counted as if overtime had been offered to them. Overtime will be charged according to number of hours offered. The only exception	being	Union steward(s)	attending
negotiations will not be charged, overtime hours.
4.	Persons in training for skilled.positions will be eligible for
overtime as their training progresses to a level of competency for each individual, work station. Probationary employees will be eligible for overtime only when all others in their craft group have refused.
5. Overtime is first	offered to	the. people	in whose
classification the overtime exists.
Example:
"B"	Shift	overtime is first offered then.classified ,[C" Shift.	to	classified	"A"	Shift
"A"	Shift	overtime is first offered then classified "B" Shift.	to	classified	"C"	Shift
"C"	Shift	overtime is first offered then classified "A" Shift.	to	classified	"B"	Shift
6. Once	the	list of classified persons has been exhausted as above, then qualified persons are offered the				
overtime. In this case, overtime will be offered, by going to the person with lowest hours in Craft Group I.
7. Overtime hours worked or offered will be., charged at the
overtime premium rate.	.
8. On a weekly basis, a copy of the overtime sheets will be
publicly posted.
9.	Each week the overtime lists are re-drawn with the person with
lowest hours at the top. The hours are returned to zero annually.
10.	Overtime on Saturday "B,r and "C" Shifts and Sunday "A",	"B"
and "C" Shifts will be offered to persons in whose classification the overtime occurs. The person with lowest hours to get choice of shift.
55
11. Employees who are awarded make up overtime, due to an
administrative error, will be allowed three weeks from date of settlement to work this overtime.
12.	Overtime will be offered in eight hour blocks. Should an
employee who is offered eight hours prefer to work four hours, he/she will indicate this to their Supervisor when asked. The Supervisor will then go to : a phone list which has been established indicating those employees who are willing to work the second half of the shift. If no one is willing to work the second half of the shift, the Supervisor will continue to offer eight hours to other employees. Only employees who signed a list indicating they wished to be phoned at home for overtime will be contacted.
13.	Start-up overtime is exempt from these procedures but overtime
hours worked will be charged.
14.	An employee transferred from one shift to another, will carry-
over their existing overtime hours, to their new shift, should no other employees exist within their job classification on the new shift.
In witness of the parties, hereto mentioned this Agreement has been agreed.
Kelly
knowledge for the Employer:
Sheppard Supply Reader
/———-
.cknowX^dge tom the Union:
Martin Cerqua (f Business Agent
June 4, 2013
LETTER OF tOTSERSTANPIllG Re:	Apprenticeship Program
The intent of the apprenticeship program shall be to supplement and support licensed skilled trades people, to offer opportunities for current employees to increase their skill level and to provide the Company with adequate and fully qualified tradespersons. Apprentices shall not be used to replace the existing complement of full time skilled trades persons. In the event of job losses or lay-off in the maintenance department, apprentices shall be displaced before any journey person positions are reduced.
Provided bargaining unit employees are interested in bidding for the apprenticeship program, as per the Collective Agreement, and they qualify, they will be given the first opportunity to bid for the posting, as per the current bidding process, versus external candidates. In the event that the internal candidates do not meet the selection criteria as outlined below, or there are no internal bids, the external candidates will be considered. An internal candidate must not have a recognised millwright and/or electrician ticket in order to qualify. The Company reserves the right to support existing trades in acquiring secondary tickets. The Company has the sole discretion to determine whether or not apprentices will be required.
Selection by the Company shall be in accordance with the following criteria:
1.	Appropriate academic qualifications.
2.	Successfully passing and independent mechanical aptitude test and demonstrated mechanical aptitude.
3.	Interview results. For internal candidates only, the Chief Steward may request to be in attendance at the interview as an observer.
Bargaining unit employees that qualify shall be awarded the position by seniority. Internal candidates that are awarded an apprenticeship program
57
will receive all benefits, vacation entitlements, tool allowance etc, as per the Collective Agreement. Wages of apprentices will be governed by the amount of hours worked as an apprentice and appropriate skilled trade classification as listed in the below progression.
The full term of the apprenticeship program shall be governed by applicable Ontario Legislation.
0 - 2000 hours - 7$% wage rate	.
2001 “ 4000 hours (in addition to successful completion of 1st year of schooling) - 85% wage rate 4001 - 6000 hours (in addition to successful completion of.2nd year of schooling) - 90% wage rate 6001 hours to completion (in addition to successful completion of 3rd year of schooling) - 95% wage rate
All other terms and conditions will be governed by the Collective Agreement. At the end of the training period, providing that the apprentice, can satisfactorily perform the journey person's duties in the classification in which she/he has been trained and successfully receives their Certificate of Qualification, the apprentice will receive the full journey person's wage rate and benefits as per the Collective Agreement, Internal candidates, who are awarded an apprenticeship position, shall maintain their bargaining unit seniority in all aspects except to bid/seleot preferred jobs/shifts within the maintenance department and vacation selections within the maintenance department.
An apprentice must complete the program within 5 years. If an employee fails to complete the program and successfully pass their final exam within this timeframe, the employee will lose their position within the maintenance department and will be treated in accordance with the collective agreement.
Voluntary Training and Tradesperson Liability
At the discretion of the Company, a skilled tradesperson may be requested to mentor an apprentice however the choice to mentor will be voluntary. In the event that no journey person wishes to mentor voluntarily it shall be assigned by reverse seniority, A skilled tradesperson mentoring an apprentice will not be held liable for any actions or mistakes caused
58
by an apprentice.
Maximum Number of Apprentices
The Company shall comply with the Trades Qualification Apprenticeship Act, with respect to the maximum number of apprentices.
Hours of Work and Overtime
Apprentices will be required to work at all times under a consenting maintenance tradesperson and in compliance with all applicable legislation. All overtime shall be offered first to the maintenance department, consistent with the collective agreement, before any apprentice. Only when all tradespersons have been offered all the overtime opportunities and have refused or worked shall an apprentice be allowed to work the overtime. However, apprentices will still be required to work directly under a consenting maintenance tradesperson. Once an apprentice has completed the program and become certified they will be. offered overtime.consistent with the Collective Agreement. :	:	■	:
Education Reimbursement after.Successful Completion of Program ;	^ : . : V	\
The Company shall pay 100% of all tuition and books that are required under the apprenticeship program and/or applicable legislation upon receipt of a passing grade and costs associated with the program. Secondly, the Company will allow the required time off, without pay, to complete the educational aspect of the program.
Employers
Kelly Sheppard
Supply Leader^
Martin Cerqua Business Agent
the Union;
59
WELFARE PLAN SUMMARY
60
Utailever Canada Inc.
All of the Welfare Plan Benefits stipulated in this Collective Agreement are provided through The Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Local 647 Welfare Trust Fund. This Fund is managed by four Trustees representing Employers contributing to the Fund under this and other Collective Agreements, and four Trustees appointed by Local Union 647. The Trustees hold Contracts of Insurance that specify the Benefits contained in this Collective Agreement, as well as others, and determine. Standard Rules of Eligibility and Termination.
The following summary of your Benefits will provide you all of the information you need to determine who is covered by the Plan, when you become covered and terminated and the Benefits under this particular Collective Agreement. Since the Benefits are provided through Insurance Contracts, in the event of a dispute the Provisions of the Insurance Contracts will prevail.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Employees who are members in good standing of Local Union 647 together with their spouse, unmarried dependent children under Age 21 and unmarried dependent children to age' 23 in full time attendance at an institute of higher learning, are eligible for benefits. ..
Effective Date of Benefits
All employees are required to complete an Application Card, recording necessary information about the employee and his or her dependents. This Card is available from the Employer, Local Union 647 or the Administrator. New employees are covered by the Plan on the first day of the calendar month following the completion of their
61
probationary period (60 working days). Employees hired or rehired by the Employer are covered from the date of employment or re-employment if. they .were covered by the Plan at any time during the sixty days prior to such employment or re-employment. Employees covered by the Plan who are rehired by the Employer, in accordance with the layoff/recall provisions . of this Collective Agreement, will again be covered by the Plan on the date of re-employment.
Dependents of eligible employees are covered on the date the employee is covered, or the date they become dependents, whichever is later. If the employee is disabled on his or her effective date, all benefits are postponed.until the date of return to full time employment. If the employee is covered by the Plan, and disabled on the effective date of an improvement or new Benefit, the employee and dependents remain covered by the old Plan until the employee returns to full time employment.. . .. .
Your completed Application Card should be submitted to your Employer, who is required to submit that completed Card with the first Monthly Contribution Report on which the employee1s name is recorded.
Termination Date of Benefits
-- If employment terminates for any reason other than retirement, all benefits except Disability Income cease at the end of the month in which employment terminated. Disability Income Benefits cease on the last date employed. As noted later in this Summary, certain Benefits are continued for Retired Members.	.	.
Benefits for Active Employees and Retired Employees cease in the event that the Employer ceases contributions to the Trust Fund. The date of termination of such benefits will be determined in accordance with the date such contributions cease.
Retired Members' Benefits	:
Upon retirement, members with at least five continuous
62
years1 coverage immediately preceding retirement are covered by $4,000 Life Insurance for the first twelve calendar months following the month in which retirement commenced and $2,000 Life Insurance thereafter.
Effective September 1, 1992 employees who are 55 or more and have age plus service of 80 years or more who elect to take early retirement will have Prescription Drug Plan, Vision Care and Dental Plan coverage until age 65.
Continuation of Benefits During Disability
-- Employees who become disabled, and in receipt of a benefit from the STD Plan, will remain covered by the Benefits provided them at the onset of disability while so disabled, up to the Maximum Benefit Period of the STD Program described herein. If the disability is compensable by WSIB, then the benefits described herein will be continued for 18 months or cessation of WSIB Benefits, whichever is earlier.
BENEFITS
Life Insurance (Employee Only)
The benefit is provided by a Group Term Life Insurance. Policy, which provides that premium payments are waived, and the. benefit at the onset of disability remains in force,' up to Age 65, in the event of total and permanent disability occurring while insured and before Age 65. Waiver of Premium is provided for all employees on L.T.D. under "own occupation" or "any occupation" conditions. At age 65, the Life ' Insurance Benefit for Retired Employees becomes effective if the disabled employee has fulfilled the five year coverage requirement.
Employees who terminate employment may convert to an individual Life Insurance Policy, without evidence of good . health, by making written application to the Insurer within 31 days of the date employment terminates.
Effective May 1, 2015 the Amount of Life Insurance will increase from $40,000 to $60,000.
63
Accidental Death and Dismemberment (Employee Only)
This benefit provides the payment of a Principal Sum, or part thereof, for losses that. occur within 3 65 days of a causative accident. In the case of life, the benefit is payable to the employee's named beneficiary under the Life Insurance Benefit; for other losses, the benefit is payable to the employee. .
TABLE OF BENEFITS
For loss' of
Amount
Life (in addition to the Life Insurance) ...
Both Eyes  ........................... .... ,
Both Hands ........................... .......
Both Feet...................................
One Hand and One Foot.......................
One Hand and Sight of One Eye...............
One Foot and Sight of One Eye ..............
One Leg..................................... . .
One Arm................................
One Hand ...................................
Sight of One Eye ...........................
Both the Thumb and Index Finger of One Hand
. . . . Principal Sum . . . . Principal Sum . . . . Principal Sum . . . . Principal Sum . . . . Principal Sum , . . . Principal Sum . ... Principal Sum 3/4 Principal Sum 3/4 Principal Sum 1/2 Principal Sum 1/2 Principal Sum 1/4 Principal Sum
The Principal Sum is the maximum payable for all. losses, due to any one accident. No benefits are payable for losses due to intentionally self-inflicted injuries, suicide, declared or undeclared 'war, full time service in the armed forces, or while a crew member in any aircraft.
Effective May 1, 2010 the Principal Sum will be $40,000.
Short Term Disability (STD)--	.	.
Non-Occupational Disability Only (Employee Only)
Unilever Canada provides disability benefits to ensure, that some or all of your income continues during sustained, periods of non-
64
work related illness or accidental injury. STD benefits paid by Unilever under the Benefit Options Program are designed to help you when your time away from work due to illness or accidental injury lasts' twenty-six (26) weeks or less. After twenty-six (26) weeks, Long-Term Disability (LTD) benefits may be available through a third party insurer.
Commencing on the third day of absence disability due to an accident, the Plan pays a Weekly Benefit as per the schedule below. Under the terms of the Short-Term Disability Plan, you are "disabled" if you are unable to perform the essential duties of your own occupation or other suitable work within the company due to a medically verifiable illness or injury.
You must apply for STD Benefits for any absence greater than two (2) consecutive business, days.	.	.
A Statement of Impairment (SOI) for absences beyond two (2) consecutive business days must be received by the Disability Management Service Provider within ten (10) business days of the first day of absence.
Your HR Representative will arrange for you to receive the STD Benefits Package..
The Disability Management Service Provider has sole responsibility for the assessment of whether or not the definition of disability is met based on information provided to them by Unilever Canada, you and your physician/dentist/clinical psychologist.
To be considered for Short Term Disability, a Statement of Impairment (SOI) within ten (10) business days of the first day of absence, signed by a licensed physician/dentist/clinical psychologist, must be submitted to the Disability Management Service Provider. Unilever Canada must receive confirmation of the fulfillment . . or non-fulfillment of the definition of disability from the Disability Management Service Provider. Failure to provide medical verification upon request may result either in the discontinuation of benefit payments.
You will be entitled to receive up to twenty-six (26) weeks of
65
STD. benefits for periods of. absence due to the same or related illness or injury. If a reoccurance occurs for the same or related illness or injury, and is separated by two (2) consecutive weeks or less of. returning to work at full time regular duties, the calculation of your benefit for the successive disability will be determined according to the benefit remaining as per the schedule from the initial disability.
Benefits are not. payable unless the disabled employee is losing wages on account of the disability. Therefore, benefits are not payable for periods of time during which there are no lost wages, such as Vacation, Leave of Absence, etc. . .
WEEKLY BENEFIT
Years of Service	Weeks Paid at 100%	Weeks Paid at 70%
Less than 1	1	25
	: V-.i • ' 2 ;-':T	
2	, 4	22
-3" .	' 6, ' v. Y	u.;V 20 -c \ ■
4	8	18
■5 - ' .	10 ' -	' 16
6	12	14
' i ‘		■M2 .
8	16	10
9 .	18 ,	' 8 1
10 or more	26	0
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD	:
26 weeks
Semi-Private Hospital Benefit (Employees and Dependents)
-- The Plan pays the hospital's daily charge for the difference in cost between a semi-private room'' and standard ward.
Ambulance Benefit (Employees and Dependents)
-- For necessary ground ambulance service, to or from a
66
hospital, the Plan pays $40 for each period of Disability (as defined under the Disability Income Plan). This amount is applicable to the deductible amount of OHIP's Ambulance Benefit, and does not duplicate in any way the OHIP Ambulance Benefit.
Special Accident Benefit (Employee and Dependents)
The Plan allows up to $300 for certain services or supplies received within three months of a causative accident that is not covered by Workers' Compensation.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES:	.
1.	Hospital charges resulting from confinement.
2.	Medical or surgical treatment of supplies.
3.	Diagnostic services.
4.	Services of a registered nurse.
5.	Dental x-ray, or examination.
Long Term Disability Income Benefit (Employee Only)
-- Effective with disabilities commencing on or after August 1, 1982, a Monthly Income Benefit will be paid to employees who are totally disabled commencing with the exhaustion of the Short Term Disability.Income Benefit provided herein. The employee will be regarded as "totally disabled" when the nature and degree of the disability is such , that the employee	cannot	perform	each ' and	every, duty, of	any
occupation for which he or she is reasonably suited, having regard for education, training and experience. Effective with disabilities commencing on or after July 1,	1996, the
employee will be regarded as "totally disabled" during the first 24	months	of. such	disability	when the nature	and
degree of the disability is such that the employee cannot perform, the regular duties of his or her own occupation. The Benefit is payable as long as the employee is "totally disabled," and ceases upon the earliest of death, recovery or attainment of Age 65. Benefits are not payable for any disability . resulting from intentionally self-inflicted Injuries, while sane or insane; riots, insurrections or any act of war, or the commission of, or an attempt to commit,
67
any criminal act.	.
If the disabled employee is in receipt of a benefit under the Workers' Compensation Act, on account of the same disability, the Monthly Income Benefit otherwise payable under this Plan will be reduced, dollar for dollar, by any amounts payable under the Act,
If a disabled employee is in the "grey" area between total disability and total recovery, and attempts some form of "light work" under the supervision of a physician, the L.T.D. Benefit will be reduced by 66.6% of income derived from such rehabilitative employment for up to two years of such employment. If the employee cannot continue the employment for health reasons, he/she goes back on full L.T.D. Benefits; if still.so employed after two years, the L.T.D. Benefit ceases since he/she is no longer regarded as "totally disabled."
Prescription Drug coverage will be offered to employees who are approved for LTD and the Company will pay.50% of the cost of prescription Drug coverage. It will be optional for employees to select or refuse this coverage at the time they are accepted onto LTD.
The Monthly Income Benefit payable is determined by the Insurer's Premium for this benefit, in comparison with the Employer's contribution for the benefit. Effective with disabilities commencing on or after (2 year - own occupation)
May i, -frarftQQf—May-—1-—in—£2-Hr8 0; "May—£-94^-
Dental Care Plan No. 9 (Employee and Dependents)
The Plan became effective August 1,	1982 and covers the
following dentist's services: 1 2
1.	Oral examinations, once every 6 month.
2.	Prophylaxis (cleaning and scaling of teeth) once every 6 months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a
68
Dentist,	or	a	Dental	Hygienist	under	the	direct
supervision of a Dentist.
3.	Bite-wing x-rays, once every 6 months.	.
4.	Topical application of anti-cariogenic agent, once every
6 months. This treatment is eligible if performed by a Dentist,	or	a	Dental	Hygienist	under	the	direct
supervision of a Dentist.
5.	Full mouth series of x-rays, once every 24 months.
6.	Extractions and simple alveolectomy at a time of tooth
extraction.	.	.	.
7.	Surgical extraction of impacted teeth.
8.	Surgical removal of tumors, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and drainage of an abscess.
9.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic, and composite fillings.
10.	Provision and spare maintainers for missing primary teeth and provision of habit breaking appliances.
11.	Diagnostic x-ray and laboratory procedures required in relation to dental surgery.
12.	General anesthetic required in relation to dental surgery.
13.	Consultation required by the attending Dentist.
14.	Endodontics and periodontics.	,	.
15.	Relining, rebasing, repair and adjustment of existing dentures.
16.	Effective September 1, 1988, partial or full dentures, limited to one claim per person per three year period.
17.	50% of the cost of major procedures (inlays, onlays, crowns, : caps and bridges) to an annual maximum of $2000.
18.	Effective May 1, 2014 the Employer agrees to pay 50% of
the cost of orthodontics for children of employees to a life time maximum of $2000.00 per dependant.	.
EXCLUSIONS:
If the service arises from any of the following events, no benefit is payable:
a)	Intentional self-inflicted injuries or illness while
sane or self-inflicted injuries while insane.	.
b)	Any service for which the insured person is entitled to indemnity of compensation under any Workers1 Compensation Act.
69
c)	Cosmetic surgery or treatment (when so classified by the
Insurer) unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.	,	■
d)	Services payable under any government plan of insurance,
or insurable only under any government plan of insurance.	'	.	.	.
e)	Injury resulting from insurrection, war, services in the Armed Forces of any country or participation in a riot.
BASIS OF PAYMENT:	.
The basis of payment for services and supplies will be based on the ODA schedule of the previous year (a one-year lag), effective January 1 of each year.
Drug Plan (Employee and Dependents)	.	,	.
The Plan pays the amount charged by a.pharmacist, dentist, physician or hospital for prescribed drugs, prescribed preventative drugs, prescribed vitamins, medicines, sera, injectibles, insulin and diabetic supplies.	Patent
medicines, and expenses covered by any other agency are not covered.
Visioncare Plan (Employee and Dependents)	.
Effective with prescriptions filled on and after. July 1, 1996 the Plan will pay the amount charged by a Dispensing Optician or Optometrist for corrective lenses and frames prescribed by an Ophthalmologist or Optometrist, up to three maximums:
Single Lenses: $320
Bifocal Lenses: $320	.
Trifocal Lenses: $360
Major Medical Plan (Employee and Dependents)	.	,
Effective July 1, 1986, this plan provides the following benefits: DEDUCTIBLE --
70
There is no deductible. .
CO-INSURANCE
The Plan will pay 100% of the reasonable and customary charges incurred for Eligible Expenses.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT --
The maximum amount payable on account of any Insured Person (Employee or Dependent) is $30,000 in any consecutive thirty-six month period. In the . event that any person incurs Eligible Expenses of at least $1,000 the employee may make application to the Insurer (through the Administrator) to have the $30,000 Maximum Benefit reinstated.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES - -	.	,	..	.
The following expenses are covered, on the express understanding that they	are	prescribed--that is,
recommended--by the attending physician. .	.
1.	Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse (R.N.) or Registered Nursing Assistant (R.N.A.) at the insured individual's residence., provided the R.N. or R.N.A. is not normally resident in the insured person's home, or in a public'general hospital.
2.	Charges for hospital services, and supplies obtained from
an out-patient department of a licensed hospital or surgical supply company while not confined in a hospital.	.
3.	Ambulance:	charges for licensed ambulance, service or
other emergency, service (including fare of an attendant where necessary) when. used to transport the insured person from the place where bodily injury or disease is suffered to the nearest hospital where . adequate treatment can be rendered or from one hospital to another or from hospital to the insured person's
71
residence.
4.	Services and Supplies:	charges for the	following
services and supplies:	.	.
a)	purchase of braces, crutches, surgical stockings,
artificial limbs and eyes and prosthetic devices approved by the Insurance Company	including
surgical brassieres and breast prostheses required following a mastectomy
b)	rental of or, at the Insurance Company's option,
the purchase of a wheelchair, hospital-type bed, iron-lung, or other durable equipment for temporary therapeutic use.	.	.
c)	oxygen and blood serum
d)	orthopaedic shoes prescribed by a podiatrist or
physician up to a maximum of one pair per calendar year.	.
5.	Emergency Treatment: charges for the following	emergency
treatment required by an insured person	who is
temporarily outside of their Province or Territory of residence:	.
a} room and board in a licensed hospital up to ward level for each day that the person is confined in hospital
b)	hospital services and supplies furnished by a licensed hospital
c)	diagnosis and treatment by a physician or surgeon.
6.	Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses:	charges for
diagnostic tests and radiological treatments including x-rays and laboratory tests and radium treatments.
7.	Physiotherapy:	Charges for the services of a qualified
Physiotherapist, who is not normally resident in the
72
insured person's home. .	......
8.	Speech Therapy: charges for the services of a qualified Speech Therapist, up to a maximum payment of $200 per calendar year for each person.
9.	Hearing Aids: charges for hearing aids.prescribed by a legally licensed Otolaryngologist, up to a maximum payment of $400 for one instrument per insured persons in any four consecutive years.
10.	Paramedical Services to a Maximum calendar year benefit of $1000 for each person. Individual category limit of $400 dollars for the following categories: Chiropractor, Homeopath, Chiropodist, Massage Therapist (RMT registered) and Acupuncturist. services. . Other paramedical services are paid ,up :to maximum of $275 per service but cannot, exceed at total of $1000 for the entire group of services for each person. ,
LIMITS AJSFD EXCLUSIONS --	.
No benefit will be paid if legislation prevents such payment. Benefits will be reduced by amounts paid, or payable, by government plans such as OHIP.
How to Claim .Benefits	.	..	.
-~ All claims, except those under the Drug Plan, are to be submitted on the proper form, along with appropriate bills or receipts, to the Administrator:
Employee Benefit Plan Services 45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON L3R 8C7
General Inquiry:(905) 946-9700
Toll Free Number (within Ontario) 1-800-263-3564 Dental Claim Forms are usually stocked by the Dentist.
73
Claim Forms for STD must be sent to the Disability Management Service Provider directly via fax to 416.362.2295 or 1.866.629.7894 or via mail to the following address:
CBML Claims PO Box 87
260 Adelaide Street East Toronto, Ontario M5A INI
Claim Forms can be obtained through your Human Resources Office or the Disability Management Service Provider. The plan does not cover any fees that may be charged by a physician for completion of this form.
If you are making a claim under the Visioncare Plan, please be sure to enclose the bill or receipt from the Dispensing Optician or Optometrist. This bill or receipt must show comprehensive information in terms of what has been dispensed, and particularly include information regarding the change in lenses if the claim is being made for the annual change in children's glasses.
Submission of Claims
-- To be considered for Short Term Disability, a Statement of Impairment (SOI) within ten (10) business days of the first day	of absence,	signed by a licensed
physician/dentist /clinical psychologist, must be submitted to the Disability Management Service Provider. Unilever Canada must	receive	confirmation of the
fulfillment or non-fulfillment of the definition of disability from the Disability Management Service Provider.
Disclaimer
It is expressly understood and agreed that the information appearing above is a summary only, and that the eligibility of any person or claim will be governed by the terms of the
74
Insurance Contracts through which the benefits are provided.
Rate of Weekly Employer Contribution .; hif :	;	■.	.	,
-- The Employer will pay the cost of all benefits described herein, . unless within, the Collective Agreement a specified amount of Employer Contribution is noted.
Administration
The Employer agrees that the benefits provided here will be provided through the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Local 64 7 Welfare: Trust Fund, except for the STD plan which provided, directly by the Company, and that the required Weekly Contributions will be forwarded not later than the 15th of the month following the month for which the Report is submitted.	'	.	:.
Contributions will be by cheque, made payable to "The Milk Drivers Local 647 Welfare Fund" and forwarded along with the Report to the Administrator,	.	.
Employee Benefit Plan Services ■
45 McIntosh Drive Markham, ON	.
L3R 8C7
75
Plant Wide Seniority List
23-Sep-71	I
27-Sep-71	II
06-Sep-72	IV
16-Apr-73	n
07-Jan-74	V
12-Feb-74	IV
14-Nov-74	V
25-Nov-74	IV
03-Mar-75	i
09-May-75	V
02-Sep-75	II
07-Jan-76	IV
02-Mar-76	V
14-Apr-76	II
21-Jun-76	I
30-May-78	I
27-Oct-80	in
10-Dec-84	hi
11-Oct-88	ni
27-Feb-89	in
04-Feb-91	m
08-Sep-97	ii
10-Sep-97	i
10-Sep-97	i
22-Sep-97	IV
22-Sep-97	IV
23-Sep-97	II
23-Sep-97	I
24-Nov-97	III
Mach Op	1
Dist Op	2
Refinery Op	3
Dist Op	4
S/Tech	5
Refinery Op	6
S/Tech	7
Refinery Op	8
Oil Milkroom Op	9
S/Tech	10
Whse Op	11
Refinery Op	12
S/Tech	13
Whse Op	^14
Mach Op	15
Pack Tech	16
Mech	17
Mech	18
Mech	19
Mech	20
SP/Mcch	21
Whse Op	22
Oil Milkroom _ Qp _	23
Pack Tech	24
Refinery Op	25
Refinery Op	26
Whse Op	27
Wash Up Op	28
Mech	29
76
16-Mar-98	I			Pack Tech	31
27-Apr-98	HI			Mech	32
14-Aug-00	hi			Mech	33
20-Nov-00	I			Mach Op	34
29-Jan-01	I			Hygiene Op	35
05-Mar-01	I			Hygiene Op	36
02-Apr-01	IV			Refinery Op	37
2 7-Aug-01	V			S/Tech	38
06-May-02	I			Pack Tech	39
03-Sep-02	HI		I SP/Mech		40
23-Sep-02	TV		Refinery Op		41
15-Oct-02	m		1 SP/Mech		42
08-Jan-03	I			Process Op	43
11-Sep-03	I			Process Op	44
20-0ct-03	I			Pack Tech	45
24-Nov-03	I			Pack Tech	46
24-Nov-03	I			Pack Tech	47
23-Jan-04	I			Process Op	48
10-Feb-04	in			Mech	49
16-Feb-04	m			SP/Mech	50
01-Mar-04	i			Pack Tech	51
01-Mar-04	i			Pack Tech	. 52
01-Mar-04	i			Pack Tech	. 53
17-Jan-05	hi			Mech	54
18-Apr-05	i			Process Op	55
20-Jun-05	i			Pack Tech	56
06-0ct-05	i			Process Op	57
05-Dec-05	I			Pack Tech	58
28-Dec-05	hi			Mech	59
17-Apr-06	I			Pack Tech	60
17-Apr-06	i		:	r-	1		Pack Tech	61
77
08-May-06	IV	Patel	Harshad	Refinery Op |	r~62i
ETjc-’ ;y r';.' ' >>'l JHO.!' | ■	V •> • ; ■ lOrO'lO'	i - ■ , .	< - ' ■■ 'll.: ■ - .T H l-n/ifcv ;i ;>(■)V, ■ i'• bui-		
l5-May-06	m			Mech	63
12-Jun-06	i			Pack Tech	64
13-Jun-06	i			Pack Tech	! 65
14-Aug-06	ii			Whse Op	
14-Aug-06	i		L _	Process Op	1 67
05-Sep-06	j				Process Op	r&r
02-Jan-07	m			Mech	i 69
09-Feb-09	ii			Receiver	70
16-Mar-09	n _	r ■		Whse Op	71
16-Mar-09		h ~ L _		Hygiene Op	1 72
16-Mar-09	i	t_ _		Pack Tech	i 73
30-Mar-09	i	L		Pack Tech	74
30-Mar-09	i			Pack Tech	75
30-Mar-09	i			Pack Tech	76
13-JU1-09	i			Process Op	77
13-Jul-09	i	~ “1		Hygiene Op	78
13-Jul-09	i	c ^		Pack Tech	79
13-Jul-09	i	r ^		Pack Tech	80
13-Jul-09	i	_j		Pack Tech	81
13-Jul-09	i			Pack Tech	82
13 Jul-09	i			Pack Tech	83
13-Jul-09	i			Process Op	84
14-Sep-09	i	i— -		Process Op	85
14-Sep-09	i	u -		Pack Tech	■ 86
14-Sep-09	i	i _		Pack Tech	87
05-Oct-09	i			Pack Tech	88
05-Oct-09	i			Process Op	89
05-0ct-09	i			Pack Tech !	90
05-0ct-09	i		“ i . J	Hygiene Op	91
05-Oct-09	i		n	Pack Tech	92
29-Oct-09	i	.....					Pack Tech	93
78
79