A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C
AMD ITS LOCAL UNION 327
INDEX
ARTICLE TITLE
PAGE
1	Purpose.............................. 1
2	Recognition. .. ..................... 2
3	Relationship......................... 2
4	Management Rights.................... 4
5	Union Grievance Committee.......... *
6	Grievance Procedure.................. 8
7	Arbitration......................... 11
8	Management Grievances............... 13
9	Suspensions over 1 week or Dismissals 14
10	No Strikes-No Lockouts ............. 15
11	Wages .............................. 16
12	Hours of Work and Overtime.......... 16
13	Vacations with Pay.................. 23
14	Statutory Holidays.................. 27
15	Seniority........................... 29
16	Job Postings and Transfers...........32
17	Reductions of Workforce and Recall
Procedure .......................... 39
18	Severance Pay....................... 43
19	Leave of Absence.................... 43
20	General ............................ 45
21	Benefits ........................... 49
22	Maintenance Department Section .... _52
23	Termination........................
APPENDIX A Wage Schedule .................... 58
APPENDIX B Job Evaluation System............. 62
APPENDIX C Salary System .................... 66
Letters of Understanding........ 67
nov 13 1990
SO
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 8th day of June 1990.
BETWEEN:
THOMAS J. UPTON INC.
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) OF THE FIRST PART AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.
AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327
(hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1990 - 1993
ARTICLE 1
Purpose
1.01	The general purpose of this agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between theCompany and its employees and to provide machinery for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances and to establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions and other conditions of employment
as set out in this agreement, hours of work and wages for all employees who are subject to the provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 2 Recognition
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for all employees of the Company who have acquired seniority by the terms of
15.01	(a) in its plant at 307 Orenda Road, Bramalea, Ontario save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foreman and forelady, laboratory personnel, office and sales staff and persons covered by a Certificate of the Board dated March 31 st, 1964.
ARTICLE 3
Relationship
3.01	Employees who are presently members of the union must continue their i-nbrnbership in the union as a condition of employment. Employees hired after the effective date of this agreement must, as a condition of employment, become members of the union.
3.02	The Union will not engage in union activities during working hours or hold meetings at any time on the premises of the Company without the permission of the Plant Manager and his or her designee.
2
3.03	All employees who have completed the probationary period shall, as a condition of employment, sign an authorization in writing to deduct initiation fees and whatever sum may be so authorized for Union dues from the pay due for the pay period which includes the first calendar day of the calendar month following that in which the authorization is received by the Company.
Back dues owing will be collected by the company at the rate of one months dues per week from the wages of an employee who has been on lay off.
The Company shall remit same by the 15th of every month promptly to the Financial Secretary of the Union together with a list of employees from whose pay deductions have been made.
The said sums shall be accepted by the Union as the regular monthly dues of those employees, subject to the terms and conditions of the AFGM International Constitution and bylaws of Local 327, who are or shall become members of the Union and the sums so deducted from non-members of the Union shall be treated as their contribution towards the expenses of maintaining the Union.
3.04	Each month the Company will provide to the Union President or his or her designee a listing of the names of new employees and the dates they completed their probationary period during the previous month.
3
ARTICLE 4
Management Rights
4.01	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to hire, promote, demote, classify, transfer and suspend employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause, provided that a claim by an employee, who has acquired seniority, that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. All records of discipline up to and including written warnings will be disregarded after 12 months from the date the employee receives it. All other discipline will be disregarded after 36 months.
4.02	Subject to the express limitations of the agreement the Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Thfc 'tvtaUnn, 'if, the plants, and products to be manufactured, the schedules of production, the methods, processes and means of manufacturing used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, the right to use improved methods, machinery and equipment and jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, tools, and employees at the plant at 307 Orenda Road, Bramalea, Ontario are solely and
exclusively the responsibility of the Company. The Company also has the right to make, alter from time to time, and enforce reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees.
4.03	The Company will inform the Union of changes to Plant Rules in writing prior to their implementation.
4.04	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, it is expressly understood and agreed that breach of any of the plant rules, or of any of the provisions of the agreement may be deemed to be sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal of an employee.
ARTICLE 5 v
Union Grievance Committee
5.01	The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select, a plant Committee,, Qthsrwil\?w known as the Union .Committee* which shall be composed of not more than eight stewards representing employees on the regular day shift. It is further understood and agreed that one additional steward may be appointed to represent all employees scheduled to work on the second shift. All stewards, shall be regular employees of the Company actually at work who have completed their probationary period. The Company will recognize and deal with the
5
said committee as hereinafter set forth.
5.02	The name and jurisdiction of each of the stewards who are members of the Union Committee from time to time selected, shall be given to the CompHuyfrr wrrm(y-<niuJiViv? Cdurpflty'iSfcaV not be required to recognize any such steward until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the name and jurisdiction of the same.
5.03	The Company undertakes to instruct all members of its supervisory staff to co-operate with the stewards and Union Officers in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.04	The Union undertakes to secure from its officers, stewards and members their co-operation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity, in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5.05	The right of stewards to leave their work without loss of pay to investigate or adjust grievances in their own departments is granted on the following conditions:
5.05	(a) An employee may have the right to have a Steward present when a recorded verbal discipline or a written discipline is being presented to the employee.
5.05	(b) A steward or his designee will request the
e
permission of his Supervisor to leave his work station to participate in the processing and investigation of grievances after the completion of the grievance procedure as outlined in 6.01 and/or preliminary meetings with management. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld. Compensation for such time off shall be at the employees then current rate of pay. Except in. the case of a discharged employee or in a suspension over one week which procedure is outlined in Section 9.03, employees having a grievance shall not leave their work station to discuss it with the steward or his designee during working hours without permission of the Supervisor.
5.05	(c) The Company reserves the right to limit such time if it deems the time so taken to be excessive.
5.05	(d) The Company agrees that stewards shall be compensated for such iVhto “Tl *rruni*hT6ii'rvytJrd:i working hours as necessary to investigate grievances. The Company further agrees that Union, stewards and the Union President or his designee shall be compensated for such time off from their regular working hours as is necessary to investigate and attend meetings under the grievance procedure. In all cases compensation shall be at the employee’s then current rate of pay.
5.05	(e) There shall be no coercion, restraint, or discrimination by the employer or any of its agents, against any members of the Union because of
membership therein, or the carrying on of any proper Union activity.
ARTICLE 6
Grievance Procedure
6.01	It is the intention of the parties to settle as equitably and as quickly as possible, any grievance which might related te a violation of this agreement. A formal grievance shall not be filed until the employee has presented his/her complaint to his/her immediate Supervisor verbally within 3 working days after the employee might reasonably have become aware of circumstances giving rise to such grievance. The Supervisor will render his decision on the complaint within 1 working day.
6.02	The employee may consult with the available steward following the procedure outlined in 6.01 above providing the employee first obtains his/her Supervisor’s permission.
6.03	A formal grievance to be recognized shall be reduced to writing on a form provided by the Company and presented to the Supervisor concerned within three working days of the Supervisor’s decision on the verbal complaint.
Step 1 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to his/her immediate
8
Supervisor at which time the employee shall have the assistance of a department steward or if Ate department steward is absent, the assistance of an available steward or an officer of the Union. The Supervisor shall render his/her disposition to the grievance in writing within three working days. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee is not reached, the employee may then proceed to the next Step of the grievance procedure any time within three working days thereafter.
Step 2 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her written grievance to the Personnel Manager and at that time the steward shall be present. The Personnel Manager’s decision shall be rendered in writing, within three working days of such meeting, and failing satisfactory settlement, the employee may proceed to the next Step within three working days thereafter.
Step 3 The aggrieved employee shall present his/her grievance to the Plant Manager, or his designee. Within five working days of receipt of the grievance, the Plant Manager and whoever he deems necessary to assist in the disposition of the grievance will meet with the employee concerned together with the Union President or his/her designee and a representative of the International Union and a Steward if their presence is requested by
will be processed through the balance of the Grievance Procedure and to Arbitration in the same way as an individual grievance. The names of all the aggrieved employees shall be attached to the written grievance at the time it is filed with the Company as set forth above.
ARTICLE 7
Arbitration
7.01	Both parties to this agreement agree that any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article 6 above, and which has not been settled, will be referred to a Board of Arbitration, at the written request of either of the parties hereto.
7.02	The Board of Arbitration will be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and a third person to act as chairman chosen by the other two members of the Board. A single arbitrator may be appointed by mutual agreement between the parties.
7.03	Within 10 normal working days of the request by either party for a board, each party shall notify the other in writing of the name of its appointee. However, both parties should attempt to appoint its nominee at the earliest possible date.
11
7.04	Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third person within seven days of the notification mentioned in 7.03 above, the minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate a member of the judiciary of the Province of Ontario to act as a Chairman.
7.05	The decision of a Board of Arbitration, or a majority thereof, constituted in the above manner shall be binding on both patties. If there is no majority the decision of the Chairman governs.
7.06	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decisions inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.07	Each of the parties to this agreement will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it, and the parties will jointly bear the expenses, if any, of the Chairman.
7.08	No person shall be selected as arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to negotiate or settle the grievance.
12
ARTICLE 9
Suspensions over One Week or Dismissals
9.01	In the event that an employee who has attained seniority is dismissed from employment, or suspended from employment for more than one week, and the employee alleges that the dismissal or suspension was improper, the case may be taken up as a grievance as outlined in the following clause. A suspension of less than one week may be taken up through the normal grievance procedure.
9.02	A claim by an employee, who has attained seniority, that he/she has been unjustly dismissed or suspended for over one week from his/her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Plant Manager or his designee within three working days after the employee ceases to work for the Company. All preliminary steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 will be omitted in such case. All such cases shall be taken up tt/.'.t1.1.!'. t!u«. working days and disposed of x}!M.n soyo.o working days of the date the employee is notified in writing of his/her dismissal or suspension over one week, except where a case is taken to arbitration.
9.03	When an employee has been dismissed or suspended over one week without notice, he/she shall have the right to interview his/her steward for a reasonable period of time before leaving the Plant premises.
14
9.04	If the matter is not settled through the grievance procedure and is taken to arbitration, and it is finally determined by a Board of Arbitration that dismissal or suspension over one week was too severe a penalty, the employee shall be reinstated, either with or without compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which the Board of Arbitration finds just and equitable.
ARTICLE 10
No Strikes - No Lockouts
10.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this agreement, ii will not sanction, counsel, procure or encourage any picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
10.02	The Company shall have the right to dismiss or otherwiseA-employees who take part in or instigate any illegal strike, picketing, stoppage or slowdown, but a claim of unjust dismissal or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
10.03	Should the Union claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lockout, it may take the matter up with the Company at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
15
ARTICLE 11
Wages
11.01	During the term of this agreement, the Company and the Union agree that all payments of wages will be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth in Schedule “A” hereto which is hereby made a part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
Hours of Work and Overtime
12.01	The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal working hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
12.02	The standard work week shall consist of forty hours per week, and eight hours per day.
12.03	(a) An overtime rate of time and one-half of the
roto u/ill	fr*r oil h/Mire \Atrsrltar\
CillUiUjCC ■ a LTUtJIV IUIC «•!•<	pUlVl IWI Ull I	UWIIWU
in excess of eight hours in any normal work day.
12.03	(b) Time and one-half will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday except for work on a Saturday that is performed as a part of a shift commencing Friday night or a lieu day at straight time which may be wori<ed at the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03	(c) Except as outlined in 12.03 (b) double time will be paid for all work performed on a Saturday in excess of an 8 hour shift, provided that that 8 hour shift is not part of the employees’ regular scheduled work week.
12.03	(d) All work performed on a Sunday will be paid for al ioi/rife ‘tne-emp’loyee's basic rate except for shift work commencing Sunday night which is considered as a Monday shift.
12.03	(e) An employee who has completed his/her regular shift and leaves the premises and is then recalled to work, shall receive a minimum of four hours’ pay at the employee’s regular straight time rate or one and one half times the employee’s rate for hours actually worked, whichever is the greater. Employees called in to work on Sunday shall receive a minimum of 4 hours pay at the employee’s regular hourly rate or double the employee’s regular hourly rate whichever is the greater.
12.uj (f) None tn Vne imeguing 'oetfirun “i^.OS concerns the special provisions for premium payment on continuous shift operations as these payments are described in Section 12.07.
12.04	When work on a Saturday or Sunday is not part of a regularly scheduled shift, the Company shall endeavor to post the schedule 40 clock hours in advance of the commencement of such work.
17
otherwise such overtime work shall be voluntary.
12.05	(a) The Company will attempt to provide an employee two hours of notice for overtime at the end of a shift. Should the Company fail to provide such notice, the working of such overtime will be voluntary.
12.05	(b) When overtime is leqwred to be worked through the failure of a shiflmate to appear on time for an employee’s shift, the Company will require the affected employee to work up to the first four hours of the extra shift only. Employees will not leave their work station until they are relieved by another employee, or obtain permission to do so from their Supervisor. The two hour notice period referred to in
12.05	(a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisor will, whenever possible, endeavor to obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines. Shiftmate is the person who has the lowest overtime hours in the particular classification on shift.
12.05	(c) Whenever two hours or more of overtime are being worked consecutively beyond the first eight hours of normal work, a ten minute rest period will be provided before the overtime commences. This will be the only rest period provided if the overtime work is less than four hours. If four hours or more of overtime is worked the provisions of Section 20.01 (a) apply in addition to this Section.
18
12.06	(a) All overtime including weekend overtime will be evenly distributed as circumstances will permit in the spirit of the overtime distribution guidelines.
•When overtime is required, the supervisor will start by asking the employee with the lowest overtime hours charged and moving up the charging list in each of the following:
(1st) the permanent posted employee in the job. (2nd) the temporary posted employee working in the job.
(3rd) the qualified employee in the department.
(4th) the qualified employees temporarily transferred into the department.
(5th) qualified employees working outside the department.
At steps 3 and 5, overtime will be distributed first to people qualified by having been permanently posted for six (6) weeks or more and then to those having served ten (10) days in the position as per the training master. It is understood that these ten (10) days of training are representative of the normal job content. After exhausting -jJf.tt,©	12.05 (a) and no on©
was found to work the overtime, the ’permanent posted” person with the lowest overtime charged will be required to work. Employees eligible to be asked for overtime, but not available for overtime, will be charged the actual number of hours, if entitled under equal distribution, in their job classification during the period. The only exceptions would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business.
19
12.06	(b) When an employee moves from one job classification to another, the employee will enter with the average between high and low overtime hours in that classification for the purpose of equal distribution of overtime.
12.06	(c) The Company will not schedule more than 12 consecutive hours of work to an employee. If due to absence, etc. 16 hours of work is available, not mo'rV maV it”n'ours~neeo dtf worK&a ^anyone employee.
12.06	(d) The Company agrees that overtime will be equally distributed and records kept of the distribution for discussion as necessary with the Union representatives and/or employees and that such overtime will be distributed among regular employees and lastly among temporary (those hired for specific temporary periods) and Summer (student) employees. The departmental Supervisor will keep accurate records of all overtime worked in the department and make same available for employee review upon request. To provide for equal distribution of overtime, a charging system has been developed, a copy of which may be obtained from the Personnel department.
12 07 The Company ^friei/i -unOwavur itr scfredute as many employees as possible, in accordance with good operating procedures to work on a Monday through Friday basis. Changes from the schedule to Continuous Shift operations shall not be made
20
arbitrarily and it is recognized that the following are examples of situations which may require the change to Continuous Shift*
(a)	Introduction of new products or processes into the Plant.
(b)	Additional production requirements for existing products or processes.
For the purpose of this Agreement, a continuous shift will be a situation that incorporates an ongoing seven day a week production schedule.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when Continuous Shift operations are established, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)	That five days’ notice will be given before such Continuous Shift schedule is instituted.
(2)	OwAmi/SAis. schedule,once established, shall remain in effect for a minimum of ninety days.
(3)	All work performed on the seventh consecutive day shall be paid at the rate of double time.
(4 The Company will continue its past practice of paying time and one half for work performed on a Saturday, double time for work performed on a Sunday and double time for time worked on the 7th consecutive day during a continuous shift. The sixth consecutive day worked will be compensated according to provincial law at straight time for the first 4 hours and time and one half the next consecutive 4 hours worked.
21
12.08	The work week of the plant cleaners will be scheduled by the Company in accordance with the requirements of production.
12.09	No employee shall be required to take time off from his regular work week in order to off-set overtime hours worked.
12.10	Normally, employees on shift work will rotate shifts every week. Shift employees will not be required to change shifts more than once per week (a change is from one shift to another, then back to the original shift) and if such a shift change is necessary it will commence with the most junior qualified person in the department, and a minimum of 8 hours’ notice will be given. It is understood that five days’ notice will be given of the start up of a third shift and that once established it will not be changed mid week.
12.11	See Letter of Understanding re Inventories.
12.12	Commencing no later than July 1, 1990, employees scheduled on three (3) shifts will start the “A” shift Sunday night.
12.13	When a job is scheduled for three (3) shifts, the duration of each shift is to be eight (8) hours including a one half hour eating period.
22
ARTICLE 13
Vacations with Pay
13.01	The Company agrees to grant regular employees vacation with pay as set forth below at times convenient to the Company consistent with production requirements. Employees who have been laid off and have not completed a minimum of 750 hours in the preceding vacation year will only receive their vacation pay calculated as a percentage of payroll earnings. (The 750 hours mentioned above, includes regular and overtime hours worked, and all hours paid by the salary plan, time spent on Weekly Indemnity, Workers Compensation and maternity leave).
(a)	Up to one year of completed service - vacation pay at the rate of 4% of the employee’s earnings for the year ending May 31st, as required by the Vacations with Pay Act of the Province of Ontario.
(b)	One completed year of service - and up to four completed years of service prior to June 1st of thfc 'jttt. corfce.i'Tidu waste’.'ta&aft?? .with pay or at the rate of 4% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
(c)	Four completed years of service - and up to eight completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - three weeks’ vacation with pay or at the rate of 6% of such
23
employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
(d)	Eight completed years of service or more prior to June 1st of the year concerned - four weeks’ vacation with pay or at the rate of 8% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greatest.
(e)	Eighteen completed years of service prior to June 1st of the year concerned - five weeks’ vacation with pay or at the rate of 10% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
(f)	Twenty-seven completed years of service prior to June 1 st of the year concerned - six weeks’ vacation with pay or at the rate of 12% of such employee’s gross earnings during the twelve months immediately preceding June 1st in that year, whichever is the greater.
13.02	When an employee’s vacation entitlement changes as a consequence of service achieved subsequent to June 1st and prior to September 1st, the employee will be granted the higher vacation entitlement in the cc/rrerrf vacation period between June 1st and August 31st.
13.03	For purposes of determining the vacation pay of employees, earnings shall include all premium pay,
24
and pay for statutory holidays and vacations as set out in Article 14.
13.04	All vacation entitlements must be taken by end of calendar year.
13.05	The Company agrees to notify employees of the date of plant shutdown, should there be one, by February 1st of each year. Employees will normally take their vacation during plant shutdown. Plant shutdown, should there be one, will occur during the months Qf Juty an tf/oc .August.
13.06	Those employees with vacation entitlements greater than the plant shutdown will submit requests in writing to their Supervisor before March 1st, and the Supervisor will reply in writing to the employee by March 30th, finalizing their vacation schedule.
J.07 Employees who work in departments scheduled to operate during plant shutdown will be advised by February 15th of each year, as to the number of employees by job classification that will be required to work during plant shutdown. By March 1st it will be determined which employees will work during plant shutdown.
13.08 In departments operating during plant shutdown, employees in the department will be given first preference by seniority whether they wish to work or schedule these weeks as their vacation.
25
In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to take their vacation during plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled to work if necessary.
13.09	Employees who are required to work during plant shutdown will be so informed by their Supervisor and the employee will take his/her vacation at a mutually agreed upon time.
13.10	Employees with vacation entitlements greater than the plant shutdown period shalt submit their request for such vacation in writing to their Supervisor prior to the March 1st of the vacation year, stating their preferred dates, and vacations will then be scheduled by order of seniority and production requirements prior to end of calendar year.
13.11	Approval in writing of the 4th, 5th and 6th weeks of vacation will be given prior to March 30th of the same year.
13.12	As /kpril'1st. any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will within 30 days determine with their Supervisor the time that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from the remaining weeks available.
13.13	Employees who are hospitalized while on vacation may defer their vacation and commence receiving full sickness benefits.
26
13.14	In the event there is no shutdown scheduled:
1)	Those employees with vacation entitlements will submit in writing to their Supervisor, before March 1st, requests for vacation stating their preference. Vacations will be scheduled by order of seniority and production requirements prior to the end of the calendar year.
2)	The Supervisor will reply in writing to the employee by March 30th, finalizing their vacation schedule.
3)	As of April 1st, any employees having vacation entitlements yet to be scheduled will, within 30 days, determine with their Supervisor the time that remaining vacation entitlement will be taken from the remaining weeks available.
ARTICLE 14 Statutory Holidays
14.01	The Company recognizes the following statutory holidays: New Year's Day, the third Monday in February or the day legislated as Heritage Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, ‘Labour i!7ay; Thanksgiving Day, the day immediately before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and one Floating Holiday which date will be by mutual agreement between the parties to a total of 12 Statutory Holidays. All employees who qualify in
27
accordance with Clause 14.04 (a) shall receive payment for such holidays based on a normal day’s pay. When a Statutory Holiday fails on a Saturday or Sunday it will be celebrated on the preceding Friday or the following Monday at mutual agreement between the parties. Failure to reach mutual agreement the Company will select either the Friday or Monday. Employees required to perform any work on any of these holidays shall be paid the rate of time and one half of the employee’s basic rate, in addition to receiving holiday pay.
14.02	When one of the holidays listed in Section
14.01	is observed during an employee’s annual vacation, the employee shall be allowed one additional day!»s.yacatlo.n with.pay in conjjijnctiQ.n with his vacation unless mutually agreed to take a day’s holiday at a later date.
14.03	All employees shall be eligible for holiday pay irrespective of whether they are required to work on the holiday or not, subject to the provisions of paragraph 14.04 (a).
14.04	(a) All employees who have gained seniority and are actively on the payroll for at least 9 working days in the 4 weeks immediately preceding a ^idiutory holiday will be entitled to such holidays as outlined in
14.01	above, Actively on the payroll in this instance shall mean actively at work or on Company sick leave (ie. first five days of sickness).
28
14.04	(b) The provision of 14.01 does not apply to probationary employees.
ARTICLE 15 Seniority
15.01	An employee will be considered probationary until such time as he/she has accumulated 60 working days of service in a 12 month period. 60 working days in this instance shall include full days worked on Saturdays and Sundays, Statutory Holidays and Plant Shutdown. Employees hired subsequent to February 16th, 1979, who have completed the above work period will have their names placed on the seniority list and their seniority date will be coincident with their date of 'Dire except in cases outlined in 1 5.02 (c).
15.02	An employee shall accumulate seniority when he/she is:
a)	Actively at work for the Company following completion of the probationary period.
b)	Prevented from working for the Company as a consequence of injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and which is compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
C) Absent due to certified illness for up to two years after which seniority is maintained only. Seniority dates will therefore be adjusted to reflect the maintained seniority level.
29
by the company, the twelve week period mentioned above is waived.
16.01	(e) An employee who has successfully bid on a job posting shall be released within a four week period from the time of acceptance. If the move is delayed beyond the four week period the employee will be paid at the higher rate of pay and the Union will be informed of such delay,
16.01	(f) In the event of a temporary job opening for a period expected to be less than 30 calendar days, whenever possible the employee who was previously reduced from that job classification will be returned first. If this is not feasible then the most senior qualified employee will be considered for transfer next and so on. Temporary transfers to job grades 1, 2 and 3 will be by seniority only, except into the Night Sanitation Department where employees who waived their right will not be considered eligible.
16.01	(g) In the event of a temporary job opening expected to exceed 30 calendar days, whenever possible the employee who was previously reduced from that job classification will be returned first.
Failing that, a temporary job will be posted and be identified on Wre ‘at-e	the posting as temporary and
also state the expected time period of the opening. Temporary postings will normally be limited to a maximum duration of 26 weeks.
Extension may be necessary if complications arise
33
from uncertainties such as W.l. and WCB situations.
16.01	(h) A temporary opening which is expected to exceed thirty calendar days will be posted and be identified on the face of the posting as temporary. The Company will make a selection from the applicants on the basis of qualifications first and seniority second. For job grades 4 and above, the minimum qualification is 10 worked days in the job that is posted. Seniority will be the only factor to be considered for temporary postings for job grades 1, 2 and 3. The successful applicant will return to the job he/she held previously on completion of the temporary posting. Experience gained on a temporary posting will not be considered in filling a non-temporary job posting. Employees who have successfully bid into a temporary posted job must complete the duration of the temporary job before being eligible to bid on another temporary job posting but may bid on permanent job postings and will move according to the provisions of 16.01(e). it is understood that these ten (10) days of training are representative of the normal job content.
16.01	(i)The Company shall be subject to the same limitations as set forth in Section 16.02. It is recognized that if applicants with sufficient qualifications are not available, the Company retains the right to hire outside.
16.01	©Employees who are absent from work due to sickness or injury at the time a permanent job posting
34
or temporary job posting of over 12 weeks occurs may make application for the posted job up to thirty calendar days from the date of such posting. This will allow a reasonable amount of time for employees to bid on jobs that they are interested in and otherwise would have missed because of illness. An application may be submitted in person or by proxy by a Union Steward. Job openings will not be posted during Plant Shutdown. Should a job opening be posted less than three vvQrkj.oq^days i>sis>je.-Plcuil..Shutdown., it will continue to be posted after Shutdown to fulfill the required three working day period.
16.01	(k) Employees going on vacation must indicate to the Personnel Office in advance in writing their interest in specific job postings in order to be considered for such job postings.
lb.U2 (a; in all cases of movement as a result of permanent job postings, other than a promotion to a position outside the bargaining unit, the following factors shall be considered:
(1)	Seniority
In the event that there is a marked difference between the top applicants (2) shall be invoked otherwise (1) shall apply.
(2)	Skill, efficiency, experience and past work record with the Company.
16.02	(b) In the event of failure on a job posting the employee concerned and subsequent employees posting behind will return to their former posted jobs regardless of seniority. Employees other than employee being failed, will establish bumping and recall rights on that posting provided they had fulfilled the requirements of 16.02 (c).
The next applicant will be found through selection of the next senior qualified bidder from the original job posting, provided the. requirement still exists and the next senior qualified bidder has not accepted any other permanent job posting. Failing qualified applicants, job will be reposted.
16.02	(c) From the date of actual movement to a permanent job posting the incumbent has six calendar weeks, which includes a reasonable amount of training, but excluding shutdowns, holidays and other absences, to demonstrate that the employee can satisfactorily perform the job and thus establish bumping and recall rights. To establish bumping and recall rights the employee must complete at least six calendar weeks as outlined in this paragraph. The qualifying period given any employee on a new job posting shall not be influenced by the training period allowed in the Job Evaluation Plan, as the two serve different purposes.
16.02	(d) Should the Company for any reason require an extension of the six week qualifying period referred to in 16.02 (c), a written request will be made to the
36
Union President or designee in advance of expiry date of the qualifying period.
16.03	When an employee is transferred to a job other than his regular job for the convenience of the Company, the employee will have his rate maintained if the rate of the job scheduled is lower than the employee’s regular job rate. Should the rate of the job the employee is scheduled to be higher than the employee’s regular rate, then the employee will be paid the higher job rate on an exception basis.
This clause does not apply in the case of a temporary posting where an employee will be paid at the rate of the job that the employee has successfully posted to, effective at the time of the actual physical move to a temporary position.
No person shall be transferred to a job position, above grade three (3) unless they are capable of performing the work. Days spent in a job under this clause, are not to be deemed as “training days” for other contractual applications.
16.0V (a) Empi'oyees'ih'rrtfe'ooup" Packaging area transferred to or relieving on a higher rated job for fifteen consecutive minutes up to one hour, will be paid one hour’s pay at the higher job classification rate of
pay-
16.04	(b) Employees of other departments transferred to a higher rated job will be paid for such work as follows:
37
(1)	transfer for less than two hours - no pay change.
(2)	transfer for two hours or more - paid the higher rate for the whole shift.
16.05	in the event that an employee is transferred to a position outside the scope of this agreement, seniority will be treated as follows if and when he/she returns to the Bargaining Unit. Temporary transfer has a maximum duration of twenty-six (26) weeks.
(a)	Expected temporary transfer: The Company will specify the expected time period in advance of the transfer, and during this period seniority will continue to accumulate.
(b)	Expected permanent transfer: Seniority will continue for the first six consecutive months and employees may be returned to the bargaining unit with accrued seniority. In the event that the employee has insufficient seniority to return to his/her previous posted position, his/her seniority will be exercised bumping laterally or downward. Employees who are not returned to the bargaining unit within six months may do so after six months as an employee who has cornpAeted the probationary period only.
(c)	An employee accepting a permanent job with the Union will continue to accrue seniority, and they may be returned to the Bargaining Unit with accrued
38
seniority at any time, and bumping laterally or down.
ARTICLE 17
Reduction of Workforce and Recall Procedure
17.01	(a) In a reduction of workforce, the Company may transfer the employees affected to any other job in the plant, providing that the rates of pay of the transferred employees are maintained. No person shall be transferred to a job above grade three (3) unless they are qualified to perform the job. Qualified in this instance will be defined as a person having been trained 10 days in the normal job content of the job.
17.01	(b) If the Company does not exercise this right, then the affected employee (s) will:
(1)	Exercise their seniority plant wide bumping laterally or downward to and including Job Grade 4, provided the employee is qualified to perform the job by terms of 16.02 (c).
(2)	Will exercise their seniority alone to bump laterally or downward into Job Grades 1, 2 and 3 plant wide, with the exception of Night Sanitation jobs.
(3)	Will exercise their seniority alone to bump into Night Sanitation jobs provided their last permanent posted job was at the equivalent or
39
higher grade to the job into which they are bumping and they have not waived this right under the terms of 17.01 (c). Employees may only bump into Night Sanitation jobs if they have insufficient seniority to bump into Grade 1 jobs outside the Sanitation Department.
Note: Employees who have been recorded as having worked in Night Sanitation prior to
Night Sanitation, regardless of their job classification.
(4)	In all instances where employees are exercising their seniority to bump, no upward bumping will be permitted with the exception of bumping into the Night Sanitation Department as described in 17.01 (b), 3.
17.01	(c)
(1)	Employees who wish to waive their right to bump into Night Sanitation jobs must sign a waiver to this effect. Such a waiver may be signed on the first Monday of any calendar month. Lj...lirj?Qina,i:i.cihts.iotp.^iaht Sanitation may be reinstated by job posting under the terms of 16.02 (c) or by the terms of (2) below.
(2)	An employee who has signed a waiver limiting his/her right to bump into Night Sanitation may revoke this waiver during the second week of
40
January to be effective the first Monday in February or during the second week of September to be effective the first Monday in October.
17.01	(d) Reductions in the Maintenance Department worrfWnr6”ai^^i^7\tAi*hrcBiw«rs‘prtw:iS,:iC.TR.''iT fV. (s) and (b) with the exception that Maintenance Department seniority will be used in the Maintenance Department first and then their plant-wide seniority will be exercised.
17.01	(e) Movement brought about by a reduction in the workforce of one or more employees shall start with the most junior affected employee who shall bump the most junior employee of same or lower job classification into which the employee may bump and consequently there will be no job preference. Bumping movement at all job classification levels will be lateral or downwards.
17.02	(a) The recall procedure will be exercised when a job opening is expected to exceed and does exceed one schedule work week due to an increase in production or when an incumbent permanently vacates the job classification in question.
17.02	(b) An employee will also be considered as having been recalled should they return for 20 worked days to the job classification from which they were reduced previously due to the need to replace anothhr incumbent who is absent for any reason.
41
17.02	(c) In recalls to job Grades 4 and above after a lay-off, seniority will be the governing factor provided the employees involved are qualified to perform the available work by the terms of 16.02 (c) and that the recall does not take them to a job grade above their last permanent posted position.
Seniority alone will be the determining factors on recalls to jobs in Grade 1,2 and 3.
17.03	(a) Employees who have gained seniority, and are informed in writing that they are downgraded as a reduction of the workforce and seniority has been exercised shall:
(1)	retain their rate for the balance of the week.
(2)	retain their rate for the three (3) following full weeks.
17.03	(b) Employees will re-qualify for rate retention when they meet the terms of 17.02 (a), or 17.02 (b), of are downgraded to a position for a period exceeding one scheduled week, following the completion of any previous pErno&'i Tate'rtfraTition.
17.03	(c) The provision of 17.03 (a) concerning rate retention shall not apply in the cases of temporary transfers and temporary job postings.
42
ARTICLE 18
Severance Pay
18.01	Severance Pay
Employees with 3 years seniority at the time of lay off and who remain on lay off for more than one year (as per 15.03 (b)) will receive severance pay at the rate of one weeks pay (40 hrs. at the employee’s straight time classified job rate) for each year of service.
18.02 The one year period the employee has been on lay off, in this instaace will not be considered to be part of the employees service for severance pay calculation purposes.
18.03	In the case of the Company closing and relocating the plant, all present employees would be offered employment before any new employees would be hired within three months of the move.
ARTICLE 19
Leave of Absence
19.01 The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to an employee provided that such absence does not adversely affect the operations of the Plant. Leave of absence may be granted for legitimate personal reasons.
43
19.02	Application for leave of absence will be made in writing by the employee to his immediate Supervisor. The employee should provide as much notice in writing as possible.
19.03	A written decision on requests for leave of absence will be provided within Yn’frty ttays of the request and such approval will not be revoked.
However, written approval for leaves of absence during June, July and August may not be given prior to May 31 of the same year as requests for vacations by employees with vacation entitlements greater than the Plant Shutdown must first be satisfied.
19.04	(a) In cases of pregnancy, employees may be required to discontinue working upon entering the sixth month of pregnancy, unless certified as fit to continue work by the Company doctor.
Employ eutr bYiin!' corrfii (ue~itr dcomy seniority- up ‘a/trife end of the seventeenth week of maternity leave, at which time the employee shall be required to decide whether to return to work or lose seniority as of that date.
19.04	(b) The period of maternity leave referred to above shall also apply to an adoptive mother.
AA
ARTICLE 20
General
20.01	(a) Employees shall be granted a fifteen minute rest period in each consecutive four hours worked. Such rest periods shall be paid for at the employee’s regular rate and shall not result in lengthening the regular working day.
20.01	(b) Lunch periods will be of one-half hour duration, and will be completed within a one-and-one half hour period after the first lunch break has commenced in each shift.
20.02	Reasonable and necessary leave for Bereavement and Jury Duty will be provided normally without loss of pay.
20.03	Reference for Maintenance Employees only: Items contained in the Maintenance Department Section in Article 22 supersedes similar articles in the Collective Agreement.
20.04	Employees reporting for work as usual on a regular working day, unless notified prior to the beginning of his/her shift not to report, and for whom no work at his/her regular job is available, shall be offered at least four hours’ employment in other work at the employee’s current rate of pay, or, at the Company’s option, will be paid four hours’ pay in lieu of work.
45
This provision shall not apply if the failure to provide work is caused by reason of a strike or other work stoppage, machinery breakdown, fire, tV'*'*, fAnvzx failure or other like cause beyond the control of the Company.
20.05	Officers and representative of the Union who are not employees of the Company will be admitted to the Company premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of handling matters involving the relationship between the Company and the Union arising from this agreement, provided that they first notify and obtain the approval of the Plant Manager or designee. It is understood that such approval will not be unreasonably withheld and that any person so admitted will not abuse the privilege of admittance.
20.05	The Company will provide the Union with adequate separate notice board space for the purpose of posting notices of Union Activities. All such notices must be signed by the Union President or the Vice President, in the absence of the President.
20.07	The Company agrees to give 36 hours’ notice of lay-off or eight hours’ pay at the employee’s regular rate in lieu thereof, except where such lay-off is a consequence of machinery breakdown, an act of God, fire, flood, power failure or other like causes beyond the control of the Company.
20.08	When an employee changes his/her address
and/or phone number it is important that the employee notify his/her supervisor, in writing, of such change. The Company will accept no liability until it is notified of such changes.
20.09	It is recognized as a matter of principle that the following exception clauses are not to be misused, but applied only in the spirit of their intent. Supervisory employees shall not perform work on a job classification within the bargaining unit if the result would be to displace an employee in the bargaining unit, but this will not prevent such work (1) in emergencies, limited expressly to immediate breakdown of equipment, or danger to the equipment or to the employee, when regular employees are not immediately available.,,(2) in the .instruction or training of employees, (3) in testing materials and equipment, and (4) in the performance of necessary work when production difficulties are encountered.
20.10	The Company will appoint Lead Hands and Acting Supervisors at the rate of pay set forth in Appendix A of this agreement. It is understood that the responsibility of a Lead Hand will not include the right to discipline employees.
Tne'o'ornpany w/ii tiescrtoe the duties ei a Lead Uand in writing and such description will be retained on record between the parties hereto agreed. The appointing of Acting Lead Hands or Acting Supervisors are limited to a twenty-six (26) week duration.
47
20.11	Employees in the bargaining unit shall select a representative from their membership to the Lipton Employees’ Pension Committee.
20.12	Appendices A, B, & C, hereby form part of this agreement.
20.13	Summer students who indicate by signing to that effect that they intend to return to school will not gain seniority. Should a student wish to become a full time employee they must apply and be accepted by the Company into a permanent job. For the purpose of this clause a student may be employed between May 1 St and September 30th of a calendar year.
20.14	The Company agrees to pay the full cost of one pair of safety boots or shoes per twelve month period for employees to a maximum cost as follows:
$60 - 1st year $60 - 2nd year $65 - 3rd year
The wearing of safety footwear is mandatory for all employees covered by this Agreement in all work areas of the Plant. Failure to wear safety shoes will result in the employee being denied access to their work area without pay until compliance is observed. The Union endorses this safety measure. The anniversary date is to remain a constant except in
48
instance where an additional pair of safety footwear has been supplied at no cost within the twelve month time frame.
20.15	The Company will pay the full cost of purchase of prescription safety glasses and replacement lens as required (up to a maximum limit set by the Company) to employees required to wear prescription safety glasses on their job.
20.16	Any reduction in U.I.C. Premiums, including the employees portion received by the employer, will be shared through improved benefits.
20.17	Calendars will be printed in the back of the Collective Agreement.
20.18	Any Letters of Understanding or Memorandums of Agreement duly signed by both parties currently in effect will remain in effect unless specifically modified by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21
Benefits
21.01	(a) The cost of the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan shall be paid 100 percent by the Company from the date of this Contract and all additional increases to
the cost of this plan will also be borne by the Company
during the contract period.
49
21 .01 (b) The major medical plan, paid 100% by the Company, will provide a maximum yearly deductible of $ 25.00 per individual or family and 100% payment of eligible expenses. This plan also includes out of Province coverage.
21 .01 (c) The cost of the weekly indemnity plan will be totally paid by the Company and will provide 70% of weekly earnings for a maximum of 36 weeks.
21 .01 (d) Premiums for $14,000 Life Insurance will be paid by the Company. Effective February 16, 1988 Life Insurance will be increased to $15,000 also at company cost.
21 .01 (e) Employees retiring after February 16, 1990 will receive a Paid Up Life Insurance Policy of $3,500.
21.01	(f) The Company will provide a Dental Plan ($500.00 Annual maximum) at 15% cost to the Employee, 85% cost to the Company based on the current Ontario Dental Association schedule of fees for each year of the agreement.
The Company will provide a $2,000.00 life time maximum Orthodontal Plan on a 50/50 co-insurance basis. The cost of this plan to be 100% paid by the Company.
21.01	(g) The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan which will pay up to a maximum of $60.00 per 24 month period for prescription eye glasses and contact
50
lenses for employees and eligible dependents.
21.01	(h) The above coverage and payment schedule and any other company benefits applies only to employees with seniority who are actively at work for the company with the following exceptions:
1)	an employee who is absent from work as a consequence of an injury arising out of his/her employment with the Company and who is compensated under the Workers’ Compensation Act for up to two years from date of injury.
2)	an employee who is on Maternity leave up to 17 weeks. This benefit will be extended if there are pregnancy reiated complications up to a maximum of one year.
3)	up to the end of the month in which any employee is laid off. Except for life insurance which continues up to the end of the month following the months in which the layoff occurred.
4)	up to the end of the month following the month in which an employee commences a leave of absence.
5j up to one year for employees absent due to sickness.
51
ARTICLE 22
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT SECTION
22.01	(a) Overtime
Overtime in the Maintenance Department will be equally distributed as follows:
Overtime, excluding call-ins, will be equally distributed to the employees in the classification where overtime is required. Overtime hours refused will be recorded as if worked. For the purpose of equal distribution of overtime, a list of all overtime hours will be recorded whether the employee works or declines or is not available to work overtime. Employees eligible to be asked to work overtime, but not available for overtime will be charged the actual number of hours, if entitled under equal distribution, in their job classification during the period. The only exceptions would be when an employee is on vacation entitlement or union business. The employee (s) with the lowest overtime hours recorded will be required to work if other employees are unavailable or decline the overtime offered. The charging system guidelines apply save and except articles 4, 5,12 and 16.
The term equal distribution will be defined as a maximum of 24 hours between the employee (s) with the most overtime hours recorded and the employee (s) with the least hours recorded.
52
If the difference in hours is more than 24 between the low employee (s) in recorded hours and the high employee (s) in recorded hours as of Friday noon of each work week, then the employee(s) with the lowest hours recorded will be paid the difference between the high employee (s) hours recorded in excess of 24 hours. Employees will start with zero overtime hours recorded each January 1 St.
22.01	(b) Failure of a Relief Employee to Appear
If overtime is required to be worked through the failure of a relieving maintenance employee on the following shift to appear on time, the employee with the lowest overtime hours on the shift that is ending will be required to work. The two hour notice period referred in 12.05 (a) does not apply to the circumstances stated in this section. The Supervisor will, whenever possible, endeavor to obtain another qualified replacement as per the overtime selection guidelines.
22.02	Call-In Procedure
A list will be posted for General Maintenance and Electricians, reflecting the current practice of call-ins. (Subject to change based on business requirements.)
22.03	Tool Allowance
Tool allowance will be paid to Maintenance Mechanics, Packaging Mechanics, Machinists and Electricians who are on the payroll on January 15th and have completed their probation period:
53
(1st year)	1991 -$80.00
(2nd year)	1992-$85.00
(3rd year)	1993-$95.00
Upon reaching the first anniversary of their start in the apprenticeship program, the apprentices would receive their first year tool allowance.
After that they would receive it on January 15 with the rest of maintenance.
The purpose of the tool allowance is to replace tools worn or broken on the job or lost through pilferage. Tire Corvrjra?ifr agrees to replace ,requras1 JnnW tm'cjte stolen from a sturdily locked tool chest on the employees off shift.
The Company also agrees to pay up to $1,000.00 should the entire tool chest and its contents be lost through burglary or fire.
22.04	Vacations
The Company agrees that by February 15th of each year that maintenance employees will be informed of the number of maintenance employees that will be required to work the plant shutdown.
Scheduling will be by job classification and plant seniority. Preferences will be given to senior employees as to whether they wish to work or take vacation du™?5'.tb& plant shutdown.
“In the event that a substantial number of employees wish to schedule their vacation during the plant shutdown, then junior employees by job classification will be scheduled and required to work.”
54
22.05	Licences
The Company will pay the full cost of Electricians Licences required by the Province.
22.06	Contractors
A list of capital projects will be provided by the Plant Manager to the Union President. Contractors will be limited to completing Capital Project work.
22.07	Education/Trainlng
It is agreed that Maintenance Personnel will be trained on new equipment but not necessarily by seniority.
22.08	Apprenticeship Programs
The apprenticeship program now in place is subject to the guidelines of the document presented by the Company. The document may be obtained from the Personnel Department upon request.
22.09	The list used currently for shift rotation for each of the trade groups will be posted by the Supervisor within the specific areas. Future requirements may cause the method of rotation to change.
22.10	All other provisions of the Collective Agreement not contained in this section of the Collective Agreement also apply to Maintenance Employees.
55
ARTICLE 23
Termination
23.01	This agreement shall remain in force for a period of three years from February 16, 1990 and shall 'continue in force from year to year thereafter unless in any year not more than sixty days, and not less than thirty days, before the date of its termination, either party shall furnish the other with notice of termination of or proposed revision of this agreement.
56
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first above written.
THOMAS J. UPTON INC.
K. y.RASilFiT.T.PIan.t Manager
B.	RESCH, Personnel Manager G. B. MURDOCH, Production Manager J. F. GROVES, Engineering Project Co-ordinator
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL.’ UNION’ AFL-CIO, g'lc; AND ITS LOCAL UNION 327
K.	EATON, President Local 327
S.	GRIMM: International Vice President American Federation of Grain Millers R. HEDLEY, Treasurer, Local 327 G. McBRIDE, Recording Secretary, Local 327 T. WINSTONE, Vice President, Local 327
57
APPENDIX A
WAGE SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 16, 1990
SHIFT PREMIUM	
	C
1 st year	.30
2nd year	.31
3rd year	.33
A Sanitation .38	.50
.39	.51
.41	.53
Effective February 16, 1987 - Lead Hand Rates are as
follows:
Job Grade
1-4	52c per hour
5	54c per hour
6	56c per hour
7	58c per hour
8	60c per hour
9	62c per hour
10	64c per hour
11	66c per hour
Job Grades for Lead Hands will be as follows:
Sanitation Department	— Job Grade 7
Finished Goods Warehouse — Job Grade 8 Raw Materials Warehouse - Job Grade 7 Soup Packaging Department - Job Grade 8 Mixing Department	—	Job Grade 8
Maintenance Department	-	Job Grade 11
58
40c will be added to the Lead Hand Rate for Electronic Electrician.
An acting Supervisor will receive the rate of 60c per hour in addition to the Job Rate. Should a Lead Hand be appointed to Acting Supervisor, 60 cents per hour will be paid in addition to the Lead Hand rate.
Effective Effective Effective ffoteGhade 16. 1990 Feb-16. Jimi Feb. 16, 1992
	5,5%	5.0%	&SSk
1	12.23	12.84	13.61
2	13.02	13.67	14.49
3	13.38	14.05	14.89
4	13.89	14.58	15.45
5	14.18	14.89	15.78
6	14.62	15.35	16.27
7	15.10	15.86	16.81
8	15.54	16.32	17.30
9	16.12	16.93	17.95
10	17.09	17.94	19.02
11	17.52	18.40	19.50
Job List - February 16,1990
Job Grade 1 - General Labour (Packer)
Job Grade 2 — Mezzanine Cleaner
Laboratory / Factory Cleaner Washroom / Factory Cleaner
59
Job Grade 3 - Chute Filler
Office / Cafeteria Cleaner
Palletizer
Scrubber
Receiving Warehouse Cleaner (Day Shift)
Distribution Warehouse Cleaner (Sanitation)
Mix Department Cleaner (Day Shift) Wet/Dry Mix Room Cleaner Packaging Department Cleaner Building Cleaner (Day Shift)
General Cleaner
Job Grade 4 - Rodent Inspector
Palletizing Operator
Crystals and Desserts Food Service
Operator
Bartelt Operator
Soups and Gravies Food Service
Operator
Spare Cleaner
Side-Seam Gluer Operator/Packer Fun Fruit Operator Volpack Operator
Job Grade 5 - Storekeeper
Turret Truck Operator
Utility Person (Soup Packaging)
Lift Truck Operator (Distribution)
Lift Truck Operator (Raw Materials)
60
Job Grade 6 Job Grade 7
Job Grade 8 -
Job Grade 9 -Job Grade 10-
Job Grade 11-
Warehouse Person Reclaim Operator Mix
Casserole Operator
Shrink Wrap Operator
Stock Person - (Soup Packaging)
Assistant Crystal Operator Sanitation Pest Controller Shipper (Distribution)
Freeze Dryer Operator Wet Mix Operator Receiver (Raw Materials)
Utility Person - Dry Mix
Assistant Operator - Noodles Crystal Operator Building Maintenance Person Stock Person - (Mix Department) Dry Mix Operator
Noodle Operator
Machinist
Packaging Mechanic
General Maintenance Mechanic
Electrician
Electronic Electrician
61
APPENDIX B
JOB EVALUATION SYSTEM
This letter refers to the Job Evaluation system for jobs in the Bargaining Unit at Bramalea, put into effect in October 1970.
Both the plan and its administration are modelled after, but not exactly the same as, that used by Lever Detergents Ltd. The following guidelines are adopted.
1.	The classification of jobs and the wage scale to which such classification is related is set out in Schedule A hereto.
2.	Subject to Clause (4) below there shall be no change during the life of this Agreement in the job rates as set forth in Appendix “A”, except to add to those rates established to cover any new jobs established. If subsequently, as the result of the Lipton Job Evaluation Plan, the resulting rate is higher, it shall be retroactive to the date the job commenced. However, if the resulting rate is lower than the tentative rate, the rate adjustment shall be made currently.
3.	(a) New jobs established shall be evaluated as
promptly as is reasonable by the Management Evaluation Committee on the basis of the Lipton Job Evaluation Plan, with the result being submitted to the Union for review.
62
(b)	If the Union is not in agreement with the evaluation made by the Management Evaluation Committee, they shall, within ten regular working days of the date on which the evaluation was submitted for their review, file in writing a protest with the Personnel Manager.
(c)	If such a protest is filed, a meeting shall be arranged within ten regular working days between the Management Evaluation Committee and the Union Review Committee to discuss such differences as may exist.
(d)	Within five regular working days of such meeting, the Personnel Manager shall communicate to the Union the decision of the Management Evaluation Committee.
(e)	The evaluated rate shall then be made effective as of the commencement date of the new job, subject to Clause (2) above.
(f)	If the decision of the Management Evaluation Committee is not satisfactory to the Union, they shall within ten regular working days, request that the matter be submitted to the Umpire.
(g)	The Umpire shall then judge the issue as presented solely on the basis of the Lipton Job
63
Evaluation Plan, and his decision shall be final and binding on both parties.
(h)	Each party shall bear one-half the expense of the Umpire.
(i)	In respect to all new jobs and jobs involving re-evaluation, the Company agrees to adhere to a 30 calendar days time limit, in regards to a final decision on the above said new job or re-evaluation.
(j)	Time limits provided above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
4. Jobs shall be re-evaluated as promptly as is reasonable by the Management Evaluation Committee on written request by either employee, the Union or the Company, providing there is sufficient evidence submitted to show that there has been sufficient change in job content that a change of at least one degree in one or more factors can be reasonably anticipated. The re-evaluation shall concern itself solely with the change. The same process shall be followed to resolve differences as provided for new jobs, except that the re-evaluation rate shall become effective on the date the request for re-evaluation was received by the Personnel Manager. A question of whether or not there has been sufficient change in job content may also be submitted to the Umpire.
64
5.	Any rate for a new job or a re-evaluation job shall be implemented on the second Monday following the date Management’s rating is officially provided by the Union.
6.	During the life of the Agreement, the Umpire in respect to job evaluation will be a person as may be mutually agreed by the parties. Failing mutual agreement, either party may request the Minister of Labour for Ontario to appoint a person who is conversant with Job Evaluation as an Umpire.
7.	An employee holding a Red Circle Rate will receive no increase as long as he holds the job and until the rate for the job equates with his Red Circle Rate. At that point he will cease to be Red Circled.
To facilitate the prompt disposition of jobs being evaluated, it is the intent of the parties to schedule meetings no less than once per month until such time as all jobs are current.
Appendix C:	Salary a n
On December 1, 1970 the hourly-rate system was replaced with a salary plan system, it is designed to protect one’s income when prevented from attending work for occasional illness or reasons judged by the Company to be bona fide. The plan provides continuity of your salary system during the so-called “waiting period” in cases of lengthy illness and then the Weekly Indemnity Plan will go into effect.
Calculation of the Salary Plan
Your weekly salary will be forty times your current hourly rate as established by the collective agreement.
The arrangement will not affect your unemployment insurance coverage. You and the Company will continue to make the usual contributions and you will be eligible for the same benefits that you are now.
The Salary Plan, as outlined above will be paid on a weekly basis.
Administration of the Salary Plan
The essential rule. is. that. vou. keii^ your Supervisor fully advised of any absence and the reasons for them. There will also be some circumstances when he/she will request a statement from a doctor regarding the state of your health during or after an illness.
66
The plan is a means of income continuance, not an approval for truancy. Therefore, if an employee is frequently	-,z§'ai\KUos': ^nf .thf> reasons for the
absence - his/her case will come under review just as it does now. it is costly and unfair to continue to extend privileges to any who abuse them and it is the Company's responsibility to discontinue their services if they prove they are unwilling to successfully maintain satisfactory levels of attendance.
It is important that we remember, continued excessive plant absenteeism may jeapordize the continued existence of Salary Plan benefits as they exist at present.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
re: Article 20, 20.04
Should the Company decide to close the plant due to extremely bad weather conditions, (i.e. severe snow storm) every reasonable effort will be made to:
a)	Contact employees of the affected shift prior to the start of the shift.
b)	Request the local radio station, 790 CIAO.Aiyi. to announce closure of the plant.
Employees should, in such circumstances, attempt to contact the Company to determine whether it will be operating or not.
67
As such a plant closure is beyond the control of the Company, affected employees will not be paid reporting pay whether they manage to report or not,
If, during a period of bad weather conditions, the Company decides to continue its operations, employees reporting for work will be provided with a minimum of 4 hours work. Employees who do not report for work as scheduled when the plant continues operations will not be paid. The exceptions to the above will be when an employee is on Company sick leave, is hospitalized, received emergency treatment or is treated by a physician, for reasons which would have prevented him or her from working on the day(s) of inclement weather. The above exceptions must be certified in writing by a medical practitioner.
The Salary Plan does not supersede the provisions of Article 20, 20.04 of the Collective Agreement which addresses itself to the Company’s inability to provide work not an individual's ability to report to work as outlined in the Salary Plan.
Dated this 11 th day of August 1985.
Signed for the Company
M.E. DOUGLAS	J.B. KROEZE
S. ASHBY	G. B. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union this 11 th day, August, 1985 F. YUSUF	L. McCOMBS
R. HEDLEY	G. McBRIDE
R. CARVER-SMITH
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re Gender
Except where clearly indicated otherwise in the Collective Agreement, reference to the masculine
pronoun shall refer to either sex.
Dated this 17th day of August, 1987. Signed for the Company M. E. DOUGLAS	J. B. KROEZE
S. ASHBY	G. B. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union
C.	WAMBOLDT	L. McCOMBS
R. HEDLEY	G. MCBRIDE
B. TIMBERS
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re Inventories
The taking of inventories is not considered to be bargaining unit work; however, when extra personnel are required in addition to the management and clerical staff, such employees will be selected in the following manner.
1)	Senior qualified employees working in the Department.
2)	Senior qualified employees working outside the Department.
All interested employees must sign a posted list in
order to be considered for work on an inventory. Dated this 17th day of August, 1987.
Signed for the Company
M. E. DOUGLAS	J. B. KROEZE
S. A S H B Y	G. B. MURDOCH
Signed for the Union C. WAMBOLDT	L. McCOMBS
R. HEDLEY	G. MCBRIDE
B. TIMBERS
69
Signed this 8th day of June, 1990.
Signed and Agreed to	Signed and Agreed to
for Thomas J. Lipton, Inc. for AFGH Local 327
K* V. Bassett	K. Eaton
Plant Manager	Local President
B.S. Reach Personnel Manager

T. Wlnatone
Local Vice President
G.£« Murdocw	McBride
Production Manager	Local Recording Secretary
International Vice-President A.F.G.H.
o
1C OC 62 82 a 92 S2 t2 C2 ZZ 12 02 6; «l XI 91 SI H Cl 21 It 01 6 8 l 9 S t C l l	OC 62 82 X2 92 S2 t2 tZ 22 12 02 61 fit XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 9 X 9 $ t C 2 l
S A r N H 1 0	S A f W N 1 0
m«i«s	S J1M1WS
03Q 330	‘AON AON
1C tt 62 82 Z2 92 S2 *2 C2 22 12 02 61 Cf XI 91 SI tl ct 21 1101 1 1 2 9 5 ♦ £ l 1	OC 62 82 22 92 S2 t2 C2 22 12 02 61 61 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 l
s a r n n i o	s A r n w *i a
H1M1H	$ d 1 M i fl S
100 100	Idas u3S
l€ DC 62 62 LI 82 S2 « a zz \z 02 ei si XI 91 St tl €1 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 S t 6 Z \	1C OC 62 82 X2 92 S2 t2 C2 22 12 02 61 61 XI 91 SI tl El 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 1
s a r n « i a	s a r n n t a
S21M2AS	S i 1M i A S
inov isnonv	unr nnr
oc 62 82 X2 92 S2 t2 ZZ ZZ 12 02 «l 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 I	1C OC 62 82 a 92 52 >2 C2 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 9 X 9 S t C 2 l
s a r n n i a	s a r n w l a.
S d 1 M 1 w s	S d 1 M i n s
Nlrtr 3NDT	IVN AVtl
OC 62 82 1Z 92 S2 t2 C2 22 12 02 61 91 XI 91 St tl 61 21 II 01 6 8 L 9 S t 6 2 1	tc OC 62 82 X2 92 52 *2 C2 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 II 01 6 9 X 9 S t C 2 1
$ A f H H T 0	s a r h w i a
s u « i n s	s d i m i n s
TIUAV IBdV	$HVW 'NOUVN
92 X2 92 S2 t2 G2 22 12 02 61 91 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 S X 9 S t e 2 1	1C OC 62 82 XZ 92 S2 t2 C2 22 12 02 61 81 XI 81 SI tl Cl 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 9 t C 2 1
S A r Hfl 1 0	s a r n w i o
S J 1 M 1 N $	S U M 1 6 s
A3d '03d	w nvt
1-661.
1C oc 62 82 XZ « 52 t2 62 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 m it u i	OC 62 82 a 92 S2 t2 C2 22 12 02 61 61 XI 91 Si tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 8 X 8 S t C 2 l
S A f AN 1 fl	S A f N N 1 a
S d 1 M i h S	SiiMIHS
050 030	AON AON
tf OC 6? 92 XZ 92 SZ tZ CZ 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl €1 21 ll 01 6 8 X 9 S t € 2 1	OC 62 92 a 92 52 >2 £2 ZZ 12 02 61 91 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 11 01 6 9 X 9 5 t C 2 1
s a r « n i a	S A r HN 1 0
snwiNS	nnuns.
IX IX	id3S 1d3S
1C OC 62 82 X2 92 S2 tS 62 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 S> tl Cl 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 1	1C OC 62 82 XZ 92 SZ tZ CZ 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 II 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 1
s a r h n i a	s a r n h i a
s d iMins	S d 1 M 1 «l s
inov isnonv	imr aw
OC 62 82 XZ 92 S2 >2 62 22 12 OZ 61 81 XI 91 SL tl Cl 21 11 01 6 9 X 9 S t C Z 1	1C OC 62 82 XZ 92 S2 tZ C2 22 12 02 1 1 ■ 91 SI tl Ct <>t »» vt X 9 S t € 2 l
s a r h h t a	S A f A W 1 fl
	s d i m i ri s
NW 3Nfif	ivn aw
OC 62 82 X2 92 SZ t2 €2 22 12 02 61 91 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 U 01 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 1	1C OC 62 9Z CZ 92 52 tZ C2 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 ► 8 L 9 S t C 2 1
s A r m n i o	SAfnmo
S d 1 M 1 H S	S d 1 M 1 n s
MUM IHdV	'savn -KOUVW
8Z X2 92 S2 t2 62 ZZ IZ 02 61 91 XI 91 SI tl Cl 21 ll 01 6 9 L 9 S t C Z 1	1C OC 62 82 X2 92 S2 t2 62 22 12 02 61 81 XI 91 St tl Cl 21 11 Ol 6 8 X 9 S t C 2 1
S A f *1 H 1 0	s a r n n i o
$ d 1 M 1 M $	s d i m i n s
A3d 63d	jut	w;
0661-
1992
IAN JA h	FEB FF.
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
D L M M J V S	0 L M M J V S
12 3* 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
MARCH MARI	APRIL AVRIL
S M T W T F S	TTTTTTT
D l M M J V S	TnnrvT
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAY MAI	JUNE JUIN
S M T W T F S '	S MTW T F S
D l M M J V S	D l M M J V S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 IS 1$ 17 18 19 20 2t 22 23 24 2S 26 27 26 29 30
JULY JUIt	AUGUST AOUT
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
“D L M M J V S	TnnrTTr
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
SEPT SEPT	OCT OCT
S M 7 W T“F "S	T¥TTTTT
D i m m j"\rs"	U L M M J V 5
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 23 29 30 31
NOV. NOV.	DEC. DEC
S M 7 W T F S	nmnrT
o l m u j r s~	0 L M M J V S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
1993
JAN JAN.	FEB FE*
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
D L M M J V S	0 L M M J V S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 u 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
MARCH MARS	APRIL AVRIL
S U T W T P S	5 M I W I F S
D l U M J V S	“imnrmr
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAY MAI	JUNE JOIN
5 M T W T PS	TITTTTTT
imnrnT	U L U kT T v s
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 U 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
IULY JUIl	AUGUST AOUT
S M T W T F s	"S U T'WTTr
TnnrTTr	"0 L M U J V 5
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 U 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 2a 29 30 31
>£PT SFPT	OCT OCT
SIit wT’F "5	"S M T W T F 5
DLMMJVr	“D l M M J V 5
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOV NOV	DEC DEC
TTTWTTT	S M T W T F S
D L M M J V 5	D L U U J V 5
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 2t 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	12 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31