COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MIDWEST FOOD PRODUCTS INC., hereinafter called the “Company”
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 798, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
October 1, 2001 to September 30, 2004
INDEX
AGREEMENT	1
PREAMBLE	1
DEFINITION	1
SECTION 1 GENERAL PURPOSE	2
SECTION 2 RECOGNITION	2
SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT CLAUSE	2
SECTION 4 UNION SECURITY	2
SECTION 5 WORK OF SUPERVISORS	3
SECTION 6 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	3
SECTION 7 NIGHT PREMIUM	6
SECTION 8 PACKAGING INSPECTION DECK PREMIUM	7
SECTION 9 HOLIDAYS	7
SECTION 10 VACATIONS	8
SECTION 11 HEALTH AND WELFARE	10
SECTION 12 SICK LEAVE	12
SECTION 13 SENIORITY	12
LAYOFF AND RECALL	13
SECTION 14 JOB POSTING	14
SECTION 15 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY	17
SECTION 16 MODIFIED WORK	17
SECTION 17 LEAVE OF ABSENCE	17
SECTION 18 HEALTH AND SAFETY	18
SECTION 19 REPRESENTATION	19
SECTION 20 GENERAL	20
SECTION 21 PAID LEAVES	21
SECTION 22 NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT	21
SECTION 23 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT	21
SECTION 24 DISCIPLINE	22
SECTION 25 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION	22
SECTION 26 LICENCE RENEWAL	24
SECTION 27 TRADES TRAINING	24
SECTION 28 PENSION PLAN	24
SECTION 29 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	25
SECTION 30 SEVERANCE PAY	27
SECTION 31 DURATION	28
APPENDICES AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING	29
APPENDIX “A”	29
APPENDIX "B"	33
APPENDIX “C”	33
RE: IRRIGATION PERSONNEL	35
RE: APPRENTICESHIP LETTER	36
RE: CONTRACTING OUT	37
RE: TIGER PROGRAM	39
RE: SCALEHOUSE PERSONNEL	40
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 22nd day of November 2001, by and between Midwest Food Products Inc., hereinafter called the “Company”, and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 798, affiliated with the AFL-CIO and the Canadian Labour Congress, hereinafter called the “Union”.
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between the Company and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of the welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following Agreement:
DEFINITION
The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the feminine, as the sense of the clause dictates.
1
SECTION 1
GENERAL PURPOSE
1.1	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages, and conditions of employment; to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and its employees; and to provide for the operation of the Company's plant at Carberry, Manitoba under methods which will serve the interests of the producers and consumers as well as those of the Company and its employees.
1.2	Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times:
(a)	to maintain and improve quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials, or time;
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company property clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
1.3	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
SECTION 2 RECOGNITION
2.1	The Union shall be the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all production and maintenance employees of the Company at Carberry, Manitoba, excluding office staff, plant nurse, quality control supervisors, field department supervisors, employees hired just for seasonal work, such as preparing seed, planting, cultivating and harvesting potatoes, and those excluded by the Act.
SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT CLAUSE
3.1	The management of the plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, transfer, discharge employees for violation of reasonable Company rules or other just causes, and to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons is vested exclusively in the Company, provided, however, that the Company shall not discriminate against any employees or applicant for employment because of membership in or lawful activity on behalf of the Union. This provision shall not be construed to limit management in any way in the exercise of their regular and customary functions and this Section shall be applied in accordance with the other terms and conditions as provided by this Agreement.
3.2	In administrating this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
SECTION 4 UNION SECURITY
4.1	It shall be a condition of employment for all present employees to become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from the date of signing this Agreement, and for new employees to become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from date of hiring or signing of this Agreement, whichever is the later.
2
4.2	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee, such Union dues, initiation fees and assessments as authorized by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the Union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees' first pay. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within seven (7) calendar days following the end of the month and shall be accompanied by a monthly written statement, in duplicate, of the names and social insurance numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. The Company shall also provide the Union, when emitting the monthly cheque, with the names of employees and name changes of employees.
Each year the Company shall calculate the amount of the Union dues deducted from the employee's pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip of each employee by no later than February 28th.
4.3	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, of the amount of monthly dues to be deducted from each employee in the Bargaining Unit. The Company shall forward signed membership applications and a copy of the monthly check-off list to Local 832, 1412 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg, MB.
4.4	The Company will have new employees sign the necessary Union membership application and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above thirty (30) day period. However, all employees will be covered by the Collective Agreement beginning the first day of work, except as specifically indicated elsewhere in this Agreement.
4.5	The Company will continue its practice with respect to contracting out, however, prior to such contracting out, the Company will notify the Union by posting on the bulletin board that contractors will be on site except in cases of emergency.
SECTION 5 WORK OF SUPERVISORS
5.1	Employees excluded from the bargaining unit are not to be assigned regular jobs within the bargaining unit except in cases of emergency or for training purposes.
SECTION 6 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
6.1	An average of forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal work week for employees who are not on layoff. The term work week shall not be considered as a guarantee on the part of the Company, but is the amount the Company will endeavour to provide to employees.
Time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours daily or forty (40) hours weekly, whichever is the greater, but not both.
The plant's work week will be Monday through Sunday.
6.2	It is expected that “non-continuous” shift employees shall be scheduled on a Monday through Friday work week, with the exception that continuous shift operations will be on a Monday through Sunday work week.
When production is expected to operate on a continuous shift basis, or when certain functions can effectively work on a different schedule, the Company may assign work to any affected employees in accordance with Appendix B.
It is agreed that the work “day” shall be interpreted as the day on which the employee actually commences his regular shift.
3
6.3	A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate shall be paid for Saturday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Saturday when Saturday is scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
6.4	A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate shall be paid for Sunday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
6.5	Saturday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. Saturday until midnight Saturday. Sunday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. Sunday until midnight Sunday.
6.6	The above work week is not to be considered as a guarantee on the part of the Company as to the number of hours an employee will work each week.
6.7	Any employee who works seven (7) consecutive days in any one work week shall be paid double time (2x) for all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day. Overtime of less than four (4) hours before or after a shift shall not be considered as a consecutive day, however, employees called in as per Article 6.13 shall have that shift counted as a consecutive day.
6.8	An employee reporting for work at the direction of the Company shall be offered a minimum of four (4) hours of work. If the work is not provided, then the employee will be paid four (4) hours straight time.
6.9	Employee work schedules shall be posted designating an employee's scheduled time off work. Any employee who is assigned to work on a scheduled day off shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times his straight time hourly rate for the hours worked, provided that the employee fully completes his scheduled hours that same week. Absence due to disability, certified by a medical doctor shall be considered as time worked. An employee shall be allowed to work the balance of his weekly schedule if he so desires. The Company will endeavor to maintain the posted schedule, and an employee shall only be reassigned or rescheduled due to an unforeseen circumstance or emergency. Nothing in this paragraph shall be applied to avoid the payment of overtime or premium pays as outlined anywhere else in this Agreement. Wherever reasonably possible, changes shall not be made to the posted schedule later than Thursday noon for the following week.
Notwithstanding paragraph one above, no employee who has been called in for an emergency to work outside of their regularly scheduled hours will be compelled to work beyond twelve (12) hours (or less if approved by the Supervisor) in the day. Such employee, will however, be paid overtime for all time worked outside his/her regularly scheduled hours.
6.10	All employees working eight (8) hour shifts, shall have a fifteen (15) minute rest period at approximately the end of each two (2) hours of continuous work and will receive a twenty (20) minute meal period with pay. All employees working twelve (12) hour shifts, will receive three (3), fifteen (15) minute rest periods and two (2) twenty (20) minute meal periods with pay.
Subject only to the needs of the business, rest periods shall be uninterrupted. Should an employee's rest period be interrupted by the management, the employee will be allowed to start his or her rest period again after the interruption.
6.11	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and premium pay for such days as holidays, Saturdays, Sundays, a seventh (7th) consecutive day worked in any one work week, or for work on scheduled days off. In the event that either overtime or the premium pay provisions could be applied to the same hours worked, only the greater shall apply. This clause is not intended to exclude premium
4
payment for hours of work in accordance with Sections 7 and 8 but rather, to ensure no compounding of those premiums during overtime hours.
6.12
6.13
6.14
Any employees who are recalled to work after completing their shift for the day and having left the plant shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for the actual hours worked or four (4) hours at straight time pay, whichever is the greater.
Employees may make friendly agreements to exchange shifts one with the other subject to approval from supervisors in charge of the shifts. The request must be presented in writing. In no instance will an employee be permitted to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours under this agreement nor will such arrangement result in the payment of overtime.
(a)	Employees are expected to work a reasonable amount of overtime.
(b)	In situations where overtime is required in the form of an extension of the regular shift:
i)	first opportunity to work the overtime will be provided to employees who normally perform the work where the overtime is required and provided further that the employee is actually at work.
ii)	If (i) above fails to provide the required overtime work the overtime will be offered in descending order of seniority within the shift to qualified employees.
iii)	If (ii) above fails to provide the required overtime the overtime will be awarded to qualified employees from other shifts based on the overtime sign in sheet.
(c)	Unscheduled Overtime
The Company shall post a sheet each week for employees who wish to work overtime, to sign. The sheet will be posted on Thursday at 8:00 a.m and removed Monday at 8:00 a.m. Employees are to indicate their willingness to work. This voluntary list will be used for unscheduled overtime for the next week.
(d)	Planned Overtime
Notwithstanding (b) above, overtime in the form of an additional shift(s), shall be posted on the bulletin board. Volunteers must sign the overtime sheet not later than 8:00 a.m. Wednesday in order to be considered for the upcoming week. The senior employee(s) qualified to perform the work will be selected for the overtime.
(e)	An employee is deemed to be qualified to work in a particular position if they are so listed as trained in the Employee Trainers Manual, which will be updated (within one week) as training is completed, and made accessible to all employees in a common area. Discrepancies to the Employee Trainers Manual will be corrected immediately.
(f)	An employee may accept overtime assignments in departments other than their own provided overtime needs have been met within their own department. If a relief mechanic is refused overtime in maintenance due to the needs of the business, the hours will be counted as relief mechanic hours (not towards apprenticeship hours).
(g)	When a sufficient number of volunteers cannot be found to perform the work, such overtime shall become mandatory for the junior employee qualified to perform the work.
(h)	Employees are not permitted to work seven (7) consecutive shifts within a work week when other qualified employees are available and qualified to perform the work.
Notwithstanding any of the above, nothing contained in Section (a) through (h) precludes the Company's right to appoint other Bargaining Unit employees in order to avoid premium payments (payment of overtime).
5
6.15 Overtime Banking
In addition to the above, the following conditions and procedures shall govern the “banking” of
overtime.
1.	That the employee advises their supervisor that they wish to “bank” their overtime at the time of overtime assignment and that such election is irrevocable. The time eligible for banking shall be the actual work hours in excess of those representing a “full” normal work week (40 hours except in the case of compressed work week). Authorized leaves including those for illness or injury shall be regarded as hours actually worked for this purpose. The employee must bank all (both straight and premium payment portions) overtime earned on a particular shift with the additional condition that overtime on a given shift must exceed one (1) hour to be eligible for banking.
2.	“Banked” overtime may be scheduled as time off in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	That one (1) week notice be given in advance of taking time-off in lieu of overtime payment and that the scheduling of time-off be approved by the Company. The Company may at its discretion waive the one (1) week notice requirement if no replacement is required for the employee.
(b)	That time-off in lieu of overtime may only be taken in full work week periods unless replacement is not required in the opinion of the employee's supervisor or other Company management.
(c)	That the scheduling of time off in lieu will not give rise to overtime expense for replacement.
(d)	Other employees' scheduled vacation time will be given priority over banked overtime.
(e)	Employees may utilize banked overtime for any time for which an employee is receiving no regular pay, provided no overtime payment results
3.	That time-off in lieu of overtime is not considered work time for purposes of seniority retention, benefit extension, and other such provisions of the Collective Agreement.
4.	Unused “banked” overtime will be paid to the employee at the end of the calendar year.
5.	Pay for “banked” overtime will be at the rate in effect at the time the overtime was banked.
SECTION 7 NIGHT PREMIUM
7.1	A night premium equal to three percent (3%) of the Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 1600 hours and 2400 hours. A night premium equal to four percent (4%) of the Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 0001 hours and 0800 hours.
7.2	Night Premium, shall be computed and applied to continuous shift employees working on a compressed workweek in accordance with the following:
(a)	The amount shall be determined by multiplying 8 times the amount of the second shift premium plus 8 times the amount of the third shift premium, the sum of which shall be divided by 12.
(b)	The amount as determined by (a) above only may be applied to the hours an employee works between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.
6
7.3	Employees are to be paid the night premium if they are scheduled to start work at any hours other than between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. No night shift premium will be paid to employees who, by mutual agreement with the Company, start a day shift prior to 7:00 a.m.
7.4	Employees who are scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. do not receive the night premium even though their hours of work extend into the period where night premium is applicable. Employees who are scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and continue to work a double siift, will receive the night premium starting at 4:00 p.m.
SECTION 8 PACKAGING INSPECTION DECK PREMIUM
8.1	Employees who are assigned work in the Packaging Inspection Deck (except Haccp Room) which requires them to work there for at least one (1) hour at a time shall be paid ten cents ($0.10) per hour for each hour they perform work in the Packaging Inspection Deck area. This premium will cease once the remaining HACCP rooms have been implemented.
SECTION 9 HOLIDAYS
9.1	The following shall be recognized as holidays for the purpose of this Agreement: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Friday of Carberry Fair, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day.
If any of the above days are deleted through legislation or otherwise, another day off as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union will be given in lieu. A Floater Holiday will be added making thirteen (13) holidays in total. The specific day designated as the Floater will be taken around the time of Christmas or New Year.
9.2	Employees shall be paid eight (8) or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday on each of the above holidays provided they meet the following requirements:
(a)	They work their scheduled workday prior to and report for work on the holiday, if scheduled, and their scheduled day immediately following the holiday or present a medical certificate acceptable to the Company showing their inability to work on such days.
(b)	They must be on the payroll and available for work.
(c)	Or on authorized leave of absence (not to include unpaid leaves, with the exception of Union leave) with the clear understanding that the employee on such authorized leave must satisfy the qualifier immediately before or after the holiday as mentioned in (a) above.
(d)	Holidays earned by new employees during their first thirty (30) calendar days of employment will be paid only to those employees who complete thirty (30) calendar days of employment.
9.3	Employees required to work on such holidays shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours actually worked on the holiday in addition to eight (8) hours or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday. Holiday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. of the holiday to midnight of the holiday.
7
9.4	Employees who are absent due to sickness or injury shall be entitled to eight (8) or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday for any holidays which fall within sixty (60) days from the last day worked.
Employees who receive Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits shall be paid only the difference between the employee's benefits and their regular holiday pay. This shall be paid following the employee's return to work, when they were on Workers' Compensation.
9.5	Employees working on a continuous shift, who are absent on their vacation for a period including any of the above holidays shall be entitled to eight (8) or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours’ pay at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday in addition to their regular vacation or the employee may elect to receive an additional vacation day off during the vacation year.
9.6	Pay for hours not worked on a holiday shall not count as hours of work for purposes of overtime in that holiday week.
SECTION 10 VACATIONS
10.01	The vacation year shall run from August 1st to July 31st. An employee’s vacation entitlement will be based on the following schedules:
During the first year of employment:
Month of Hire	Vacation Hours	Percentage
August - September	80	4%
October - November	64	4%
December - January	48	4%
February - March	32	4%
April - May	16	4%
June - July	8	4%
Vacation entitlement August 1st of each year:
Years of Service	Vacation Hours	Percentage
Start of the first full vacation year less than 5 years	80	4%
5 years less than 10	120	6%
10 less than 19	160	8%
19 less than 29	200	10%
29 plus	240	12%
10.2	Each day of vacation will be paid on the basis of the employee’s shift value i.e. eight (8) or twelve (12) hours, at the employees straight time hourly rate (the base rate paid for the shift prior to the vacation commencing) provided the individual is continuously employed. Employees with partial day entitlement remaining may elect to take a full day off, however the difference will be without pay.
In determining continuous service it will include hours worked, statutory holidays and absences covered by Worker's Compensation, disability benefits under the Company's sick pay and weekly indemnity plan, maternity leave, apprenticeship leave and leave for Union business.
8
10.3	Employment will be regarded as non-continuous when an employee is absent as a result of layoff, unpaid leave of absence (e.g. parental, education, personal) which is greater than four hundred and eighty (480) hours within the vacation year. Vacation pay for individuals who have been non-continuously employed during the vacation year shall be at the rate 2% of earnings for each week of vacation (4% is the minimum).
10.4	The term “earnings” as used in this Section 10.3 shall include payment for all time actually worked (wages, overtime, shift and other applicable premiums, if any), statutory holiday pay, and disability benefits under the Company’s sick pay and weekly indemnity plans but shall not include vacation pay received during the current vacation year.
10.5	“Service” as used in this Section 10 shall mean accumulated seniority without interruption by any of the circumstances listed at 13.4 plus additional service, if any, recognized by the Company at the time of the individual entry to the bargaining unit.
10.6	The Shift/Department Manager or his designate is responsible for scheduling vacation for their shift/department and will attempt to schedule vacation at the time the employee requests. No requests for vacation will be unreasonably denied. Vacations will be scheduled as follows:
(a)	For the purpose of allocating vacation entitlement, the Shift/Department Manager or his/her designate will post a tentative vacation schedule no later than November 30th of the previous year (the vacation year shall run from August 1st to July 31st). Employees may then fill in their vacation request, which will be granted by the employee's plant seniority within the shift/department, provided requests are submitted by April 30.
For vacation purposes the following shall be considered individual departments; Continuous shift A, Continuous Shift B, Continuous Shift C and Continuous Shift D. Maintenance classifications and all other departments shall continue to be scheduled for vacation purposes consistent with current practice.
(b)	Requests submitted after April 30 will be allocated on a first come first serve basis by the shift/department. The Shift/Department Manager will respond in writing to all written requests for vacation leave after April 30, within ten (10) working days of the request being made. Rescheduling of such vacation within one (1) month of its scheduled date will require consent of the Shift/Department Manager or his designate and the employee(s) affected.
(c)	All employees will be required to use two (2) weeks of their vacation entitlement at the time of the factory shutdown. If the factory shutdown is outside of the June 21 to September 21 period, this clause will not apply.
(d)	In all cases, the Shift/Department Manager or his designate will endeavour to grant vacation at the time an employee chooses, however, should the needs of the business be such that taking vacation time off at the scheduled time is not possible, the employee will be given as much advance notice as possible of such changes.
(e)	The Shift Manager or his designate is not obligated to permit more than five (5) production (shift A,B,C,D) off per shift. Maintenance classifications and other shall continue to be scheduled for vacation purposes consistent with current practice.
(f)	Upon transferring to a new department/shift any pre-approved vacation will need to be reviewed by the shift/department Manager to ensure no scheduling conflicts exists and to ensure production requirements are met. Every reasonable effort will be made to accommodate the request.
(e)	‘C' above shall not apply to employees who are assigned to work during the shutdown.
10.7	If a full-time employee is confined to their home following a stay in the hospital, or hospital due to a serious illness or injury while on vacation, and presents a Doctor’s
9
certificate to confirm the situation, the employee may utilize any sick leave credits she/he may have accumulated and/or weekly indemnity benefits. Such period of confinement interrupting vacation, at the employee’s request, will be rescheduled following the employee’s return to work.
10.8	If the employee leaves during the year, the vacation entitlement is prorated according to the employee’s years cf service to determine the vacation pay. It is understood and agreed between the parties that in the case of terminations and where an overpayment of vacation pay has occurred, the Company shall deduct such overpayment from the terminating employee’s last pay cheque.
SECTION 11 HEALTH AND WELFARE
11.1	The Company will arrange plans to provide seniority employees with the following benefits on the first of the month following completion of their probationary period subject to the conditions of enrollment, entitlement, deductibles and co-insurance contained in the contract of insurance between the Company and the insurer.
(i)	Life Insurance - The Company will pay the full cost of $56,000 life insurance as well as an equal amount of accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Effective October 1,2002, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance will increase to $61,000. Effective October 1,2003, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance will increase to $65,000.
Life insurance for employees assigned disability premium waiver is established and frozen at the level of insurance that was in effect at the time of disability.
(ii)	Extended Health Care - The Company to pay the cost of this coverage:
Vision Care:
Year 1 -	$250.00/individual every	24	months
Year 2 -	$275.00/individual every	24	months
Year 3 -	$300.00/individual every 24 months
Prescription Drugs:
The Company will pay the full cost for 100% coverage on prescribed drugs.
Eye Examinations:
The Company will pay the cost of providing $50.00/24 months coverage for eye exams.
(iii)	Dental Plan - The Company will pay the cost of this coverage. The benefits payable under this plan shall be those specified in the current Dental Fee Schedule.
Plan B -	100% coinsurance
Plan C -	90% coinsurance.
(A combined maximum of $2500 applies to coverage under Plan components B and C during each 12 month period.)
Plan D -	60% coinsurance (lifetime maximum of $2000.00)
iv) The Weekly Indemnity will be 66-2/3% of the employee's regular straight time weekly wages up to the E.I. maximum. The benefits shall be as follows:
10
Employees are eligible for benefits if totally disabled as a result of a non work related condition on completion of the applicable waiting period. The waiting periods and benefit payable are as follows:
Waiting Period - Seven (7) days
Benefit Schedule - After the waiting period the first eight (8) weeks are payable by the Company; the next fifteen (15) weeks of eligibility by E.I., and the next twelve (12) weeks of eligibility by the Company.
v) Following expiry of the Weekly Indemnity benefits as described in (iv) above, a long tern disability plan as determined by the Union, and as administrated and deducted by the Company, shall be integrated with the CPP program upon request of the Union on the following basis:
(a)	Participation in the plan is mandatory for all employees having proper seniority standing.
(b)	Benefits payable are subject to the necessary conditions as determined by the insurance carrier.
(c)	The plan will provide for a benefit as determined by the plan and will be based on the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums commencing immediately upon the termination of Weekly Indemnity and continuing for the duration of the claim or until the age of sixty-five (65), whichever is earlier.
The premium cost of the plan will be borne by the employee.
(d)	The employer is responsible for any costs incurred to the plan as a result of employer error.
(e)	The long-term disability plan will be amended, changed or discontinued solely as decided by the Union.
11.2	When an employee is absent due to disability, injury, maternity or parental leave, the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life, health, and dental coverage for the month in which the absence commences for up to twelve (12) months thereafter, provided the employee remains totally disabled.
In the case of employees absent due to a disability compensable under Worker's Compensation the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life (see premium waiver), health and dental benefits for the month in which the disability commences and for up to twenty-four (24) months thereafter provided the employee remains totally disabled.
Life insurance shall be continued for the entire period of absence from work.
11.3	In the case of employees affected by layoff, or who are on a leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) the Company will continue its regular premium payments and coverage for life, health, and dental benefits for the balance of the calendar month in which the layoff occurs, and for one (1) additional calendar month.
Employees returning from a layoff or leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) of less than five (5) months shall be eligible for health and dental coverage effective the first day of returning to work. In addition, such employees shall be eligible for group life and weekly indemnity benefits effective as of the first day of the employee's return to work from layoff.
In the case of employees who are laid off or who are on a leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) for more than five (5)
11
continuous months, entitlement to group life, health, dental and weekly indemnity benefits shall be reinstated on the first day of the month following return to work from layoff.
SECTION 12 SICK LEAVE
12.1	(a) An employee shall earn sick leave credits at the rate of one (1) day for each calendar
month of actual work, which credit can be accumulated to a maximum of twelve (12) days. Sick leave credits may also be earned when an employee is on vacation, attending the Manitoba Trades Training Course or when off work due to an industrial injury, when on funeral leave or jury duty and receiving compensation as provided in Section 21, or on short term leave for Union Business. Any sick leave used is to be deducted from the employee’s sick leave accumulation and on return to work the employee will again earn sick leave credits on the same basis as above. Employees who have an accumulation of twelve (12) days sick leave credit, then their waiting period will be one (1) day of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who have less than twelve (12) days of sick leave accumulation, then the waiting period will be three (3) days of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who are regularly scheduled to work twelve (12) hour shifts, each shift shall be counted as one and one-half (1-1/2) days towards the waiting period. Sick leave is to be paid only for scheduled days of work lost at eight (8) hours at straight time at the employee’s hourly rate, except that employees who are regularly scheduled to work twelve (12) hour shifts, will be paid twelve (12) straight time hours and this shall count as one and one-half (1-1/2) days towards the maximum of twelve (12) days sick leave. No sick leave will be paid if employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity under the Insurance Program or if eligible for Worker’s Compensation. A doctor’s statement must be presented to the Company substantiating the sickness before sick leave benefits will be paid.
(b)	In addition to (a) above, employees may receive payment of wages during the waiting period provided they have sufficient banked overtime hours to their credit. Such payment of wages will not exceed the employee's daily earnings.
(c)	Employees who are injured on the job and are awaiting receipt of Workers' Compensation benefits, will be permitted to receive payment of wages for any unused accumulated sick days. Upon receipt of Workers' Compensation benefits, the employee will reimburse the Company for any sick days paid by the Company.
(d)	Banked overtime hours may be used for employees who have doctor or dentist appointments provided advance notice of ten (10) days is given and that a certificate to confirm such appointment is presented following the appointment. Such banked overtime may be taken in four hour segments. The ten (10) day notice requirement will be waived in cases of emergency.
(e)	Employees with a credit of twelve (12) days sick leave, will not require a medical certificate for their first absences due to illness in a calendar year, until such absences exceed three (3) days.
SECTION 13 SENIORITY
13.1	Employees who have been on the payroll and who complete a probationary period of fifty (50) shifts or six hundred (600) working hours within a thirteen (13) month period of work following the date of hiring, shall be granted seniority. The seniority date of such
12
employee so qualified shall be said date of hiring. Employees who have the same date of hiring shall be placed on the seniority list according to their payroll number.
Without otherwise limiting any rights under this Agreement except those specifically restricted to seniority employees, it is understood and agreed that all employees shall be considered and designated probationary employees during the qualifying period for seniority status as referred to in this section. The Company shall have the right to retain or discharge and such discharge shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
13.2	(a) Employees within the Bargaining Unit who accept a position with the Company that
places them outside the Bargaining Unit will accumulate seniority for one (1) year after the commencement of their duties at such position. After one (1) year from the commencement of their duties outside the Bargaining Unit, the employee shall not retain any seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit.
(b)	Either the employee or the Company can elect to transfer back to the bargaining unit. In the case where a transfer out of the bargaining unit is for a period not exceeding six (6) months, the employee shall return to the same wage rate classification. In cases where the duration of transfer out of the bargaining unit exceeds six (6) months the employee will have the right to return to the bargaining unit when a vacancy occurs in the same wage classification.
13.3	The Company agrees to prepare up-to-date seniority lists and to post them on the bulletin board. Employees will have ten (10) days from the date of posting to file an objection to the date on the list which indicates their date of hire. Employees who have not filed an objection within the ten (10) day limit will be deemed to have agreed that the date of hire indicated on the list is correct. The seniority lists will be brought up to date and re-posted every six (6) months. The Union will be given a copy of such lists.
13.4	Seniority and employment will be cancelled for the following reasons:
(a)	voluntary quit or resignation.
(b)	discharge for just cause.
(c)	lay-off for more than twelve (12) months.
(d)	failure to comply with the provisions of a leave of absence.
(e)	absence for three (3) consecutive work days without permission.
(f)	failure to respond to recall from layoff within two (2) days, (seven (7) days where the employee has been on layoff for more than four (4) weeks or is gainfully employed elsewhere at the time of recall) of being contacted by the Company. It is the duty of employee to notify the Company of an address and telephone number where they can currently be contacted. The Company's duty to contact the employee pursuant to this subsection will be deemed fulfilled if the Company contacts or leaves word for the employee by telephone, or failing in that, sends a registered letter, return receipt requested, to the address most recently submitted by the employee.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
13.5	(a) In laying off employees because of reduction in force for a period in excess of one
(1) day, or the remainder of a shift commenced, the employees shortest in length of seniority shall be laid off first provided those retained are qualified as per the operator training manual and capable of performing the available work.
(b) The Company shall meet with the Union president and chief steward on a regular basis to determine which employee's name should be included in the operator training manual.
13
(c)	Employee's who have not performed the job they have been trained for, for a period of twelve (12) months, shall have their name removed from the operator training manual.
(d)	In laying off employees who do not require training as operators shall be retained by seniority provided they are capable of performing the available work.
13.6	In administrating the provision of (13.5) employees laid off from their particular classification will displace the junior employee in the next successively lower classification provided they have sufficient seniority and are able to satisfy the conditions of (13.5). This process will be repeated until the employee finds a job open to him/her by application of seniority or becomes subject to layoff.
13.7	Seniority permitting, employees who are unable to claim a job by application of (13.6) and prior to being placed on actual layoff, may displace the junior employee in a successively higher classification subject to the conditions of (13.5).
13.8	Employees claiming a job as outlined above shall be paid the applicable rate of pay in accordance with Appendix “A”.
13.9	In recalling employees to work where it is expected the work available to last for one (1) week or less, the Company will take anyone available from a list of employees who have previously signified their desire for short time work. If it is expected that the work period will be for over one (1) week, the employees who have the greatest seniority shall be called back first, provided they are qualified as per the Operator Training Manual and capable of performing the available work.
13.10	During periods of recall in excess of one (1) week, employees will be returned to the position held immediately prior to the layoff provided sufficient jobs are available.
13.11	The Company will endeavour to notify the Union of any layoff and/or recall from layoff within forty-eight (48) hours but, in any event, not later than one (1) week.
SECTION 14 JOB POSTING
14.1	(a) Permanent vacancies as determined by the Company in the classifications listed
below shall be posted for a period of seven (7) working days. The senior applicant will be awarded the position. In the event the senior applicant is not awarded the position, the Chief Steward will be notified in advance of any other appointment.
In accordance with the above, the following classifications and specific positions shall be posted:
-	all Monday to Friday positions excluding Maintenance
-	all positions on day shift except Maintenance
-	all non-continuous shift jobs
-	Group IA
-	Scalehouse
-	Raw Material Operator
(b) Permanent vacancies as determined by the Company in the Maintenance classifications, Leadhands and Group I shall be posted for a period of seven (7) working days. Subject to applicants satisfying the necessary qualifications and requirements of the job as specified on the posting, the senior employee will be awarded the position. The Chief Steward will be notified in advance of any other appointment.
14
(c)	The Union will receive copies of all job postings.
14.2	(a) Eligibility to apply for posted jobs is limited to seniority employees except where
there are no seniority applicants or in the case of Maintenance classifications which require a license or ticket. In the case of a maintenance classification that does not require a license or ticket immediately, preference will be given to seniority employees having previous experience within the organization and/or partial qualifications for the job requirements as well as proven ability to acquire a journeyman status within the normal time period specified.
(b)	Employees posting for Permanent and Temporary vacancies will submit in writing to Human Resources via a Job Posting Form. Employees who are or will be absent from work, may provide the employer with the job posting form indicating they wish to be considered to have bid on jobs which may be posted during the employee's absence.
14.3	Except as provided below, after successfully posting into a job an employee shall be prohibited from applying for other posted jobs for a period of six (6) months unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the job to which they have posted becomes redundant.
An employee who declines an awarded position through a Job Posting once in a rolling calendar year, will be ineligible to post for six (6) months.
Trades employees who have been laid off or reduced to non-trades positions will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into a posted trades position.
Employees who have successfully posted into a temporary classification will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into a permanent position within the same classification.
14.4	There will be a training/trial period up to fifteen (15) working days for all jobs at one dollar ($1.00) per hour below the job rate. In cases of employees posting down to a new position the new position rate will apply during the trial period.
For permanent postings only, if during the first fifteen (15) working days an employee proves unsatisfactory in the job to which he has posted, or elects to leave such job, the employee shall be returned to his former job and rate of pay, if it still exists, or some other job which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
In either event, should the removal of the employee from the posted job make it necessary to reverse the transfer or promotion or any other employee, that employee will also be returned to his former job and rate of pay or some other job which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
It is recognized that it may require several weeks to make the arrangements necessary to accommodate such job adjustments.
In case of more than one employee applying for a posted job, and the successful applicant does vacate the posted job within fifteen (15) working days, the next applicant on the original list of applicants will be given the opportunity to fill the posted job in compliance with Section 14.1 of the Collective Agreement.
15
14.5	A temporary job is defined as a job of not less than one (1) calendar month not more than six (6) months. A temporary job is one that has a set period of time as defined at the start of the job. This timeframe may be extended by mutual agreement. Should a temporary vacancy occur, the normal posting process shall apply. If a third temporary vacancy results from the original vacancy, it will then be filled by people not presently holding posted positions. Group 1 and maintenance jobs will continue to be posted. The one (1) month will be waived when it is a result of filling postings per Article 14.1.
Employees who take a temporary job shall, on completion of the work, be returned to the same job they left to go to the temporary job if it still exists, or if it does not exist, to the same job rate.
14.6	In situations where employees have applied for shift bulletined operator cross training, as determined by the company, the senior applicant will be given preference for cross training. Experience received during cross training shall not be used for the purpose of being awarded any posting.
Cross training - Training in a job within or outside the employee's group, within the employees shift. Employees who are cross-trained will be used for vacation and short term illness.
Upon completion of operator cross-training, employees will be returned to their regular job and will displace any employee who might have been temporarily transferred to such position.
In no event will any employee under any circumstances have his or her wage reduced as a result of his or her own or any other employee's cross-training.
No employee will be required to receive cross-training, however those who have indicated a desire to do so will not be removed from his or her job for the purpose of cross-training for more than two (2) periods of cross-training in any one (1) calendar year, but in any event, not more than three (3) months total cross-training in any one year.
14.7	Where the Company determines that employees require training to perform their job, refusal of training will result in the loss of their job posting. When such training is required, as confirmed by a Union Executive/Management Committee of equal representation, the Company will pay for all reasonable expenses incurred, including either:
a)	wages lost for their normal working day, or
b)	time spent training up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at straight time per day (including time spent training outside regular work hours), or
c)	applicable overtime or premium rates consistent with the Collective Agreement, if an employee's day off, to a maximum of eight (8) hours at those rates.
Government programs which offset wages may be applied providing no employee loses wages as a result.
14.8	If the duties of a job are changed substantially, the Union Executive will have the right to request a reclassification of the job. If the Company and the Union Executive cannot agree on the reclassification, the matter may be referred to arbitration.
14.9	An employee’s name will be recognized in the operator training manual when they have successfully completed the necessary training and have been deemed competent by their
16
manager and the trainer. Employees will be removed from the training manual, if they have not worked on that job in the last twelve (12) months. In the event the employee is deemed unsuccessful the chief steward will be provided the reasons in writing.
14.10	Temporary Transfers and Assignments
Notwithstanding the above, temporary absences, operating changes, scheduling adjustments and other such requirements create a need to temporarily transfer or assign employees from their regular work.
It is necessary to effect these transfers quickly and with minimum disruption to the balance of the factory operations. Keeping this in mind the Company will, where possible, make such assignments on a rotational (to allow a number of employees to gain benefit) or seniority basis. In either case the aim being to arrange temporary assignments in a manner that is fair and equitable.
SECTION 15 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
15.1	The classifications and rates of pay shall be as contained in Appendix “A” and become a part of this agreement by reference hereto. The rates of pay as contained in Appendix “A” shall be the only rates paid to employees.
15.2	When new job classifications are established by the Company, it shall establish an hourly rate of pay for the new classification. The Union will be so advised. If after a trial period of two hundred and forty (240) working hours the Union believes the hourly rate established by the Company to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the grievance procedure.
15.3	The Company agrees that payment of wages will continue on the same basis as currently in effect, until the payroll can be transitioned to bi-weekly pay in 2002.
SECTION 16 MODIFIED WORK
16.1	The Company and Union agree to make every reasonable effort to provide suitable modified or alternative employment to employees who are temporarily or permanently unable to return to their regular duties, as a consequence of an occupational or nonoccupational disability.
SECTION 17 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.1	Leaves of absences shall be granted to employees in case of disability resulting from injury, illness, pregnancy, compassionate and family leave.
17.2	Leaves of absence for reason of pregnancy shall begin when the employee’s doctor certifies that the employee is physically unable to work. Maternity leaves may continue for four (4) months beyond confinement or longer if the need for further extension is verified by the employees doctor. Such extensions shall be for thirty (30) day periods.
In cases of medical conditions directly attributed to pregnancy which necessitate absence from work prior to commencement of pregnancy leave or delay of return to work following pregnancy
17
leave, group insurance benefits shall be granted to employees under the same conditions as these benefits are granted to other employees.
Employees on maternity leave who wish to take parental leave immediately upon expiration of maternity leave, may do so unless the employee and employer agree to make other arrangements.
Parental leave will be granted without the service qualifier, as in the case of maternity leave. The general provisions of the E.S.A. for the province of Manitoba shall also apply.
17.3	Leaves of absence may be granted to any employee by the Company br good and sufficient reason upon written request by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. Leaves of absence shall not be granted for the purposes of trying other employment or self-employment (including farming). Any violation of this provision shall result in loss of seniority. The Company shall reply to written requests for leaves of absence not later than two weeks from the date the request was made. If the requested leave of abse nce is for a period of one (1) week or more, if it is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
17.4	When possible, employees returning from a leave of absence shall receive their same work station assignment or wage scale upon returning. However, there will be no guarantee that such employees will receive their same work station assignment or wage scale upon returning.
Any employee who does not return from or overstays a leave of absence without sufficient cause or reasonable excuse will be considered to have quit the Company's employment, and if rehired, shall be considered for all purposes a new employee.
17.5	Employees (not more than five) to be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside the plant shall be granted a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) days, provided that the absence of each employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations. The Union shall advise the Company before exercising this prerogative. Employee(s) on such leave of absence shall not experience any loss of wages or benefits which are not normally compensated while on leave and shall remain on payroll with the understanding that the Union will reimburse the Company for any wages or benefits compensated.
17.6	Employees with at least two (2) years of continuous service will be allowed an unpaid leave of absence for educational purposes provided the leave supports the business and further provided that management approves the leave.
SECTION 18 HEALTH AND SAFETY
18.1	Employees who are injured on the job shall be paid at their hourly rate for all straight time hours lost in obtaining medical treatment on the day the injury occurred.
18.2	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Workplace Safety and Health Act in the Province of Manitoba. The Company shall share the reasonable costs with the Union, as outlined in Nestle guidelines, incurred for external training courses.
18
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee will receive a maximum of sixteen (16) hours paid education leave per year for the purpose of health and safety training. Said leave will be used to send the Union members of the Health and Safety Committee to courses as agreed upon by the Health and Safety Committee.
18.3	(a) Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to properly
protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Should such reasonable provisions not be made or such protection devices not be provided, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure but excluding arbitration.
(b)	A safety shoe allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year shall be provided for all employees having proper seniority standing.
(c)	The Company will pay the full cost of prescription safety glasses for any employee required to wear same as follows:
i)	the employee obtains their safety glasses from the Company's supplier
ii)	all employees regularly working in the maintenance department (regular shall mean 500 or more hours) will be provided prescription safety glasses if required to wear same.
iii)	employees working in the department irregularly will be provided with suitable eye covering if required to wear prescription glasses.
SECTION 19 REPRESENTATION
19.1	The Company agrees to recognize the following officials as representing the Union for the referenced purposes:
(a)	Administration of the Collective Agreement - Stewards appointed or otherwise selected. Such individuals shall have at least one (1) year's service with the Company and shall represent the various departments of the factory.
(b)	Grievances progressing to Step 2 - A Grievance Committee comprised of up to four (4) seniority employees having at least one (1) year's service.
(c)	General Labour - Management Issues - A Union Executive Committee comprised of the President, Secretary-Treasurer, Vice President, and Chief Steward will meet monthly to exchange information and discuss operational issues and concerns of mutual interest. This forum will not be used to discuss grievances.
(d)	Negotiations - A Union Committee comprised of six (6) seniority employees each having at least one (1) year's service with the Company and in addition a full time representative of the Union. Time off for the Union Negotiating Committee will be shared on a 50-50 basis by the Company and the Union to a maximum of twelve (12) hours for lost wages or a maximum of eight (8) hours for scheduled days off per employee, per year.
(e)	Time Off for Union Business - Upon one month notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence of up to one (1) year (renewable from year to year) to one (1) employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position in the Union. Such leave of absence shall be without pay or other benefits. However, seniority will continue to accumulate throughout the leave. The Union agrees to notify the Company at least one (1) month in
19
advance of the employee's return to work for the Company. Upon return, the employee will be returned to his/her position.
19.2	The Union shall advise the Company of the names of all Union executive members, stewards, alternative stewards and the full-time Union Representative who is responsible for servicing the unit and the Company shall not be required to recognize such representative until so advised in writing.
19.3	An employee representing the Union as provided by sub-sections 18.1 (a), (b), and (c) above, shall not lose pay for time spent in discussions with management about grievances and other matters of mutual concern provided that:
(a)	he shall first obtain permission of supervision before leaving his work and such permission shall not be unreasonably denied;
(b)	this shall not include time spent to deal with grievances at arbitration;
(c)	the Company retains the right to limit such time if it seems excessive and to schedule meetings so as not to interfere with the operation of the business;
(d)	such meetings shall not give rise to payment beyond that which the employee would have received if the meeting had not been held.
19.4	The Company agrees to admit to its factory at all reasonable times the authorized representative of the Union for the purposes of observing the application of this Agreement and adjusting grievances. These activities are to be discharged in a manner that will avoid unnecessary loss of time or disruption of work schedules. The Union representative shall obtain permission from the Company before or at the time of the desired visits by notifying the Factory Manager or his shift designee prior to entering the factory.
SECTION 20 GENERAL
20.1	Bulletin Board
The Company will provide space for Union bulletin boards for the posting of official Union notices, provided such notices are submitted and approved by the Shift Manager prior to posting.
20.2	Tool Allowance
The Company intends to provide Maintenance employees with tool allowance.
Effective October 1, 2001 each Maintenance employee will be reimbursed up to three hundred and twenty five dollars ($325.00) depending upon the employee's submission of receipts for personal tool expenditures. Effective October 1, 2002, reimbursement will be three hundred and fifty ($350.00) and effective October 1, 2003, reimbursement will be for three hundred and seventy five dollars ($375.00).
20.3	Parking
The Company will endeavour to provide parking spaces with plugs for all employees requiring same at no cost to the employee, unless damage occurs as a result of negligence or abuse.
20
20.4	The Company agrees to supply, clean and maintain work clothing as deemed appropriate by the Company. In addition, zero room employees will be supplied two (2) sets of insulated clothing and mitts which will be issued and returned daily in the same manner as tools and other equipment.
SECTION 21 PAID LEAVES
21.1	A bereavement leave of three days will be granted to employees having proper seniority standing for time lost from work resulting from the death of a member of their immediate family. Immediate family is defined as wife, husband, mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, spouse’s grandparents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step-mother, stepfather and step-children. Common-law spouse of the same or opposite sex will also be considered as immediate family provided the period of cohabitation at the time of death is not less than six months. Maximum payment will not exceed thirty-six (36) hours. Employees will be granted up to one (1) day with pay in order to be a pallbearer at a funeral. The bereavement leave must start no later than the day of the funeral and end no later than two (2) days after the day of the funeral except where an employee wishes to use one (1) day of bereavement leave entitlement to attend a memorial service. In the event of the death of an employee’s aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew, one day paid leave will be granted for time lost from work for the purpose of attending the funeral.
21.2	Employees summoned to jury duty and/or employees required by the Crown or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid straight time wages amounting to the difference between amount paid them for jury duty/witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such day. This does not apply if jury/witnessing occurs on the employee’s scheduled day off. Payment for witnessing will be a maximum of one (1) day and will not be paid, in any event, to an accused person.
21.3	Male employees shall be granted two (2) day’s leave with pay on the occasion of the birth of their child. Such leave will be granted within one (1) week of the date of birth or other mutually agreeable dates.
SECTION 22 NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
22.1	There shall be no cessation of work by strikes or slowdowns by employees or lockouts by the Company during the term of this Agreement or during the period of negotiations for renewal.
SECTION 23 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
23.1	This Agreement fully and completely incorporates the understanding hereto and constitutes the sole and entire Agreement between the parties on any and all matters subject to collective bargaining. Neither party shall, during the term of this Agreement, be required to accede to any demand for change herein, nor shall either party be required to bargain with respect to any matter during the life of this Agreement.
23.2	In the event that any sections or portions of this Agreement are determined to be improper or invalid by a court of law or Labour Board, such decision shall not invalidate any other portions of this Agreement than those directly specified by such decision to be invalid, improper or otherwise unenforceable.
21
SECTION 24 DISCIPLINE
24.1	Discipline, except suspension, will be removed from an employee’s file twelve (12) months from the date such discipline was imposed, unless the discipline is reversed during the grievance/arbitration procedure, except in cases where additional discipline is given to an employee before a previously issued discipline is cancelled.
Suspensions will be removed from an employee's file twelve (12) months from date of return to work, unless the discipline is reversed during the grievance/arbitration procedure, except in cases where additional discipline is given to an employee before a previously issued discipline is cancelled.
24.2	The Company shall provide the Union with copies of all written warnings, notices of suspension and termination when issued. Written warnings will be given within five (5) days of the event giving rise to the discipline unless circumstances prevent this from occurring.
24.3	In cases of reprimand, suspension or discharge, the Shop Steward or in his absence, an Executive Board member, shall be present unless the employee elects in writing to exclude the Shop Steward/Executive Board member. The Chief Steward will receive copies of any reprimand, suspension or discharge which will become part of the employee’s personnel file.
24.4	If an employee is issued a suspension for just cause, it shall be served within thirty (30) days of issuance of such suspension. If not served within the above mentioned period, such suspension will not be served but will remain on the employee's file.
SECTION 25 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
25.1	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the importance of the grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot. Accordingly, grievances shall be considered timely if filed at Step 1 within ten (10) workdays of the incident giving rise to the grievance and also provided that it has first been dealt with as a complaint. It is further agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
Grievances will be processed as follows:
COMPLAINT STAGE
The employee shall discuss the matter with their supervisor in an effort to achieve a satisfactory resolution. The employee may be accompanied by a Union steward or his alternative during such discussion if they feel this will be of assistance in explaining their complaint. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached the complaint may be carried forward to Step 1 as a grievance.
STEP 1
If the discussion with the supervisor does not resolve the matter to the employee's satisfaction, a written grievance, duly signed by the employee, may be presented to Human Resources within ten (10) working days of the incident giving rise to the grievance. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the supervisor, the steward and the employee. The supervisor or his designate shall give a written answer to the grievance within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
STEP 2
If the decision at Step 1 is unsatisfactory to the employee, the grievance may be re-submitted by the Union Grievance Committee to Human Resources within five (5) working days of the written
22
response at Step 1. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the Department Manager, and the Grievance Committee. The Department Manager or his designate shall render a written decision within five (5) working days following the date of discussion with the Union Grievance Committee.
STEP 3
If the reply of the Department Manager or his designate is not satisfactory, the grievance may proceed to Step 3 within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Step 2 decision. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by the Director of Operations, Human Resources, the Grievance Committee and the Union Representative. The meeting shall take place within five (5) working days of notification to proceed to Step 3. The Company shall render a written decision within five (5) working days following the above meeting.
25.2	Employees who are dismissed, suspended, disciplined for any reason whatsoever, or laid off, and feel that they have been unjustly dealt with shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall, within five (5) working days of receipt of notice of dismissal, suspension or layoff by the aggrieved employee, notify the Plant Manager, stating the grounds of objection to the dismissal, suspension or layoff. The dismissal, suspension or layoff shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure set out above, beginning with Step 2 above. If subsequently it is decided that the employees were unjustly dismissed, suspended or laid off, they shall be reinstated in their former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at their regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may by decided fair in the circumstances.
25.3	Should disputes, claims or grievances arise as to the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement that cannot be settled by the Union and the Company, they may be submitted to an impartial Arbitrator, as listed below at the request of either party. The Arbitrators are as set forth and will be used on a rotating basis;
Paul Teskey Wally Fox-Decent Martin Freedman
If any individual of the above noted panel, who has been requested in his or her turn to act as the Arbitrator, is unable or unwilling to act, she/he shall not again be requested to act as the Arbitrator unless his/her name comes up again on a regular rotation of the panel.
An arbitrator shall not be deemed willing to act unless he/she is in a position to convene the hearing within twenty-eight (28) days of the date of his/her selection. If none of the above named Arbitrators is willing to act, either party may request the Manitoba Labour Board to appoint an arbitrator.
Failure to request arbitration within the ten (10) working days following the Company's answer in Step 3 shall be deemed a withdrawal of the grievance and it will not be considered any further.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and all persons concerned or affected. It is further understood that the Arbitrator shall, in each case, be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and that she/he is not vested with the authority to change, amend, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement but only to interpret the provisions thereof.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within a period of thirty (30) days after the closing of the arbitration proceedings.
In the interest of settling a grievance prior to an arbitration hearing, either party may request assistance of a grievance mediator from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services.
23
25.4	The time limits set out in the above procedure can be extended upon mutual agreement of the parties.
25.5	The Union and the Company shall each pay any costs connected with the presentation of their respective cases and the cost of the Arbitrator shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
SECTION 26 LICENSE RENEWAL
26.1	The Company will reimburse employees for the additional cost (e.g. in excess of their standard drivers license) that is involved in maintaining a special license required by law or by the Company for specific jobs.
26.2	The Company will reimburse employees for time lost from work in order to write tests for licenses required to perform their job for the Company where it is impossible to schedule the employees forty (40) hours of work in the week in which the tests are taken.
SECTION 27 TRADES TRAINING
27.1	Maintenance employees who take the Manitoba Trades Training Program or other accredited program, as scheduled and approved by the Company and successfully completes the program will, on their return to work, be paid twenty-five (25) hours at straight time for each week that they attended the training course. Employees are to present to the Company proof of their having successfully completed the course.
27.2	Should government assistance be deleted, the Company will match what was paid for accommodations, meals, tuition and books. If government assistance is deleted, the Company will pay employees 50% of their regular wages on a weekly basis with the balance of the employee’s regular wages paid out upon the successful completion of the course. In order to qualify for employer assistance, employees must successfully complete a Trades Assessment administrated by an external agency as determined by a joint committee approved by the Union and the Company. The above will apply to any Manitoba Trades training or other accredited program.
SECTION 28 PENSION PLAN
28.1	The Company will continue to provide defined benefit pension as specified under the current Carnation Retirement Plan No. 1 for all eligible employees as defined in a separate outline furnished to the employees.
The Company will ensure that employees are provided with annual statements indicating the pension benefits that they have accrued to date. In addition the pension benefit pamphlet will be periodically updated as require
The Union recognizes that the Company is exclusively responsible for the overall operation and administration of the Pension Plan and Fund. Further it is recognized that the Company reserves the right to merge other Company pension plans and funds into the current Plan and Fund, or vice versa, and also to arrange pension benefits for other employee groups under the current Plan and Fund, provided that such actions do not affect the accrued pension benefits of Carberry employees.
Effective October 1, 2002 Employees retiring will do so with the following actuarial reductions from their basic pension plan:
24
Age	Pension Benefit
60	100%
59	80%
58	75%
57	70%
56	65%
55	60%
28.2	During periods of absence from work for which employees are receiving either weekly indemnity benefits or benefits from the Workers Compensation, pension credits shall continue as usual as though the employee were actually at work.
28.3	Registered Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will administer through payroll deductions, a voluntary group RRSP as chosen by the Union. On a calendar year basis, the employee will determine the amount to be deducted weekly from regular earnings and this shall remain unchanged during the year except where no pay cheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted to the group RRSP by the Company on a monthly basis.
SECTION 29 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
29.1	In this section technological change means a change of an ongoing nature in factory operations which is directly related to the introduction of equipment, material or processes different from that previously used in factory operations.
29.2	Where the Company proposes to effect a technological change that is likely to affect either the terms and conditions, or the security, of the employment of a significant number of employees notice of the change shall be given to the Union no later than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date on which the change is to be affected.
29.3	The notice shall be in writing and shall state:
(a)	the nature of the technological change;
(b)	the proposed effective date of the technological change;
(c)	the approximate number and type of employees to be affected by the technological change;
(d)	the effects the technological change may be expected to have on employees' terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of bargaining unit members.
29.4	Where a seniority employee's regular job is permanently eliminated as a result of a “technological change” such employee will acquire the right to “bump” less senior employees according to the following procedure:
(a)	The Company in consultation with the Union will endeavour to place the employee in an available job, which is at a rate of pay equal to or higher than that of his previous position.
(b)	Where the Company's efforts under (a) above, prove unsuccessful the employee shall be entitled:
i)	to “bump” the most junior employee in his own wage group who holds a position for which he is qualified;
ii)	if i) above does not provide the employee with a position, to “bump” the most junior employee in a lower wage group who holds a position for which he is qualified.
For the purpose of this section “qualified” shall mean that in the reasonable opinion of the Company the employee has the capability to qualify for the job within a reasonable period of time and in any event currently possesses any license or trade qualifications which may be required.
29.5	All new classifications which are included in the bargaining unit, or existing classifications which are significantly altered, as a result of a technological change shall be subject to classification as provided in section 15.2 of the Collective Agreement.
25
29.6	Where the employment of ten (10) or more seniority employees is expected to be permanently eliminated as a result of a technological change the Company will offer such employees a relocation counseling workshop to assist them in their search for new jobs.
29.7	The parties agree that the above provisions will be applicable in the event of technological changes and therefore that Sections 83, 84, and 85 of the Labour Relations Act do not apply during the term of the Collective Agreement.
26
SECTION 30 SEVERANCE PAY
30.1	The Company agrees to make severance payments to all seniority employees whose employment is terminated as a result of a factory closure. Payments will be determined as follows:
(a) Service Category_______Severance Payment_____________________________
employees with less than10 years seniority	1 weeks pay per year of seniority
employees with 10 years seniority but less than 15 years of seniority	1.75 weeks pay per year of seniority
Employees with 15 years	2 weeks pay per seniority or more
(b)	Seniority is determined as of the employee's termination date.
(c)	For the purpose of the above calculations seniority will be rounded to the next higher quarter (1/4) of a year.
(d)	A weeks pay is equal to forty (40) hours at the rate stipulated in the Collective Agreement for the job held by the employee at the time of termination.
(e)	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to include any severance pay as may be required under any Manitoba legislation.
(1) Severance will not be payable to any employee who is discharged for just cause or who quits prior to their final scheduled day of work.
27
SECTION 31 DURATION
31.1	This Agreement shall be effective as of October 1, 2001 and shall continue in full force and effect through September 30, 2004, and will continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice by either party of its desire to amend or terminate this Agreement is given by either party to the other not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement, or not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date in any year thereafter.
31.2	On the receipt of such opening notice, negotiations shall commence within ten (10) days of receipt of such, except that this time may be extended by either party or by mutual agreement.
31.3	During the period of negotiations, this Agreement shall remain in force.
Signed in Carberry this 19th day of March 2002.
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY
Blair Husband Ray Muirhead Glenn Creasy Bill Kalinowich Elsie Duncan Brenda Brown Russ Smyrichinsky
Glen Harron Paul Roozendaal Kim Gernhaelder
28
APPENDICES AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
All Appendices and Letters of Understanding as attached to this Agreement shall form an integral part of this Collective Agreement.
APPENDIX “A”			
A-1.01	Effective 1 Oct 01	Effective 1 Oct 02	Effective 1 Oct 03
Factory Trainer	21.86	22.06	22.31
			
GROUP 1	16.65	16.85	17.10
Lead Personnel
Lead Trainer WHIMS Coordinator Forklift Operator Trainer
GROUP 1A_______________________15.64______________15.84_____________16.09
Chemical Operator________________________________________________________
Additive Operator________________________________________________________
A.D.R. Operator__________________________________________________________
Crystal Drum Operator____________________________________________________
Fryer Operator___________________________________________________________
Granule Dryer Operator___________________________________________________
Irrigation Operator______________________________________________________
Laboratory Operator______________________________________________________
Recovery Operator________________________________________________________
Frozen Form Fill Seal Machine Operator___________________________________
Blancher Operator________________________________________________________
Cutter Deck Operator_____________________________________________________
Palletizing Operator_____________________________________________________
Case Sealer Operator_____________________________________________________
Peel Room Operator_______________________________________________________
Segregation Coordinator__________________________________________________
Training Clerk___________________________________________________________
Crystal Line Check Operator______________________________________________
Crystal Line Packaging Operator__________________________________________
Granule Line Packaging Operator__________________________________________
Raw Product Grading Operator_____________________________________________
YSI Operator_____________________________________________________________
Material Receiving Operator______________________________________________
29
APPENDIX “A”
GROUP II_______________________15.24_____________15.44_____________15.69
Sanitation Operator____________________________________________________
Evenflow/Raw Supply Operator___________________________________________
Forklift Operator______________________________________________________
Frozen Bag-off Operator________________________________________________
Grounds Keeper_________________________________________________________
Raw Material Operator__________________________________________________
Communication Coordinator______________________________________________
Knife Sharpener________________________________________________________
Blend Back Operator____________________________________________________
GROUP III______________________13.65_____________13.85_____________14.10
Clean-up Crew__________________________________________________________
Trimmer Inspector______________________________________________________
Packaging Inspector____________________________________________________
House Keeper___________________________________________________________
Scalehouse Personnel___________________________________________________
Crystal Line Packaging Labourer________________________________________
Crystal Line Bagg Off Labourer_________________________________________
Granule Line Packaging Labourer________________________________________
Blend Back Labourer____________________________________________________
Raw Supply Labourer____________________________________________________
Even Flow Sanitation Labourer__________________________________________
Packaging Sanitation Labourer__________________________________________
Packaging Runner_______________________________________________________
Segregation Runner_____________________________________________________
*Scalehouse Lead Hand shall be paid $1.00 over the Scalehouse Personnel rate
30
APPENDIX “A”
MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS	Effective 1 Oct 01	Effective 1 Oct 02	Effective 1 Oct 03
Assistant Chief Engineer	26.36	26.56	26.81
2nd Class Engineer	24.74	24.94	25.19
Electrical Dept. Crew Leader	23.17	23.37	23.62
Maintenance Personnel Crew Leader	22.35	22.55	22.80
Journeyman Electrician Instrumentation Technologist	22.06	22.26	22.51
3rd Class Engineer	22.01	22.21	22.46
Gas Pipe Fitter “A” Motor Pool Crew Leader	21.73	21.93	22.18
Journeyman Industrial Mechanic Journeyman Plumber Journeyman Industrial Welder	21.19	21.39	21.64
Journeyman Auto Mechanic Journeyman Carpenter Machinist	20.57	20.77	21.02
4th Class Engineer	20.38	20.58	20.83
Computer Technologist Electronic Technician	20.00	20.20	20.45
Carpenter	18.47	18.67	18.92
Compressor Trainee	18.56	18.76	19.01
Maintenance Personnel Plant Electrician Auto Mechanic	17.58	17.78	18.03
ADR Technician	17.06	17.26	17.51
Stock Room Clerk Maintenance Planner	16.34	16.54	16.79
Relief Mechanic	15.64	15.84	16.09
An employee who holds a Pressure Welding Ticket shall be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour above their current rate if and when they are conducting pressure welding.
31
APPENDIX “A”
A-1.02 New employees in Groups I, IA, II, and III may be paid at a rate of 12.5% below the foregoing rates for the first four-hundred and eighty (480) working hours of employment, and 6.25% below the foregoing rates for the four-hundred and eighty (480) working hours period. Following the completion of a total of nine hundred and sixty (960) working hours, the
employee shall receive the appropriate contract rate. For the purpose of this section, a new employee shall be a person who has not worked for the Company during the twelve (12) months previous to date of hiring.
A-1.03 Employees shall not have their rate reduced during the day by reason of being assigned to a lower paid job for the remainder of that day.
Employees permanently assigned to a lower paid job or group shall have their hourly rate reduced to the job, which they are assigned.
A-1.04 Upon acceptance of a position as Maintenance Man, Maintenance Carpenter, Garageman or Plant Electrician, an employee will enter a sixteen (16) month training program. Such program will consist of four (4) equal periods of four (4) months. The hourly rate of pay during the training program is outlined in paragraph (a) or (b) below, whichever is applicable:
The difference between the Group 1A rate and the standard rate for the position will be divided into four equal parts.
(a)
(b)
First Period Second Period Third Period Fourth Period
-	Group 1A
-	Group 1A plus 25% of the difference.
-	Group 1A plus 50% of the difference.
-	Group 1A plus 75% of the difference.
The difference between group 1A rate of higher and the standard rate for the position will be divided into four (4) equal parts.
Employees accepting a Maintenance classifications who have transferred to such a position from a job within the bargaining unit with an hourly rate of more than the Group 1A rate, will have the difference between the rate of the job transferred from the standard rate divided into four (4) approximately equal parts that will be put into effect as per the schedule in paragraph
(a)	above.
On the first day of the work week following the employee's successful completion of the training program he will receive the standard rate.
A-1.05 Employees who successfully complete the Manitoba Provincial Training Program for
Journeyman shall be paid the rate for the respective Journeyman classification set forth in Appendix “A”. Progression to the Journeyman rate shall be in increments equal to the difference between the employee's hourly rate at the time of entry into the training program and the respective Journeyman hourly rate divided by the number of training levels contained in the training program. The rate adjustment shall be effective upon return to work following successful completion of each level of training.
A-1.06 An employee entering the Stockroom Clerk Classification shall begin at the Group II rate for training. Upon satisfactory completion of a six (6) month training period, the employee shall receive the contract rate.
A-1.07 Employees who train other employees are to receive twenty five cents ($0.25) per hour for all the time spent training said employees upon ratification.
32
APPENDIX ‘B’
B-1.01 The Union and the Company mutually agree, that the practice of scheduling a compressed work week for employees in a Maintenance Department classification shall continue. It is further agreed that such scheduling may affect one or more Maintenance classifications at any one time, and that such practices, if in effect, may with reason (e.g. operational efficiency, economics, or improvements to maintenance services) be discontinued entirely or in part upon the written notice of either party to the other. The Company will do its' utmost to satisfy employee preference, however the needs of the business must take priority. Any employee affected by discontinuing a compressed work schedule shall be reassigned to work in accordance with Section 6 of the Collective Agreement.
When a Maintenance Department employee is working on a compressed work week schedule, it is agreed that:
1.	Section 6.1 of the Collective Agreement shall not apply with the exception of the definition of the plant's work week. In lieu of the balance of Section 6.1, the employee shall be compensated on a straight time basis for all hours worked except as provided below:
(a)	Working hours scheduled on a holiday.
(b)	Working hours scheduled on a Saturday or Sunday, except where a continuous shift operation (seven days per week) is in effect.
(c)	Work assignment that would cause an employee to work seven (7) consecutive days in a workweek.
(d)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a day.
(e)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of the hours scheduled as an employee's regular week.
2.	Section 6.2 shall not apply.
3.	Section 6.3 shall apply.
4.	Section 6.4 shall apply.
5.	Section 6.5 shall apply.
6.	Section 6.6 shall apply.
7.	Section 6.7 shall apply.
8.	Section 6.8 shall apply.
9.	Section 6.9 shall apply.
10.	Section 6.10 shall apply.
11.	Section 6.11 shall apply.
12.	Section 6.12 shall apply.
13.	Section 6.13 shall apply.
14.	Section 6.14 shall apply.
15.	Section 6.15 shall apply.
33
16.	Section 6.16 shall apply.
17.	Section 7, Night Premium, shall be computed and applied to Maintenance employees working on a compressed workweek in accordance with the following:
(a)	The amount shall be determined by multiplying 8 times the amount of the second shift premium plus 8 times the amount of the third shift premium, the sum of which shall be divided by 12.
(b)	The amount as determined by (a) above only may be applied to the hours an employee works between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.
18.	If any other portion of the plant goes to ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts by mutual agreement, the Union and the Company agree that Appendix B with appropriate amendments for ten (10) hour shifts (if the changes are to ten (10) hour shifts) will apply.
APPENDIX “C”
Based on the current shift schedule, the Company will pay employees based on hours worked upon ratification i.e. the 48 hour work week will be paid at 40 regular hours and 8 hours at time and a half. Hours will include all regular hours worked, sick hours paid (provided they are certified by a medical doctor as per Section 6.10), vacation hours paid, paid bereavement leave, hours on paid father’s leave and hours worked on a Statutory Holiday and Union paid leave.
The Union may make recommendations to the company for any modifications to the shift schedule timing, shift schedule start days or any other changes the union has evaluated to have a positive impact on the quality of shift life. These recommendations should be presented to the company in writing.
The Company will evaluate the recommendations on the impacts of the business and reply to the Union within 30 days. The Company may request the Union to put any shift changes to a general vote.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 22nd day of November 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
34
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: IRRIGATION PERSONNEL
Irrigation Personnel are defined as persons working on the irrigation project and all associated equipment.
The Irrigation Operator rates will apply only when irrigation personnel are actually assigned to the irrigation project.
All “Irrigation Personnel” are excluded from all provisions under Sections 6, 7, and 9.3 of Section 9. Such exclusions will be allowed only when Irrigation Personnel are performing irrigation duties. Under Section 10 “Vacations” vacation pay for each week of vacation will be based on the employee's weekly rate at the time of taking vacation.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 22nd day of November 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2004 but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
35
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: APPRENTICESHIP LETTER
By copy of this letter the Union is assured that should any employee decide to upgrade their skills base by means of an approved apprenticeship program, the Company is prepared to provide the individual with a letter confirming any hours worked in the related trades field while in our employ.
In order to comply with the above, employees are expected to notify the Company prior to registering for any apprenticeship program.
It is clearly understood that the above applies only in cases where enrollment in an apprenticeship program was initiated by the employee and was not endorsed by the Company.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 22nd day of November 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
This Apprenticeship Letter shall expire as of September 30, 2004, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
36
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: CONTRACTING OUT CONSULTATION
This letter shall be implemented on the date of ratification and shall operate for a trial period of six (6) months.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4.5, whenever reasonably practical, except in cases where the committee has previously agreed otherwise prior to the contracting out of work that is normally performed by bargaining unit members, a committee consisting of equal numbers of management and Union members (to a maximum of three (3) members each) will meet to discuss the contracting out option. This committee will attempt to make recommendations to the Company on the issue in terms of whether or not the work should be contracted out, together with any reasonable alternatives, taking into account the Company's requirements concerning quality, the time-lines within which the project must be completed and the need for the work to be completed at a competitive cost.
The Company will give full consideration to the recommendations of the committee on contracting out issues, and if these recommendations are not accepted, shall communicate the reasons for the decision to the committee. The Company's decision to contract out shall be posted.
Following completion of the work, the committee will meet to assess the work in terms of quality, timelines and cost together with any other relevant factors.
At the end of the six (6) month trial period, the parties may agree to:
1.	extend the trial period
2.	modify the terms of the letter
3.	discontinue the letter
CONTRACTING OUT GUIDELINES
■	The Company will not contract work out if a qualified bargaining unit member is on layoff.
■	Union workers will have the opportunity to review the upcoming project work and demonstrate their willingness to perform this work by signing up on the ‘sign up' sheet.
■	The Company will select these individuals provided they are qualified to perform the work.
■	The Company will employ Union members on these jobs with consideration given to safety, cost, timeliness and qualifications.
■	The Company, through a joint Union/Company committee, agrees to identify criteria for selection of Relief Mechanics into the maintenance trades and will support in every effort to utilize these people. The company agrees to develop the skills and capabilities of these members. This will be done at every available opportunity recognizing the needs of the business must always be met.
■	The Company maintains the right to use Contractors in emergency situations. An emergency situation is defined as when production is interrupted or imminently about to be interrupted or when forced overtime is about to be invoked.
■	Advance notice will be given to the Union executive of upcoming work considered for contracting out.
■	The current letter of understanding ‘re Contracting out Consultation' will be maintained and both the Union and Company will strive harder to meet with the intention of this letter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4.5, whenever reasonably practical, except in cases where the
committee has previously agreed otherwise prior to the contracting out of work that is normally performed by
bargaining unit members, a committee consisting of equal numbers of management and Union members (to
a maximum of three (3) members each) will meet to discuss the contracting out option. This committee will
37
attempt to make recommendations to the Company on the issue in terms of whether or not the work should be contracted out, together with any reasonable alternatives, taking into account the Company's requirements concerning quality, the time-lines within which the project must be completed and the need for the work to be completed at a competitive cost.
The Company will give full consideration to the recommendations of the committee on contracting out issues, and if these recommendations are not accepted, shall communicate the reasons for the decision to the committee. The Company's decision to contract out shall be posted.
Following completion of the work, the committee will meet to assess the work in terms of quality, timelines and cost together with any other relevant factors.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 22nd day of November 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2004, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: TIGER PROGRAM
The parties agree on the importance of recognizing employees for success at the factory.
In saying that, a Gainsharing Program, to replace the Nestle Bonus Plan in 1997 and each year thereafter, will be developed and will include the following measurement tools:
1.	percent of standards produced
2.	first pass quality
3.	safety
4.	costs
and any other relevant measurement tool(s)
The TIGER Program will pay out up to 4% of yearly earnings with the opportunity to overachieve to 4.8 % maximum (maximum 2184 hours) if the measurement criteria, as described above, are exceeded. That is the Program must make money before it can pay out.
A joint committee will be formed to develop the TIGER Program, with the above criteria as the basic measurement tools. The committee will meet as soon as possible after ratification to endeavour to fully develop the Plan in a short period of time. The Plan that is developed will be sent to the Sr. V.P. Human Resources, Sr. V.P. Operations and President, Foodservices for final approval.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 22nd day of November 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
This Letter of Understanding shall expire as of September 30, 2004, but be subject to renewal thereafter if mutually agreed.
39
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: SCALEHOUSE PERSONNEL
This letter shall pertain to those employed as Scalehouse Personnel and those formerly known as Watch Personnel.
Sec 10 - Vacation
These employees will have vacation entitlement as of their latest date of hire.
Sec 13.1 - Seniority
Scalehouse personnel seniority will start as of March 22, 1996. Watch personnel seniority will start February 24, 1997. Seniority number will be awarded in descending order as to the latest date of hire of these employees.
Sec 13.5 - Layoff
These employees will not be subject to layoff if work is available in this position. If working at another bargaining unit position, they would be subject to layoff as per Sec 13.5 of the collective agreement.
Sec 13.9 - Recall
These employees will not be subject to recall as per Sec 13.9 if work is available in this position. If being recalled for another bargaining unit position, they would be subject to recall as per Sec 13.9 of the collective agreement.
Sec 28 - Pension
Scalehouse personnel have entered into the pension plan as of June 1, 1995. Watch Personnel will enter the pension plan as follows;
Lorne Sparrow - 1 Feb., 1994 Spencer Aldwinkle - 1 Feb., 1998 Donald Duthie - 1 Nov., 1997
Sec 30 - Severance Pay
These employees will be awarded severance pay based on the latest date of hire.
Appendix A
Scalehouse Lead will be paid $1.00 per hour over group rate.
Agreed at Brandon, Manitoba this 30th day of August 2001.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THE COMPANY
B. Husband	G. Harron
March 19, 2002
40