AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
Nestle Canada Inc.
Foods Division Chesterville, Ontario
and
CAW Local 488 of National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers’
Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
Hourly Factory Employees
EXPIRY DATE: January 31, 2007
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT was ratified as of June 11th, 2004.
BY AND BETWEEN
NESTLE CANADA INC.
Chesterville, Ontario
(Hereinafter called the “COMPANY”) and
CAW Local 488 of National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General
Workers’ Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
(hereinafter called the “UNION”)
WITNESSETH: Whereas it is considered to be the mutual interest and is the desire of the parties here to cooperate fully, individually and collectively to operate the plant of the Company at Chesterville, Ontario, so as to promote the safety and welfare of the employees, economy of operation, elimination of waste, quantity and quality of output, cleanliness of plant, and protection of property. Now therefore, it is mutually agreed as follows:
1
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
(a)	This Agreement covers and relates to employees of the Company working at the Chesterville, Ontario, plant exclusive of the following:
(1)	Regular Office or Clerical employees and Security Guards:
(2)	Supervisor and those above the rank of Supervisor, and all salaried staff.
(3)	All employees, mechanics, erectors, etcetera, temporarily engaged in construction and erection work, whether on salary or hourly basis.
(b)	Temporary or new employees who are employed for less than one hundred and twenty (120) working days or 960 hours worked, whichever is earlier, in any one year shall not be regarded as within the scope of this Agreement, unless mutually agreed upon by both parties, but shall be required to pay the equivalent of regular monthly Union dues.
(c)	New employees may be hired at a rate, five (5) percent below the applicable classification for a period not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) working days or 960 hours worked, whichever is earlier. Increases up to the relative classification rate and promotions to any classification may be made on the basis of qualifications at any time during this period.
ARTICLE 2
NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT
(a)	The Company agrees there will be no lock-out and the Union agrees there will be no strike, so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
ARTICLE 3
RESERVATION TO MANAGEMENT
(a)	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Union recognizes the right of the Company to hire, promote, transfer and, for just cause, to demote, suspend or otherwise discipline an employee. It shall also be considered the right of the Company to discharge any employee for good cause, upon one week's notice or one week's pay in lieu of notice, except that the Company reserves the right to discharge without notice or pay in lieu of notice, for any one of the following causes; dishonesty, absence without leave, discourtesy, direct refusal to obey orders, or flagrant violation of Company rules. In the event of a Union member being dismissed a senior member of the Union Executive is to be notified within one (1) day, or as soon as conveniently possible.
(b)	The Union further recognizes the undisputed right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its obligations and pursuant to its policies, and to make and alter from time to time, rules and regulations to be observed by employees, which rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)	The Employer and the Union shall not discriminate against employees with respect to terms or conditions of employment on the grounds of race, creed, colour, age, sex, marital or parental status, union membership or activity, family relationship, political affiliation, or sexual orientation except as provided by the Ontario Human Rights Code.
2
(d)	Non-bargaining unit salaried employees of the Company shall not be permitted to perform bargaining unit work except in the following situations.:
(1)	Instructing employees in the proper use of tools, equipment, or other job tasks;
(2)	Product experimentation and production of trials with the assistance of bargaining unit employees as required;
(3)	Acting to prevent an accident or injury, or damage or loss to product or equipment.
(4)	When casual performance of work expedites production or until a regular employee is available.
(5)	The Company may at any time employ men in each department who are learning the business and are bona fide apprentices for executive positions, provided, however, that such apprentices shall not displace the regular employees. These apprentices shall not be eligible to join the Union.
(e)	The Company will not contract out work normally performed by the bargaining unit while suitably qualified bargaining unit employees are on lay-off and available for work or to prevent the hiring of additional bargaining unit employees.
The Company and the Union realize the occasional need for production personnel where it is not practical or cost effective to train new employees or where the work cannot be performed, without delay, by existing employees. In these situations the company will:
(1)	Remove such personnel prior to laying off any bargaining unit employee(s).
(2)	Will offer any overtime/premium days to be worked to bargaining unit employees prior to offering same to the occasional personnel.
(3)	Use occasional personnel for a “term and task” basis for a period that will not exceed eight weeks unless approved by the Union.
(4)	Supply the Union with the equivalent of union dues, on a pro rata basis for the entire period that occasional personnel are utilized.
(5)	Ensure that such personnel abide by the minimum required hygiene, GMP and safety standards which includes the wearing of PPE.
(f)	The Company will not contract out maintenance work while suitably qualified maintenance employees are on lay-off provided that it is practical and cost competitive to use Company maintenance employees.
With respect to practicality and cost-competitiveness consideration is given to such factors as:
-	does the Company have the facilities and equipment to perform the work required.
-	was it necessary to let the contract in advance of knowing whether Company employees
-	would be on lay-off when the work is scheduled to be performed.
-	is the manning required for the work in excess of the Company's manning in a trade(s).
-	is the cost with use of Company personnel lower or, if not, is the cost disadvantage marginal and therefore, offset by advantages of using Company personnel.
-	will the contractual notice requirements make the use of Company personnel cost prohibitive.
(g)	The Company agrees to provide notice of a technological change to the Union where bargaining unit members are affected, and this notice will be given, whenever possible, at least two months prior to the change.
3
ARTICLE 4 SENIORITY
(a)	Seniority shall be recognized by the Company and shall be based on the length of continuous service of employees with the Company.
(b)	Seniority shall be effective only after an employee has been employed on a permanent basis for a period of one hundred and twenty (120) working days or 960 hours worked, whichever is earlier.
Seniority will be computed one hundred and twenty (120) working days back from the one hundred and twentieth (120) day worked.
(c)	Seniority lists shall be prepared by the Company and a copy supplied to the Executive of the Union and posted on the bulletin board within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the contract and each six (6) months thereafter.
(d)	In the case of lay-off or re-employment the seniority of employees permanently in the affected classification shall govern provided the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to perform the job adequately. Employees displaced from their permanent classification shall bump into available general labour work provided they have the seniority.
(e)	Seniority and employment shall terminate when an employee:
(1)	Voluntarily resigns.
(2)	Is discharged and is not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
(3)	Has been absent due to lay-off for twelve (12) months consecutively or thirty (30) months consecutively if the employee has five (5) or more years of service at the time of lay-off.
Credited seniority shall be retained and continue to accumulate for the initial twenty four (24) months of absence due to illness or accident at which point seniority will be frozen.
(f)	Employees with three (3) or more years seniority shall be given seven (7) days notice of lay-off or pay in lieu thereof, and employees with less than three (3) years seniority shall be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off or pay in lieu thereof. For purposes of this paragraph (f) pay in lieu of notice will be eight (8) hours per day at the employees regular rate. Notice of lay-off shall not be required in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours. In the event of a major mechanical breakdown or Act of God employees will be given twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off.
(g)	Employees will be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of recall from lay-off when ever possible.
(h)	The Company will make three (3) attempts to contact the employee by telephone, at the last given telephone number, over a period of not less than seven and one-half hours. If no contact is made with the employee, the next senior employee qualified to perform the job will be recalled. The Company will send a recall notice, by registered mail to the employee passed over, at the last given address. The employee shall contact the Company immediately upon receipt of the notice and will be assigned his shift which will allow twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off to be given to the junior employee who replaced him.
(i)	Under the above circumstances the junior employee shall have no claim to more than twenty-four (24) hours notice of layoff.
(j)	If an employee on lay-off is recalled to work to replace an employee who is absent due to illness, accident, bereavement, personal emergency or vacation where the employee has made the request less than one week before the start of a day or days vacation other than a full week, or more, the recalled employee will be given as much notice of lay-off as possible with minimum notice of twenty-four (24) hours.
4
(k)	The Company may grant leave of absence to any employee, at its discretion, without pay, but without loss of seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months unless otherwise arranged by the Company and the Union. Employees on a leave of absence will receive benefit coverage for two (2) months.
ARTICLE 5
VACANCIES AND JOB POSTING
(a)	Vacancies, new positions, or temporary assignments of more than ten (10) working days duration shall be posted on the bulletin board immediately for a period of three (3) working days, except where the temporary assignment results from an absence due to illness, accident, leave of absence or vacation. Employees are permitted to bid for appointments thereto. The Company may temporarily fill any such job until the appointment is made, for a maximum period up to ten (10) working days. Only the original vacancy and the first three (3) vacancies arising therefrom need be posted. No employee may bid again for six (6) months after a successful bid into a permanent classification. The sixth month ban will not apply if the job is eliminated.
In filling vacancies, new positions, and posted temporary assignments, seniority shall govern, provided the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to perform the job adequately. The decision of the Company as to the successful applicant will be given to the Union Executive prior to appointments being made. If an employee bids on a classified job and does not remain on the job he shall have the opportunity to step down to general labour, provided his seniority permits such a change.
Special projects, agreed by the union, of less than ninety (90) working days in a rolling calendar and accommodating employees returning to modified work do not need to be posted. Notwithstanding any other provision of this collective agreement, if the requirement of the job still exists it will be posted at the expiry of the accommodation.
Where the company opts to post on an interim basis an absence due to illness and a leave of absence. Employees will be awarded the position permanently if the incumbent does not return or bids into another position upon, or prior to their return.
The Company shall determine and provide the training required when an employee successfully posts into a new job.
ARTICLE 6
WORK CLOTHING AND SAFETY SHOES
The Company agrees to supply and launder Company approved uniforms which consist of pants, shirts, t-shirts and jacket. The Company will also provide necessary clothing required to perform the job function (e.g. gloves). The Company uniforms shall be considered the property of the Company. In addition, insulated coveralls and jackets, for outside use, and will be purchased by the company and available on loan to designated employees requiring such clothing and will be issued and returned daily in the same manner as tools and other equipment.
The Company will pay employees towards the cost of Company approved safety shoes once each calendar year upon proof of purchase. Effective February 1, 2004, the amount paid to the employees will be up to one hundred and twenty-five ($125) dollars. These shoes shall remain the property of the Company and, as such, are subject to its rules and regulations.
Employees requiring prescription eye-glasses will be reimbursed up to twenty dollars ($20) to cover the cost of special lenses on replacement of eyeglasses.
5
ARTICLE 7 HOURS OF WORK
(a)	A work week will consist of forty (40) hours between 0001 hours Monday to 2400 hours Sunday midnight.
(b)	Every employee shall have at least one Sunday off in four the year round except in case of emergency in the sole opinion of the Management. The Management will bend every effort to rotate Sunday work.
(c)	Should an employee be unable to report for work, the Management or Department Supervisor must be advised, stating reason at least one (1) hour prior to the starting time of his scheduled shift wherever possible.
(d)	Should an employee have to take a day off for personal reasons, he is required to inform his Department Supervisor or Management at least two (2) days ahead, to obtain permission except in the case of a justifiable emergency.
(e)	In cases of absenteeism and reporting late, the Company may impose any penalty which is considered reasonable to prevent a recurrence of such conduct. The Company will consult the Grievance Committee regarding any such penalty.
(1)	An employee who is injured during his regularly scheduled shift and requires medical treatment outside the plant will be reimbursed at his regular rate of pay for any lost time during the balance of that shift.
(g)	Operating Engineers covered by this Agreement:
(a)	Must be at their work station a minimum of five (5) minutes prior to the start of their shift in order to relieve the engineer going off shift;
(b)	Shall be scheduled to work twelve (12) hour shifts in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement, save and except the following:
(1)	Overtime provided for in Clause 8(a) shall be applied at the rate of time and one half the employee's regular rate to all hours worked in excess of his regularly scheduled hours.
(2)	The shift bonus provided for in Clause 8(g) shall be added after the calculation of any overtime or premium rate for those operating engineers having worked during the hours of 16:00 to 08:00.
(3)	In the event an employee loses time through jury duty, as per Clause 17(d), the Company will pay the difference between “Jury Duty Pay” and the wages lost for scheduled working time lost.
(h)	An employee will be given the opportunity to complete eight (8) hours of work when:
(1)	He has been given short notice of recall for replacement provided there are operations in the factory for the eight (8) hour period.
(2)	When his shift is terminated prior to the normal ending time.
The above shall not apply in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours. In addition an employee may be assigned any available work to complete his eight (8) hour shift.
(i)	Work schedules for production departments shall be posted each Thursday, as is current practice. It is understood that such schedules are subject to change after posting.
6
ARTICLE 8 OVERTIME
(a)	Overtime, at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular rate will apply:
(1)	in excess of eight (8) hours work in any one day or shift,
(2)	or, in excess of forty (40) hours per week,
(3)	or, on the sixth (6th) day of work in the work week, whichever is the greatest.
(b)	All work done on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employee's regular rate of pay. Sunday work shall be paid at twice the employee's regular rate of pay. Such premiums shall not be paid concurrently with overtime worked on the premium days. When there is an absence by an employee without a reasonable explanation, in the particular work week, the week-end premium shall be paid at straight time for the number of hours to be absorbed.
Notwithstanding the above, a continental work week may be introduced at the discretion of the Company within coffee manufacturing and syrups (manufacturing, filling and packing) and any support functions where production requirements require a seven day production schedule for not less than four
(4)	weeks. The decision will be driven by volume, and capacity to produce the volume in order to maintain a competitive advantage. If introduced, the Continental Work Week will only apply to employees within the affected area of operation including the necessary support groups. Before the implementation of the flexible workweek the Company will advise the Union four (4) weeks in advance wherever practicable.
Under the continental work week Saturday and Sunday will be viewed as normal working days not subject to premium payment but an employee will receive time and one-half for the sixth day they work in a week and double time for the seventh day they work in a week. When there is unauthorized absence by an employee in the particular work week, the sixth and seventh day shall be paid at straight time for the number of hours to be absorbed.
The Union will be asked to participate in the formulation of the continental work week shift patterns to ensure that the requirements of employees are taken into account as far as is reasonably practicable.
(c)	Overtime so far as practicable shall be distributed evenly among employees and shall be voluntary provided that an adequate work force is available to maintain production levels. Employees may be required to work overtime and shall be given four (4) hours notice as far as possible, and when necessary employees shall be assigned to work overtime in reverse order of seniority.
(d)	The company shall record and post the overtime hours offered each employee in the appropriate department.
(e)	An employee shall not be required to suspend work during regular hours to absorb overtime.
(1)	Any employee who has completed his shift for the day and has left the plant and is required to return to work prior to his scheduled starting time shall be paid at the overtime rate for those hours worked with a minimum payment of three (3) hours. Time so worked shall be included in his scheduled shift of that day for the purpose of overtime calculation.
(g) A shift bonus of sixty-eight (68) cents per hour, effective February 1, 2004, sixty-nine (69) cents per hour, effective February 1, 2005, seventy (70) cents per hour, effective February 1, 2006
shall be paid as follows and shall be added after the calculation of any overtime or premium rate:
(1)	To all employees working on scheduled afternoon or night shifts. In any case shift bonus shall not apply before 1400 hours or after 0800 hours.
(2)	To other employees on all work between the hours of 1800 hours and 0600 hours.
7
(h)	The Company agrees to minimize work as much as possible on Sundays and Holidays.
(i)	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or premium payments.
(j)	In the event that an employee is required temporarily to change his regularly scheduled shift and is notified of this change less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start of his rescheduled shift he shall be paid at the overtime rate for the first shift of the change. It is agreed that these provisions shall not apply to shift changes resulting from personal time off, scheduling difficulties beyond the control of the Company, schedule changes to avoid lay-offs, and Acts of God. For the purposes of this clause, a change in a regularly scheduled shift shall mean a displacement of a period of more than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours from the starting and ending time of the regularly scheduled shift.
(k)	An employee who is required to continue at work for a minimum period of four (4) hours following the completion of his regular shift will be provided with a $7.00 meal allowance effective February 1, 2004, $7.25 effective February 1, 2005 and $7.50 effective February 1, 2006. An additional meal allowance will be paid for each additional four (4) hours worked. For purposes of determining eligibility for meal allowance any time taken for authorized breaks during the overtime period will be considered a part of the four (4) hours, provided the employee does not leave the factory.
(l)	Notwithstanding the above provisions of this Article 8 employees may elect to accumulate (“bank”) overtime and take equivalent time-off in lieu of overtime payment subject to the conditions and procedures agreed to by the parties.
ARTICLE 9
PAID STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(a)	It is agreed that New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and four (4) Additional Holidays, the dates of which the Company shall announce in February of each year, are to be recognized and enjoyed, and employees paid their regular rate of pay. Should an employee be required to work on such days, he shall be paid time and one-half his regular rate of pay for all time worked, over and above his straight Holiday pay. It is agreed that if the Government of Ontario or Canada declares a Statutory Holiday other than the Holidays named in this Article 9, one of the Additional Holidays referred to in this Article 9 shall be designated as that Holiday. In order to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must be on the payroll a minimum of one hundred and twenty (120) working days before the Statutory Holiday, and be on duty the day before and the day after as and if required.
(b)	It is agreed between the parties that payment to employees on lay-off for the Statutory Holidays referred to in Clause 9(a) shall be made as specified in this clause. Employees on lay-off who would otherwise be entitled to Statutory Holiday pay will be paid for the next Holiday (or Holidays if they are consecutive) following the date of lay-off, provided the employee worked the last shift assigned to him, which must have been after the preceding Statutory Holiday, and the next shift assigned to him following the Statutory Holiday for which he is paid.
(c)	Employees who are absent as a result of sickness or a personal injury shall be entitled to Holiday pay for a period of six (6) months, but a Doctor's certificate may be required at any time by the Company. When a medical certificate is required by the company, the company agrees to pay for:
(1)	up to three certificates per year, and
(2)	medical certificates due to absences of greater than five consecutive working days.
8
ARTICLE 10 PAY DAY
(a)	Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon pay periods shall be on a weekly basis, through direct deposit with the date being Thursday except where there is a mechanical breakdown in which case the pay day may be Friday if necessary. In the event of a pay date falling on a Holiday the pay date shall be the preceding date except in case, or cases of emergency over which the Company has no control. The occurrence of one or more Statutory Holidays in a pay week may necessitate a Friday pay day.
ARTICLE 11
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
(a)	Where an employee is assigned to work at lower than his classified occupation for a period of sixty (60) working days, thereafter he will receive the rate of pay applying to the work he is performing, for the duration of his assignment, but this will not apply to employees on training programs.
(b)	An employee, who works regularly for one hour or more per day in a higher classification than his own, will receive the rate for the number of hours worked in that classification.
(c)	Where an employee has bid into a temporary assignment position he shall receive the applicable rate only while working on that assignment, and shall revert to the General Labour rate when so employed. If he does not work in the temporary assignment position for sixty (60) working days he will no longer hold the temporary assignment classification.
(d)	Where an employee who has bid into a temporary assignment position works at that position for a minimum of sixty (60) working days in any twelve (12) month period, he shall be considered as permanent in the position.
(e)	Where an Engineer 3rd Class is performing the function of an Engineer 2nd Class, and is permitted to do so by Government regulation, he shall be paid a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour while so employed, effective May 3rd, 2001.
ARTICLE 12 SAFETY AND HEALTH
(a)	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provision for the health and safety of its employees at the plant during the hours of their employment, in providing protective devices and equipment, adequate first aid essentials, washrooms equipped with wash basins and toilets, drinking water facilities, and a suitable lunchroom. The employees will cooperate in keeping all such facilities clean and sanitary, and any violation of this requirement will be subject to discipline. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of employees to make use of all protective devices and equipment made available by the Company.
(b)	Both parties will co-operate to the fullest extent reasonably possible toward the prevention of accidents and the promotion of the safety and health of the employees. To further these aims a safety committee shall be established composed of equal members of employees and management in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, its Regulations, Codes of Practice and Guidelines.
The Union Co-Chairperson and safety members will be selected by the Union, and wherever practicable, will be representative of departments within the factory. At no time must there be an unequal number of members appointed on either side. The meetings will take place monthly. Employees shall be paid for actual time spent in attendance at Health & Safety meetings at their regular hourly rate including overtime where applicable.
9
The Committee shall assist in creating a safe and healthy place to work and shall recommend actions to improve the effectiveness of the Company health and safety program and shall promote and actively participate in the improvements and ensuring compliance with the appropriate laws, regulations, codes of practice and guidelines.
The Company shall provide training in first aid and other emergency procedures to ensure coverage on each shift.
ARTICLE 13
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
The Company and Union discussed the rising incidence of violence or abuse, notably violence against women and how this may affect the employee’s attendance or performance at work. The Company agrees that where there is adequate verification from recognized professionals (e.g. physician, lawyer, professional counselor) provided to the Company with the approval of the employee, an employee who is subject to abuse or violence will not be disciplined without first giving full consideration to the circumstances surrounding the incident. The Company and the Union will treat such information in a confidential manner unless required by law to be produced.
ARTICLE 14 HARASSMENT
The Company and the Union adopt a ZERO TOLERANCE position in relation to any form of verbal or physical abuse, verbal or physical harassment in the workplace. Any harassment in the workplace will be met with disciplinary action up to termination of employment. The Company will involve the Union in harassment investigations as appropriate.
ARTICLE 15 VACATIONS
(a)	A vacation with pay will be granted only if an employee has completed twelve (12) complete months of continuous service. Vacation schedules shall be worked out on a basis which will not impair the operation of the plant.
(b)	Vacations with pay will be granted according to the following schedule:
12 months service but less than 5 years	- 2 weeks
5 years service but less than	10	years	-	3	weeks
10 years service but less than	19	years	-	4	weeks
19 years service but less than	29	years	-	5	weeks
29 years or more	-	6	weeks
For purposes of determining service for vacation entitlement the employees' seniority, as specified in Article 4 of the Agreement, shall be used.
(c)	If there is any conflict between two or more employees as to vacation periods, the Company shall give preference in choice of times to the employee with the greatest seniority.
(d)	Vacation pay will be calculated as follows:
(1) For employees with eighteen hundred and forty (1840) hours worked in the preceding calendar year, vacation pay will be the greater of two percent (2%) of his previous calendar year's earning per week of vacation entitlement, or forty (40) hours pay at his permanent rate of pay in effect immediately before going on vacation.
10
(2)	Employees who work less than eighteen hundred and forty (1840) hours in the preceding calendar year shall be paid two percent (2%) of the previous calendar year's earnings for each week of vacation entitlement.
(3)	For purposes of this clause only, hours worked will include time lost because of established disability due to illness or injury during which time the employee is receiving Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits, time on Company paid vacation, holidays, jury duty, bereavement leave, Union business for which the employee is entitled to normal pay under the terms of this Agreement, at eight (8) hours per day. The year's earnings will be based on these hours at the employee's regular rate.
(e)	The calendar year for vacation purposes will be March 1st to February 28th. The entitlement will continue to be based on the calendar year January 1st to December 31st. Vacation time will not be cumulative from year to year and payment of extra wages in lieu of vacation will not be made.
(f)	The Company will post a Vacation Schedule indicating the shutdown period by February 1st of each year. Employees must indicate their vacation preference by March 1st for vacations for the balance of the vacation year. The Company will post the approved vacation schedule on or before April 1st of each year. Vacation requests which are submitted after March 1st will be handled on a “first come - first serve” basis and employees will be expected to submit their request at least two (2) weeks in advance of their desired vacation start date, wherever possible. There will be no bumping of vacations between employees once approved.
(g)	Employees who are entitled to five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation may elect to bank their sixth (6th) and or fifth (5th) week of entitlement in accordance with the procedure agreed to by the parties.
(h)	If an employee voluntarily leaves the service of the Company, he will receive vacation pay by cheque, based on 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 percent, dependent on his service at date of termination.
(i)	It is understood and agreed that an employee already on lay-off, will not be required to take vacation during lay-off.
Notwithstanding 13(i), where an employee is entitled to four (4), five (5), or six (6) weeks of vacation, one (1) week of these vacations shall be taken at the discretion of management. Management will attempt to schedule this one (1) week during the annual summer (June, July or August) factory shutdown.
ARTICLE 16
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
(a)	Employees through their stewards shall have the right to submit at any time, on the prescribed grievance form, any grievance involving any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding, or dispute, arising from the Collective Agreement, to the Supervisor of the Department. A meeting shall be held within three (3) working days of the time of the alleged violation. The Supervisor shall give an answer in writing on the prescribed grievance form, within two (2) working days.
(b)	If the grievance remains unsettled the grievance form shall be submitted to the Department Manager within five (5) working days. The Department Manager with the Human Resources Representative, shall meet with the committee within two (2) working days and the Department Manager shall give his answer in writing within a further two (2) working days.
(c)	If the grievance remains unsettled a meeting shall be arranged between the Grievance Committee and the Factory Manager or his representative within three (3) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon and the Company representative shall give his reply in writing within a further two
(2)	working days.
11
(d)	If the grievance remains unsettled it shall be submitted to arbitration in the following manner. Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the previous step the Company and the Union shall select an Arbitrator and in the case of disagreement, both parties shall submit a joint request to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to furnish a panel of five (5) qualified and available Arbitrators. Upon receipt of the panel of names, representative of the Company and Union shall meet and proceed to select the Arbitrator. Failing a mutual selection, the parties shall each, beginning with the Union, strike alternatively, one name at a time, two names from the panel. The one then remaining name shall be the Arbitrator and such selection shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union. The expense of the Arbitrator, if any, shall be shared equally by the parties hereto.
(e)	The Arbitrator appointed as above, shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision in lieu thereof nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
(1) It is understood that in order to be considered by the Company, an employee's grievance must be lodged with the company, as in clause 14(a) of this Article, within three (3) working days of the time of the alleged violation.
(g)	An employee who is suspended or dismissed shall have his case dealt within accordance with the procedure prescribed in the preceding paragraphs of this Article and, if found wrongly suspended or dismissed, he shall be reinstated to his previous status and paid for the time lost.
(h)	It is understood and agreed between the parties that the failure by either party to observe any of the time limits set forth in this Article 14 shall be deemed to be a settlement in favour of the other party unless both parties have mutually agreed to an extension of the time limits. It is further agreed that Section 48 (16) of the Ontario Labour Relations Act shall not apply.
ARTICLE 17
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
(a)	Upon written authorization of an individual member of the Union, the Company agrees to deduct monthly dues, in the amount stipulated on the authorization form from such individual's pay. This deduction shall be made for each current month; any and all dues so collected shall be delivered to the Financial Secretary of the Union by the first (1st) day of the succeeding month.
No deduction of dues shall be made in any period in which the total amount earned in excess of all deductions required by law is not sufficient to cover the full amount. In such cases the dues shall be deducted at the next regular dues deduction period in which sufficient earnings are payable to cover such deductions.
ARTICLE 18
MEMBERSHIP MAINTENANCE
(a)	It is understood that all eligible employees who, at the date of this Agreement, are members in good standing in the Union, in accordance with its Constitution and by-laws, shall as a condition of further employment, remain members of the Union during the life of this Agreement.
(b)	All eligible new employees shall, as a condition of employment, become members on the Union within one hundred and twenty (120) working days or 960 hours worked, whichever is earlier, from the date of their employment and shall remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement.
12
(c)	Eligible new employees shall, upon completion of ninety (90) working days or 720 hours worked, whichever is earlier, be required by the Company to sign a Union Membership application form and authorize the deduction of the initiation fee from the next following pay. The fees so collected together with the application forms shall be forwarded to the Union by the first (1st) day of the succeeding month.
ARTICLE 19 MISCELLANEOUS
(a)	It shall be permissible for Shop Stewards to enter any department of the plant provided permission of the Management has been secured in advance.
(b)	The Union shall be permitted to post notices pertaining to Union business on the Notice Board supplied by the Company for the purpose and such other notices as may be approved by Management.
(c)	Amendments to this Agreement may be negotiated by the parties at any time by mutual consent, but failure to agree shall not constitute a grievance nor be submitted to Arbitration.
(d)	In the event an employee loses time through jury duty, the Company will pay the difference between “Jury Duty Pay” and the wages lost for scheduled working time lost. Payment will be calculated at eight (8) hours per day at the employee's last approved base rate.
(e)	In the event of a death in the employee's family bereavement leave will be granted as follows:
(1)	A leave of absence of five (5) consecutive working days at the employee's regular rate will be granted if the employee's spouse or partner or child or stepchild dies;
(2)	A leave of absence of four (4) consecutive working days at the employee's regular rate will be granted if a parent or step parent dies;
(3)	A leave of absence of up to three (3) consecutive working days at the employee's regular rate will be granted if a sister, stepsister, brother, stepbrother, grandparent, parent-in-law dies;
(4)	A leave of absence of up to one (1) day, (three (3) consecutive working days if the employee is responsible for funeral arrangements) at the employee's regular rate will be granted if the death involves a sister-in-law, brother-in-law, or spouse's grandparent.
The absence must commence with the date of death. The employee will be compensated for scheduled time lost as a result of the death at the employee's last approved rate.
(f)	The Company shall compensate Union Officers for working time lost through negotiations, grievances, and meetings agreed to by the Company. In addition the Company shall compensate two members of the Union Executive for working time lost through attending Arbitration hearings as related to the interpretation and application of this Collective Agreement.
(g)	Records of verbal and, or written warnings shall be removed from the employee's file if he establishes a
clear record for eighteen (18) calendar months.
(h)	National Day of Mourning - Each year on April 28 at 11:00 am one minute of silence will be observed in memory of workers killed or injured on the job. This should not result in any stopping of process lines or equipment.
ARTICLE 20
HEALTH AND WELFARE
13
(a)	The following benefit plans will be provided consistent with their terms and conditions. The Company will provide the Union with copies of the benefit plan contracts and such plans will not be amended without mutual consent. The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of:
(1)	A Weekly Indemnity Plan having a benefit of sixty (60) percent of weekly earning calculated on the employee's straight time hourly rate to the unemployment insurance maximum amount, with benefits payable on the first day of accident, first day of sickness, if hospitalized or the fourth day of sickness if not hospitalized, and to a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
(2)	Group Life Insurance with coverage of $47,000 per employee effective June 11, 2004. Effective February 1, 2005 life insurance coverage will increase to $48,000, effective February 1,
2006 coverage will increase to $49,000. Additional life insurance is available to employees and spouses at the employee's expense.
(3)	A Dental Plan, Blue Cross No. 7 or equivalent with riders providing for Endondontic and Periodontic coverage. The benefits payable under this plan shall be those specified in the O.D.A. Schedule of fees one year prior to the month in which the benefit claim is incurred.
The following additional benefits are subject to the same rules that apply to the existing Dental Plan:
(i)	Orthodontics coverage for employees under the age of 21 and employees' children under the age of 21 on the following basis: 50% of charges up to $1,500 per year ($750 maximum annual benefit) to a life-time maximum benefit of $2,000 per person.
(ii)	Denture coverage for dentures only on the following basis: 50% of charges up to $1500 in any 36 months ($750 maximum benefit in any 36 months).
(4)	A Drug Plan paying the full cost of prescription drugs after a deductible of ten (10) dollars for single employees and twenty-five (25) dollars for family employees.
(5)	A Vision Care Plan providing for the purchase of prescribed eyeglasses or contact lenses up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) in any twenty-four (24) months.
(6)	Effective May 3rd, 2001, Chiropractor payments will be covered twenty dollars ($20) for the initial visit and twenty dollars ($20) per visit to a maximum of $240 per year for employees' dependants and a maximum of $300 for employees only.
(7)	Effective May 3rd, 2001, Physiotherapy payments will be covered twenty dollars ($20) for the initial visit and twenty dollars ($20) per visit to a maximum of $240 per year for employees' dependants and a maximum of $300 for employees only.
(b)	These payments will be made in the name of each enrolled employee who remains actively employed by the Company. Payment shall also be made for employees who are absent due to illness or accident, and who are in receipt of Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits, for a period of 52 weeks from the commencement of these benefits, or until the employee is medically cleared to return to work. Should an employee be on lay-off because of his seniority on the date he is medically cleared to return to work he will receive the benefit continuance as specified in this clause provided the total time does not exceed the fifty-two (52) week period referred to above. In the case of lay-off employee's payments for Group Life Insurance, the Dental Plan and the Drug Plan shall be paid for the two (2) months following the month in which the lay-off occurs.
(c)	Survivor benefits (major medical and dental coverages) will be provided for seven months to the surviving spouse and eligible dependants of an employee who passes away in service.
(d)	Pension Plan: Effective January 1st 2002 a defined contribution pension plan administered by the CAW was introduced. It is understood that all administration of this pension plan will be the responsibility of
14
the CAW. The employee will make contributions as of 1% of regular pay. The Company (employer) will match this contribution as follows
	Date of Ratification (June 11, 2004)	Feb 1, 2005	Feb 1, 2006
Employee Contribution	1%	1%	1%
Employer Contribution	1.75%	2.5%	3.5%
ARTICLE 21
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
(a)	Classification of jobs and occupations, with the corresponding wage rates are included as Appendix A -Job Classification and Wage Rate Schedule.
(b)	The Company will provide work within an employee's own classification as far as practical.
(c)	In the event that the Company, (for sound business reasons), establishes new or substantively changed classification of work within the bargaining unit and the subsequent revisions, if any, to the schedule of Job Classification and Wage Rates (appendix A), the Company agrees to:
1.	Consult with the union and obtain input on said changes.
2.	Consider recommendations put forth by the union regarding those changes.
3.	Implement those recommendations deemed appropriate by the Company.
4.	Explain and provide business reasons for the changes to be made.
If the Union does not consider the rate assigned to the new classification to be appropriate then the matter may be submitted to the grievance procedure commencing at Step 3.
(d)	If the grievance is subsequently appealed to arbitration, the Arbitrator's jurisdiction shall be confined to confirming the rate or applying another rate which would be an equitable rate based on the existing rate structure shown in the schedule of Job classification and Wage Rates.
(e)	Where a new job is created, under this Article, and can be filled internally, it will be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 5. In such circumstance a senior applicant shall be given preference for the job, where he has the necessary qualification, skill, experience, ability and aptitude to be trained reasonably quickly for the position, subject to the training period not exceeding three months. Where a new job cannot be filled internally as outlined above, the Company will be at liberty to recruit externally.
ARTICLE 22 TRAINING PROGRAMS
(a)	The Company may at any time, where no vacancy exists, take the opportunity to train employees for higher classifications at their existing rates of pay. These training positions will be open for classification subject to the provisions of Article 5.
(b)	It is understood and agreed that an employee's written test will be valid for one year without retesting on subsequent job postings.
15
ARTICLE 23
TRANSFER OF OPERATIONS
(a)	In the event that the Company transfers any of its operations from Chesterville to another Company owned and operated production facility employees displaced as result of such transfer may elect to take, within one month of the date of the transfer of operations, available jobs at the new location subject to having the required skill and ability.
(b)	Employees electing transfer will assume their own relocation costs. Employees will be subject to the conditions of employment (e.g. medical clearance) at the new location and shall be credited with date of entry seniority, except that former service will be retained for service related benefits save and except pension.
(c)	Employees will be eligible for an advance of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) to assist with actual relocation expenses. Such advance will be made available at the time of transfer and will be repayable in full no later than two (2) months after the date of transfer.
ARTICLE 24
EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
(a)	This Agreement shall be deemed to have come into effect on February 1, 2004 and shall remain in force until January 31, 2007.
(b)	This Agreement shall be automatically renewed from year to year, unless notice by registered mail is given by either party to the other for amendment or termination, not less than two (2) months before the above termination date. If notice in writing is given by either party to the other for amendment, the existing Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a new agreement is signed or until the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act have been complied with.
16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed by its duly authorized representatives as of the 9th day of June 2004.
For
Nestle Canada Inc.
Marcia Dion Alastair MacDonald Marianne Nero Tim Gareau
For the
CAW Local 488 of National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers’
Union of Canada (CAW-Canada)
Dwayne Hall John van der Veen Shane Gillard Neil Beckstead Donald Munroe
Harry Ghadban
17
CHESTERVILLE - APPENDIX A Schedule Of Job Classifications And Wage Rates
CLASSIFICATIONS:
Feb.1/04
Feb.1/05
Feb.1/06
Increase of:
2.25%
$25.25
2.25%	2.25%
$25.82	$26.40
RATE 1
Engineer 3rd Class
Waste Water Treatment Operator Class II Electrician
Instrument Mechanic - Class A Maintenance Mechanic - Class A
RATE 2..................................... $22.59	$23.10	$23.62
Shipper/Receiver
RATE 3..................................... $22.07	$22.57	$23.08
Warehouse Operator
RATE 4 ................................. $21.87	$22.36	$22.86
Coffee Extractor Operator Coffee Roaster Operator
Powder Chamber Operator, Coffee Manufacturing Commodity Handler, Coffee Manufacturing Relief Operator, Coffee Manufacturing Process Equipment Operator, Instant Drinks
RATE 5 .................................... $21.61	$22.10	$22.60
Line Service Operator, Coffee Filling
Packaging Line Equipment Operator, Coffee Filling
Process Equipment Operator, Syrups
Line Service Operator, Syrups
Packaging Line Equipment Operator, Syrups
Line Service Operator, Instant Drinks
Packaging Line Equipment Operator, Instant Drinks
RATE 6 ................................. $21.53	$22.01	$22.51
General Stores Clerk
Material Handler Operator, Warehouse
Stock Clerk (Warehouse)
Tote System Operator, Coffee Manufacturing Waste Handler
RATE 7 ................................ $21.19	$21.67	$22.16
Janitor
4th Class Engineer
RATE 8 ................................ $20.96	$21.43	$21.91
General Labour
18
APPENDIX B
LIGHT LABOUR PROGRAM
It is hereby agreed between the parties that a Light Labour Program will operate in the area of the factory as indicated on drawings #40818 and #40819 (formerly known as the Cannery mixing/processing area) under the following terms and conditions:
(1)	Light Labour Program wage rates will be as follows:
Feb.1/2004 - Jan 31, 2007
Light Labour	$11.17
Utility Operator	$11.49
(2)	Work presently performed by regular members of the bargaining unit shall not be transferred to the Light Labour Department.
(3)	Work performed in the Light Labour Department will be confined to special packaging (pouch/bag/drum filling); product rework; inspection; and associated production of the type commonly performed by third-party co-packers. Prior to the introduction of any other type of work there shall be consultation between the parties and mutual consent.
(4)	Maintenance work in the Light Labour Department and ancillary services (e.g. supply) between the Light Labour Department and the remainder of the factory will be performed by regular bargaining unit employees.
(5)	The work force for the Light Labour Department shall be employed as a separate group distinct from regular bargaining unit employees. There shall be a separate seniority list for employees of the Light Labour Department.
(6)	In the event the Company elects to hire additional employees for regular bargaining unit work such work will first be offered to Light Labour employee who have completed their probationary period. Such employees will be subject to the standard terms and conditions of employment for newly hired employees including seniority attainment. In the event an individual so employed achieves “regular” seniority he shall be removed from the Light Labour Department seniority list.
(7)	In the case of lay-off, recall and job posting, Light Labour Department seniority shall govern provided the employee possesses sufficient skill and ability.
(8)	With the following exceptions and modifications the various terms and conditions of the parties Collective Agreement shall apply to employees working in the Light Labour Department.
(a)	The probationary period shall be thirty (30) working days.
(b)	Employees will be entitled to twenty-four (24) hours notice of lay-off except in the event of a power failure of more than four (4) hours.
(c)	Employees shall receive the following overtime premiums:
19
-	Time and one-half for hours in excess of forty (40) per week and eight (8) per day.
-	Time and one-half for all hours worked on Saturday.
-	Double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
-	Overtime shall not be pyramided.
(d)	Employees shall be eligible for payment of the following Statutory Holidays in accordance with the provisions of Article 9.
New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
Canada Day
(e)	The following Articles in their entirety shall not be applicable to Light Labour employees except as provided for in (9) below: Articles 18, 21
(9)	Employees will be provided with a Drug Plan consistent with the terms and conditions of that provided to regular bargaining unit employees under Article 18 of the Collective Agreement.
(10)	The parties recognize that for the desired work to be performed in the Light Labour Department the cost of performing the work must be a least as economical as would be the case if the work were performed by an outside party.
(11)	It is understood that because of the cost involved in the introduction of equipment, and because of existing contracts with outside producers the introduction of work in the Light Labour Department will be phased in over an indefinite period of time, but as rapidly as profitable opportunities arise that are practical.
The above Appendix B has been accepted by majority vote taken on January 17th, 1997. This agreement supersedes any previous versions of this Appendix B.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
20
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: STABILIZED WORK FORCE
In conjunction with and further to the Agreement between Nestle Canada In. (Chesterville Factory) and CAW Local 488 of National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers’ Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), it is the desire of the Company to maintain a stabilized work force by minimizing layoffs and recalls to the extent possible.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Dwayne Hall	Marcia Dion
For the Union	For the Company
21
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:STANDBY
In conjunction with and further to the Agreement between Nestle Canada Inc. (Chesterville Factory) and CAW Local 488 of National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General Workers’ Union of Canada (CAW-Canada), it is agreed that Standby for the Plant Maintenance Department will be in accordance with the following procedure which will not be amended or terminated without prior consultation with the Union Executive.
Plant Engineering Department Standby
These instructions are issued to cover the function of “Standby” whereby trained maintenance people are available on short notice to perform emergency type work to keep the factory in production or safe from harm. These instructions supersede any previous agreements and are as follows:
1)	The Senior Stationary Engineer (Shift Engineer) will act as coordinator, and as such is the representative for the Manager, Factory Engineering.
2)	The Shift Engineer will inspect all jobs, to determine which trade is required and will call the individual concerned. Minor repairs will be done by the Boiler Room personnel.
3)	Call-backs of standby personnel must be made from the Boiler Room office. The standby man must telephone the Boiler Room to confirm he has received the call-back and to find out what the problem is. The Shift Engineer must enter in the “call back” book, the name of the man called back, the time and the reason for the call-back.
4)	The maintenance employee on standby will be one who is capable of completing any emergency work on all of the Company's production equipment.
5)	The Maintenance man called back must make a brief note in the space provided in the call-back book, describing what was wrong and what he did to correct the situation. Any additional personnel called in (after consulting with the Shift Engineer) must also be recorded in the call-back book.
6)	No extra work shall be given to the standby man on call-back if the work can wait until the next regular shift in the estimation of the Shift Engineer in consultation with the Senior Production representative.
7)	Standby hours shall be after normal working hours Monday through Friday and during the weekend until normal starting time Monday.
8)	Changeover will be at 07:00 on Monday.
9)	Standby will be suspended on long weekends wherever possible and on Saturday and/or Sundays on weekends when production or plant safety will not be compromised. The Manager, Factory Engineer shall determine when standby shall be suspended, but in any case the standby man must be available six (6) hours prior to production start-up.
10)	The standby list will be posted in the Boiler Room and in the shop.
11)	If, due to legitimate absence (i.e. sickness) a man on standby is not available during part of his standby week, his foreman will arrange for a suitable replacement and enter the replacement's name on the standby posting list in the Boiler Room and the shop.
The man normally scheduled for the week will be paid the standby premium for the week. The replacement will not be paid any premium for any time temporarily posted on standby. However, if
22
called in, the replacement would be paid the appropriate minimum time and rate (call-back). The important thing is to have someone to contact in an emergency.
12)	Standby personnel have one half hour to report to the factory after the call is made.
13)	The penalty for not reporting or missing a call-back is a two-day forfeit a standby premium: a late arrival is subject to a one-day forfeit.
14)	Overtime will be done by the man on standby unless the work requires some other specialist, or continuity of work requires that men already on the job, complete the job.
15)	Standby premiums will be increased on a yearly basis according with the percentage increase of the union contract from the date of February 1,2002.
16)	Standby premium is now $110.00/week for a two shift operation and $160.00/week for a single shift operation, effective May 3rd, 2001. The above reflects $10.00 per shift..
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
23
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: NON-CONTINUOUS NIGHT SHIFT ARRANGEMENT
If the company and the union agree the following arrangement will be tested on a trial basis for a period of six (6) months. This arrangement will apply only to non-continuous production operations.
1)	The normal shift duration will be established as eight (8) hours versus the current eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours.
2)	Employees will continue to be granted two (2) paid breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during each shift.
3)	Employees will take their lunch during their paid break periods (as noted in (2) above).
At the end of the trial period the parties will consult regarding the experience with this new arrangement among other matters, consideration will be given to:
-	Whether employees prefer the new arrangement versus the old.
-	Has the arrangement led to extension of break times or otherwise negatively impacted on operations.
If either party is dissatisfied with the new arrangement it will be discontinued. Alternatively, the parties may confirm that the new arrangement is preferable in which case it can be extended for the term of the current Agreement.
ADDENDUM
When mutually agreed by the parties the Non-Continuous Night Shift arrangement outlined above will be utilized, by department, giving due consideration to operational matters.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
24
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: OVERTIME BANKING
Further to Article 8 (l) of the Collective Agreement the following conditions and procedures shall govern the
“banking” of overtime.
(1)	That the employee advises their Supervisor that they wish to “bank” their overtime at the time of overtime assignment and that such election is irrevocable. The time eligible for banking shall be the work hours in excess of forty (40) hours in a week. The employee must bank all (both straight and premium payment portions) overtime earned on a particular shift with the additional condition that overtime on a given shift must exceed one (1) hour to be eligible for banking.
(2)	That time-off in lieu of overtime may only be taken in full-work periods unless replacement is not required in the opinion of the Company.
(3)	That one (1) week notice be given in advance of taking time-off in lieu of overtime payment and that the scheduling of time-off be approved by the Company. The Company may at its discretion waive the one
(1)	week notice requirement if no replacement is required for the employee.
(4)	That banked overtime may not be substituted for vacations except that a seniority employee may request to take banked overtime prior to using vacation time if the prior approval of the Supervisor has been obtained (i.e. if an employee wishes to take a day off and the Supervisor can operate the department without him for that day, not requiring an additional man to be called in, banked overtime may be used). If an employee is scheduled for lay-off he has the option of using his vacation or banked overtime owing during this lay-off period. However, if an employee calls in sick on a Friday or Monday, and wants to be paid for these days, vacation time must be used instead of banked overtime.
(5)	That time-off in lieu of overtime is not considered work time for purposes of Statutory Holiday entitlement, seniority retention, benefit extension, and other such provisions of the Collective Agreement.
(6)	Unused “banked” overtime will be paid to the employee on January 31st.
(7)	Pay for “banked” overtime will be at the rate in effect at the time the overtime was banked.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
25
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: VACATION BANKING
The following procedure will apply to the Vacation Banking option referred to in Article 13 of the parties' Collective Agreement:
(1)	Elections to bank vacation should be submitted prior to the deadline for vacation scheduling requests. No additional banking of vacation will then be allowed without mutual consent.
(2)	Where the Collective Agreement provides that vacation pay will be based on a percentage of prior years earning this amount will be converted to eight (8) hour days of pay at the employee's regular rate. The result of the conversion will be the number of days to be banked.
Example
An employee eligible for 10% vacation pay has earnings of $15,000 in the previous year. He elects to bank his “5th week” entitlement. His current rate is $12.00/hour (twelve). The banked amount would be 2% of $15,000 divided by $12.00/hour (twelve).
The banked amount equal to 25 (twenty-five) hours or 3.125 days.
(3)	Employees will be advised at year's end of the amount of vacation which has been banked on their behalf. Once vacation is banked it is “locked in” until retirement, resignation or other form of termination.
(4)	Payment for the banked days will be based upon the rate in effect at time of termination. The Company will cooperate to the extent practical and proper to make the payment in the manner the employee feels to be most tax effective.
(5)	Where banked vacation becomes payable as a result of death the payment will be made to the deceased employee's beneficiary as indicated by their life insurance beneficiary designation and in the absence of such beneficiary to their estate.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
26
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: DRUG AND ALCOHOL REHABILITATION
Where in the interest of prompt treatment, an employee enters into a recognized drug or alcohol abuse rehabilitation program the Company will assist with the program costs provided.
(1)	It is the employee's first such program.
(2)	The employee completes all requirements of the program including any after care which may be specified.
The Company's assistance will be at the rate of 50% of eligible expenses to a maximum outlay of $800.00 (eight hundred) after the employee satisfies an initial deductible of $200.00 (two hundred).
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
27
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: MAINTENANCE SCHEDULING
The parties hereby agree that during the life of the contract the company will refrain from requiring a schedule day off during weeks where maintenance trade employees are scheduled to work overtime on Saturdays.
This letter shall not apply to those employees working on a continental work week.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Dwayne Hall	Marcia Dion
For the Union	For the Company
28
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: SPECIAL SHORT TERM DISABILITY CASES
A fund of $600.00 dollars (six hundred) per year will be established by the Company to cover disability cases.
A committee formed of two Union Stewards, the Human Resources designate and the Plant Manager will review special cases to determine if there is basis for paying benefits at the standard level for those days prior to benefits entitlement under the strict interpretation of the insurance contract.
In the case of “ties” the matter will be resolved in the favour of the employee. If the $600.00 dollars (six hundred) fund is exhausted the committee will not meet until the next calendar year and no cases will be eligible for special treatment.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
29
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK - ARTICLE 8 B)
The Continental Work Week (CWW) will not be introduced into coffee manufacturing or the syrups (manufacturing, filling and packing) department unless and until additional volumes are introduced into the factory.
The Company believes that the support function(s) impacted by the continental work week will be limited to the following:
Shop/Line Mechanics 4
Any additions to the above will be by mutual agreement between the parties. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
All employees when working a continental work week shall be paid a shift premium of twelve percent (12%) for all regularly scheduled, non-overtime hours worked. This payment includes employees in syrups (manufacturing, filling and packing), coffee manufacturing and the powerhouse.
Employees working a twelve (12) hour CWW shift will be paid twelve (12) hours for all scheduled working time lost for bereavement and jury duty. Statutory holidays will be paid for twelve (12) hours when working a twelve (12) hour CWW shift. Vacation calculation will be based on hours.
The continental work week is not designed to eliminate overtime. Overtime will continue to be required based on production requirements and employees will continue to receive time and a half for working on their sixth day and double time for working on their seventh day. The only change is that there will be no premium payments for working on Saturday or Sunday where Saturday or Sunday are not the sixth or seventh day that an employee works in the week.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Dwayne Hall	Marcia Dion
For the Union	For the Company
30
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: COMPANY BONUS
The parties agree on the importance of recognizing employees for success at the factory. In saying that, a Bonus Tied to Factory Targets, will be developed and may include the following measurement tools:
1.	Productivity
2.	First pass quality
3.	Safety - Nobody gets Hurt
4.	Variance / Continuous Improvements and any other relevant measurement tool(s)
The Bonus Tied to Factory Target program will pay out up to 4% of yearly earnings (maximum 2080 hours) if the measurement criteria, as described above, are exceeded. That is, the Program must make money before it can pay out.
Management will agree to the Program with the union, with the above criteria as the basic measurement tools. This process must be completed by February of each year. The Plan that is developed will be sent to the Champion Human Resources and Leader Technical, Manufacturing & Export for final approval.
Eligible earnings shall be defined as the employee's hourly wage rate as at the year-end multiplied by the number of hours he/she worked during the calendar year in question. Hours worked shall include Vacation and Statutory Holidays but shall exclude W.I. and W.S.I.B. The total number of hours shall not exceed 2,080.
It is anticipated that the bonus earned for each year shall be paid out in February of the subsequent year.
Bonus shall be excluded from earning for the purpose of calculating vacation pay under Article 13 of the Collective Agreement.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
31
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
If the company institutes an apprenticeship program during the life of the collective agreement the following will apply.
Selection by the Company, will be on the following criteria:
1.	Sufficient academic qualifications
2.	Review of employee's work record and attendance
3.	Successfully pass the necessary tests, by a third party(s), to determine the aptitude for the considered trade.
4.	Interview results
Where the above are relatively equal, seniority will govern.
The full term of the apprenticeship program shall be four (4) years from the time of being accepted as an apprentice and the rate increases ordinarily granted during this period shall be as outlined.
TIME IN ROLE	$
0-1 year	$2.00	less	full rate
1	year	$1.50	less	full rate
2	year	$1.00	less	full rate
3	year	$0.50	less	full rate
At the end of the training period, providing that the apprentice can satisfactorily perform the journey person's duties in the classification in which he has been trained and successfully receives their ticket, the apprentice will receive the full journey person's rate. Employees who have achieved a certain number of credits or previous experience shall be paid the wage rate for the period in which such credit advances him.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
32
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: SEVERANCE PAY
1.	a) In the event of the complete and permanent closure of all the Company's production lines at its
factory in Chesterville, an employee who does not accept transfer in or to another Nestle factory in the province of Ontario and is released from employment as a result thereof, shall be entitled to severance pay based on the following:
Service	Severance
Less than 5 years service	1 weeks pay for each completed year of service
5 years but less than 10 years	1.25 weeks pay for each completed year of
10 years but less than 25 years	1.50 weeks pay for each completed year
25 years plus	2.00 weeks pay for each completed year of service
b)	Incomplete years of service shall be prorated to the nearest month.
c)	Each week of severance pay for full-time employees shall be calculated by multiplying the employee's regular straight time hourly rate at the time of termination by 40.
2.	Severance payments shall be not made:
a)	To employees who are discharged for just cause.
b)	To employees who voluntarily resign.
c)	In the event of closing due to Acts of God, war, disaster or any other reason of similar nature and beyond the control of the Company.
3.	In order to qualify for severance pay, employees shall continue to work in a satisfactory manner as long as required.
4.	The weeks of severance allowance plus earned vacation will not exceed the number of weeks remaining
to the employee's normal retirement date.
5.	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to include any severance pay as may be required
under any Ontario legislation.
Renewed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
33
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: JOB REDUNDANCY
Where a seniority employee's regular job becomes redundant such employee will acquire the right to
displace less senior employees. The following procedure would apply:
1.	The number of redundant position(s) will be determined.
2.	The posted position(s) held by the most junior employee(s) in the factory, production or ticketed trade, whichever is applicable, would be reassigned to the displaced employee(s).
3.	The most senior displaced employee(s) would indicate their order of preference on the available job(s). The displaced employee would be placed in the job that best matches their ability and qualifications. Qualifications shall mean that, at the reasonable discretion of management, the employee has the capability to qualify for the job within a reasonable period of time and/or has competently performed the job. The employee must possess the necessary licenses or trade qualifications if applicable. Failure to select a job will result in the employee bumping to general labour or being laid off.
4.	These job's would then be considered the employee's posted position. The reassigned employee would be unable to bid for six months as per Article 5 (a).
5.	The six month no bid clause will not apply for the affected junior employees.
Redundancy may arise from a changing business practice which results in the removal of a classification,
elimination in a classification and/or a department closure.
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
34
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: MAINTENANCE VACANCIES
In the event a maintenance position needs to be posted as a result of a vacancy or new position, the Company shall offer the vacancy in order of seniority to the maintenance employees prior to posting. Up to two (2) mechanics would move per posting. An employee who accepts an offer shall lose priority for offers for one year.
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
35
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: BUMPING
The Company respects the need for consideration of employee seniority. The Union established bumping as an important issue during negotiations as a result a joint committee will be established to review the possibility of introducing some protection for seniority employees resulting from a temporary lay-off. The objective of the committee is to make a recommendation that will meet the following criteria;
•	Current language on Article 4 (d) would apply for lay-offs of two weeks or less
•	Placement of the employee will be based on their skill, ability and qualification
•	If competency can be achieved within 50% of the lay-off period, training will be provided (e.g. a four week lay-off - would receive up to two weeks training)
•	Employees may choose not to participate i.e. elect lay-off
•	Does not result in lower line efficiencies
•	Minimal disruption
•	Minimal administration
Deadline for a bumping process recommendation would be September 30, 2001.
The Director, Operations will review the recommendation to ensure the above criteria are met before implementing. There will be a three month trial basis. Employees would not be able to grieve during the trial period if a procedural error is made, unless the employee brought the error, in writing, prior to the actual bump/layoff to the Company's attention.
After the three months the process would be reviewed, by the Director, Operations to determine if it effectively met the established criteria. If the trial failed to meet the established criteria, the bumping process would revert back to Article 4 (d).
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Dwayne Hall	Marcia Dion
For the Union	For the Company
36
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: BREAKS
All employees will be entitled to a lunch break as per current practice. The lunch period will be taken as close as is reasonably possible to the midpoint of each shift. The Company agrees to grant a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each half shift and overtime where work will continue for four (4) hours or more. Rest periods shall be taken as per current practice.
Notwithstanding above, the Company and Union will work together to minimize downtime and remain cost competitive on each line as it relates to breaks. The Union understands that certain departments may have different patterns. The different patterns may be tested on a trial basis for a period agreed to by the parties.
At the end of the trial period the parties will consult regarding the experience with this new arrangement. If either party is dissatisfied with the new arrangement it will be discontinued. Alternatively, the parties may confirm that the new arrangement is preferable in which case it can be extended for the term of the current Agreement.
ADDENDUM
When mutually agreed by the parties that break relief in Syrups will continue as per current practice.
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
37
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: SOCIAL JUSTICE
The Company agrees to pay into the CAW Social Justice Fund, a registered charity established by the National Union, one (1) cent per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the duration of the collective agreement. Such monies shall be paid on a quarterly basis made payable to the CAW Social Justice Fund and remitted to the following address: 6800 Campobello Road, Mississauga, Ontario, L5N 2L8 or such other address as may be designated by the Union from time to time. The Company will be issued a charitable receipt for each payment.
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
38
LETTER OF INTENT
RE: Alternative Shift Arrangements
The success of the factory depends upon our ability to improve our competitive position in order to attract new volume and business opportunities for all employees. As such, the Parties agree to discuss and implement alternative shift arrangements should the need arise by mutual agreement in writing.
Agreed at Chesterville this 11th day of June 2004.
Marcia Dion
For the Company
Dwayne Hall For the Union
39
SENIORITY LIST
FACTORY EMPLOYEES
Clock		Seniority
No.	Name	Date
3201237	Droppo, Bertron	59/04/16
3201334	Marcellus, Dale	59/05/25
3201215	Cass, Joseph	60/03/31
3201265	Gibeault, Raymond	60/06/09
3201346	McMillan, Ronald	61/04/19
3201372	Parker, Thomas	61/04/27
3201344	McMillan, Donald	62/05/29
3201360	Merkley, Robert	63/02/15
3201301	Jordon, Wayne	63/02/20
7062	Servage, Keith	63/02/20
3201296	Irven, David	64/02/26
3201311	Landry, Raymond	65/09/13
3201392	Robertson, Donald	65/11/15
3201278	Harper, Robert	66/03/01
3201378	Patterson, Lloyd	66/05/06
3201243	Edgerton, Kenneth	66/07/26
3201354	Meldrum, Bryan	66/08/22
3201201	Boyd, James	66/08/29
3201361	Montgomery, Colonel	66/08/29
3201195	Billings, Donald	66/08/30
3201242	Edgerton, John	66/09/01
3201363	Munroe, Donald	66/09/06
3201422	Woods, Terry	66/09/07
4791	Manley, Owen	66/09/15
3201342	McMahon, Erin	66/09/29
3201225	DeRooy, Cornelius	67/07/03
3201272	Hall, Donald	67/07/03
3201224	Dame, Philip	67/07/11
3201188	Beaupre, Gordon	67/08/30
3201166	Auger, Allan	67/09/05
3201288	Hillis, Donald	68/01/08
4098	Jackson, Brian	68/01/08
3201254	Francis, Harold	68/03/25
3201247	Empey, Brian	68/05/02
3201261	Garlough, Lloyd	68/05/02
3201368	Ouderkirk, Garry	68/05/02
3201	Gillard, William	68/05/28
3201178	Barkley, Francis	68/06/17
3201168	Baker, Garry	68/07/02
3201377	Patterson, Bev	68/07/02
3201253	Francis, Garry	68/08/28
3201267	Gillard, Ronald	68/08/28
4045	Iwachniuk, Dwayne	68/09/11
3201293	Hutt, Dale	69/07/28
3431	Hanna, Garry	69/07/29
3201260	Gannon, David	69/08/05
3201420	Whitteker, Ronald	69/08/18
3201200	Bolton, John	69/11/12
3201262	Geertsma, Bert	70/01/26
3201283	Hess, Douglas	70/04/23
3201345	McMillen, Harold	70/08/04
04/02/04*
01/07/07*
04/01/18*
02/09/27
97/01/16*
99/09/22*
40
3201256	Fyke, William	72/01/24
3201294	Hutt, John	72/01/24
3201274	Hall, Stephen	72/01/25
3201357	Merkley, Douglas	72/02/07
3201348	McMillan, Stephen	72/02/09
3201298	Jackson, Allan	72/02/23
3201170	Bakker, Hans	72/02/29
3201248	Feeley, Brian	72/03/15
3201349	McPherson, Gordon	72/05/17
3201213	Carruthers, Barry	72/05/23
3201406	Stevens, Robert	72/05/23
3201336	Mayhew, Orval	72/11/09
3201414	Vanderveen, John	72/11/09
3201190	Beckstead, Lorne	73/01/02
3201281	Helmer, David	73/01/02
3201211	Carbino, Winston	73/01/08
3201212	Cardinal, Ubald	73/03/01
3201266	Gillard, Robert	73/03/01
3201335	Mayhew, Carl	73/03/12
3201255	Fyke, Neil	73/03/19
3201295	Irven, Andrew	73/03/19
3201356	Merkley, Daryl	73/09/04
3201171	Bakker, Joseph	73/09/10
3201173	Ball, Allan	73/09/10
3201244	Edgerton, Robert	73/09/10
3201271	Hall, Delphin	73/09/10
3201398	Schwerdtfeger, Eric	73/09/10
3201191	Beckstead, Neil	73/09/18
3201419	Whitteker, Lyn	74/01/08
3201252	Francis, Robert	74/02/18
5899	Ouderkirk, John	74/03/01
3201238	Droppo, Stephen	74/08/06
3201249	Feeley, Thomas	74/08/06
3201401	Shay, Douglas	75/01/13
3201389	Racine, Robert	76/01/13
3201210	Carbino, Ronald	76/04/05
3201189	Beckstead, Gregory	76/04/19
3201246	Elliott, Paul	76/04/20
3201270	Hall, Carl	76/04/20
3201394	Rutley, Richard	76/04/26
3201250	Flynn, William	76/06/07
3201305	Lafrance, Daniel	76/08/09
3201269	Grant, Garth	77/01/17
3201402	Simpson, Douglas	77/02/28
3201277	Harper, Larry	77/08/02
3201222	Coyle, Ronald	77/08/08
	Boyer, Christopher	77/09/12
3201264	Genier, Ronald	77/09/12
	Kilby, Brian	78/04/17
3201284	Hess, James	78/08/21
3201280	Hebert, Arthur	79/01/02
3201375	Patenaude, Richard	79/08/20
3201337	McCadden, David	81/08/24
3201230	Dillabough, Wayne	81/09/08
3201240	Ducolon, Terry	88/09/06
3201423	Young, Richard	88/09/06
91/05/08*
04/01/07*
02/02/03*
41
4300	Kelly, Leonard	89/01/04
3201187	Beaudoin, Carl	89/01/05
3201177	Barkley, David	89/04/07
	Beckstead, Shawn	89/04/13
3201382	Pinch, George	90/06/11
3201318	LeClair, Randy	91/10/24
3201338	McKercher, Donald	91/12/18
3201285	Hess, Robert	92/06/15
3201305	Kirkwood, Peter	93/04/08
3201424	Young, Sandy	93/09/29
3201268	Gillard, Shane	93/10/13
3201365	Nelson, Rick	93/10/28
3201370	Ouderkirk, Jason	93/11/04
3201209	Campeau, Francois	94/11/22
3201358	Merkley, Glen	97/04/17
5250	Miltimore, Linda	97/07/03
3201369	Ouderkirk, Lance	97/11/04
3201362	Morris, Steve	98/02/16
3201193	Billings, Albert	98/04/27
3201408	Thompson, Steve	98/09/11
3201228	Dillabough, Robert	98/09/23
3201417	Wardle, Ted	98/09/24
3201175	Barkley, Brian	98/10/15
3201257	Gaines, Richard	98/10/22
3201376	Patterson, Barry	98/11/16
3201186	Barton, Alan	99/08/19
3201331	MacDonald, Lisa	99/08/20
3201203	Brown, Robert	99/08/21
3201205	Cadieux, Gerald	99/08/22
3201350	McPherson, Mary	99/08/23
3201400	Seguin, Mike M	99/08/24
3201208	Campeau, Darlene	99/08/25
3201367	O'Brien, Danny	99/08/28
3201330	MacLennan, Janice	99/08/30
3201319	Legge, Wilfred	99/09/02
3201328	MacDonald, Joan	99/09/03
3201352	McRae, June	99/09/04
3201355	Menard, Rejean	99/09/06
3201404	St. Louis, Jean Guy	99/09/08
3201340	MacKinnon, Warren	99/09/09
3201206	Cameron, Lynden	99/09/10
3201194	Billings, Arthur	99/09/27
3201241	Dunning, Mark	99/09/27
3201421	Wicks, Kathy	99/10/12
3201217	Charron, Mark	99/11/01
3201276	Hamilton, Terry	99/11/08
3201339	McLaughlin, Paul	99/11/08
3201196	Bissonnette, Wayne	99/11/15
3201353	McRae, Tim	99/11/15
3201172	Baldwin, Kevin	99/11/22
3201384	Quesnel, Cory	99/11/22
3201341	MacLeod, Lance	99/12/03
3201383	Pinch, Matthew	99/12/06
3201327	MacDonald, Debby	99/12/07
3201183	Barkley, Robert	99/12/13
3201182	Barkley, Mark	99/12/25
95/11/12*
02/01/15*
00/10/30*
42
3201347	McMillan, Sheldon	00/01/28
3201214	Casselman, Anthony	00/02/04
3201275	Hamilton, Ritchie	00/02/04
3201364	Mustard, Benjamin	00/02/04
3201399	Seguin, Marvin	00/02/04
3201418	Whetter, Allan	00/02/04
3201343	McMahon, Mike	00/02/18
3201279	Harrington, Shaun	00/02/23
3201184	Barkley, Rhonda	00/03/13
3201393	Ross, Kevin	00/03/13
3201234	Delorme, Don	00/04/04
3201401	Tourangeau, Robert	00/04/12
3201290	Holmes, Tim	00/04/22
3201366	Nuttall, Robert	00/04/26
3201321	Lewis, Brian	00/05/03
3201320	Lendt, Ray	00/05/19
3201185	Barkley, Rick	00/05/31
3201258	Gaines, Marty	00/06/09
3201306	LaFrance, Denis	00/11/06
3201325	Locke, Trevor	00/11/17
3201174	Barkley, Barry	00/12/20
3201227	Desormeaux, Denis	01/03/05
3201159	Van Oers, Tanya	01/03/19
3201286	Heymans, Nick	01/04/02
3201388	Racine, Geoffrey	01/04/02
3201323	Link, Marty	01/04/25
3201204	Brundige, Megan	01/05/18
3201380	Perkins, Toni	01/06/16
3201220	Coleman, Marc	01/06/18
3201308	Larose, Jennifer	01/06/22
3201359	Merkley, Jessica	01/06/25
10006267	Smirle, Wayne	01/06/27
3201310	Lance, Belinda	01/06/27
3201199	Boileau, Mike	01/09/04
3201233	Defalco, Jeff	01/09/17
3201169	Baker, Lana	01/09/26
3201409	Thornhill, Barbara	01/10/15
3201390	Revell, Sandy	01/12/10
3201180	Barkley, Tracy	02/04/11
3201263	Geertsma, Joe	02/09/17
3201282	Herfkens, Debbie	02/09/27
3201302	Kelly, Chris	02/10/01
3201332	Magee, Jamie	02/12/03
3201221	Conlin, George	02/12/06
3201329	MacDonald, Glenn	02/12/06
3201407	Thomas, Jeff	02/12/07
3201395	Sabourin, Mitch	02/12/23
3201396	Sauve, Dennis	02/12/23
3201307	Larabie, Paul	02/12/23
3201216	Cegledi, Jeno	03/03/05
3201235	Delorme, Glenn	03/03/25
3201236	Delorme, Robert	03/03/25
3201391	Roberts, Colin	03/03/25
3201397	Sauve, Christopher	03/03/25
3201403	Skov, Kevin	03/03/25
3201333	Major, Damien	03/04/07
43
3201381	Pidgeon, Leonard	03/04/07
3201405	Stirling, Keith	03/04/07
3201416	Vincent, David	03/04/07
3201303	Kinsella, Jeff	03/04/09
3201251	Forrester, Peter	03/04/13
3201239	Drouin, Robert	03/04/14
3201223	Craig, Carman	03/04/21
3201131	Leger, Brenda	03/05/04
3201132	Menard, Leon	03/05/04
3201133	Nagy, Alexander	03/05/04
3201135	Sauve, Gerald	03/05/04
3201134	Robidoux, Daniel	03/05/05
3201138	Barkley, Mitchel	03/06/23
3201137	Vandelst, David	03/06/24
3201139	Avery, Garry	03/07/01
3201140	Hall, Jamie	03/07/01
3201141	Lafrance, Andre	03/07/01
3201142	Leeman, Tim	03/07/01
3201129	Jones, William	03/07/07
3201144	Bryan, Robert	03/08/05
3201143	Budge, John	03/08/05
3201145	Frank, Darrin	03/08/05
3201146	Knight, Jonathan	03/08/05
3201147	Presley, Tracey	03/08/05
3201148	Williams, Kevin	03/08/05
3201149	Abrams, Heather	03/08/11
3201150	Elliott, Jayson	03/08/11
3201153	Scott, Laura	03/08/18
3201154	Vierus, Rainer	03/09/05
3201156	Abrams, Robert	03/09/08
3201155	MacDonald, Kevin	03/09/08
3201159	Matt, Yves	03/10/03
3201160	Maxam, Cory	03/10/03
3201161	Sicotte, Ziff	03/10/03
* Frozen Seniority Date as per Article 4 (e)
44
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	Recognition........................................................... 2
2.	No Strike Or Lock-Out................................................. 3
3.	Reservation To Management............................................. 3
4.	Seniority............................................................. 7
5.	Vacancies and Job Posting............................................ 10
6.	Work Clothing and Safety Shoes....................................... 12
7.	Hours of Work........................................................ 13
8.	Overtime............................................................. 16
9.	Paid Statutory Holidays.............................................. 20
10.	Pay Day............................................................. 22
11.	Temporary Assignment................................................ 22
12.	Safety and Health................................................... 23
13.	Violence Against Women....................................
14.	Harassment..................................................
15.	Vacations........................................................... 25
16.	Grievance Procedure and Arbitration................................. 28
17.	Deduction of Union dues............................................. 30
18.	Membership Maintenance.............................................. 31
19.	Miscellaneous....................................................... 32
20.	Health and Welfare ................................................. 34
21.	Job Classifications and Wage Rates.................................. 37
22.	Training Programs................................................... 39
23.	Transfer of Operations ............................................. 40
24.	Effective Date and duration of Agreement............................ 40
Appendix A - Schedule of Job Classifications and Wage Rates.....	43
Appendix B - Light Labour Program............................. 46
LETTERS OF INTENT
Stabilized Work Force.............................................. 50
Standby............................................................ 51
Non-Continuous Night Shift Arrangement............................. 55
Overtime Banking................................................... 57
Vacation Banking................................................... 61
Drug and Alcohol Rehabilitation.................................... 63
Maintenance Scheduling............................................. 64
Special Short Term Disability Cases................................ 65
Continental Work Week - Article 8b)................................ 66
Company Bonus...................................................... 68
Apprenticeship Program............................................. 70
Severance Pay...................................................... 72
Job Redundancy..................................................... 74
Maintenance Vacancies.............................................. 76
Bumping............................................................ 77
Breaks............................................................. 79
Social Justice..................................................... 80
Alternative Shift Arrangements...........................
SENIORITY LIST................................................ 81
45