COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11
ARTICLE 12
ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16
ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21
ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
RESPONSIBILITY
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
UNION REPRESENTATION/DISCIPLINE
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
DISCHARGE CASES
ARBITRATION
SENIORITY
LAYOFFPLANT STAFFING ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE FOUR (4) TEN (10) HOUR SHIFTS LAY-OFFS OF ONE (I) FULL SHIFT OR LESS
RECALLPLANT STAFFING
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
REDUNDANCY
LINE TEAMS(S)/NATURAL
WORKTEAM(S)
HOLIDAYS VACATION HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME
CALL-IN PAY/REPORTING FOR
WORK PAY
TRAINING
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS SAFETY JOB POSTING BEREAVEMENT LEAVE DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES LEAVE OF ABSENCE WAGES/SHIFT PREMIUM HEALTH AND WELFARE
4
4
5
6 6 8 11 12
13
14
21
23
23
28
29
32
34
37
40
42
47
48
50
52
53
56
57 59 61 66
065*11 08
ARTICLE 31	DEDUCTIONS FOR PENSION AND
RETIREE	BENEFITS	66
ARTICLE 32	DURATION	68
LETTER OF INTENT#! PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL TIME 69 LAYOFF	70
HOURS OF WORK	71
LEAD TIME FOR LAYOFFS	72
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMEN SHIFT SELECTION	73
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE ELEVEN AND ONE-HALF (11 '/:) HOUR CHOCOLATE PROCESSING	74
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE
LETTER OF INTENT #2 LETTER OF INTENT #3 LETTER OF INTENT #4 LETTER OF INTENT #5
LETTER OF INTENT #6
LETTER OF INTENT #7
LETTER OF INTENT #8 LETTER OF INTENT #9
OPERATING ENGINEERS SPECIAL PACK OPERATION CASUAL WORK POOL LETTER OF INTENT #10 WAGE ADJUSTMENTS LETTER OF INTENT #1 1 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCESS
LETTER OF INTENT #12 OTHER ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES 88
LETTER OF INTENT # 13 MAINTENANCE APPRENTICES
LETTER OF INTENT#14 MAINTENANCE RATES OF PAY
LETTER OF INTENT #15 CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK LETTER OF INTENT # 16 STAFFING COMMITTEE LETTER OF rNTENTfl 7 RECALL FOR ONE DAY
VACATION/ABSENTEEISM/ FLOATER RELIEF LETTER OF INTENT #1 8 PENSION LETTER OF INTENT # 19 LEADHANDS LETTER OF INTENT #20 MANDATORY OVERTIME LETTER OF INTENT #21 SKILLED TRADES LETTER OF INTENT #22 SPECIALISTNOTES
78
80
83
85
86
89
90
91 91
93
95
96
97 100 101
2
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
HERSHEY CANADA INC., Smiths Falls, Ontario (hereinafter referred to as "the Company")and NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 462 (hereinafter referred to as "the Union").
3
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
1.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of all employees of the Company at Smiths Falls, Ontario save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff, laboratory staff, students employed during school vacation period, and persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02
Part-time employees will not be used when any full-time employees, subject to recall, are on lay-off except when laid-off employees are not available to do bargainingunit work.
1.03
Students will not be used to perform bargaining unit work, when any full-time employees, subject to recall are on layoff except when laid off employees are not available.
ARTICLE 2 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01
Except where specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the management of the Company's operations and the selection and direction of employees will continue to be vested exclusively with the Company.
2.02 Discipline and Discharge
The Company has the right to discipline or discharge employees subject to the right of an employee, who has completed their probationary period, to file a grievance alleging such discipline or discharge was withoutjust cause.
4
2,03 Productivity Clause
The Union and the Company recognize that productivity improvement is essential to the well-being of the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Employer will co-operate in efforts to maintain and improve productivity at all levels throughout the Plant. This language shall be interpreted so that it does not conflict with the other articles of agreement.
To achieve this, the management of the Smiths Falls Plant and officers of NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 462, are committed to providing employees a workplace environment that promotes teamwork and the development of multi-disciplined work teams, cooperation, creativity, and the meaningful involvement of employees and their abilities. Creating the highest quality products by continuously improving all that we do is the primary workplace goal. It is intended that this mutual commitment to "Quality Through Excellence" will result in optimum customer satisfaction and, therefore, promote long-term security for Smiths Falls Plant operations and its employees.
The Company and the Union agree to the establishment of joint multifunctional Continuous Improvement teams consisting of members of Management and Union members with the goal of developing a significant competitive advantage.
ARTICLE 3 RESPONSIBILITY
3.01
The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interest of both parties that all dealings between them be characterized by mutual responsibility and respect. Mutual responsibility and respect means an honest regard for equality in the official relationship between the Company and Union representatives. Company representatives, especially the first-level of supervision, have the day to day
responsibility to deal reasonably and in good faith with Union representatives. Company representatives have the right to expect in return, responsibility and respect from Union representatives. To insure continually improving relations between the Company and Union, it is in the interest of both parties to deal with one another at all levels in a sincere, honest, and businesslike manner.
3.02
Any and all prior agreements, understanding practices, etc. between the Company and the Union and/or individual employees, unless specifically incorporatedherein, are hereby declared null and void.
ARTICLE 4 NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01
The Company will not lock out employees, nor will there be any strikes on the part of the Union or the employees.
4.02
The terms "strike" and "lockout" as used above shall be defined in accordance with the definitions set out in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 5 UNION REPRESENT ATI ON/DISCIPLINE
5.01
a)	The Union shall have the right to appoint or otherwise select a committee of three (3) employees plus the Unit Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to participate in the negotiation or administration of this or subsequent agreements.
b)	Should any Union Committee member, as described in Article 5.01(a), be on any alternate shift schedule and there is a requirement to attend a meeting on day shift, said Union Committee member(s) will be paid for their attendance at the applicable rate, providing such attendance is mutually agreed to between the Company and Union.
6
5.02
In the absence of the Unit Chairperson, a designate shall be appointed to act on the Unit Chairperson’s behalf.
5.03
The Union will appoint of otherwise select a duty steward by shift from the existing stewards on such shift who will act as back-up in the absence of the regular area steward. The steward must be present to provide Union representation in the event an employee is disciplined unless the employee chooses to waive representation.
in extraordinary circumstances, the employee may choose to use the Unit Chairperson instead of the steward.
5.04
An employee will not be eligible to act as a steward or member of the Union Committee until after they have completed the probationary period of employment.
5.05
Copies of all discipline letters shall be provided to the Unit Chairperson. It is understood that the Union will not move to nullify any disciplinary action if said documentation is not delivered in a timely fashion.
5.06
Employees of the Company who are members of the Union Committee, or stewards, have regular duties to perform. Such employees will not leave their work for conducting any business on behalf of the Union or employees, without receiving permission from their immediate supervisor. Such permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
7
5.07
An employee serving on the Union Committee as defined in Article
5.01	(a) shall neither gain or lose regular pay, for negotiating the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
5.08
In the event an employee receives disciplinary action and/or non disciplinary letter(s) for performance related matters, in writing, such written action shall be removed from the employee's record after a fifteen (16) calendar month period from the date of such reprimand, provided no other reprimand or disciplinary action or non disciplinary letter is taken against said employee during such fifteen (16) month period. In the event an employee is on a leave of absence or layoff for a period of thirty (30) or more consecutive calendar days, such fifteen (16) calendar month period shall be extended by the number of calendar days such employee is on leave or layoff. Disciplinary action for all incidents of harassment, violence and serious safety violation(s) will be exempt from this provision and remain on the employee's file for a period of twenty-four (24) calendar months from the date of such reprimand.
ARTICLE 6 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01
The Company and the Union endorse the principle of an orderly grievance procedure and the prompt handling of grievances and to that end will work within the procedure. Any difference between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union shall be taken up in the manner hereinafterset forth:
6.02
Union representatives will make every effort to identify the alleged article violated and describe the dates, times, places, and people involved in the incident or occurrence being grieved, when practicable. If this information is not identified the grievance will be returned to the steward for clarification. If this still does not result in
8
obtaining the information specified above the grievance will be forwarded to the Unit Chairperson for completion.
Should the documentation be received within ten (10) working days, time limits associated with this article will not commence until the grievance has been resubmitted. However, should the company not receive the information within ten (10) working days from the date of request of said information, the complaint will be held in abeyance. The Union and the complainant will be notified. The Company will not be held responsible for any accruing liability.
6.03
The Company may refuse to consider any complaint, the alleged circumstances of which arose more than eight (8) working days before it was referred to the supervisor.
An exception to the above will be a complaint with respect to the employee's amount of wages in which event this period shall be extended to twenty-one (21) calendar days.
6.04
Should any difference arise between the Company and any seniority employee or the Union, there shall be no stoppage of work on account of such differences, but an earnest effort should be made to settle such difference as described in the balance of this article.
6.05
Any complaint raised by an employee with their supervisor which is not settled within three (3) full working days will, within a further period of three (3) full working days, be referred to their supervisor as a written grievance, which will be dated and signed by the employee. During any discussion of a complaint with the supervisor, the employee's steward will be present if requested by either the employee or the supervisor.
9
6.06	Step # 1
Within eight (8) working days following receipt of a written grievance the supervisor and/or such other persons as may be designated by the Company will meet with the employee and the steward to discuss the grievance. Within three (3) working days thereafter, the supervisor or their designate will give a written reply to the grievance which shall be copied to the filing union steward and copies to the Unit Chairperson.
6.07	Step #2
If the reply of the supervisor is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the grievance may within three (3) working days following the date of the reply at Step # 1 be referred to the Manager, Employee Relations. Once per month, at a predetermined date arranged between the parties, the Manager, Employee Relations and/or such other persons as may be designatedby the Company, will meet with the Union Committee to discuss the grievance. A full-time representativeof the Union (ie. Business Agent, etc.) will be present if their presence is requested by either the employee, the Union Committee or the Manager, Employee Relations. Within five (5) working days following this meeting the Manager, Employee Relations will give their written reply to the grievance.
Should the grievor and/or supervisor, for whatever reason, not attend the grievance at Step #2 of grievance hearing on two (2) consecutive occasions, the Union and the Company will proceed to hear the grievance at Step #2,
6.08
As used in this Article only, the term "working days" shall mean Monday to Friday inclusive.
6.09
Any of the time allowance provided above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties involved, such extension of time to be in writing.
10
6.10
If a grievance is to be referred to arbitration, it shall be done within fifteen (16) working days following the date of the reply at Step #2,
6.11
Failure to comply with time limits at Step #1 unless extended by mutual consent will automatically result in a grievance proceeding to Step #2.
ARTICLE 7 DISCHARGE CASES
7.01
An employee who has completed the probationary period and who is subsequently discharged by the Company, may submit a written grievance, dated and signed, to the Manager, Employee Relations, provided such grievance is submitted within three (3) working days after the discharge occurs.
7.02
Grievances relating to discharge may be settled by confirming the Company's action, or by reinstating the discharged person with full compensation or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable.
7.03
The Unit Chairperson shall be present when an employee is to be discharged. In the absence of the Unit Chairperson, the ViceChairperson shall be present. In the absence of both the Unit Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, a designate shall be appointed. Copies of all discharge letters shall be provided to the Unit Chairperson. It is understood that the Union will not move to nullify any discharge action if said documentation is not delivered in a timely fashion.
II
ARTICLE 8 ARBITRATION
8.01
No grievance may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly processed through the stages of the grievance procedure, as herein provided.
8.02
When either party requests that a grievance be submitted to arbitration, the party making the request shall do so in writing, addressed to the other party, recommending a sole arbitrator to be used. If within twenty-one (21) calendar days the parties have not agreed to an arbitrator, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration will request that the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario appoint an arbitrator.
8.03
Each of the parties will jointly bear the expense of the arbitrator.
8.04
The arbitrator shall not render any decision which is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator add to, alter, amend or deal with any matter not contained herein.
8.05
The arbitrator’s decision will be final and binding on the parties to this agreementand the employee(s) involved.
8.06
By mutual agreement the parties can choose alternate forms of dispute resolution in lieu of the arbitration process. The cost of such alternate dispute resolution will be shared equally by the parties. The decision arising from such alternative dispute resolution will be final and binding on the parties to this agreement and the employee(s) involved.
12
8.07
The Company recognizes the Union’s internal appeal process and the parties agree that should the Union appeal process result in an abnormal time delay in the processing of grievance(s), the Company shall not be held responsible for any financial liability accrued for any such delay attributable to the Union appeal process.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01
Any employee hired as a new employee by the Company will be on probation and will not have any seniority standing until after they have completed sixty (60) days of work. Their seniority will then date back sixty (60) working days from the sixtieth (60) day worked. A probationary employee will have twelve (12) months from the date of hire to accumulate their sixty (60) days of work. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in the Collective Agreement, the discharge of an employee during their probationary period shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
9.02
Unless a tradesperson or apprentice no probationary employee will perform bargaining unit work if there is a bargaining unit member on layoff.
9.03
In the event of an extensive layoff due to lack of work, the Unit Chairperson will be retained in employment. In the event the Unit Chairperson is absent, the Vice-Chairperson will be retained in employment. At no time will more than one person be retained in employment by this provision.
9.04
Seniority previously accumulated will be lost and employment terminated whenever an employee:
(a)	quits their employment or is discharged forjust cause;
13
(b)	is absent from work in excess of two (2) consecutive working days without an explanation satisfactoryto the Company;
(c)	fails to return to work when recalled from a layoff;
(d)	is laid off for a continuous period of twelve (12) months.
9.05
(a)	An up-to-date seniority list, showing the names, seniority dates, bid shifts, bid jobs will be posted on the bulletin board every three (3) months. A copy will be given to the Unit Chairperson upon request.
(b)	Within one month of ratification of the Collective Agreement, the Company shall supply the Unit Chairperson with a list of all employees (including temporary employees) names, addresses and listed phone numbers. The Company will update this list as required and forward any changes to the Unit Chairperson.
9.06
Where the Company terminates the work day for a portion of the work force of employees before eight (8) hours have been worked, those employees who have the greatest seniority within the affected job(s) will be allowed to leave the plant, provided there are sufficient qualified employees remaining to perform the work.
ARTICLE 10 LAYOFF/PLANT STAFFING
10.01
All employees will be required to complete and maintain an “Employee Profile List”, which will include:
•	current bidjob and shift
•	altematej ob preference (ten (10) positions in order of preference)
•	qualifications
•	(jobs) cannot do
•	alternate hours of work i.e. 10, 11'A hour shifts
•	alternate shift preference
•	voluntary leave of absence(when assigned to “D” shift)
•	mid week recall
14
The Company will include withdrawal of qualificationand reorientation request forms in the Employee Profile packages which are distributedbi-annually,
Employees will be staffed subject to the conditions of Articles 10 & 13, using the employee’s respective Employee Profile List. A copy of the Employee Profile Lists will be provided to the Unit Chairperson or their designate.
10.02
Each year employees will be permitted to update their Employee Profile List as per the schedule below with reference to alternatejob preference, altemate hours of work, alternate shift preference, mid week recall and bid jobs employees cannot do. In addition employees, between profile period(s) described below, will have one (1) opportunity in writing to change their selection of jobs on ten (10) hour shifts. Such changes will be implemented within two (2) weeks of date of receipt of said written request. Employee qualifications, medical documentation and modified work information will be reviewed on an ongoing basis and the Employee Profile will be updated accordingly.
2004
April 12-16 October 4 - 8
2005
April 4 ■ 8 October 3-7
2006
April 3 - 7 October 2-6
15
Understanding the critical need for accuracy and/or the volume of employees responding, the company will implement the new Employee Profile staffing within twenty-eight (28) calendar days from the end of the submission period as referenced above.
10.03
When an employee’s bid job is operating, they will be staffed into their bid job according to seniority based upon the following conditions:
a)	When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 &13 the criteriaused for the assignment to a section one (1) bidjob as outlined in Article 29 will be both seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work. Once both these criteria are met then the employee’s alternate job preference list as per their employee profile will be used. When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 & 13 into section two (2)bidjobs as outlined in Article29 employees will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training unless they cannot perform the bid job as per their employee profile list. Having been afforded one (1) full work week of framing and it is determined that they cannot perform the full scope of the bid job they will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
b)	Employees who volunteer for a section one (1), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List, will be assigned into an available four (4) ten hour position subject to bid shift seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available and a fully and immediately qualified employee being available to replace them. Employees who volunteer for a section two (2), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training.
c)	Should an employee’s bid job not be in operation, notwithstanding Articles 12 and 15, and/or they do not have seniority
16
to retain their bid job, the following bumping and layoff conditions will apply:
i)	Every effort will be made to staff employees into an available position on their bid shift.
ii)	If they cannot be assigned to their bid shift, every effort will be made to staff them to their alternate shift preference.
iii)	If they cannot be assigned to their alternate shift preference every effort will be made to staff them on another shift.
iv)	If they still cannot be assigned they will be laid off from the plant.
v)	Employees who cannot physically do all aspects of the newly assigned position will be laid off and will be reviewed weekly to determine their availability for future assignments in accordance with their Employee Profile List.
10.04
Notwithstanding Articles 10,03 and 14, the parties agree to continue the practice whereby employees are required to leave their bid job to provide relief for known absences of a week duration for any combination of absences such as, vacation(s), floater(s), leave(s) of absence, short term disability and workers’ compensation coverage for refresher staffing and the Company will make every effort to limit the assignment of an employee to a maximum of two (2) weeks per job per calendar year.
Where possible, refresher staffing will occur on the employee’s bid shift.
In the event a job is still not staffed, and all bid shift refreshers have been completed, the junior qualified available employee on the shift will be staffed into the job.
17
m the event that the job is still not staffed, the junior qualified available employee (refreshed or not) in the plant will be transferred off their shift into thej ob.
10.05
For the purpose of shift identification only, day shift will be referred to as “B” shift; afternoon shift will be referred to as “C” shift; midnight (production), Monday through Friday will be referred to as “A” shift and midnight (sanitation and pan goods wash up and machine cleaner specialist), Tuesday through Saturday will be referred to as “D” shift. For purposes of clarity ‘D’ shift commences Monday evening and ‘A’ shift commences Sunday evening.
10.06
Employees bumped to “D” shift as per Article 10 and/or Article 13 will be placed on a voluntary leave of absence in accordance with their Employee Profile List, until such time as work is available on “A”, “B” or“C” shift. Should an employee exercise a voluntary leave of absence and then decide that they are prepared to work on “D” shift, they must provide a representative of the Employee Relations Department with one (1) full week written notice and they will be added back into the staffing process. Such written notice must be provided by 4:00 p.m. the Friday prior to the staffing of the week in question.
Employees who elect a voluntary leave of absence as defined above will continue benefits for the balance of the month in which they went on leave of absence, plus two (2) full months thereafter as per Article 30.01.
If an employee returns from a leave of absence to “D” shift, they must complete their assignment until such time as they are either laid-off, return to their regular bid shift, or assigned to “A”, “B” or “C” shift.
18
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section one (1) “D" shift jobs with fully and immediately qualified employees to perform the available work, then the junior employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work and who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to the assigned shift.
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section two (2) “D” shift jobs, the junior employee who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to perform the available work. Employees who bump into bid jobs identified in section two (2) of the bid job list in Article 29 will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training. Employees who cannot perform the full scope of the bid job after such training will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
10.07
The provisions of Article 19.03 are not applicable when employees are temporarily transferred between “A” and/or “D” shift on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday of any week.
10.08
Once the staffing process commences each week, (not before noon on Monday) for the following week, relevant data such as the Employee Profile List, production and staffing requirements and availability of employees, will be frozen at that time for the balance of the week.
Notwithstanding a work week containing a holiday as defined in Article 17 of the Collective Agreement, the Company will make every effort to post the finalized staffing schedule by noon Wednesday of each work week. Should the staffing week contain a holiday, the staffing posting may be delayed until 4:00 p.m, Wednesday. The Company/Umon/employee(s) will be responsible for reviewing said staffing and immediately identifying any issues of assignment but no later than noon, Thursday of that week. Should said posting be
19
delayed, the verification period will be extended by twenty-four (24) hours from the actual posting of the schedule.
Should any issues be identified within the twenty-four (24) hour period above, the Company will make the appropriate changes to staff employees as per Articles 10 and/or 13, Should any issues be identified after the twenty-four (24) hour period as described above, the Company’s only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
Should a situation arise which is beyond the control of the company, which results in employee availability changing during the week after the staffing process has begun, the Company will make a reasonable effort to staff employees as per Articles 10 and 13 however, its only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
The Company will make every effort to post transfer changes as we know them by 2:30 p.m, Friday of the applicable week with the understanding that other necessary changes may occur.
10.09
An employee will retain their bid job pay rate for a period of up to two (2) months. After two (2) months the employee will receive the rate of pay for the bid job to which they are regularly scheduled. The employee will return to their bid job pay rate only when scheduled to work in their bid job.
10.10
Employees who have completed the probationary period will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice of layoff except when it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
20
ARTICLE 11 ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE FOUR (4) TEN (10) HOUR SHIFTS
When the Company initiates a four (4) day ten (10) hour work schedule on a line/proeess, the following terms and conditions will apply:
11.01	Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Shifts Staffing
When all bid employees do not volunteer for the four (4) ten (10) hour shift, the Company will attempt to fill the balance of hours from the Employee Profile List. If there are not enough volunteers, the line/process will revert to an eight (8) hour shift.
Bid employees who have not elected to work ten (10) hour shifts will maintain their normal start time for the fifth day unless mutually agreed otherwise, between the Company and employee concerned.
A bid employee and/or volunteer(s) who are working a four (4) ten (10) hour shift who choose not to complete such assignment will be staffed back into their regular five (5) eight (8) hour shift as soon as reasonably possible as per Articles 10 & 13, The employee will only be able to reregister for a ten (10) hour shift assignment as per Article 10.02.
Should more than fifty percent (50%) of the bid employees on the line/process wish to return to a five (5) eight (8) hour shift schedule the line/process will revert back to a five (5) eight (8) hour shift schedule as soon as reasonably possible as per Articles 10 and 13.
11.02	Job Posting
When a vacancy occurs on a bid job which is currently running four (4) ten (IO) hour shifts, the Company will post the position as an eight (8) hour shift. Should the successful bidder as described in Article 25, not wish to work the ten (10) hour shift, the Company will attempt to find an available volunteer from the Employee Profile List for the balance of hours in order to maintain the ten (10) hour shift.
21
If there are not enough volunteer(s) the line/process will revert to an eight (8) hour shift.
Alljobs previously posted as ten (IO) hour shifts will be considered to be eight (8) hour shifts for purposes of this article.
11.03	Alternate Work Week Addendum for 10 Hour Shift Paid Holidays
The eight (8) hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the same.
In weeks where an employee is working this schedule and a paid holiday in accordance with Article 17 occurs, the holiday will be paid at ten (10) hours.
11.04	Vacation
Selection of weeks off will remain the same as current entitlement. Vacation time is based on forty (40) hours/week for one (1) week.
11.05	Overtime
Any hours worked over ten (10) hours per shift will receive overtime premium.
11.06	Bereavement Leave
Provisions of Article 26 apply, except each day will be paid at the rate of ten (10) hours for each day.
11.07	Sick Benefits
Entitlement will remain as per the current contract. No employee will lose more than twenty-four (24) hours during their first three (3) days of illness.
11.08	Shift Premium
Regular shift premium will be paid.
22
All other contract requirements for entitlement will remain in effect.
11,09	Rest Period
In addition to breaks defined in Article 19,05, employees will be provided a fifteen (I 5) minute paid rest period at or near the end of the first eight (8) hours worked provided it does not have an adverse effect on productivity. If such rest period cannot be provided at the end of the first eight (8) hours, it will be provided during the balance of the shift as designated by the Company.
ARTICLE 12 LAY-OFFS OF ONE (1) FULL SHIFT OR LESS
12,01
The Company will not be required to observe the provision of Article 10 for layoffs of one (1) full shift or less. However, this section shall not be applied for a total of more than six (6) full shifts or less in a twelve (12) month calendar period. In the event that the Company invokes this Article the Company shall provide written notice within forty-eight (48) hours to the Unit Chairperson for the purposes of calculating the number of such incidences in the twelve (12) month calendar period as described above.
ARTICLE 13 RECALL/PLANT STAFFING
13.01
Employees will be staffed subject to the conditions of Articles 10 & 13, using the employee’s respective Employee Profile List. When an employee’s bid job is operating, they will be staffed into their bid job according to seniority based upon the following conditions:
a)	When staffing employees as defined in Articles 10 &I3 the criteria used for the assignment to a section one (1) bid j ob as outlined in Article 29 will be both seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work. Once both these criteria are met then the employee’s alternate job preference list as per their employee profile will be used. When staffing employees as defined in
23
Articles 10 & 13 into section two (2) bidjobs as outlined in Article29 employees will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training unless they cannot perform the bid job as per their employee profile list. Having been afforded one (1) full work week of training and it is determined that they cannot perform the full scope of the bid job they will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
b)	Employees who volunteer for a section one (1), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List, will be assigned into an available four (4) ten hour position subject to bid shift seniority and being fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available, and a fully and immediately qualified employee being available to replace them.
c)	Employees who volunteer for a section two (2), four (4) ten hour position, according to their respective Employee Profile List will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training.
d)	Should an employee's bid job not be in operation, and/or they do not have seniority to retain their bid job, the following bumping and recall conditions will apply:
e)	Every effort will be made to staff employees into an available position on their bid shift.
f)	If they cannot be assigned to their bid shift, every effort will be made to staff them to their alternate shift preference.
g)	If they cannot be assigned to their alternate shift preference every effort will be made to staff them on another shift.
h)	Employees who cannot physically do all aspects of the newly assigned position will remain on layoff and will be reviewed weekly to determine their availability for future assignments in accordance with their Employee Profile List.
24
13.02
Notwithstanding Articles 10.03 and 14, the parties agree to continue the practice whereby employees are required to leave their bidjob to provide relief for known absences of a week duration for any combination of absences such as, vacation(s), floater(s), leave(s) of absence, short term disability and workers’ compensation coverage for refresher staffing and the Company will make every effort to limit the assignment of an employee to a maximum of two (2) weeks per job per calendar year.
Where possible, refresher staffing will occur on the employee’s bid shift.
In the event aj ob is still not staffed, and all bid shift refreshers have been completed, thejunior qualified available employee on the shift will be staffed into the job.
In the event that the j ob is still not staffed, the junior qualified available employee (refreshed or not) in the plant will be transferred off their shift into thejob.
13.03
For the purpose of shift identification only, day shift will be referred to as “B” shift; afternoon shift will be referred to as “C” shift; midnight (production), Monday through Friday, will be referred to as “A” shift and midnight (sanitation and pan goods wash up and machine cleaner specialist), Tuesday through Saturday, will be referred to as “D” shift. For purposes of clarity ‘D’ shift commences Monday evening and ‘A’ shift commences Sunday evening.
13.04
Employees bumped to “D” shift as per Articles 10 and/or Article 13 will be placed on a voluntary leave of absence in accordance with their Employee Profile List, until such time as work is available on “A”, “B” or “C” shift. Should an employee exercise a voluntary leave of absence and then decide that they are prepared to work on “D”
25
shift, they must provide a representative of the Employee Relations Department with one (1) full week written notice, and they will be added back into the staffing process. Such written notice must be provided by 4:00 p,m. the Friday prior to the staffing of the week in question.
Employees who elect a voluntary leave of absence as defined above will continue benefits for the balance of the month in which they went on leave of absence, plus two (2) full months thereafter as per Article 30.01.
If an employee returns from a leave of absence to “D” shift, they must complete their assignment until such time as they are either laid-off, return to their bid shift, or assigned to “A”, “B" or“C” shift.
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section one (1) “D” shiftjobs with fully and immediately qualified employees to perform the available work, then thejunior employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the available work and who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to the assigned shift.
Should a situation arise where the company cannot adequately staff section two (2) “D” shiftjobs, thejunior employee who elected a voluntary leave of absence will be required to report to perform the available work. Employees who bump into bidjobs identified in section two (2) of the bidj ob list in Article 29 will be afforded up to one (1) full work week of training. Employees who cannot perform the full scope of the bid job after such training will be disqualified and reassigned as per the staffing process.
13.05
The provisions of Article 19.03 are not applicable when employees are temporarily transferred between “A” and/or “D” shift on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday of any week.
26
13.06
Once the staffing process commences each week (not before noon on Monday), for the following week, relevant data such as the Employee Profile List, production and staffing requirements and availability of employees, will be frozen at that time for the balance of the week.
Notwithstanding a work week containing a holiday as defined in Article 17 of the Collective Agreement, the Company will make every effort to post the finalized staffing schedule by noon Wednesday of each work week. Should the staffing week contain a holiday, the staffing posting may be delayed until 4:00 p,m, Wednesday. The CompanyAJnion/employee(s) will be responsible for reviewing said staffing and immediately identifying any issues of assignment but no later than noon, Thursday of that week. Should said posting be delayed, the verification period will be extended by twenty-four (24) hours from the actual posting of the schedule.
Should any issues be identified within the twenty-four (24) hour period above, the Company will make the appropriate changes to staff employees as per Articles 10 and/or 13. Should any issues be identified after the twenty-four (24) hour period as described above, the Company’s only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
Should a situation arise which is beyond the control of the company, which results in employee availability changing during the week after the staffing process has begun, the Company will make a reasonable effort to staff employees as per Articles 10 and 13 however, its only obligation will be to assign employees according to bid shift and plant wide seniority.
13.07
Employees interested in mid week recall must register their availability on the employee profile as per Article 10.02. Should mid week recall occur, the Company will attempt to contact, by phone, the
27
senior employee. Having exhausted this list the Company will recall in accordance with Article 13.01,
13.08
The Company will contact employees to advise of a recall to work following layoff. Employees not contacted will be sent a letter via registered mail or courier addressedto the last address recorded with the Company by the employee. Employees are responsible for providing a current address and phone number in writing to the Employee Relations Department.
A person being recalled by letter sent via registered mail or courier shall signify their intention to return to work within five (5) calendar days after the notice has been sent out and shall return to work within a further two (2) calendar days.
ARTICLE 14 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
14.01
Temporary transfers of four (4) weeks or less will be completed through the staffing process indicated in Articles 10 and/or 13.
When the Company is aware of a known absence in excess of four (4) weeks but less than four (4) months, it will be filled through a volunteer posting, which will be posted for a period of five (5) working days over a two (2) week period for volunteers.
The assignment will be filled by the senior available employee who is fully and immediately qualified to perform the work available. The successful bidder to the volunteer posting will assume the position for the defined period of time and will not lose their original bid j ob.
Having exhausted the volunteer posting and should additional employee(s) still be required, the Company may seek further volunteers) and/or fill the remaining requirement(s) through the staffing process.
28
For clarification purposes, a temporary absence which exceeds four (4) months will be posted as per Article 25 as a Temporary Posting. The successful candidate will assume this position as their bid job, as per conditions outlined in Article 25.01.
14.02
A temporary transfer will not exceed four (4) months in duration unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union and the employee involved. The Union agrees that such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld.
14.03
The Company can temporarily transfer employees for one (1) working day or less. The Company will make a good faith effort to not transfer the same employee more than once in one week unless there are extenuating circumstances.
14.04
An original temporary transfer created as a result of a matemity/parentai leave of absence and subsequent temporary transfers associated with the original temporary transfer will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
14.05
Employees will be advised of the estimated duration of the temporary transfer and will be required to remain on such assignment for its duration. Employees will not be prevented from bidding on and being awarded a bid job posting as a result of a temporary transfer assignment.
ARTICLE 15 REDUNDANCY
15.01
In cases of redundancy (permanent layoff) due to any one or more of the following:
29
1.	amalgamation of bidjobs.
2.	discontinuation of a bid job for twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.
3.	changes in equipment and or technology.
4.	job elimination at any time.
the following procedure will apply:
a)	Should more than one (I) employee be involved as a result of one (1) and/or three (3) above the newly created bid job(s) will be offered to the senior employee(s) affected, who will have one (1) working day to decide to accepttheirchoiceofbidjob(s) if applicable or decline it/them. Should they decline, the next senioremployee(s) will be offered the opportunity and so on until an employee(s) accepts the newbidjob(s), Should no employee(s) accept the new bidjob(s) then thejob(s) shall be posted as per Article25,01, Thejunior employee(s) affected shall be declared redundant.
The employee(s) will be given training for the newly created bid job(s) and must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfil the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time. Should the employee(s) be unable to fulfil the full scope of the work after a reasonable length of time, the employee(s) will become non-bid employee(s) and the bid job(s) will be posted as per Article 25.01.
b)	Any employee displaced by such a j ob change, as defined above, or whose bidj ob becomes redundant will:
1,	displace the most junior bid employee on the seniority list, excluding tradespersons, on the bid shift.
2.	if there is no junior bid employee on the bid shift on the seniority list, the employee will displace the most junior bid employee on the seniority list, excluding tradespersons.
30
3,	in the event an employee chooses not to displace into the bid job in which 15.01 (b) I) or 2) above places them, they will become a non-bid employee.
4.	an employee will be given training for the bid job and must acquire all the necessary skills to fulfil the scope of the work in a reasonable length of time.
5,	in the event that more than one employee is impacted by redundancy, the junior employee will be displaced through the redundancy process first. The redundancy process will be completed for each employee affected in order of seniority, until completion of the redundancy process.
6.	once a position(s) has been officially declared redundant, the employee/union will be advised and the redundancy process will commence immediately.
15,02 Reversal of Redundancy
When a bidjob becomes available which was made redundant as described in Article 15.01, one (1) through four (4), the following will apply:
1. If the bidj ob which has been declared redundant or the newly created bidjob as described in Article 15,01 becomes available fora period in excess of four (4) consecutive full weeks within the twelve (12) month period, it will be filled by the previous senior bid holder unless they have successfully bid on another bid job through Article 25,
2,	If the bid job does not run for the four (4) consecutive full weeks the bidjob shall not be considered reactivated. If for some unforeseen or unusual circumstance the schedule should fluctuate up and down causing the redundant bidjob to repeatedly be filled, the Union and the Company may review and reconsider the reactivation.
31
3.	When fillingthe vacant position as a result of vacation, workers' compensation,matemity/parental leave, short-term disability or longterm disability for a period of up to four (4)months this time shall not be considered a reactivation under this article.
4.	In the event that an employee is absent more than four (4) months due to short-term disability, long-term disability or workers' compensation and the bidjob is required, the person declared redundant will be reinstated to the position. The employee who holds the original bid j ob who is off work for any of the above will be allowed to return to their original bid j ob for up to two (2) years from the date they went off.
5.	If an employee who has been off work as per 15.02 (4) above returns to work for less than eight (8) consecutive weeks and is absent again as per 15.02 (4) above, the temporary bid employee will be returned to the position in question. For the purpose of calculatingthe two (2) year period as identified in 15.02 (4) above the Company will use the original absence date.
6.	Notwithstanding Article 25.04, shouldan employee bid into a position which is subsequently declared redundant within a twelve (I 2) month period, the employee will be afforded another bid opportunity.
ARTICLE 16 LINE TEAMS(S)/NATURAL WORK TEAM(S)
16.01
The following are the current line teams/natural work teams as of February 1,2004:
Oh Henry
Syrup
Freeze
Receiving
National/Hayssen
Eatmore
32
Rose Forgrove Distribution Center Jensen Glosettes
Chocolate Processing
Carousel
Halloween
Nut Processing
Sanitation
PBC
Pan Goods
Jolly Rancher Fruit Chew (formerly Jr,)
Cherry Blossom Rovema/Adco
Jolly Rancher Lollipop (formerly Lightbulb)
16.02
a)	Rotation only, for the line teams identified below, the current line team rotation practices where possible and practical, will be maintained as equitably as possible; every half ('/j) hour with the exception of Mr, Freeze and Campbell, which will have afifteen(15) minute rotation where practical, Such rotation will not adversely affect productivity and for the purposes of this Article, productivity will be defined asa ‘hot seat changeover’. There will be no cross line team rotation.
Syrup
Freeze
Cherry Blossom
National/Hayssen
Eatmore
Rose Forgrove
Jensen
Glosettes
Rovema/Adco
Halloween
33
Jolly Rancher Fruit Chew (formerly Jr,)
Oh Henry Campbell PBC
Jolly Rancher Lollipop (formerly Lightbulb)
b)	Current rotation practices will be maintained in the line teams and/or natural line teams outlined below. Such rotation will not adverselyaffect productivityand for the purposes of this Article, productivity will be defined as a ‘hot seat changeover’. There will be no cross line team rotation.
Oh Henry	PBC
Pan Goods	Nut Processing
Carousel	Chocolate Processing
Distribution Center
16.03
The above line teams and/or natural work teams may change subject to operational requirements.
ARTICLE 17 HOLIDAYS
17.01
The following days will be recognized by the Company as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day Labour Day Good Friday Thanksgiving Victoria Day
The Day before Christmas Day Canada Day Christmas Day Civic Holiday
The Day after ChristmasDay
34
Floater Holidays (2)
Floating Holidays will be celebrated by each employee on a date to be decided by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks' notice as to the day they intend to celebrate the floating holiday. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, the holiday must not interfere with the Company's ability to meet production requirements. The Company will respond to an employee's request for time off within five (5) working days of the date they requested to be off. In the event either the Provincial or Federal Government declares another holiday which must be observed and paid, then such holiday shall replace one (1) floating holiday referred to above.
17.02
To qualify for holiday pay, an employee will be required:
a)	to have completed the probationary period.
b)	to have worked the scheduled shift on the day immediately preceding the holiday and the scheduled shift on the day immediately succeeding the holiday. However, payment for the holiday will be made if an employee worked during the week in which the holiday occurred, but was prevented from working the days immediately preceding and succeeding the holiday because of lay-off by the Company, due to lack of work, or verified personal illness. Such verification will be in the form of a doctor's note to be presented upon returning to work.
c)	Notwithstanding Article 17.02(b), employees on an approved leave of absence for up to five (5) working days, before and/or after a holiday, will be paid for the holiday, provided they work their regular scheduled shift immediately preceding and succeeding the approved leave.
35
17.03
Where a paid holiday occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be given a day off with pay in lieu thereof at a time arranged with the Company, provided the employee is otherwise qualified to receive pay for the said holiday.
17.04
In the weeks in which paid holidays occur, for purposes of weekly overtime, the work week will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday and overtime will, in such weeks, be paid for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and the appropriate reduced work week, but not both.
17.05
(a)	Where a paid holiday occurs on a Saturday, it will be celebrated on the immediately preceding Friday. Where a paid holiday occurs on a Sunday, it will be celebrated on the immediately succeeding Monday. Holidays shall be deemed to be on the actual calendar day on which they fall except where changed by Federal or Provincial legislation.
(b)	Employees whose regular schedule consists of eleven and a half (II Vi) or twelve (12) hours per day, who are originally scheduled to work on a declared holiday as outlined in Article 17.01, and work on such holiday is cancelled by the Company, will receive holiday pay equivalent to the total hours that they were originally scheduled to work on that day subjectto the provision of Article 17.02.
(c)	Notwithstandingthe above, Canada Day shall be celebrated on:
Friday July 2,2004 Friday July 1,2005 Friday June 30,2006
17.06
Except for engineers, maintenance and milk receiving, no employee shall be compelled to work on a paid holiday.
36
ARTICLE 18 VACATION
18.01
For vacation purposes only, continuous service will be calculated as of June 30lh. However, in the year an employee reaches their fifth, tenth, eighteenth, and twenty-fifth year of continuous service, they will receive the additional vacation on their anniversary date. In the following year, their vacation entitlement will be as defined in Article
18.01	and Article 18.02.
18.02
In each year of the Collective Agreement, vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	One (1) year of continuous service ■ two (2) weeks.
(b)	Five f 5J years of continuous service - three (3) weeks.
(c)	Ten (10) years of continuous service - four (4) weeks
(d)	Eighteen(18) years of continuous service-five (5) weeks.
(e)	Twenty-five (25) years of continuous service - six (6) weeks.
18.03
Employees with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of June JO'11 will be paid a vacation allowance in accordance with the Employment StandardsAct of the Province of Ontario.
18.04
Payment for vacations will be on the basis of two percent (2%) of an employee's earnings during the previous vacation year for each week of vacation to which they are entitled. Vacation pay will be issued by no later than June 30lh each year.
In addition, employees who pre-register no later than the last regular scheduled work day of October, will have access to vacation pay for the total amount of vacation pay accrued. Such accrued amount will be issued during the month of December. Furthermore, such payment
37
will be deducted from each employee's total yearly vacation pay earnings.
18.05
All earned vacations must be completed during the twelve (12) months succeeding June 30"1. No more than four (4) weeks vacation can be taken at one time without the Company's permission.
18.06
Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by bid shift, with senior employees being given the first selection of vacation dates. However, this shall not be applied to the detriment of the Company maintaining sufficient employees who are qualified to perform the work.
Employees will be afforded the opportunity to register for vacation on a quarterly basis for the periods of July-August-September; October-November-December; January-February-March and April-MayJune.
By 4:00 p.m. on February 16, 2004, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of April-May-June and the vacation schedule will be posted by March 19, 2004.
By 4:00 p.m, on May 3, 2004, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of July-August-September and the vacation schedule will be posted by June 18,2004.
By 4:00 p.m. on August 16, 2004, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of October-November-December and the vacation schedule will be posted by September 17, 2004,
By 4:00 p.m, on November I, 2004, employees must register their vacation requests for the months of January-February-March and the vacation schedule will be posted by December3,2004.
38
A similar timing schedule will be issued for the balance of the Collective Agreement.
Should an employee wish to cancel their scheduled vacation, they may request to do so in writing to Employee Relations no later than eleven (11) calendar days prior to their scheduled vacation. The Company will not unreasonably deny this request.
Employees who do not register for vacation by the applicable dates will forfeit any right to exercise the terms thereof. If any additional vacation requests are approved by the Company, they shall be administered on a first-come, first-served basis.
18.07
a)	In the event of a partial vacation shutdown for the summer or Christmas period, a senior employee shall not be forced to take vacation if they have the ability to immediately perform any of the remaining work within the Plant.
b)	In order to staff the facility during the vacation shutdown, the Company will post for volunteers identifying bid job and an estimate of the number of people required. Employees who volunteer will be selected and assigned based upon seniority and having the ability to immediately perform the available work. Should insufficient volunteers be obtained, the mostjunior qualified employee(s) will be required to work.
c)	Only employees who are indicated as qualified on their respective Employee Profile(s) will be staffed to work for Christmas or summer plant shutdown(s), Section II positions will be staffed by employee seniority and can’t do(s) identification as indicated on the Employee Profile. The above will not preclude the Company from posting for staffing of general cleaning (non bid jobs) during Christmas or summer plant shutdown(s),
39
18.08
a)	Employees may take one vacation week in increments of less than five (5) days at a time except during the months of June, July and August.
b)	Notwithstanding Article 18,08 (a), Maintenance employees may take one (1) week in increments of less than five (5) days at any time throughout the calendar year.
c)	In 18.08(a) and (b) above, such vacation time will be mutually agreed to by the Company and the employee. Employees must provide two (2) weeks written notice as to their vacation request. The Company will respond to an employee's request for time off within five (5) working days of the day they requested to be off. While the Company will make every effort to accommodate employees, their vacation must not interfere with the Company's ability to meet production requirements.
ARTICLE 19 HOURS OF WORK
19.01
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours, or for any other hours.
19.02
The regular work week will consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) days of eight (8) hours each day. The days of work, starting and quitting times will be determined by the Company in accordance with its requirements.
When employees are required to work a shift on Saturday or Sunday as a part of their regular work week, they will be paid a premium of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($ 1.25) per hour for all hours worked from the start of "A" shift Saturday up to the start of "A" shift Sunday. A premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour will be paid for all hours worked from the start of "A" shift Sunday up to the start of
40
"A" shift Monday. The Saturday and Sunday premiums shall not be considered a part of an employee's hourly rate and will not be paid for any hours where the overtime rate is applicable.
19.03
Except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company, where the shift to be worked in a work week is to be changed, any employee involved in the said change will be given a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours notice. Employees will not be required to work shifts where there is not twelve (12) hours off between the end of one shift and the start of the next shift. Where an employee voluntarily works, those hours before 12 shall be paid at the overtime rate.
19.04
The lunch period will be one-half (Vi) hour without pay.
19.05
(a)	A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes' duration will be provided in each half shift, at times designated by the Company.
(b)	Where an employee is scheduled to continue working overtime at the end of their regular shift for a period of two (2) consecutive hours or more, they will be provided with a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period at or near the end of their regular shift and every two (2) hours thereafter, provided it does not have an adverse effect on productivity. If such rest period cannot be provided at the end of the regular shift it will be provided during the period of overtime work at a time designated by the Company.
19.06
The regular work week for Operating Engineers will consist of forty-two (42) hours to be averaged over a four (4) week period. Changes in work schedules will be posted as far in advance as practical.
19.07
A Operating Engineer who is completing their shift will be required to remain on the job until the reporting employee is available and
41
ready to take over the succeeding shift, or until other arrangements have been made by the Maintenance Manager. No employee will be allowed to work more than seventeen (17) consecutivehours.
19.08
Employees with seniority excluding Operating Engineers, will be given preference of shift start times within their bid job. This preference of shift start times is understood to be in full week increments.
Where employees mutually agree to temporarily change shifts the change must be agreed to by the Company and the Union and the employee involved.
19.09
All seniority employees except Maintenance personnel and Operating Engineers, shall have the opportunity of selecting the shift they wish to work according to seniority and in accordance with Article 25.01(a).
19.10
No employee will be allowed to work more than seventeen (17) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 20 OVERTIME
20.01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half an employee’s regular hourly rate will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily and forty (40) hours weekly, but not both, Monday through Saturday. Overtime rate for all Sunday hours worked will be twice the regular hourly rate. Overtime for work on a statutory holiday will be twice the regular hourly rate.
42
20.02
(a)	Overtime opportunities will be offered to the most senior employee bid to the j ob who is capable of immediately performing the
j°b.
(b)	Overtime opportunities for cleaning in offices, candy counter, cafeterias, labs and Distribution Centre conference room will be afforded to the bid employee(s) in the Janitorial bid job who normally perform the work and then offered on a plant wide basis.
(c)	In the event that there is still not enough overtime coverage, the remaining overtime opportunities will be offered to the senior employee in the plant who is capable of immediately performing the job. Employees can register for any overtime but final assignment will be determined by the Company.
(d)	When weekday overtime is required during the regular work week, such overtime Opportunities will be posted for all known days required for the week in question for twenty-four (24) hours where possible. Such overtime will be offered as per Article 20,02 (a) and (b) above. Where a ten (10) minute overlap (or less) occurs, it will be considered that no overlap exists and in such cases an employee may sign for and work overtime.
(e)	The Company reserves the right to deviate from above if employees’ health or work is deemed to suffer as a result of excessive overtime. The Union will be advised of such situations.
(f)	An employee who is performing overtime work in a bid job that is lower than their own, will be paid the overtime rate which is applicable to their bid job.
(g)	Production leadhands will obtain overtime in their leadhand position and/or by plant wide seniority. Maintenance leadhands will obtain overtime in their leadhand position, and/or their bid job and/or by plant wide seniority.
43
(h)	An employee who as a result of working emergency overtime as approved, and verified by their supervisor, does not work forty (40) regular hours in their scheduled work week will be paid the applicable overtime premium for all overtime hours worked on the weekend.
(i)	An employee who is sent home due to a lack of work or is notified not to report to work, during their regular work week, will be deemed to have worked their scheduled shift and shall be paid at the applicable overtime premium for all hours worked on the weekend.
0 Recognizing there are varying shift start times based on different production schedules and other services (i.e. Sanitation) supporting these schedules, an employee may sign for and work overtime that overlaps a shift. Where a ten (10) minute overlap (or less) occurs, it will be considered that no overlap exists and in such cases an employee may sign for and work overtime. Should enough volunteers still not be found other employees who signed for the overtime will be utilized according to their availability to work the overtime if practicable.
(k)	Probationary employees will qualify for overtime only after all employees with seniority have had the opportunity to work the overtime. The exception to this will be when a probationary employee has been assigned a bid job and is therefore deemed to be bid on the job and is performing the function on a regular basis.
(l)	A week-end overtime sign-up roster will be posted by 12:00 noon Tuesday of each week. Employees will be offered the opportunity to sign up for overtime between 12:00 noon Tuesday and 12:00 noon Wednesday of each week. By 12:00 noon Wednesday the overtime rosters will be taken down and employees will not be allowed to cancel their registration without a legitimate reason. Employees who register for overtime are expected to work their scheduled overtime shift and the provisions of Article 20.03 are applicable. The finalized overtime roster will be posted by 12:00 noon Thursday of each week.
44
Employees are responsible for reviewing such overtime schedule and immediately identifying issues of assignment/entitlement to the employee's supervisor by 12:00 noon Friday.
(m)	Late weekend overtime opportunity(ies) occurring after twelve (12) noon on Tuesday will be posted on the overtime board for a period of twenty-four (24) hours, where possible.
(n)	During the vacation shutdown period, referred to in Article 18.07(b), overtime for Saturday and Sunday will be afforded as per Article 20,02 a) and b).
On an exception basis the Company reserves the right to post additional overtime requirements based upon changing business needs. Should this occur, the Company will attempt to contact the relative bidjob employee(s), The Union will be notified in advance of such situations.
The Company and Union are committed to making every effort possible to resolve such issues in a timely manner in order to avoid overtime opportunity errors.
20.03
If an employee commits to work a required overtime shift and fails to report for work on two (2) occasions in a rolling twelve (12) month period without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence, then the employee will have their name put on the forced overtime list.
The Company shall have the right to schedule employees to accommodate production needs from the forced overtime list. If an employee fails to report for the forced overtime scheduled shift they will be subject to progressive discipline. An employee's name shall be removed from the forced overtime list after a two (2) month period. The Company agrees that people excluded from the forced
45
overtime list shall have first refusal of overtime requirements, as defined in Article 20.02.
20.04
Having exhausted the voluntary overtime list and the forced overtime list as described in Article 20.03, if Hershey National Stock level on a product drops below five (5) weeks inventory the Company has the right to select the junior qualified employee in the Plant to perform the required overtime. This will be referred to as “mandatory overtime”. The inventory stock level documentation of the specific product will be reviewed with the Unit Chairperson prior to implementing the mandatory overtime.
Should other circumstances arise, the overtime requirement policy will apply upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
An employee who fails to report for work as described above without providing a legitimate reason to the Company or who fails to provide a medical certificate which would excuse the absence will be subject to progressive discipline.
20.05
Employees will not be scheduled for forced overtime as defined in Article 20.03 and/or mandatory overtime as in Article 20.04 on the weekend(s) immediately preceding or immediately following a scheduled full week of vacation. In order to accommodate production needs, the Company will select the next senior qualified employee to perform the required overtime. Employees whose names are on the forced overtime list as defined in Article 20.03 and who are excused from forced overtime for scheduled vacation, shall remain on the forced overtime list for an additional period equal to the time they were excused.
46
20.06
If unforeseen circumstances arise after 4:00 p,m. on Thursday which require the cancellation of a portion(s) of scheduled week-end overtime, overtime for employees scheduled to work on the affected jobs will be cancelled and the finalized overtime roster will not be revised.
20.07
When the Company has posted for overtime and seniority employees have declined the opportunity, the Company will maintain the right to assign students and/or part time employees. Students and/or part time employees working a normal work week will not be considered as circumventing overtime opportunities of seniority employees. This shall not restrict the Company from exercising its right to assign employees to work overtime under Articles 20.03, 20.04 and Letter of Intent #20.
ARTICLE 21 CALL-IN PAY/REPORTING FOR WORK PAY
21.01
An employee who is called in to work to meet emergency conditions after having completed their shift and having left the Company property, will be guaranteed the equivalent of not less than four (4) hours pay at the employee's applicable hourly rate of pay or one and one-half (1%) times the employee's hourly rate of pay for all hours worked, or twice the employee's hourly pay for all hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory Holiday whichever is greater. In addition, the Company will pay one (1) hour bonus pay at an employee's regular hourly rate of pay for all call-ins.
An employee who has been called into work and subsequently called to cancel the call-in shall be guaranteed one hour's pay for such call.
47
21.02
If the call-in occurs less than one (I) hour before the regular starting time, the call-in pay will be limited to the time remaining prior to the said regular time.
21.03
Any employee called at home by a supervisor to solve a work related problem shall receive one hour's pay at their regular rate.
21.04
An employee who reports for work at the start of their shift, without having been notified in advance not to report, and no work is available for such an employee, will be paid four (4) hours pay at their regular rate. This obligation on the part of the Company will not prevail where an employee does not keep the Company notified of their current address and the telephone number if any, or where the Company is prevented from providing work because of fire, flood, lack of hydro or steam power, strike, or any similar circumstances.
ARTICLE 22 TRAINING
22.01
In order to ensure that Hershey Canada Smiths Falls, develops and maintains a best-in-class work force capable of meeting business needs and to ensure we empower the individual to achieve their absolute best, the Company and the Union agree to maintain a Training Team. This team will consist of three (3) members of Management and three (3) Union members designated by the Union, with the goal of assisting the Company in identifying training requirements, in order to allow for such things as:
a)	Selection of the proper number of employees to be trained for overtime back-up needs.
b)	Vacation and absenteeismrelief.
c)	Development of technical, business and relationship training needs.
48
d)	Identification of positions that run on a year-round basis and development of methodology that will allow some senior employees to be trained so that they can remain active year-round.
e)	Methodology for allowing employees to maintain their current qualifications once trained.
22.02
Within each contract year, the Company will commit to training thirty (30) employees, of which a minimum of ten (10) will be trained on section two (2) bidjobs as described in Article 29. Employees trained in section two (2) bid jobs will be afforded up to a maximum of one (1) work week of training. The balance of the opportunities will be distributed based on the remaining criteria listed above. In addition, up to a maximum often (10) employees per contract year who are disqualified under Articles 10.06 and/or 13.04 will, upon request, be afforded up to one (1) additional full work week of training on a section two (2) bid job. These disqualified employees will be limited to additional training on one (1) section two (2) bidjob.
22.03
In the event that training is required for the purpose(s) of new business and/or technological change(s) and the Company and Union Committee have reached mutual agreement, employee(s) will be trained out of order of seniority.
22.04
In addition, should further training be required during plant shutdown period(s) for other purposed) such as, net weight, PEP/HACCP, operating process(es) and/or employee development such as team building, root cause analysis, etc. and pending mutual agreement between the Company and Union Committee, employee(s) will be trained out of order of seniority.
49
22.05
Effective February 1, 2000 the Company will have the option of appointing trainer(s). Trainer(s), from time to time, will be required to be trained in other bid jobs in order to train other employees. Furthermore, trainer(s) may be required to be staffed on any shift for training purposes, however, in doing so trainer(s) shall not displace any bid employee.
A Trainer appointed by the Company will receive a rate of fifty (50) cents in excess of the highest bid job rate in the group of employees they are required to train.
Trainers will be subject to the provisions of Articles 10 and 13. Should the Company and/or employee(s) terminate the employee’s trainer assignment the provisions of Article 15 will apply.
Trainers will obtain overtime in their trainer position and/or by plant wide seniority.
ARTICLE 23 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
23.01
The Company agrees to continue paying for all benefits during an employee’s matemity/parental leave of absence.
23.02
An employee who is required by law to serve as a juror or crown witness will be paid their full regular wages based on forty (40) hours per week during the time of such service provided they report for work on any days they are not required to be in attendance in the courtroom.
23.03
By March 15, 2004 and in fourteen (14) month intervals thereafter, employees will be provided with uniforms based on the need for replacement, at the discretion of the employee, up to a maximum of
50
ten (10) pieces of clothing as per their request with the following conditions:
(1) Employees may choose one (I) jacket per year which is equal to three (3) pieces of clothing.
(ii) Coveralls orjumpsuits are equal to two (2) pieces of clothing (hi) Employees may choose up to three (3) sweatshirts.
(iv)	One (1) apron is equal to one (1) piece of clothing.
(v)	All employees hired after the date of the first uniform issue shall receive an appropriate number of uniforms to accommodate them until the next issuance date.
The cleaning and maintenance of uniforms and any additions to the number supplied by the Company shall be the responsibility of employees. Uniforms shall be kept clean and in good condition. All uniforms worn shall be of the design and colour required by the Company.
23.04
Supervisors will not perform work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except:
(a)	in cases of emergency conditions;
(b)	when performing development or experimental work;
(c)	when checking production on machines or on any lines;
(d)	when instructing employees or other supervisory personnel;
(e)	when regular employees are not available due to being late or otherwise absent from their work or jobs.
23.05
Each tradesperson or apprentice who is required by the Company to supply tools to be used in connection with their work will be given an allowance of $200 in each year for the purchase and replacement of tools. Payment will be included in the last pay in June of each year.
51
23.06
The Company agrees to provide the Union with its own bulletin board. The Union agrees to review all postings for the board with the Manager, Employee Relations or their designate for permission, before posting.
23.07	New Technology
The Company agrees to inform the Union and discuss as soon as possible, any new technology that is scheduled to be introduced to the plant, that has an effect on bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 24 SAFETY
24.01
Understanding the importance of health and safety the Company and the Union agree to abide by all terms and regulations as outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, (O.H.S.A.) revised statutes of Ontario, 1990,
24.02
The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be comprised of not more than four (4) members of Management and not more than four (4) Bargaining Unit employees. The Bargaining Unit members shall be appointed by the Union. Two (2) of the committee members shall co-chair the committee, one of whom shall be selected by the Union and the other of whom shall be selected by Management.
24.03
The Company will make reasonable provisions for the safety of its employees during their hours of work. The Joint Health and Safety Committee will meet once per month unless the Union and the Company otherwise agree. The Union will actively participate with the Company in the promotion of safe working habits and practices.
52
24.04
The Company will pay each seniority employee an annual safety shoe allowance. Payment will be included in the first pay of February of each year. Effective February 2004, the safety shoe allowance will be one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) peryear.
Any new employee will be paid the applicable safety shoe allowance upon the completion of their probationary period.
Safety shoes shall only be worn in connection with work for the Company and shall be left in the plant.
ARTICLE 25 JOB POSTING
25.01
(a)	Notices of job vacancies, which will include the shift to be worked, will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days spanning a two (2) week period, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and paid holidays. During that period, employees who have completed the probationary period may make written application to the Employee Relations Department. Vacancies will be tilled by the most senior applicant who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory manner. If no one applies for the vacancy, the Company will fill such vacancy with the most junior non-bid employee who is capable and whose performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory manner. Once an employee has been assigned/awarded a job, it becomes their bid job. No probationary employee will be assigned a posted position unless there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list. If there are no capable non-bid employees on the seniority list, probationary employees will be assigned a posted position and will be deemed to be bid on the job after the successful completion of their probationary period. Employees will have the opportunity of changing shifts and/or jobs
53
only through the posting procedure. If applicable, the Company will include capabilities and experiencerequired onjob postings,
(b)	Temporary jobs which are less than four (4) months in duration will be posted for volunteers subject to the conditions of Article 14. A temporaryjob created as a result of a matsmity/parenta! leave of absence and subsequent temporary jobs associated with the original temporaryj ob will be excluded from this provision for the duration of the absence.
(c)	All job vacancy notices posted shall state the bid job title, shift, wage rate and other relevant information.
(d)	Within a five (5) working day period Hum the time of determiningthe successful applicant the Company shall post the name of the successful applicant for a period of five (5) working days and provide them with a copy.
(e)	The Unit Chairperson shall be supplied with a list of all temporary jobs and the person working on saidjob monthly.
(f)	In the event that an employee is absent due to short term disability, long term disability, or Workers' Compensation their bid job will be posted after four (4) months. Absence due to matemity/parentai leave of absence, are excluded From this provision for the duration of the absence. The employee who holds the original bid who is off work for sick leave (etc.) will be allowed to return to their original j ob for up to two (2) years from the date they went off. A temporary bid job posting as described above will clearly indicate that the position will be temporary up to two (2) years from the date they went off.
In the event that the temporary bid job holder is displaced by the original bid job holder returning to their j ob within the two (2) year period, they will be displaced as per Article 15 of the Collective Agreement.
54
In the event that the original bid job holder does not return within the two (2) year period, or elects to terminate their services with the Company, the temporary bidjob holder will be deemed the incumbent to the bidjob.
A temporary job posting as described above will clearly indicate on the posting that the position will be temporary for up to two (2) years.
(g)	An employee can only hold one bid job.
(h)	The Unit Chairperson is to be copied on all correspondence pertaining tojob postings.
(i) For the purpose of this Article a job posting will result if there is a requirement for:
i)	a vacated bidjob,
ii)	anewbidjob.
iii)	a bidjob as defined in Article 25.01 (g),
iv)	a bid job which is reactivated after being vacant in excess of one (I) year.
25.02
Only the original vacancy and the first two (2) subsequent vacancies resulting from filling the original vacancy will be posted. However, where further vacancies occur, they will be posted for forty-eight (48) hours. Vacancies will be tilled by the senior capable employee(s) who expresses interest providing their performance is satisfactory to the Company. This will not be arbitrarily exercised in an unfair or discriminatory manner. When there are no successful candidates the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with Article 25.01 (a).
25.03
An employee who is awarded a bid job through the posting procedure shall receive the rate for the new bid job in fourteen (14) working days from the date they were awarded the bidj ob or the date on which
55
they are placed on the job, whichever occurs first. Once awarded the bid job, an employee will only be eligible for overtime in their former bid job on a plant wide seniority basis. The successful applicant will be notified within five (5) working days after the posting period is completed.
The successful candidate must be moved to their new bid job within twenty-eight (28) working days of a successful bid unless mutually agreed to in writing by the Company, the Union and the employee involved, such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld. Unless laid off, the successful candidate must be available to report to the new bid job within twenty-eight (28) calendar days. Employees who are on short term disability, long term disability or worker’s compensation with a return to work date which is undefined or beyond twenty-eight (28) calendar working days frtm the expiry of the posting shall be disqualified. The successful candidate shall be eligible for overtime in their new bid job subject to being fully and immediately qualified.	*
25.04
Employees will be restricted to receiving two (2) bid jobs through the posting procedure in a twelve month period.
25.05
An employee who is absent from work and who wishes to apply for a bid job vacancy may complete the appropriate application through the Employee Relations Department. If there is a vacancy, they will be given full consideration along with other bids received. Such application will be null and void upon the employee’s return to work,
ARTICLE 26 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
26.01
An employee who has completed the probationary period will be allowed a bereavement leave ofabsence with pay as follows:
56
a)	Up to three (3) working days in the event of the death of their father, mother, sister, brother, wife/husband, child, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepchild and grandparents.
b)	One (1) working day in the event of the death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
26.02
Such time off will be paid at the regular wage the employee would have received if they had worked their regular scheduled hours.
26.03
If a death occurs to a member of an employee's family outlined in Article 26,01 while the employee is on vacation, the balance of their remaining vacation may be rescheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee. The employee will be eligible for a Bereavement Leave of Absence with pay as per Article 26,01,
ARTICLE 27 DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
27.01
On receipt of authorization forms individually and voluntarily signed by employees, the Company will deduct union dues in the amount as designated by the Union from the pay accumulated to the credit of such employees for the second pay period of each calendar month.
Amounts so deducted will be forwarded to a designated official of the Union within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the deductions have been made.
57
27.02
Authorizationfor the deduction of union dues will be made on copies of the following form:
I.......................hereby authorize Hershey Canada Inc. to
deduct my monthly dues to NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, TRANSPORTATION AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW-CANADA) AND ITS LOCAL 462 and forward the dues so deducted to the Secretary-Treasurerof Retail, Wholesale Canada - C.A.W,, Local 462, whose receipt therefore shall be considered a discharge to the Company for the amounts so deducted. Such an authorization shall be irrevocable.
Signed.
Address.
27.03
New employees hired by the Company shall be required to authorize the deduction of union dues from their pay. The deduction of such dues shall commence after the employee has been employed for sixty (60) worked days. When a new employee is hired, they will be advised there is a Collective Agreement in effect and, within two (2) days after they commence work, such new employee will be introduced to the area steward.
27.04
The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted from pay as herein provided.
58
ARTICLE 28 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
28.01
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority may be granted by the Company to employees for personal reasons. An employee requesting leave shall make such a request in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date when the leave is required. Under normal circumstances, personal leave, when granted by the Company, shall not extend beyond four (4) months.
In exceptional circumstances the Company may consider requests for extended leaves of absence beyond four (4) months, but not to exceed one (1) year.
Should employee(s) be granted a leave of absence for exceptional circumstances which will be determined by the Company, the employee(s) shall not be required to use vacation and/or floaters for this leave of absence.
28,02
Leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company to not more than twelve (12) employees at a time to attend Union functions, provided the request for such a leave is made at least two (2) weeks in advance of the effective date of said leave. Each year, the Company will permit two (2) individuals, designated by the Union, to take leaves of absence for union business to the extent deemed necessary by the Union. The total accumulation of leave of absence for Union functions for all other employees shall not exceed one hundred (100) working days in any twelve (12) month period. Subject to operational requirements the Company will consider special requests for particular leaves of absences on an individual basis.
59
28.03
Leave of absence without loss of seniority will be granted by the Company for the adoption of a child up to a period of six (6) months without any form of compensation.
60
ARTICLE 29 WAGES/SHIFT PREMIUM
29.01
The Company will classify employees and pay applicable wage rates in accordance with the wage schedule.
Waq? Schedule			
Bid Job List	Effective Upon Ratiflcstlo Lew 2 Year than 2 A Ova	Effective	Effective
		Lew 2 Yean Ihan 2 & Over	Less 2 Years than 2 A Over
			
RATE OP PAY Pre-Treatment Operator	16.44 16.7	16.92 19.21	19.40 19.69
RATe OF PAY Fruit Chaw KHchen Cook Lollipop Kitchen Cook Oh Henrv Kitchen Cook	18.10 16.39	18.68 18.87	19.06 19.35
RATE OP PAY Machine Cleaner Specialist Storekeeper	16.09 18.3*	18.57 18.88	19.05 19.34
RATE OP PAY Beetz Operator Cherry Blossom Operator Chocolate Processing Helper Concha Operator Eatmore Cooker Freeze Poucher Operator Halloween Operator Hayssen Operator Fruit Chew Bagger Operator Lollipop Bagger Operator Jensen Operator Liquor Mill & Refiner Mlk Condenser National Operator Nut Processing Operator Nut Processing Operator/ Material Handler (formerly Nut Proceseing/Matertal Handler position) Oh Henry Operator Pan Goods Washup Panning Operator Paste Mix & Refiner PBC Operator Plow & Double Mixer	17.79 18.0	18.27 18.58	16.75 19.04
61
Waae Schedule			
Bid Job Hit	Effective	Effective	Effective Fehruarv 1.2006
	Lea 2 Yean than 2 A Over	Lew 2 Years than 2 A Over	Lets 2 Yean than 2 A Over
Roveme Operator Symphony Robot Operator 8yrvp Maker Syrup Operator			
			
RATE OF PAY Chocolate /North End Receiver Packaging Receiver	17/48 17.77	17.96 18.2S	18.44 18.73
RATE OF PAY Campbell Una Attendant Centrtfuger/Rework Material Handler Chocolate Processing Line Cleaner DC Material Handler Eatmore Cutter Freeze Lab Attendant Freeze Material Handler Freeze Mixer General Material Handler Glosette Line Attendant Jensen Line Attendant Fruit Chew Line Attendant Candy Material Handler Fruit Chew Sdckpack Attendant Lollipop Line Attendant Oh Henry Una Attendant PBC Line Attendant Peanut Butter Maker Rose Forgrove Line Attendant Sanitation Una Cleaner Syrup Operator Packer Utility Relief Syrup Uttttty Relief Gloselte/Bagger	17.38 17.67	17.88 18.15	18.34 18.63
62
Waae Schedule			
	EITcciive	E fled 1 vc	Effective
lid Job [<|st	Uaon Ratification		ehruarv 1. 20fk
	Less than 2 Yean	Less 2 Yean	Less 2 Year
	2 years &0yer	than 2 & Ovct	han 2 & Ove
			
			
RATE OF PAY Campbell Operator Packer Campbell Service Attendant Candy Counter Packer Carousel/Spiral/Pallatlzer Cherry Blossom Cream Maker Cherry Blossom Operator Packer Eatmore Operator Packer Freeze Operator Packer Freeze Pallettzer/Servlce Attendant Freeze Utility Relief General Labour Groundskeeper Halloween Operator Packer Halloween Service Attendant Hayssen Operator Packer Jensen Operator Packer Fruit Chew Case Packer/lnspector Fruit Chew Pallettzer Fruit Chew Utility Relief Lollipop Case Packer/lnspector Lollipop Pelletizer Lollipop unity Relief Mezzanine Service Attendant Nut Inspector Oh Henry Inspector Oh Henry Service Attendant P.B. Pusher P.B.C. Operator Packer Raisin Washer / Sugaring Rose Forgrove Operator Packer Rovema Service Attendant Sanitation Janitorial Spare Tray Washer Utility Relief	17.22 17.51	17.70 17.91	1816 18.4
RATE OF PAY Hiring Class	14.47	14.47	14.47
63
General Increase:
Moulding Operator Adjustment
0*2years 2-5years Over 5 years Kitchen Cook Adjustment
Over 2 years
Material Handler DC Adjustment
Over 2 years Chocolate Processing Operator Adjustment
Over 2 years	$0.10
Bagger Operator Adjustment
0 • 2 years	$0.00
2-5yeara	$0.15
Over 5 years	$0.20
Yean
$0.28
$0.00
$0.15
$0.20
$0.10
$0.10
Year 2 $0.48
Year 3 $0.48
64
29.02
Employees hired at the hiring rate will attain the rate of the bid job to which they are assigned on completion of sixty (60) days of work.
29.03
(a)	A leadhand appointed by the Company will receive a rate of $0.50 in excess of the highest bid job rate in the group of employees they are required to lead.
(b)	Leadhands will have no authority to hire or discharge or discipline, and shall not be used in the assessment of an employee's performance for the purpose of discipline, promotion or an employee attaining seniority.
(c)	Leadhands will be selected from those employees with seniority and will not be selected from the ranks of temporary or probationary employees.
29.04
An afternoon shift premium of fifty cents ($0,50 cents) per hour will be paid for all hours worked on shifts which commence from 1:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m, A midnight shift premium of fifty-five cents ($0.55 cents) per hour will be paid for all shifts which commence from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
29.05
(a)	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher to a lower rated bid job for the convenience of the Company, and not as a result of the lack of work on their bid job, will be paid the higher rate for the duration of such temporary transfer.
(b)	An employee who is temporarily transferred from a lower to a higher rated bid job will receive the higher rate for all hours worked upon working four (4) hours or more continuously on the higher rated bidjob.
65
ARTICLE 30 HEALTH AND WELFARE
30.01
The employee shall have Health and Welfare benefits as outlined in the "Employee Handbook" dated 2000,
30.02
Insurance benefits contained herein are within the control of third parties (i.e. the carriers of the said plans). Therefore, the Company shall not be responsible for any decisions made by the said third parties with respect to the payment or non-payment of benefits.
30.03
Severance Pay - In the event of the closure of all of the Company's operation in Smiths Falls or the closure of a portion leading up to the total closure, resulting in a permanent lay-off, the Company agrees to pay all terminated employees a severance pay for those employees with more than five (5) years seniority, amounting to one (1) week's regular wages for each year of service and one half (Vi) week's regular wages for each year of service for those employees with less than five (5) years seniority.
ARTICLE 31 DEDUCTIONS FOR PENSION AND RETIREE BENEFITS
31.01 In recognition of the Union's desire to provide their membership with pension credits from date of hire less one (1) year (that is, creditfor pre-April I, 1986 service) and post retirement benefits, the company agrees as follows:
a)	Five cents ($0.05) per hour for all compensated hours will be deducted and remitted to the Union on a monthly basis as directed, in writing, by the President of the National Union or such person as he may designate in writing, for the benefit of Hershey employees who retire.
66
b)	Such amount may be changed by the President of the National Union or such person as he may designate in writing by giving the company at least thirty (30) days written notice.
c)	The Company, on behalf of those employees who were hired prior to April 1, 1986 and who do not have full credited service with respect to the period prior to that date, will make the contribution required by the pension plan to permit those employees to have full credit for service to April 1, 1986 effective as at the date of ratification of this offer. The Company will confirm that the cost of this improvement (estimated by the Pension Plan Actuary at $552,000) has been remitted. This will be funded by a reduction in the wage increase in the first year of the contract. The Company will track the number of hours paid and inform the Union of the accumulated number of hours every six months. The wage rate will be increased by $0,20 in the pay period next after the cost has been recovered. Should the cost of this improvement not be recovered by the end of this agreement, the $0,20 wage increase will be deferred into the next collective agreement until the cost has been recovered.
d)	Once the cost of the improvements have been recovered, and the wage rate increased by $0,20, the amount of the deduction in a) above will be increased by that same $0,20,
31.02	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by employees for amounts deducted or remitted as provided in this article.
31.03	The Company has no obligation or liability under this article except to deduct and remit as provided above, and has no obligation or liability otherwise with respect to the use of these funds by the Union.
67
ARTICLE 32 DURATION
This agreement, which supersedes all previous agreements, will remain in full force and effective from and including the 12th day of March, 2004 to and including the 31st day of January, 2007, Notice by either party that it intends to terminate or seek revisions to this Agreement may only be given during a period of not more than ninety (90) calendar days and not less than sixty (60) calendar days preceding the 31st of January, 2007, The parties will begin negotiationsnot less than sixty (60) calendar days preceding the 31 St of January, 2007,
Signed at Smiths Falls this 29th day of April, 2004,
For the Company	For the Union
Rene Albert
Hemi Mitic
Maureen Frank
Harry Ghadban
Paul Cadeau
Steve O'Neil
Ralph March
Heather Sample
Chris Wright
Susan Johnston
Bruce Doef
Bill Leaver
68
LETTER OF INTENT #1 PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL TIME
Employees who are required and agree to travel to attend meetings for work or for training purposes, will be reimbursed as follows:
One ('ll Day Assignments
All employees will be paid from the time they leave the Hershey Smiths Falls Plant until their return to the Hershey Smiths Falls Plant. All hours beyond eight (8) will be paid at the applicable overtime rate. A one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch will be deducted from the total hours.
Overnight Assignments
Travel time which falls within an employee's regularly scheduled shift, will be considered as working time and will be paid at straight time up to a maximum of eight (8) hours. Saturday and Sunday are treated the same as week days and will be paid at straight time up to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
Time spent in travel outside of regular hours will not be considered as working time and will not be paid.
Time spent working (as opposed to travelling) away from the Plant will be paid as per the Collective Agreement.
Note: Modifications to all of the above will be made for employees working alternate shifts.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
69
LETTER OF INTENT #2 LAYOFF
This letter will confirm the Company's intent to use Hershey employees on lay-off as contractor helpers, when possible, in order to provide as much work to employees on lay-off as possible.
Whenever this agreement is made, it must be a feasible type of work assignment and must be agreed by the contractor at the time the work is being performed.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
70
LETTER OF INTENT #3 HOURS OF WORK
This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to have Monday through Friday as the normal work week. However, the Company will experience times when it is necessary to schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular working days to accommodate what would be considered unusual circumstances.
The Company will not unilaterally schedule Saturday, Sunday or both as regular working days, other than as set out above, without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union Committee.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
71
LETTER OF INTENT #4 LEAD TIME FOR LAYOFFS
This letter will serve as the Company's intent to maximize the lead time for all lay-offs which exceed five working days, except where it is beyond the reasonable control of the Company. To aid in this commitment, the Company will review anticipated overall staffing requirements at each monthly scheduled Labour-Management Meeting.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
72
LETTER OF INTENT #5 MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT SHUT SELECTION
The Company agrees to continue the current practice of shift rotation within the maintenance department in a fair and equitable manner. However, in the case of an emergency (equipment breakdown, installation, vacation, sickness), the Company reserves the right to be able to assign the required skill to the necessary shift.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
73
LETTER OF INTENT #6 ALTERNATEWORK SCHEDULE ELEVEN AND ONE-HALF (11 Vt) HOUR CHOCOLATE
Notwithstanding Article 19.02 in cases where the Company initiates and the Union agrees to implement alternate work schedules, the following schedule of benefits will apply for eleven and one-half(I 1 Vi) hour shifts.
Both parties agree that if for any reason the Alternate Work Week Schedule ceases, the Company will have the right to resume this Alternate Work Schedule, and the conditions outlined below in the Letter of Intent will not be altered. This right will stay in effect for twelve (12) months after the date of cessation of the Alternate Work Week Schedule.
Staffing
NotwithstandingArticle 15, when converting from a five (5) day, three (3) shift schedule to an eleven and one half (11 Vi) hour two (2) shift schedule, the following conditionswill apply:
i)	Current bid job holders would hold their current bidjob on their current bid shift.
ii)	“C” shiftbid employee(s) will automatically be assigned to the same bidjob vacancy on “A” shift.
in) Any remaining vacancies will be posted as per Article 25.
When converting from a seven (7) day, two (2) shift schedule to a five (5) day, three (3) shift schedule, the following conditionswill apply:
i)	Senior employees will retain their original bid job and shift.
ii)	All other bid employees will be declared redundant in accordance with Article 15.01 (4)b.
iii)	If the seven (7) day, two (2) shift operationis reactivated within a twelve (12) month period, the provisions of Article 15.02 will apply.
74
Shift Designation:
Eleven and one-half (11 14) hour shift in Chocolate Processing alternate work schedule shifts are referred to as; AI, A2, B1, B2.
Alternate Work Week Addendum for Eleven and One Half H 1 141 Hour Shift Statutory Holidays
The eight (8) hour entitlement will remain regardless of shift arrangement in that the total annualized work hours are the same.
floating Holidays
Employees will be compensated for an approved floating holiday for eleven and one half (11 14) hours at their base rate.
Vacations
Vacation entitlement is determined bv Article 18.02. such that employees who are granted and have taken a week of vacation are considered to have used a full week of vacation whether they are scheduled for two (2) days or five (5) days that week.
Chocolate Processing Replacement Staffing
When Chocolate Processing is operating on an “Alternate Work Schedule” (1114 hours) and leave is approved, such leave will be staffed in the following manner:
a)	The Company will seek volunteers, such as through the use of the Employee Profile List to staff leave forb) and c) below.
b)	When a replacement for a two (2) week (pay period) is required, the Company will attempt to staff with qualified volunteers. Having exhausted the volunteer list, the Company will staff the assignment as required.
c)	A short week (2 days) will be staffed first through qualified volunteers. Should there be insufficient volunteers, qualified employee(s) will be assigned to the position for two (2) days at 1114 hours and additional days at eight (8) hour assignments, with a day
75
off mutually agreed to by the Company and employee(s), When worked, employee(s) will be paid at 11 14 hours at regular time and two (2) additional eight (8) hour shifts at regular time. Employee(s) who work thirty-nine (39) hours will be paid for forty (40) hours.
d)	A long week (5 days) may be staffed through overtime posted in the plant and should insufficient employees volunteer, the leave may be denied.
e)	Notwithstanding Article 18, employee(s) will be required to submit their vacation request two (2) weeks in advance of the normal request date for the months of July-August-September and October-November-December. Advanced overtime posting for the full period in question will be developed and posted based upon requests. The re suiting vacation schedule will be published as per Article 18.
Honrs ofWrrir
Saturday premium ($1.25/hour) and Sunday premium ($2,00/hour) will not be preserved for hours regularly scheduled.
All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday will be paid the applicable overtime rates provided the employee has fulfilled their regular hours commitments on !he preceding Monday, Tuesday and Friday.
Overtime
Any hours over the regular scheduled work day will receive overtime premium.
Any hours worked over eighty (80) in a two week period for the eleven and one half (1114) hour shift will be paid in the second week at current overtime rates.
Any day worked as a scheduled day off will receive overtime at one and one half (114) times the regular rate of pay, provided the regular scheduled work week for the employee is complete. Sunday overtime rate will be preserved.
76
The Union and the Company agree that scheduled hours worked on Saturday and Sunday are not overtime hours, and as a result the provisions of Article 20 do not apply.
All hours worked on the employee’s statutory holiday will receive twice the regular hourly rate.
Bereavement Leave
Provisions of Article 26 apply, except each day will be paid at the rate of eleven and one-half (11 'A ) hours for each day.
Rest Period
Two (2) rest periods of fifteen (IS) minute duration will be provided in each half shift at times designated by the Company.
Sick Benefits
Entitlement will remain as per the current contract. No employee will lose more than twenty-four (24) hours during their first three (3) days of illness.
Shift Premium
A shift premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid for each hour worked on the eleven and one half (11%) hour shift alternate. This will replace the current differential.
All other contract requirements for entitlementwill remain in effect.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
77
LETTER OF INTENT #7 ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE
OPERATING ENGINEERS
a)	Operating Engineers will be scheduled for twelve (12) hour shifts and will work over a two (2) week pay period eighty (80) hours at regular straight time hourly rates in the Collective Agreement. Hours worked beyond eighty (80) in a pay period up to eighty-four (84) in a pay period will be paid at two (2) times the regular hourly rate.
b)	NotwithstandingArticle 17.04 and Article20.01 of the Collective Agreement, overtime will be paid after twelve (12) hours in a day or after eighty (80) hours worked in a two (2) week pay period. Any day worked as a scheduled day off will be paid at the applicable overtime rate, provided the employee has worked their regular schedule in that pay period. For the purposes of Article 17.04, the clause will apply with twelve (12) hours to be substituted where eight (8) hours currently exists.
c)	It is agreed that Operating Engineers working this twelve (12) hour shift will be paid a shift premium of $ 1,00 per hour for all hours worked. No other shift or week-end premiums will be paid.
d)	For the purposes of the application of Article 23.02, Jury Duty, and Article 26, Bereavement Leave, Operating Engineers will be compensated based on twelve (12) hour days provided the Jury Duty or Bereavement Leave occurs on days which the employee was otherwise scheduled to work. Furthermore, employees will be compensated for an approved floating holiday for twelve (12) hours at their base rate.
e)	For the purpose of calculating sick benefits, Operating Engineers will receive compensation based on eighty hours over a two (2) week period, plus four (4) hours mandatory overtime at double time.
f)	For purposes of calculating vacation, one twelve (12) hour shift will count as one and one-half (1 Vi) days vacation.
78
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
79
LETTER OF INTENT #8
OPERATION
SPECIAL PACK
A separate category of employees may be established from time to time to perform work that is not suited to the regular work force. The only provisions of the Collective Agreement that will apply to Special Pack Operation employees are those specified within this Letter of Intent or referred to within this Letter of Intent.
1,	The following Articles within this Collective Agreement will apply to Special Pack employees:
2.	Representation - Special Pack employees will be represented by the Duty Steward or, in the Duty Steward’s absence, by the Unit Chairperson,
3.	Work presently performed by Plant bid employees shall not be transferred to the Special Pack Operation.
4.	Seniority
a)	Any employee hired as a new Special Pack employee will be on probation until they have worked ninety (90) days within a twelve (12) month period. The discharge of an employee during this probation period will be at the sole discretion of the Company.
b)	Job assignmentswill be made by Management.
Recognition
Management Rights
Responsibility
No Strikes or Lockouts
GrievanceProcedure
Discharge Cases
Arbitration
Deduction of Union Dues Duration
Expedited Arbitration
Letter of Intent#! 1
80
c)	Lay-off, recall and shift assignment will be in order of seniority within the Special Pack Operation.
5.	Special Pack Work - Jobs to be performed by Special Pack employees will primarily consist of work that would otherwise be contracted out to co-packers, Such work is usually performed as additional manual steps taking place away from the production lines. Examples of such work include combination packs, display packs, tubs of product such as chips and seasonal/novelty items. In special circumstances, rework projects will be performed by Special Pack employees. The nature of work being assigned to Special Pack employees will be determined by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee. Special Pack employees will be responsible for the operational cleaning of their own work area.
6.	Maintenance, support services and material supply for the Special Pack Operation will be provided by employees of regular bid job(s), (Note: If the Special Pack Operation is located in a separate facility, such as the bean building, Special Pack employees may be used to load and unload Special Pack materials.)
7.	Location of Special Pack Operation - The boundaries of the Special Pack Operation will be determined by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union Committee.
8.	Hiring To Plant - When openings occur elsewhere in the Plant, Special Pack employees may register their interest with Employee Relations and may be considered for such employment at the sole discretion of the Company. When a Special Pack employee is thus hired into the Plant work force, they will become a probationary employee in accordance with Article 9,01 and no time worked in the Special Pack Operation will be credited toward completion of this probationary period. If the employee completes the probationary period, their seniority date will be as defined in Article 9,01. No time worked in Special Pack will be credited toward their seniority.
81
9,	Hours of Work
a)	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for daily or weekly hours or for any other hours.
b)	The days to be worked and the starting and ending times will be determined by the Company according to business requirements.
10,	Wages
a)	Hourly wages will be $8,25 per hour.
b)	Overtime will be paid at time and one-half for all hours worked over forty (40) hours in a week.
11,	Benefits - Will be provided as required by law.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
82
LETTER OF INTENT # 9 CASUAL WORK POOL
Employees who have been laid-off from the Plant and who have not been terminated under Article 9.04 (c) may be eligible for the assignment of casual work as members of the casual work pool, provided active members of the bargaining unit do not wish to work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.
The Company is not forfeiting its right under Article 20.04 when assigning work to employees from the casual work pool.
Assignments will be made on the basis of the most senior employee within the pool who is immediately qualified to perform the work.
It is the employee's responsibility to advise the Employee Relations Department at the time they complete their Employee Profile.
Any employee within the casual work pool who is not available to work, refused to work or could not be contacted on more than two occasions will be removed from the casual pool and will no longer be considered for any casual work assignment. Any employee who agrees to work, but who does not report for work, will be removed from the casual work pool.
The following conditions will apply to employees who accept the casual work provided under this Letter of Intent.
a)	Employees will receive only the straight time hourly wage as set out in Article 29 for work performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday. Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half the employees regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours daily.
b)	Employees are not entitled to the payment of any premiums under this Letter of Intent except those premiums outlined in Article 29.04.
83
c)	Any dispute that may arise with respect to the assignment of employees under this Letter of Intent shall not result in the payment of money to an employee who is bypassed for the assignment. An employee that is able to demonstrate that they should have been assigned instead of another employee in the casual work pool is to be provided with the next opportunity to perform work under this Letter.
d)	The time worked under this Letter of Intent does not interruptthe calculation of the continuous period of lay-off under Article 9.04 (d) and coverage for benefits as outlined in the Group Benefits Booklet dated 2000 in section “Temporary Absence From Work”.
e)	Only the following provisions of the Collective Agreement apply to employees working under this Letter: Articles 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 16; 19.01; 19.04; 19.05; 19.10; 21.04; 23.04; 24.03; 29.01; 29.04; 31 and Letter of Intent #11.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
84
LETTER OF INTENT #10 WAGE ADJUSTMENTS
The adjustments, as per wage sehedule/bidjob list Article 29, will be paid to employees who have the requisite number of continuous years of experience in the bidjob.
An employee who was affected by a redundancy and returns within the twelve (12) month period as per Article 15, will be paid the adjustment that they qualified for prior to being affected by redundancy.
An employee who is affected by lay-off, illness or other absences, will be paid the adjustment they qualified for prior to the lay-off, illness, or other absence as long as they have not been absent from their bid job for greater than a two (2) year period.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
85
LETTER OF INTENT #11 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION
PROCESS
Notwithstanding Article 8.06, grievances will be heard in the “formal” arbitration process as defined in Article 6, unless the parties mutually agree in writing to refer a grievance to expedited arbitration. Such written request from either party shall be made within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Company answer at Step two (2) of the grievance procedure, as indicated in Article 6,07 of the Collective Agreement.
Grievances(s) shall be assigned within sixty (60) days of referral, in order of chronological sequence in which they were forwarded to arbitration, “first in, first out” (FIFO) , to a sole arbitrator, rotating equally, through a panel of arbitrators. The panel will consist of four (4) arbitrators, mutually agreed to by the parties. Should either party wish to remove one of the arbitrators from the panel, they may do so in writing, nominating their suggested replacement. The new (replacement)arbitrator, must be mutually agreed to as above.
Either party retains the right to use lawyers in the presenting and arguing of any case(s) in the expedited arbitration process. The Company shall be represented by one (1) member of management and the union shall be represented by one(l) union staff representative, or one officer/steward of the union local. Normally, the parties may be allowed one (1) advisor and one (1) witness on behalf of either party, however, in exceptional circumstances, for clarification purposes there may be a maximum of two (2) witnesses on behalf of either party.
Unless otherwise agreed to, the parties may set one (1) day per month to conduct expedited hearings.
Unless otherwise agreed by both parties, no written submission, precedent or authority shall be delivered to the arbitrator, at any time. However, the parities may rely on past practice between the parties.
86
Save and except grievances scheduled for the “formal” arbitration process, an arbitrator in the expedited arbitration process shall have the jurisdiction and power to:
a)	combine any related grievances for hearing
b)	issue a decision based solely upon representations made by the parties
c)	issue a decision addressing the matter without regard to technical or procedural objection
d)	wherever possible the arbitrator will issue an oral decision at the conclusion of a hearing. However, the final written decision shall be forwarded to the parties, no later than thirty (30) calendar days, along with a brief rationale for each grievance decision heard
e)	the arbitrator shall not have the jurisdiction to amend and/or add to any provisions of the Collective Agreement or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof and will not provide any decision inconsistent with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties to the arbitration and the employee(s), No decision rendered by an arbitrator pursuant to the expedited process shall constitute a precedent, or be referred to in subsequent arbitration(s) and/or formal arbitration(s) as defined in Article 6, unless both parties agree.
Each of the parties will jointly bear the expense of the arbitrator.
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
87
LETTER OF INTENT #12 OTHER ALTERNATE
WORK SCHEDULES
The parties agree that it is mutually beneficial to the Company and its employees to establish alternate work schedules. Business conditions are constantly changing and the need for flexibility in the areas of scheduling and changeovers is essential to the Company in order to remain competitive. In addition, the work environment must become more flexible in order to accommodate employees' individual needs.
It is understood between the parties that alternate work schedules will only be implemented where/when employees volunteer to participate.
Newly developed alternate work schedules, terms and conditions and selection methods will be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union Committee and will be written as a letter of intent and form part of the Collective Agreement.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
88
LETTER OF INTENT #13 MAINTENANCE
APPRENTICES
Should the Company determine the requirement for Apprentice(s) the Company will seek the Union Committee’s assistance in the development of a specific Apprentice Program.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
89
LETTER OF INTENT #14 MAINTENANCE RATES OF PAY
Notwithstanding present file documentation for current maintenance employees, as of the signing of the Collective Agreement, the Company is prepared to retain the current Maintenance employees at their present pay rate schedule. This does not affect the Company’s abilityto determine Maintenance employees’ qualifications.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
90
LETTER OF INTENT #15 CONTINENTAL WORK WEEK
The parties mutually agree that for our purposes a Continental Work Week schedule will be defined as a continuous seven (7) day operation.
The Company will not unilaterally introduce a Continental Work Week without discussion and mutual agreement with the Union.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
91
LETTER OF INTENT #16 STAFFING COMMITTEE
The Union and the Company agree to the establishment of ajoint Staffing Committee. This Committee will be chaired by the Manager of Employee Relations and will exist for the purpose of ensuring the staffing process and principles are maintained. Said Committee will consist of two (2) union members one (1) of which will be a Committee member, one (1) Employee Relations representative and one (1) Manufacturing representative.
This letter will expire at the end of the Collective Agreement, January 31st, 2007.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
92
LETTER OF INTENT #17 RECALL FOR ONE DAY
VACATION/ABSENTEEISM/ FLOATER RELIEF
Employees interested in being recalled for one (I) day in order to provide vacation/absenteeism and/or floater relief must register their availability with Employee Relations at the time they complete their Employee Profile.
Should the need for one (1) day recall occur, the Company may attempt to contact the senior employee by phone who is fully and immediately qualified. If the senior employee cannot be reached the next senior employee who is fully and immediately qualified will be contacted, and so on until the list is exhausted.
Any employee who registered for one (1) day recall and who is not available to work, refuses to work or does not report to work will be removed from the list and no longer be considered for these assignments until the next sign up period.
The following conditions will apply to employees who registered for one (1) day recall under this Letter of Intent:
a)	Employees are not entitled to the payment of any premiums under this Letter of Intent except those premiums outlined in Articles 20,0! & 29.04.
b)	Any dispute that may arise with respect to the assignment of employees under this Letter of Intent shall not result in the payment of money to an employee who is bypassed for the assignment. An employee who is able to demonstrate that they should have been assigned instead of another employee who registered for one (1) day recall is to be provided with the next opportunity to perform work under this Letter.
93
c)	Any such time worked under this Letter of Intent does not interrupt the calculation of the continuous period of lay-off under Article 9.04 (d) and coverage for benefits as outlined in the Group Benefits booklet (effectiveFebruary4, 1997 and subsequenteditions) in section “Temporary Absence from Work”,
d)	Only the following provisions of the Collective Agreement apply to employees working under this Letter: Articles 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 12; 14; 16; 19.01; 19.04; 19.05; 19.10; 20.01; 21.04; 23.04; 24.03; 29.01; 29.04; 29.05; 31 and LetterofIntent#ll.
e)	Employees will only be eligible to work one (1) day each calendar week.
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
94
LETTER OF INTENT # 18 PENSION
If, during the term of this Letter of Understanding, Hershey Canada should voluntarily terminate or wind-up the pension plan covering amongst others, members of the bargaining unit, other than a termination or wind-up required by law, Hershey Canada will institute a replacement retirement vehicle for the benefit of members of the bargaining unit at a benefit level not less than as provided for in the presentplan as of January 31,2000 includingnegotiated changes.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
95
LETTER OF INTENT#19	LEADHANDS
Leadhands appointed subsequent to the ratification of this Collective Agreement, will be subject to the provisions of Articles 10 and 13, Should the Company and/or employee terminate the employee’s leadhand assignment the provisionsof Article 15 will apply.
Maintenance leadhands removed from their leadhand position will return to their bid j ob.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
96
LETTER OF INTENT #20	MANDATORY OVERTIME
Notwithstanding Article 20,04 the parties are prepared to implement the staffing of mandatory overtime on a rotational basis with the following conditions:
a)	Normally employee(s) will not be assigned to work mandatory overtime when they have volunteered to work on a weekend, unless they are the only remaining qualified emp I oyee(s).
b)	In the event that employee(s) volunteer to work weekend overtime and are subsequently identified as the only remaining, available, qualified employee(s) to work mandatory overtime, they will be assigned to work the mandatory overtime assignment(s) and the next (senior/qualified) employee(s) who signed the voluntary overtime Iist(s), will assume the original volunteer overtime assignment(s),
c)	The Company will attempt to assign employee(s) to mandatory overtime on their own bid shift, when possible and normally an employee(s) will not be assigned to work successive, back to back shifts, unless they are the only remaining qualified employee.
d)	In order to avoid the potential of employee(s) being forced to work consecutive turns on mandatory overtime and after employee(s) concerned have met their mandatory overtime requirement by actually working their previous turn, unless they are the only qualified employee(s) remaining, the next senior/qualified employee(s) will be required to work. Each following weekend requiring mandatory overtime the next senior/qualified employee(s) shall be required to work and so on.
e)	Other qualified employee(s) may volunteer to switch with employee(s) required to work mandatory overtime providing the arrangementsare approved by the Company. These arrangementswill only be considered finalized when employee(s) who have been assigned mandatory overtime have returned written confirmation
97
(“Mandatory Overtime Notice”) to the supervisor no later than two (2) hours prior to the end of their last scheduled shift prior to the mandatory overtime.
f)	Should employee(s) not actually work the mandatory overtime when they are assigned, they shall be required to work the next mandatory overtime weekend in which they are available.
g)	Should employee(s) on mandatory overtime report for work and a situation arises in which employee(s) on the line/process concerned are not required through no fault of their own, such as machine breakdown/failure, power outage and provided employees are given the option to leave, mandatoried employee(s) will be given first opportunity and will be considered to have met their commitment to work mandatory overtime.
h)	Newly qualified employee(s) will assume their position for mandatory overtime purposes through their respective seniority.
i)	The employee profile list will be used to determine employee qualifications for purposes of mandatory overtime assignments.
j)	Should a situation arise which was not contemplated, the Company and the Union Committee agree to meet with the purpose to finding a common resolution.
k)	If a mandatory overtime letter has been issued to the employee and the mandatory overtime is subsequently cancelled by the Company, the employee will be deemed to have satisfied their obligation of fulfilling the mandatory overtime requirement on the date in question.
Should a situation arise which the parties are unable to resolve immediately, the provisions of Article 20.04 will be in full force and effect and this Letter of Intent will be suspended until a common resolution is agreed to.
98
Either party may withdraw from this Letter of Intent through a minimum two (2) week written notice to the other party.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
99
LETTER OF INTENT #21 SKILLED TRADES
This will confirm our understanding reached at the bargaining table in the 2004 bargaining with respect to skilled trades. During the life of the Collective Agreement, the Company and Union agree to meet with the intention of discussing how various initiativesand programs (i.e., CAW skilled trades programs, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universitiesprograms, etc.) can further the objective of continuouslymeeting the goals of improving the quality of skilled trades.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
100
LETTER OF INTENT #22	SPECIALIST NOTES
If the Company requires that the employee be examined by a medical practitioner certified or licensed to practice a specialty (a specialist) and a report is required, then the Company will pay the cost of the report of the specialist provided the invoice from the specialist is submitted to the Company within two weeks of being rendered.
Both parties agree that the conditions of this Letter of Intent shall remain in effect for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Rene Albert Plant Manager
101