EXPIRY DATE: Sept. 30, 2011
AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
MCCAIN FOODS (CANADA),
hereinafter called the "Company".
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL	WORKERS
UNION, LOCAL NO. 832,
chartered by the United Food & Commercial	Workers
International Union, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between the Company and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of the welfare, the parties to this contract join together in the following Agreement:
ARTICLE 1_________DEFINITIONS
1.01	The use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the feminine, as the sense of the clause dictates.
1.02	In this Agreement when the plural is used it shall also mean the singular, wherever applicable.
1.03	In this Agreement when the word "spouse" is used it may mean a person of the same or opposite sex, dependant on provincial legislative requirements,
who is married to the employee or who has cohabited with the employee in a conjugal relationship for at least twelve (12) months (common-law) unless specifically outlined in other articles in this Agreement.
00599 (08)
ARTICLE 2
GENERAL PURPOSE
2.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees; to define more clearly hours of work, wages, and conditions of employment; to provide an amicable method of settling differences or grievances which may from time to time arise; to promote mutual interests of the Company and its employees; and to provide for the operation of the Company's plant at Carberry, Manitoba under methods which will serve the interests of the producers and consumers as well as those of the Company and its employees.
2.02	Since maintenance of a good standard of wages and working conditions depends upon sound and efficient operation of the business, the Union agrees to cooperate with the Company at all times:
(a)	to maintain and improve quality of products;
(b)	to avoid waste of products, materials, or time;
(c)	to assist in keeping the Company property clean and tidy;
(d)	to conserve and protect machinery and equipment.
2.03	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the responsibility of the
Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the promotion of the aforesaid conditions.
ARTICLE 3_______RECOGNITION
3.01	The Union shall be the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all production, maintenance, quality assurance, sanitation and waste water treatment employees of the Company at Carberry, Manitoba, excluding office staff, plant nurse, supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisors, employees hired just for seasonal work, such as preparing seed, planting, cultivating and harvesting potatoes, and those excluded by the Act.
ARTICLE 4_______MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The management of the plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, transfer, discharge employees for violation of reasonable Company rules or other just causes, and to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons is vested exclusively in the Company,
2
provided, however, that the Company shall not discriminate against any employees or applicant for employment because of membership in or lawful activity on behalf of the Union. This provision shall not be construed to limit management in any way in the exercise of their regular and customary functions and this Article shall be applied in accordance with the other terms and conditions as provided by this Agreement.
4.02	In administrating this Agreement, the Company shall act
reasonably, fairly, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
ARTICLE 5__________UNION SECURITY
5.01	It shall be a condition of employment for all employees to become members of the Union within thirty (30) days from the date of hiring.
5.02	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee, such Union dues, initiation fees and assessments as authorized by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the Union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees' first pay. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within seven (7) calendar days following the end of the month and shall be accompanied by a monthly written statement, in duplicate, of the names and social insurance numbers of the employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. The Company shall also provide the Union, when remitting the monthly cheque, with the names of employees and name changes of employees.
Each year the Company shall calculate the amount of the Union dues deducted from the employee's pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip of each employee by no later than February 28th.
5.03	The Union shall advise the Company, in writing, of the amount of monthly dues to be deducted from each employee in the Bargaining Unit. The Company shall forward signed membership applications and a copy of the monthly check-off list to Local 832, 1412 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg, MB.
5.04	The Company will have new employees sign the necessary Union membership application and membership in the Union shall be granted within the above thirty (30) day period. However, all employees will be covered by the Collective Agreement beginning the first day of work, except as specifically indicated elsewhere in this Agreement. The Company will continue its practice of allowing the Union one half (1/2) hour with new employees during their orientation session.
3
ARTICLE 6
CONTRACTING OUT/WORK OF SUPERVISORS
6.01	The Company will not contract work out that is currently being done by bargaining unit members or if a qualified bargaining unit member is on layoff, except as otherwise permitted by this Collective Agreement.
6.02	In the maintenance department the company will not contract out work that has historically been done to maintain or repair the existing facility or equipment.
6.03	The Company, through a joint Union/Company committee, agrees to identify criteria for selection of Relief Mechanics and will support efforts to utilize these people. The parties agree the Committee will attempt to identify a program for the development of the skills and capabilities of the Relief Mechanics, recognizing the needs of the business must always be met.
6.04	The Company maintains the right to use Contractors in emergency situations. An emergency situation is defined as when production is interrupted or imminently about to be interrupted or when forced overtime is about to be invoked.
6.05	Supervisors are not to be assigned regular jobs within the bargaining unit, except in cases of emergency, for training purposes, for trial development or for experimentation purposes, or where bargaining unit members are not available for brief periods of time. Supervisors who make adjustments to machines shall notify the operator as soon as practically possible.
ARTICLE 7_________HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
7.01	An average of forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal work week for employees who are not on layoff. The work week shall not be considered as a guarantee on the part of the Company, but is the amount the Company will endeavor to provide to employees.
Time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours daily or forty (40) hours weekly, whichever is the greater, but not both. The plant's work week will be Monday through Sunday.
7.02	It is expected that "non-continuous" shift employees shall be scheduled on a Monday through Friday work week, and "continuous" shift operations shall be scheduled on a Monday through Sunday work week.
4
When production is expected to operate on a continuous shift basis, or when certain functions can effectively work on a different schedule, the Company may assign work to any affected employees in accordance with Appendix B.
It is agreed that the work "day" shall be interpreted as the day on which the employee actually commences their regular shift.
7.03	A premium of time and one-half (1 1W) of an employee's straight time hourly rate shall be paid for Saturday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1 1W) of an employee's straight time hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Saturday when Saturday is scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
No Production employee will be compelled to work on Christmas Day and New Years Day.
7.04	A premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate shall be paid for Sunday hours worked. Weekend premium of time and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee's straight time hourly rate will not be paid for any hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is scheduled as a regular day of work when a continuous shift (7 days per week) is in effect.
7.05	Saturday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. Saturday until midnight Saturday. Sunday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. Sunday until midnight Sunday.
7.06	Any employee who works seven (7) consecutive scheduled work days where there has not been a twenty-four (24) hour rest period, shall be paid two (2) times the employees regular rate of pay for all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day and any consecutive days following. Overtime of less than four (4) hours before or after a shift shall not be considered as a consecutive day; however, employees called in as per Article 7.10 shall have that shift counted as a consecutive day.
7.07	An employee reporting for work at the direction of the Company shall be offered a minimum of four (4) hours of work. If the work is not provided, then the employee will be paid four (4) hours straight time.
7.08	Employee work schedules shall be posted no later than each Thursday at noon covering the following two week periods designating an employee's scheduled time off work. If the Company must utilize an employee from another shift it shall assign the most junior employee who is qualified without resulting in further shift movement. Any employee who is assigned to work on scheduled day off, where the schedule change was assigned after noon Thursday of the week immediately preceding the scheduled day off, shall
5
receive one and one-half (l1/2) times their straight time hourly rate for the hours worked, provided that the employee fully completes their scheduled hours that same week. Absence due to disability, confirmed by an acceptable medical certificate shall be considered as time worked. An employee shall be allowed to return to work for the balance of their weekly schedule following the provision of an acceptable medical certificate. The Company will endeavor to maintain the posted schedule, and an employee shall only be reassigned or rescheduled due to an unforeseen circumstance or emergency. Nothing in this paragraph shall be applied to avoid the payment of overtime or premium pays as outlined anywhere else in this Agreement. Wherever reasonably possible, changes shall not be made to the posted schedule later than Thursday noon following the posting of the schedule. In the event that the schedule is to be changed after noon Thursday following the posting, the Company shall be deemed to notify the affected employees of the change to the schedule by telephone call or voice message to their designated contact number.
Notwithstanding the paragraph above, no employee who has been called in for an emergency to work outside of their regularly scheduled hours will be compelled to work beyond twelve (12) hours (or less if approved by the Supervisor) in the day. Such employee, will however, be paid overtime for all time worked outside their regularly scheduled hours.
7.09	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and premium pay for such days as holidays, Saturdays, Sundays, a seventh (7th) consecutive day worked in any one work week, or for work on scheduled days off. In the event that either overtime or the premium pay provisions could be applied to the same hours worked, only the greater shall apply. This clause is not intended to exclude premium payment for hours of work in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 but rather, to ensure no compounding of those premiums during overtime hours.
7.10	Any employees who are recalled to work after completing their shift for the day and having left the plant shall be paid time and one-half (1 /) for the actual hours worked or four (4) hours at straight time pay, whichever is the greater.
7.11	Employees may make friendly agreements to exchange shifts one with the other subject to approval from supervisors in charge of the shifts. The request must be presented in writing. In no instance will an employee be permitted to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours under this agreement nor will such arrangement result in the payment of overtime.
7.12	(a) Employees are expected to work a reasonable amount of overtime.
6
(b)
Unscheduled Overtime
The Company shall post a sheet each week for employees who wish to work overtime, to sign. The sheet will be posted on Thursday at 8:00 a.m. and removed Monday at 8:00 a.m. Employees are to indicate their willingness to work. This voluntary list will be used for unscheduled overtime for the next week.
(c)	In situations where overtime is required in the form of an extension of the regular shift:
i)	first opportunity to work the overtime will be provided to the employee who is performing the work where the overtime is required on that shift.
ii)	If that person refuses to work the overtime it will be offered in descending order of seniority within the shift to qualified employees.
iii)	If the overtime is still not filled it will be offered to qualified employees from other shifts based on the overtime sign in sheet.
iv)	If the overtime is still not filled it will be offered to employees in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL in order of seniority.
(d)	Planned Overtime
Notwithstanding (c) above, overtime in the form of an additional shift(s), shall be posted on the bulletin board. Volunteers must sign the overtime sheet not later than 8:00 a.m. Wednesday in order to be considered for the upcoming week. The senior employee(s) qualified to perform the work will be selected for the overtime.
(e)	An employee is deemed to be qualified to work in a particular classification if they are so listed as trained in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL, which will be updated (within one week) as training is completed, and made accessible to all employees in a common area. Discrepancies to the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL will be corrected immediately.
(f)	An employee may accept overtime assignments in departments other than their own provided overtime needs have been met
7
within their own department. Relief mechanics, however, will work overtime in Production if needed rather than in maintenance due to the needs of the business.
(g)
(h)
7.13
shall govern the 1.
2.
(a)
When a sufficient number of volunteers cannot be found to perform the work, such overtime shall become mandatory for the junior employee qualified to perform the work.
Employees are not permitted to work seven (7) consecutive shifts within a work week when other qualified employees are available and qualified to perform the work.
Notwithstanding any of the above, nothing contained in (a) through (h) precludes the Company's right to appoint other Bargaining Unit employees to work the shifts in order to avoid payment of overtime.
Overtime Banking
In addition to the above, the following conditions and procedures banking" of overtime.
That the employee advises their supervisor that they wish to "bank" their overtime at the time of overtime assignment and that such election is irrevocable. The time eligible for banking shall be the actual work hours in excess of those representing a "full" normal work week (40 hours except in the case of compressed work week), or in excess of those representing the normal daily shift. Authorized leaves including those for illness or injury shall be regarded as hours actually worked for this purpose. The employee must bank all (both straight and premium payment portions) overtime earned in excess of the full normal work week or the normal daily shift with the additional condition that overtime on a given shift must equal one (1) or more hours to be eligible for banking.
"Banked" overtime may be scheduled as time off in accordance with the following provisions:
That one (1) week notice be given in advance of taking time-off in lieu of overtime payment and that the scheduling of time-off be approved by the Company. The Company may at its discretion waive the one (1) week notice requirement if no replacement is required for the employee.
8
(b)	That the scheduling of time off in lieu will not give rise to overtime expense for replacement.
(c)	Other employees' scheduled vacation time will be given priority over banked overtime.
(d)	Employees may utilize banked overtime for any time for which an employee is receiving no regular pay, provided no overtime payment results.
3.	That time-off in lieu of overtime is not considered work time for purposes of seniority retention, benefit extension, and other such provisions of the Collective Agreement.
4.	Unused "banked" overtime will be paid out to the employee at end of the calendar year or a maximum of once per year in the event of an emergency. In the event that an employee is provided an emergency pay out during the year, the employee may continue to accumulate banked overtime after the payout until the end of the calendar year, at which time any unused amounts will be paid out.
5.	Pay for "banked" overtime will be at the rate in effect at the time the overtime was banked.
7.14	Twelve Hour Shift
Based on the current twelve (12) hour shift schedule, the Company will pay employees based on hours worked in the following manner: the 48 hour work week will be paid at 40 regular hours and 8 hours at time and a half. Hours will include all regular hours worked, sick hours paid (provided they are certified by a medical doctor as per Article 7.08), paid bereavement leave, paternity leave and hours worked on a Statutory Holiday and Union paid leave.
The Union may make recommendations to the Company for any modifications to the shift schedule timing, shift schedule start days or any other changes the Union has evaluated to have a positive impact on the quality of shift life. These recommendations should be presented to the Company in writing.
The Company will evaluate the recommendations on the impacts of the business and reply to the Union within 30 days. The Company may request the Union to put any shift changes to a general vote.
9
7.15
Meeting Attendance
All of the following meetings attended by employees, if they fall outside of their scheduled hours will be paid at overtime rates of one and one-half (1/2) times their regular rate of pay: Health and Safety meetings, Mandatory Departmental meetings, Corporate VIP address, Peer Evaluation meetings, and Mandatory Training Programs and Horizontal Performance Teams. Such time may be banked or paid at the choice of the employee. Employees on their day off will not be disciplined for choosing not to attend such meetings.
7.16	Off Duty Calls
Employees who are called while off or on a scheduled day off for the purpose of providing information or advice within the scope of their position, but who are not required to report to work, shall be paid for such a call or calls. The payment for any such call or calls shall be the equivalent of one (1) hour of pay at the regular rate for any call or calls within a sixty (60) minute period. Any call or calls in any additional sixty (60) minute period shall be paid an additional one (1) hour for such time within that sixty (60) minute period. Any such contact must be made by management personnel. In the event that the employee is called into work, then time on the call or calls shall be paid in addition to the hours pursuant Articles 7.07 or 7.10, as applicable. A No Call List will be established that people sign if they are unwilling to take calls at home in their off hours for advice.
ARTICLE 8__________NIGHT PREMIUM
8.01	A night premium equal to three percent (3%) of the Wage Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 1600 hours and 2400 hours. A night premium equal to four percent (4%) of the Wage Group III rate, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be paid for each hour actually worked between 0001 hours and 0800 hours.
8.02	Night Premium, shall be computed and applied to continuous shift employees working on a compressed workweek in accordance with the following:
(a)	The amount shall be determined by multiplying 8 times the amount of the second shift premium plus 8 times the amount of the third shift premium, the sum of which shall be divided by 12.
(b)	The amount as determined by (a) above only may be applied to the hours an employee works between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.
10
8.03	Employees are to be paid the night premium if they are scheduled to start work at any hours other than between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. No night shift premium will be paid to employees who, by mutual agreement with the Company, start a day shift prior to 7:00 a.m.
8.04	Employees who are scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. do not receive the night premium even though their hours of work extend into the period where night premium is applicable. Employees who are scheduled to start work between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and continue to work a double shift, will receive the night premium starting at 4:00 p.m.
ARTICLE 9 HOLIDAYS
9.01	The following shall be recognized as holidays for the purpose of this Agreement: New Year's Day, Louis Riel Day, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and any other General Holiday proclaimed by federal or provincial statute.
If any of the above days are deleted through legislation or otherwise, another day off as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union will be given in lieu. Two (2) Floater Holidays will be added making fourteen (14) holidays in total. If another General Holiday is proclaimed by federal or provincial statute, then one (1) of the Floater Holidays will be deleted. The specific day designated as a Floater will be taken any time during the year and booked as requests for vacation are after December 31 on a first come first served basis. If a Floater Holiday may not be taken due to the exigencies of the business, the floater shall be paid out at the end of the year at the rate of pay the employee is receiving on December 31.
9.02	Employees shall be paid eight (8) or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday on each of the above holidays provided they meet the following requirements:
(a)	They work their scheduled workday prior to and report for work on the holiday, if scheduled, and their scheduled day immediately following the holiday or present a medical certificate acceptable to the Company showing their inability to work on such days, or if the roads have been verifiably closed by the applicable authority due to inclement weather, and remain closed three (3) hours prior to the end of their scheduled shift. It is further understood that
11
employees that are scheduled to work on that day will be expected to report to work within a reasonable time following the re-opening of the road.
(b)	Employees will not lose their eligibility for holiday pay where the Company decides to partially or completely close the facility on a qualifying day, assuming they would otherwise qualify.
(c)	Employees are on authorized leave of absence (not to include unpaid leaves, with the exception of Union leave) with the clear understanding that the employee on such authorized leave must satisfy the qualifier immediately before or after the holiday as mentioned in (a) above.
(d)	Holidays earned by new employees during their first thirty (30) calendar days of employment will be paid only to those employees who complete thirty (30) calendar days of employment.
(e)	They have not been temporarily assigned by the Company to another shift with fewer hours per day than their normal shift. If the employee would receive less hours for the holiday as a result of the temporary assignment, they shall nevertheless receive their straight time holiday pay for the hours they would have received had they not been so assigned.
9.03	Employees required to work on such holidays shall receive time and
one-half (l1/2) for all hours actually worked on the holiday in addition to eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday. Holiday hours shall be from 12:01 a.m. of the holiday to midnight of the holiday.
9.04	Employees who are absent due to sickness or injury shall be
entitled to eight (8) or ten (10) or twelve (12) hours at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday for any holidays which fall within sixty (60) days from the last day worked.
Employees who receive Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation benefits shall be paid only the difference between the employee's benefits and their regular holiday pay. This shall be paid following the employee's return to work, when they were on Workers' Compensation.
9.05	Employees working on a continuous shift, who are on their
vacation for a period including any of the above holidays shall be entitled to eight (8),
12
ten (10) or twelve (12) hours' pay at their straight time rate dependent upon their shift schedule at the time of the statutory holiday in addition to their regular vacation or the employee may elect to receive an additional vacation day off during the vacation year.
9.06	Pay for hours not worked on a holiday shall not count as hours of
work for purposes of overtime in that holiday week.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
10.01	The vacation year shall run from January 1st to December 31st. An
employee's vacation entitlement will be based on the following schedules:
During the first year of employment:
Month of Hire	Vacation Hours	Percentage
January - February	80	4%
March - April	64	4%
May - June	48	4%
July - August	32	4%
September - October	16	4%
November - December	8	4%
Vacation entitlement January 1st		of each year:
Years of Service	Vacation Hours	Percentage
Start of the first full vacation year less than 5 years	80	4%
5 years less than 10	120	6%
10 less than 19	160	8%
19 less than 29	200	10%
29 plus	240	12%
Employees with 30 years service shall receive two (2) days extra vacation in their 30th, 35th and 40th year. On the years in between they shall receive 240 hours of vacation at 12%.
10.02	Each day of vacation less than a full week will be paid on the basis
of the employee's shift value i.e. eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours, at the employees normal straight time hourly rate provided the individual is continuously employed. Employees with partial day entitlement remaining may elect to take a full
13
day off, however the difference will be without pay. When an employee who works a twelve hour shift takes a full week of vacation they will only be required to utilize a maximum of forty (40) hours of vacation leave.
In determining continuous service it will include hours worked, statutory holidays and absences covered by Worker's Compensation, disability benefits under the Company's sick pay and weekly indemnity plan, maternity leave, parental leave, apprenticeship leave and leave for Union business.
10.03	Employment will be regarded as non-continuous when an employee is absent as a result of layoff, unpaid leave of absence (e.g. education, personal) which is greater than four hundred and eighty (480) hours within the vacation year. Vacation pay for individuals who have been non-continuously employed during the vacation year shall be at the rate 2% of earnings for each week of vacation (4% is the minimum).
10.04	The term "earnings" as used in Article 10.03 shall include payment for all time actually worked (wages, overtime, shift and other applicable premiums, if any), statutory holiday pay, and disability benefits under the Company's sick pay and Weekly Indemnity plans but shall not include vacation pay received during the current vacation year.
10.05	"Service" as used in Article 10 shall mean accumulated seniority without interruption by any of the circumstances listed at 14.04 plus additional service, if any, recognized by the Company at the time of the individual entry to the bargaining unit.
10.06	The Shift/Department Manager or their designate is responsible for scheduling vacation for their shift/department and will attempt to schedule vacation at the time the employee requests. No requests for vacation will be unreasonably denied. Vacations will be scheduled as follows:
(a)	For the purpose of allocating vacation entitlement, the Shift/Department Manager or their designate will post a tentative vacation schedule no later than November 1st of each year (the vacation planner shall run from January 1st to December 31st). The vacation planner should include a tentative shut down schedule. However, it is understood that shut down information is subject to change. Employees may then fill in their vacation request, which will be granted by the employee's plant seniority within the shift/department, provided requests are submitted by December 31st.	The Shift/Department Manager or their designate shall
approve or deny the vacation requests submitted within ten (10) working days of the submission deadline.
14
For vacation purposes the following shall be considered individual departments; Continuous shift A, Continuous Shift B, Continuous Shift C and Continuous Shift D. Sanitation, Quality Assurance, and all other applicable departments shall continue to be scheduled for vacation purposes consistent with current practices. The Maintenance Department vacations shall be dealt with as follows, whether requests are in by December 31 or not:
i)	Packaging Maintenance and Wet Line Maintenance will remain separate for vacation scheduling purposes.
ii)	A minimum of one (1) person from Packaging Maintenance
will be granted vacation at any one time.
iii)	A minimum of two (2) people from Wet Line Maintenance will be granted vacation at any one time.
iv)	The Company will endeavour to exceed the minimums stated above where operationally possible.
(b)	Requests submitted after December 31st will be allocated on a first come first serve basis by the shift/department. Any vacation entitlement that remains unscheduled at March 1st will be scheduled	by	the Shift/Department Manager. The
Shift/Department Manager will respond in writing to all written requests for vacation leave after December 31st, within ten (10) working days of the request being made. Rescheduling of such vacation within one (1) month of its scheduled date will require consent of the Shift/Department Manager or their designate and the employee(s) affected.
(c)	Effective 2010, all employees will be required to use one (1) week of their vacation entitlement per calendar year at the time of the factory shutdown, unless the employee is assigned to work during the factory shutdown. If the factory shutdown is outside of the June 21 to September 21 period, this clause will not apply. Should the Company schedule a shutdown where vacations are expected to be taken during shutdown, during the above period, and not implement the shutdown at the scheduled time, the parties agree the Company will not be able to require employees to schedule vacations during any shutdown in subsequent years and this clause will be deleted from the contract at its expiry. Employees who request their vacation to be rescheduled before the end of the vacation year and have their request denied for operational reasons shall be entitled to carryover the vacation to the next year.
15
(d)	In all cases, the Shift/Department Manager or their designate will endeavour to grant vacation at the time an employee chooses, however, should the needs of the business be such that taking vacation time off at the scheduled time is not possible, the employee will be given at least one (1) month notice in writing of such changes.
(e)	The Shift Manager or their designate shall permit a minimum of three (3) production employees (Shift A, B, C, D) off per shift.
(f)	Upon transferring to a new department/shift any pre-approved vacation will need to be reviewed by the shift/department Manager to ensure no scheduling conflicts exists and to ensure production requirements are met. Every reasonable effort will be made to accommodate the request.
10.07	If a full-time employee is confined to their home or the hospital
due to a serious illness or injury suffered while on vacation, and presents an acceptable medical certificate to confirm the above, the employee may utilize any sick leave credits they may have accumulated and/or weekly indemnity benefits, in lieu of vacation. Such period of confinement interrupting vacation will be rescheduled following the employee's return to work, if so requested by the employee.
10.08	If the employee leaves during the year, the vacation entitlement is
prorated according to the employee's years of service to determine the vacation pay. It is understood and agreed between the parties that in the case of terminations and where an overpayment of vacation pay has occurred, the Company shall deduct such overpayment from the terminating employee's last pay cheque.
ARTICLE 11 HEALTH AND WELFARE
11.01	The Company will arrange plans to provide all employees who have
completed their probationary period, with the following benefits on the first of the month following completion of their probationary period subject to the conditions of enrollment, entitlement, deductibles and co-insurance contained in the contract of insurance between the Company and the insurer. Where two (2) partners (spouse or common-law as defined in Article 1.03) work at the Carberry location of the Company, one employee shall declare themselves to have family coverage and the other shall declare themselves to have single coverage for the Group Benefit Plans but at no time shall both people receive family coverage.
(i)	Life Insurance - The Company will pay the full cost of $65,000 life insurance as well as an equal amount of and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.
16
Life insurance for employees assigned disability premium waiver is established and frozen at the level of insurance that was in effect at the time of disability.
(ii)	Extended Health Care - The Company to pay the cost of this coverage:
Vision Care:	- $350.00/individual every 24 months.
Prescription Drugs:
The Company will pay the full cost for 100% coverage on prescribed drugs and will provide employees with a direct pay prescription drug card by June 30, 2009.
Orthopedic Inserts: coverage for removable or permanent orthopedic inserts for shoes up to a maximum of $100.00 /24 months and include repair or replacement.
Eye Examinations:
The Company will pay the cost of providing coverage for eye exams once every twenty-four (24) months.
Professional Practitioners:
The Company provides the following coverage per year for the services of each of the professional practitioners:
Chiropractor	$200.00
Massage Therapist	$200.00
Psychologist (with referral) $350.00 Physiotherapist	$350.00
Podiatrist	$350.00
Chiropodist	$350.00
Dietician	$350.00
Athletic Therapist	$100.00
(iii)	Dental Plan - The Company will pay the cost of this coverage. The benefits payable under this plan shall be those specified in the current Dental Fee Schedule.
Plan B - 100% coinsurance Plan C - 90% coinsurance
(A combined maximum of $2500.00 applies to coverage under Plan components B and C during each 12 month period.)
Plan D -	60% coinsurance (lifetime maximum of $2500.00)
(Coverage for Plan D has no age limits.)
17
iv)	Weekly Indemnity will be 66-2/3 % of the employee's regular
straight time weekly wages up to the E.I. maximum insurable earnings. The benefits shall be as follows:
Employees are eligible for benefits if totally disabled as a result of a non-work related condition on completion of the applicable waiting period. The waiting periods and benefit payable are as follows:
Waiting Period - Seven (7) days. Employees may use their accumulated sick leave, if any, to cover the waiting period.
Benefit Schedule - After the waiting period the first eight (8) weeks are payable by the Company; the next fifteen (15) weeks of eligibility by E.I., and the next twelve (12) weeks of eligibility by the Company.
v)	Long Term Disability Following expiry of the Weekly Indemnity benefits as described in (iv) above, a long term disability plan as determined by the Union, and as administrated and deducted by the Company, shall be integrated with the CPP program upon request of the Union on the following basis:
(a)	Participation in the plan is mandatory for all employees having passed their probationary period.
(b)	Benefits payable are subject to the necessary conditions as determined by the insurance carrier.
(c)	The plan will provide for a benefit as determined by the plan and will be based on the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay exclusive of premiums commencing immediately upon the termination of Weekly Indemnity and continuing for the duration of the claim or until the age of sixty-two (62), whichever is earlier.
The premium cost of the plan will be borne by the employee.
(d)	The employer is responsible for any costs incurred to the plan as a result of employer error.
The long-term disability plan will be amended, changed or discontinued solely as decided by the Union.
18
(vi) For all employees not covered by 19.03(c) the Company will arrange for a program providing for reimbursement of up to $150.00 every two (2) calendar years to subsidize the purchase of CSA certified prescription safety glasses from vendors recognized under the program, for any employee required to wear them. The process and eligibility for reimbursement shall be subject to the requirements of the program.
11.02	When an employee is absent due to disability, injury, maternity or
parental leave, the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life, health, and dental coverage for the month in which the absence commences for up to twelve (12) months thereafter, provided the employee remains totally disabled.
In the case of employees absent due to a disability compensable under Worker's Compensation the Company shall continue its normal premium payments and coverages for life (see premium waiver), health and dental benefits for the month in which the disability commences and for up to twenty-four (24) months thereafter provided the employee remains totally disabled.
Life insurance shall be continued for the entire period of absence
from work.
11.03	In the case of employees affected by layoff, or who are on a leave
of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) the Company will continue its regular premium payments and coverage for life, health, and dental benefits for the balance of the calendar month in which the layoff occurs, and for one (1) additional calendar month.
Employees returning from a layoff or leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) of less than five (5) months shall be eligible for health and dental coverage effective the first day of returning to work. In addition, such employees shall be eligible for group life and weekly indemnity benefits effective as of the first day of the employee's return to work from layoff.
In the case of employees who are laid off or who are on a leave of absence (except Union leave, leaves while in receipt of weekly indemnity or WCB or maternity/parental leave) for more than five (5) continuous months, entitlement to group life, health, dental and weekly indemnity benefits shall be reinstated on the first day of the month following return to work from layoff.
19
ARTICLE 12
MEAL AND REST PERIODS
12.01	All employees working eight (8) hour shifts shall have a fifteen (15) minute rest period at approximately the end of each two (2) hours of continuous work and will receive a twenty (20) minute meal period with pay. All employees working twelve (12) hour shifts will receive three (3), fifteen (15) minute rest periods and two (2) twenty (20) minute meal periods with pay. All meal and rest periods shall be exclusive of the time it takes to travel directly between the designated work area and the Process Area entrance.
12.02	Subject only to the needs of the business, rest periods shall be uninterrupted. Should an employee's rest period be interrupted by the management, the employee will be allowed to start their rest period again after the interruption.
12.03	A table and chairs will be placed in the Fibre Annex for rest periods for employees working in the packaging area. There will be no food or drink allowed in this area.
ARTICLE 13 SICK LEAVE
13.01	(a) An employee shall earn sick leave credits at the rate of one (1) day
for each calendar month of actual work, which credit can be accumulated to a maximum of twelve (12) days. Sick leave credits may also be earned when an employee is on vacation, attending the Manitoba Trades Training Course or when off work due to an industrial injury, when on bereavement leave or jury duty and receiving compensation as provided in Article 18, when excused by the employer for any reason or on short term leave for Union Business. Any sick leave used is to be deducted from the employee's sick leave accumulation and on return to work the employee will again earn sick leave credits on the same basis as above. Employees who have an accumulation of twelve (12) days sick leave credit, then their waiting period will be one (1) day of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who have less than twelve (12) days of sick leave accumulation, then the waiting period will be three (3) days of scheduled work lost before benefits are payable. Employees who are regularly scheduled to work twelve (12) hour shifts, each shift shall be counted as one (1) day towards the waiting period. Sick leave is to be paid only for scheduled days of work lost at straight time at the employee's hourly rate. No sick leave will be paid if employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity under the Insurance Program or if eligible for Worker's Compensation except to cover the waiting period for that insurance. A doctor's statement must be presented to the Company substantiating the sickness before sick leave benefits will be paid.
20
(b)	In addition to (a) above, employees may receive payment of wages during the waiting period provided they have sufficient banked overtime hours to their credit. Such payment of wages will not exceed the employee's daily earnings.
(c)	Employees who are injured at work and are awaiting receipt of Workers' Compensation benefits will be permitted to receive payment of wages for any unused accumulated sick days. Upon receipt of Workers' Compensation benefits, the employee will reimburse the Company for any sick days paid by the Company.
(d)	Banked overtime hours may be used for employees who have doctor or dentist appointments provided advance notice of ten (10) days is given and that a certificate to confirm such appointment is presented following the appointment. Such banked overtime may be taken in four hour segments. The ten (10) day notice requirement will be waived in cases of emergency, or of specialist appointments. Banked overtime may be applied to care of family members who are ill or injured and shall be administered according to eligibility for the family responsibility leave under Article 18.14(b) and included in the time allowed for such leave.
(e)	Employees with a credit of twelve (12) days sick leave will not require a medical certificate for their first absences due to illness in a calendar year, until such absences exceed three (3) days. However, at the discretion of the Company, a doctor's certificate may be requested if an employee is reasonably suspected of abuse, in order for them to receive sick pay.
(f)	The Company shall pay for any additional doctor's statements or certificates it requires.
13.02	When an employee is sick they shall call the plant and
leave a message on the answering machine or with the shift supervisor at least two (2) hours prior to the start of their shift.
ARTICLE 14	SENIORITY
14.01	Probationary Period
A newly hired employee shall be on probation for fifty (50) shifts or six hundred (600) working hours within a thirteen (13) month period following their most recent date of hire. Any hours or shifts spent in General Orientation shall be counted toward completion of the probationary period. The Company may discipline or discharge an employee at any time during their probationary period and neither the employee nor the Union on their behalf shall have any recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration provision set forth in Article 25. The discipline or discharge of
21
a probationary employee shall be deemed to have been for just cause. After completion of the probationary period, seniority shall be established and shall be effective from the most recent date of hire. If an employee has worked for the Company within the past twelve (12) months, the probationary period shall be waived.
14.02	(a) Employees within the Bargaining Unit who accept a classification with the Company that places them outside the Bargaining Unit will accumulate seniority for one (1) year after the commencement of their duties at such classification. After one (1) year from the commencement of their duties outside the Bargaining Unit, the employee shall not retain any seniority rights within the Bargaining Unit.
(b)	During the first year an employee is promoted outside the bargaining unit the employee or the Company can elect to transfer the employee back to the bargaining unit. In the case where a transfer out of the bargaining unit is for a period not exceeding six (6) months, the employee shall return to the same Wage Group. In cases where the duration of transfer out of the bargaining unit exceeds six (6) months the employee will have the right to return to the bargaining unit when a vacancy occurs in the same Wage Group.
14.03	The Company agrees to prepare up-to-date seniority lists and to post them on the bulletin board. Employees will have ten (10) days from the date of posting to file an objection to the date on the list which indicates their date of hire. Employees who have not filed an objection within the ten (10) day limit will be deemed to have agreed that the date of hire indicated on the list is correct. The seniority lists will be brought up to date and re-posted every six (6) months. The Union will be given a copy of such lists.
14.04	Seniority will be lost and employment considered terminated for the following reasons:
(a)	voluntary quit or resignation.
(b)	discharge for just cause.
(c)	lay-off for more than twelve (12) months.
(d)	failure to comply with the provisions of a leave of absence.
(e)	absence for three (3) consecutive work days without permission.
(f)	failure to respond to recall from layoff within two (2) days, (seven (7) days where the employee has been on layoff for more than four (4) weeks; fourteen (14) days where the employee has been on layoff for more than four (4) weeks and is gainfully employed elsewhere at the time of recall) of being contacted by the Company. It is the duty of employee to notify the Company of an address and telephone number where they can currently be contacted. The Company's duty to contact the employee pursuant
22
to this subsection will be deemed fulfilled if the Company contacts or leaves word for the employee by telephone, or failing to reach them by phone, sends a registered letter, return receipt requested, to the address most recently submitted by the employee. If the Company attempts to make contact as described herein, the employee will be deemed to have received the notice of recall.
14.05	LAYOFF AND RECALL
(a)	"Layoff" shall mean a workforce reduction due to a lack of work in excess of one (1) complete shift. In the event of a layoff, employees shall be laid off by classification in reverse order of seniority. However, an employee who is subject to layoff in their classification has the right to displace an employee with less seniority within the same or lower Wage Group. For the purpose of displacement under this Article, Group 1A and Group 1B shall be deemed to be equivalent. The senior Group 1, Maintenance and Leadhand employee who presently possesses the requisite skills and qualifications as per the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL, or the certification or licensing that may be required and who can immediately perform the required work of the classification into which they seek to bump, will be awarded the position. In the case of all other classifications, the senior applicant will normally be awarded the position. "Shutdown" means a lay off resulting from a temporary scheduled stoppage of one or more production lines for a period greater than forty-eight (48) consecutive hours.
(b)	The Company shall meet with the Union Chief Steward or their designate on a regular basis to determine which employee's names should be included in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL.
(c)	Employee's who have not performed the classification they have been trained for, for a period of twelve (12) months, shall have their name removed from the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL.
(d)	In laying off, employees who do not require training as operators, shall be retained by seniority provided they are capable of performing the available work.
14.06	Employees moving into a classification due to a displacement will be paid at the rate applicable to that classification.
14.07	Employees who have not forfeited their seniority rights as provided by this Agreement shall be recalled in order of seniority to any classification where there is an opening that they are qualified, as per the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL, to perform. If the layoffs are due to a shutdown a seniority list shall be posted prior to the shutdown and employees will indicate beside their name their
23
preference for any recall. An employee who does not fill out the list prior to the first day of the shutdown may be subject to recall in accordance with this Article. An employee may choose their preference for any recall as follows:
a)	they want to be recalled to work,
b)	they do not want to be recalled for the duration of the shutdown and take vacation or banked time,
c)	they do not want to be recalled for the duration of the shutdown and have an unpaid leave of absence.
If there is to be a recall prior to the anticipated end of the shutdown, employees who have indicated their desire to be called back to work according to the posted list will be recalled in order of seniority prior to those who have indicated otherwise. The Company will attempt to recall by seniority according to the recall preference indicated on the list, subject to the availability of employees qualified in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL for recall, failing which the junior employee qualified in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL will be recalled.
At the end of the shutdown all employees will be expected to return to work unless their continued absence has been approved by management (an approved leave under Article 18, on sick leave as per Article 13 or on approved vacation as per Article 10).
14.08	In recalling employees to work where it is expected the work available will last for one (1) week or less, the Company will take any qualified employee from a list of employees who have previously signified their desire for short time work. If it is expected that the work will last for more than one (1) week, the employees with the greatest seniority shall be called back first, provided they are qualified as per the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL and capable of performing the available work.
14.09	During periods of recall in excess of one (1) week, employees will be returned to their former shift, provided there is an opening in that classification on that shift.
14.10	The	Company will endeavour to notify the Union of any layoff
and/or recall	from	layoff within forty-eight (48)	hours but, in any event, not later than
one (1) week.
ARTICLE 15 CLASSIFICATION POSTING
15.01	(a)	Any permanent vacancy as	determined by the Company shall be
posted for	a	period of seven (7) working days,	and employees shall have the right to
24
bid for the classification during that period. No positions may be posted during shutdowns. The posting shall contain the classification being posted, the rate of pay, the shift on which the posting will normally be expected to work subject to operational requirements, the duties of the classification and the competencies required to get the posting. The senior applicant or, in the case of Group I, Maintenance and Leadhand classifications, the senior qualified applicant satisfying the necessary qualifications of the classification, will be awarded the posting within twenty-one (21) calendar days from closure of the posting. In the event the senior applicant is not awarded the posting, the Chief Steward will be notified in advance of the Employees. Notwithstanding 15.03, any internal applicant who is presently qualified as per the OPERATORS TRAINING MANUAL shall be awarded the posting prior to the hiring of external candidates.
In accordance with the above, the following classifications and specific positions shall be posted:
-all Monday to Friday positions -all positions on day shift -all non-continuous shift positions -Group IA and IB
(b)	The Union will receive copies of all classification postings.
(c)	In production, the parties encourage all employees, for their own benefit at times of layoff and recall, to learn the requirements of the classifications immediately ahead of them and behind them on the line on which they are working.
(d)	The Company will endeavour to place the employee into their new position within a four (4) week period following the awarding of the classification, or provide the employee with a written explanation as to why this has not occurred or will not occur.
15.02	(a) Eligibility to apply for posted classifications is limited to employees
who have completed their probationary period except where there are no such applicants or in the case of Maintenance classifications which require a license or ticket. In the case of a maintenance classification that does not require a license or ticket immediately, preference will be given to non-probationary employees having previous experience within the organization and/or partial qualifications for the classification requirements as well as proven ability to acquire a journeyperson status within the normal time period specified.
(b) Employees posting for Permanent and Temporary vacancies will submit in writing to Human Resources via a Classification Posting Form. Employees who are or will be absent from work, may provide the employer with the classification
25
posting form indicating they wish to be considered to have bid on classifications which may be posted during the employee's absence.
15.03	Except as provided below, after successfully posting into a
classification an employee shall be prohibited from applying for other posted classifications for a period of six (6) months unless otherwise mutually agreed, unless the position to which they have posted becomes redundant, unless the employee is a Relief Mechanic posting into a Maintenance classification, unless the Company has removed the employee from a posted position, or unless the Company has not moved them into that job within a four (4) week period. However, the employee then forfeits the right to occupy the initial awarded posting. The Company will then award the posting to the next senior candidate or the next senior qualified candidate in the case of Maintenance, Leadhand, and Group 1 postings.
An employee who declines an awarded classification through a Classification Posting once in a rolling calendar year will be ineligible to post for six (6) months.
Trades employees who have been laid off or reduced to non-trades classifications will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into a posted Trades classification.
Employees who have successfully posted into a classification on a temporary basis will have the above six (6) month prohibition waived if bidding into the same classification on a permanent basis. Employees who have completed their probationary period and have been transferred, not bid, into a classification will not have a six (6) month prohibition on bidding into any other classification.
15.04	There will be a training/trial period up to fifteen (15) working days
for all classifications at one dollar ($1.00) per hour below the classification rate. In cases of employees posting down to a new classification the new classification rate will apply during the trial period.
For permanent postings only, if during the first fifteen (15) working days an employee proves unsatisfactory in the classification to which they have posted, or elects to leave such classification, the employee shall be returned to their former classification and rate of pay, if it still exists, or some other classification which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
In either event, should the removal of the employee from the posted classification make it necessary to reverse the transfer or promotion or any other employee, that employee will also be returned to their former classification and rate of pay or some other classification which is mutually acceptable to the employee, the employer and the Union.
26
It is recognized that it may require up to three (3) weeks to make the arrangements necessary to accommodate such classification adjustments.
In case of more than one employee applying for a posted classification, and the successful applicant does vacate the posted classification within fifteen (15) working days, the next applicant on the original list of applicants will be given the opportunity to fill the posted classification in compliance with Section 15.01 of the Collective Agreement.
15.05	A temporary vacancy is defined as a vacancy of not less than one
(1) calendar month and not more than twelve (12) months. A temporary vacancy is one that has a set period of time as defined at the start of the job. This timeframe may be extended by mutual agreement. Should a temporary vacancy occur in a classification, the normal posting process shall apply. If a third temporary vacancy results from the original vacancy, it will then be filled by people not presently holding a posted classification. Group I and Maintenance classifications will continue to be posted. The one (1) month minimum time frame for a temporary vacancy will be waived if the temporary vacancy is only created through the process of filling a permanent vacancy as per Article 15.01.
Employees who take a temporary vacancy shall, on completion of the work, be returned to the same classification they left to go to the temporary vacancy if it still exists, or if it does not exist, to the same Wage Group rate.
15.06	In situations where employees have applied for shift bulletined
operator cross training, as determined by the Company, the senior applicant will be selected. Experience received during cross training shall not be used for the purpose of being awarded any posting.
Cross training - Training in a classification within or outside the employee's Wage Group. Employees who are cross-trained will be used to relieve for vacation and short term illness on their shift and will only be used on other shifts by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
Upon completion of operator cross-training, employees will be returned to their regular classification and will displace any employee who might have been temporarily transferred to such classification.
In no event will any employee under any circumstances have their wage reduced as a result of their own or any other employee's cross-training.
No employee will be required to receive cross-training, however those who have indicated a desire to do so will not be removed from their classification
27
for the purpose of cross-training for more than two (2) periods of cross-training in any one (1) calendar year, but in any event, not more than three (3) months total crosstraining in any one year.
15.07	Where the Company determines that employees require training to perform their classification, refusal of training will result in the loss of their classification posting. When such training is required, as confirmed by a Union /Management Committee of equal representation, the Company will pay for all reasonable expenses incurred, including either:
a)	wages lost for their normal working day, or
b)	time spent training up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at straight time per day (including time spent training outside regular work hours), or
c)	applicable overtime or premium rates consistent with the Collective Agreement, if an employee's day off, to a maximum of eight (8) hours at those rates.
Government programs which offset wages may be applied providing no employee loses wages as a result.
15.08	If the duties of a classification are changed substantially, the Union Executive will have the right to request a reclassification of the classification. If the Company and the Union Executive cannot agree on the reclassification, the matter may be referred to arbitration.
15.09	An employee's name will be recognized in the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL when they have successfully completed the necessary training and have been deemed competent by their manager and the trainer within four (4) months. Employees will be removed from the OPERATOR TRAINING MANUAL if they have not worked on that classification in the last twelve (12) months. In the event the employee is deemed unsuccessful the chief steward will be provided the reasons in writing.
15.10	Temporary Transfers and Assignments
Notwithstanding the above, temporary absences, operating changes, scheduling adjustments and other such requirements create a need to temporarily transfer or assign employees from their regular work.
It is necessary to effect these transfers quickly and with minimum disruption to the balance of the factory operations. Keeping this in mind the Company
28
will, where possible, make such assignments on a rotational (to allow a number of employees to gain benefit) or seniority basis. In either case the aim being to arrange temporary assignments in a manner that is fair and equitable. No employee being temporarily transferred or assigned shall lose hours of work in a pay period as a result of the transfer or assignment.
15.11	If an employee, has been displaced due to a downsizing or
restructuring of the workplace, and they are currently working elsewhere within the Company, and it is found to be necessary during the six (6) months following their displacement to reinstate a position within their classification on a permanent basis, they shall have the opportunity to move back into their classification prior to the decision to post.
ARTICLE 16 CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
16.01	The classifications and rates of pay shall be as contained in Appendix "A" and become a part of this agreement by reference hereto. The rates of pay as contained in Appendix "A" shall be the only rates paid to employees.
16.02	When new classifications are established by the Company, it shall establish an hourly rate of pay for the new classification. The Union will be so advised. If after a trial period of two hundred and forty (240) working hours the Union believes the hourly rate established by the Company to be unsatisfactory, the dispute shall be settled pursuant to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 17 MODIFIED WORK
17.01	The Company and Union agree to make every reasonable effort to
provide suitable modified or alternative employment to employees who are temporarily or permanently unable to return to their regular duties, as a consequence of an occupational or non-occupational disability.
ARTICLE 18	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18.01	Leaves of absences shall be granted to eligible employees in case of disability resulting from injury, illness, pregnancy, bereavement, compassionate and family leave.
18.02	Maternity Leave
Leaves of absence for reason of pregnancy shall begin when the
29
employee's doctor certifies that the employee is physically unable to work. Maternity leaves may continue for four (4) months beyond confinement or longer if the need for further extension is verified by the employees doctor. Such extensions shall be for thirty (30) day periods.
18.03	In cases of medical conditions directly attributed to pregnancy which necessitate absence from work prior to commencement of pregnancy leave or delay of return to work following pregnancy leave, group insurance benefits shall be granted to employees under the same conditions as these benefits are granted to other employees. The general provisions of The Employment Standards Code for the Province of Manitoba shall also apply.
18.04	Parental Leave
Employees on maternity leave who wish to take parental leave immediately upon expiration of maternity leave, may do so unless the employee and employer agree to make other arrangements.
18.05	Parental leave will be granted without the service qualifier, as in the case of maternity leave. The general provisions of The Employment Standards Code for the Province of Manitoba shall also apply.
18.06	General Leave
Leaves of absence may be granted to any employee by the Company for good and sufficient reason upon written request by the employee provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the requirements of the business. Leaves of absence shall not be granted for the purposes of trying other employment or self-employment (including farming). Any violation of this provision shall be deemed to be just cause for the immediate termination of the employee. The Company shall reply to written requests for leaves of absence not later than two weeks from the date the request was made. If the requested leave of absence is for a period of one (1) week or more, if it is granted by the Company, it shall be confirmed in writing and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
18.07	Employees returning from a leave of absence under this section
shall return to their former position if it is available.
Any employee who does not return from or overstays a leave of absence without sufficient cause or reasonable excuse will be considered to have quit the Company's employment, and if rehired, shall be considered for all purposes a new employee.
30
18.08
Union Leave
(a)	Employees (not more than five) to be chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside the plant shall be granted a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) days, provided that the absence of each employee shall not unreasonably affect the operations. The Union shall advise the Company before exercising this prerogative. Employee(s) on such leave of absence shall not experience any loss of wages or benefits which are not normally compensated while on leave and shall remain on payroll with the understanding that the Union will reimburse the Company for any wages or benefits compensated.
(b)	Time Off for Union Business - Upon one month notice in writing from the Union, the Company agrees to grant a leave of absence of up to one (1) year (renewable from year to year) to one (1) employee who is elected or appointed to a full-time position in the Union. Such leave of absence shall be without pay or other benefits. However, seniority will continue to accumulate throughout the leave. The Union agrees to notify the Company at least one (1) month in advance of the employee's return to work for the Company. Upon return, the employee will be returned to their classification.
18.09	Educational Leave
Employees with at least two (2) years of continuous service will be allowed an unpaid leave of absence for educational purposes provided the leave supports the business and further provided that management approves the leave.
18.10	Bereavement Leave
A bereavement leave of three (3) days will be granted to employees who have passed their probationary period for time lost from work resulting from the death of a member of their immediate family. Immediate family is defined as spouse, mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, spouse's grandparents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step-mother, step-father, step-children, step-grandchildren, step-grandparents and legal guardian. Maximum payment will not exceed thirty-six (36) hours. Employees will be granted up to one (1) day with pay in order to be a pallbearer at a funeral. The bereavement leave must start no later than the day of the funeral and end no later than two (2) days after the day of the funeral except where an employee wishes to use one (1) day of bereavement leave
31
entitlement to attend a memorial service. In the event of the death of an employee's aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew, one day paid leave will be granted for time lost from work for the purpose of attending the funeral. It is also agreed that the bereavement leave referred to herein may be increased by up to two (2) unpaid days' travel time provided that such additional time off is necessary in the particular circumstances and that approval is obtained in advance of departure.
18.11	Jury Duty and Witness Fees
Employees summoned to jury duty and/or employees subpoenaed as a Crown witness shall be paid straight time wages amounting to the difference between the amount paid them for jury duty/witness fees and the amount they would have earned had they worked on such day. This does not apply if jury/witnessing occurs on the employee's scheduled day off. Payment for witnessing will be a maximum of one (1) day and will not be paid, in any event, to an accused person if the accusation does not arise out of the performance of their regular duties and the subpoena has not been issued by the Crown.
18.12	Paternity Leave
Male employees who have completed their probationary period shall be granted two (2) days leave with pay on the occasion of the birth of their child. Such leave will be granted within one (1) week of the date of birth or other mutually agreeable dates.
18.13	Negotiations Leave
Time off for the Union Negotiating Committee will be shared on a 50-50 basis by the Company and the Union to a maximum of twelve (12) hours for lost wages or a maximum of eight (8) hours for scheduled days off per employee, per day.
18.14	Unpaid Leaves
The following additional leaves of absence shall be granted in accordance with The Employment Standards Code C.C.S.M. c. E11Q, 2007:
a)	reservist (paid by the Government of Canada)
b)	family responsibility	(unpaid)
c)	compassionate care	(paid	by	Employment Insurance)
Upon request by an employee, the Company shall provide information about the eligibility for any such leave and its duration.
32
It is understood that should a death occur during or after the compassionate care leave, the employee shall be eligible for bereavement leave as per Article 18.10 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 HEALTH AND SAFETY
19.01	Employees who are injured while at work shall be paid at their hourly rate for all straight time hours lost in obtaining medical treatment on the day the injury occurred.
19.02	The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of employees during the hours of their employment in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Workplace Safety and Health Act in the Province of Manitoba. The Company and the Union shall share the reasonable costs (travel, hotel and meals) incurred for external training courses.
Union members of the Health and Safety Committee will receive a maximum of two (2) working days paid education leave per year for the purpose of health and safety training. Said leave will be used to send the Union members of the Health and Safety Committee to courses as agreed upon by the Health and Safety Committee, the Company and the Union.
19.03	(a) Protective devices on machinery and other devices deemed necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company. Should such reasonable provisions not be made or such protection devices not be provided, the matter may be subject to the grievance procedure but excluding arbitration.
(b)	A safety shoe allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year shall be provided for all employees having proper seniority standing.
(c)	The Company will reimburse the full cost of prescription safety glasses and the full cost of eye exams pertaining to acquisition of same, for any employee required to wear same as follows:
i)	the employee obtains their safety glasses from the Company's supplier
ii)	all employees regularly working in the maintenance department (regular shall mean 500 or more hours) will be provided prescription safety glasses if required to wear same.
The reimbursement will be the difference between the amounts covered under this article and expense submitted under Article
11.01	(vi).
33
ARTICLE 20
REPRESENTATION
20.01	The Company agrees to recognize the following officials as
representing the Union for the referenced purposes:
(a)	Administration of the Collective Agreement - Stewards appointed or otherwise selected shall represent the various departments of the factory.
(b)	Grievances progressing to Step 2 - A Grievance Committee comprised of the full-time Union Representative, Chief Steward, Assistant Chief Steward and up to four (4) Union Stewards.
(c)	General Labour - Management Issues - A Labour/Management Committee comprised of the full-time Union Representative, Chief Steward and Assistant Chief Steward will meet monthly with an equal number of Company representatives to exchange information and discuss operational issues and concerns of mutual interest. This forum will not be used to discuss grievances.
(d)	Negotiations - A Union Committee comprised of up to six (6) employees and may include the full time Servicing representative, in addition to the Union Negotiator.
20.02	The Union shall advise the Company of the names of all Union
stewards, the full-time Union Representative who is responsible for servicing the unit and the full-time Union Negotiator and the Company shall not be required to recognize such representatives until so advised in writing.
20.03	An employee representing the Union as provided by sub-sections
20.01	(a), (b), and (c) above, shall not lose pay for time spent in discussions with management about grievances and other matters of mutual concern provided that:
(a)	they shall first obtain permission of their supervisor before leaving their work and such permission shall not be unreasonably denied;
(b)	this shall not include time spent to deal with grievances at arbitration;
(c)	the Company retains the right to limit such time if it seems excessive and to schedule meetings so as not to interfere with the operation of the business;
34
(d)	such meetings shall not give rise to payment beyond that which the employee would have received if the meeting had not been held.
20.04	The Company agrees to admit to its factory at all reasonable times
the authorized representative of the Union for the purposes of observing the application of this Agreement and adjusting grievances. These activities are to be discharged in a manner that will avoid unnecessary loss of time or disruption of work schedules. The Union representative shall obtain permission from the Company before or at the time of the desired visits by notifying the Factory Manager or his shift designee prior to entering the factory.
ARTICLE 21	GENERAL
21.01	Bulletin Board
The Company will provide space for Union bulletin boards for the posting of official Union notices, provided such notices are submitted and approved by the Shift Manager prior to posting.
21.02	Tool Allowance
allowance.
The Company intends to provide Maintenance employees with tool
Effective October 1, 2001 each Maintenance employee will be reimbursed up to three hundred and twenty five dollars ($325.00) depending upon the employee's submission of receipts for personal tool expenditures. Effective October 1,
2002,	reimbursement will be three hundred and fifty ($350.00) and effective October 1,
2003,	reimbursement will be for three hundred and seventy five dollars ($375.00).
21.03	Parking
The Company will endeavour to provide parking	spaces	with	plugs
for all employees requiring same at no cost to the employee, unless damage occurs as a result of negligence or abuse.
21.04	Uniforms/Protective Clothing/Equipment
The Company agrees to supply, clean and	maintain	all	work
clothing, including uniforms, hairnets, hardhats and gloves as deemed appropriate by the Labour/Management Committee. In addition, zero room employees will be supplied two (2) sets of insulated clothing and mitts which will be issued and returned daily in the same manner as tools and other equipment.
35
ARTICLE 22
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
22.01	There shall be no cessation of work by strikes or slowdowns by
employees or lockouts by the Company during the term of this Agreement or during the period of negotiations for renewal.
ARTICLE 23 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
23.01	This Agreement fully	and	completely incorporates the
understanding hereto and constitutes the sole and entire Agreement between the parties on any and all matters subject to collective bargaining. Neither party shall, during the term of this Agreement, be required to accede to any demand for change herein, nor shall either party be required to bargain with respect to any matter during the life of this Agreement.
23.02	In the event that any Articles or portions of this Agreement are determined to be improper or invalid by a court of law or Labour Board, such decision shall not invalidate any other portions of this Agreement than those directly specified by such decision to be invalid, improper or otherwise unenforceable.
ARTICLE 24	DISCIPLINE
24.01	Discipline not reversed	during	the grievance and arbitration
procedure, except suspension, will be removed from an employee's file twelve (12) months from the date such discipline was imposed except in cases where additional discipline is given to an employee before a previously issued discipline is cancelled.
Suspensions not reversed during the grievance and arbitration procedure will be removed from an employee's file twelve (12) months from date of return to work except in cases where additional discipline is given to an employee before a previously issued discipline is cancelled.
24.02	The Company shall provide the employee and the Union with copies of all written warnings, notices of suspension and termination when issued. Written warnings will be given within five (5) working days of the event giving rise to the discipline unless circumstances prevent this from occurring.
24.03	In cases where an employee is being issued discipline, the Shop Steward or in their absence, the full-time Union Representative or an Executive Board member shall be present unless the employee elects in writing to exclude the Shop Steward/Union Representative/Executive Board member. The full-time Union Representative will receive copies of any reprimand, suspension or discharge which will become part of the employee's personnel file.
36
24.04	If an employee is issued a suspension for just cause, it shall be
served within thirty (30) days of issuance of such suspension. If not served within the above mentioned period, such suspension will not be served but will remain on the employee's file as per 24.01.
ARTICLE 25 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
25.01	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the importance of the
grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle as many grievances as possible promptly and on the spot. Accordingly, grievances shall be considered timely if filed at Step 1 within ten (10) working days of the incident giving rise to the grievance and also provided that it has first been dealt with as a complaint. It is further agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
Grievances will be processed as follows:
COMPLAINT STAGE
The employee shall discuss the matter with their supervisor in an effort to achieve a satisfactory resolution. The employee may be accompanied by a Union steward or their alternative during such discussion if they feel this will be of assistance in explaining their complaint. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached the complaint may be carried forward to Step 1 as a grievance.
STEP 1 If the discussion with the supervisor does not resolve the matter to the employee's satisfaction, a written grievance, duly signed by the employee, may be presented to Human Resources within ten (10) working days of the incident giving rise to the grievance or within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the copy being provided to the Union as per 24.02. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the supervisor, the steward and the employee. The supervisor or their designate shall give a written answer to the grievance within five (5) working days of receipt of the grievance.
STEP 2 If the decision at Step 1 is unsatisfactory to the employee, the grievance may be re-submitted to Human Resources within five (5) working days of the written response at Step 1. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by Human Resources, the Department Manager, and the Shop Steward and the Union Representative. The Department Manager or their designate
37
shall render a written decision within five (5) working days following the date of discussion at Step 2.
STEP 3 If the reply of the Department Manager or their designate is not satisfactory, the grievance may proceed to Step 3 within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Step 2 decision. Human Resources will set up a meeting to be attended by the Plant Manager, Human Resources and the Union Representative. The meeting shall take place within five (5) working days of notification to proceed to Step 3. The Company shall render a written decision within five (5) working days following the above meeting.
25.02	Employees who are terminated by the Company, suspended, disciplined for any reason whatsoever, or laid off, and feel that they have been unjustly dealt with shall promptly notify a member of the Grievance Committee who shall, within five (5) working days of receipt of notice at the Union Office of such a termination, suspension or layoff by the aggrieved employee, notify the Plant Manager, stating the grounds of objection to the termination, suspension or layoff. That termination, suspension or layoff shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to the Grievance Procedure set out above, beginning with Step 2 above. If subsequently it is decided that the employees were unjustly terminated by the Company, suspended or laid off, they shall be reinstated to their former position and shall be compensated for all time lost at their regular rate of pay or granted such lesser compensation as may by decided fair in the circumstances.
25.03	Should disputes, claims or grievances arise as to the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement that cannot be settled by the Union and the Company, they may be submitted to an impartial Arbitrator, as listed below at the request of either party. The Arbitrators are as set forth and will be used on a rotating basis;
Michael Werier Diane Jones Arne Peltz
If any individual of the above noted panel, who has been requested in their turn to act as the Arbitrator, is unable or unwilling to act, they shall not again be requested to act as the Arbitrator unless their name comes up again on a regular rotation of the panel.
An arbitrator shall not be deemed willing to act unless they are in a position to convene the hearing within twenty-eight (28) days of the date of their selection. If none of the above named Arbitrators is willing to act, either party may request the Manitoba Labour Board to appoint an arbitrator.
38
Failure to request arbitration within the ten (10) working days following the Company's answer in Step 3 shall be deemed a withdrawal of the grievance and it will not be considered any further.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and all persons concerned or affected. It is further understood that the Arbitrator shall, in each case, be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and that they are not vested with the authority to change, amend, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement but only to interpret the provisions thereof.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be given within a period of thirty (30) days after the closing of the arbitration proceedings.
In the interest of settling a grievance prior to an arbitration hearing, either party may request assistance of a grievance mediator from the Province of Manitoba Conciliation Services.
25.04	The time limits set out in the above procedure can be extended upon mutual agreement of the parties.
25.05	The Union and the Company shall each pay any costs connected with the presentation of their respective cases and the cost of the Arbitrator shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 26 LICENSE RENEWAL
26.01	The Company will reimburse employees for the additional cost (e.g. in excess of their standard drivers license) that is involved in maintaining a special license required by law or by the Company for specific classifications.
26.02	The Company will reimburse employees for time lost from work in order to write tests for licenses required to perform their classification for the Company where it is impossible to schedule the employees forty (40) hours of work in the week in which the tests are taken.
ARTICLE 27 TRADES TRAINING AND APPRENTICESHIP
27.01	The Company agrees to register apprentices under the
Apprenticeship and Trades Qualification Act. The selection of an apprentice will be made on the following basis:
39
a)	Acceptance of apprentices will be based on them meeting qualifications and standards as determined by the Company in consultation with the Union and consistent with the qualifications outlined in each trade regulation. Qualifications and standards will be applied equitably and consistently to all applicants.
b)	Applicants meeting the qualifications and standards from
amongst the Relief Mechanics in the Operators Training Manual will be the first selected by seniority, subject to c) below. The Company will endeavour to maintain a pool of Relief Mechanics. Applicants from amongst the broader qualifying employees will then be accepted for available apprenticeships by seniority, subject to c) below.
c)	Of the applicants mentioned above, those who possess
previous trade apprenticeship training or equivalent training /experience may be given preference in the selection of apprentices by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
d)	An employee's seniority continues to accrue during the
apprenticeship process.
e)	Before entering a formal apprenticeship, an employee will
serve a ninety (90) calendar day trial period for the purpose of establishing suitability. If an employee is successful, the Company will credit this time towards the apprenticeship. If either the Company or the employee determine during the trial period that the apprentice will not be successful, the employee will be returned to their previous position. If the Company makes this determination, the employee will be reimbursed any wages lost during the ninety (90) day trial period as a result of the pay differential between his former wage rate and the apprenticeship rate.
Apprenticeship Rates shall be the difference between the Maintenance Personnel rate divided by the number of levels in the particular trade training set out in the applicable regulation to The Apprenticeship and Trades Qualifications Act. For an example, an apprenticeship program which takes four (4) levels of training to complete will be paid as follows:
First Level: Maintenance Personnel rate
Second Level: Maintenance Personnel plus 25% of the difference between Maintenance Personnel and the trade rate.
40
Third Level: Maintenance Personnel plus 50% of the difference between Maintenance Personnel and the trade rate.
Fourth Level: Maintenance Personnel plus 75% of the difference between Maintenance Personnel and the trade rate.
An apprenticeship program which takes three (3) levels to complete will be paid as follows:
First Level: Maintenance Personnel rate
Second Level: Maintenance Personnel plus 33.33% of the difference between Maintenance Personnel and the trade rate.
Third Level: Maintenance Personnel plus 66.67% of the difference between Maintenance Personnel and the trade rate.
27.02	Employees who take the Manitoba Trades Training Program or other accredited program, as scheduled and approved by the Company and successfully complete the program will, on their return to work, be paid twenty-five (25) hours at straight time for each week that they attended the training course. Employees are to present to the Company proof of their having successfully completed the course. The Company shall make every effort to release apprentices from work hours to attend the in-school training portion of the apprenticeship program.
27.03	Should government assistance be deleted, the Company will match what was paid for accommodations, meals, tuition and books. If government assistance is deleted, the Company will pay employees 50% of their regular wages on a weekly basis with the balance of the employee's regular wages paid out upon the successful completion of the course. In order to qualify for employer assistance, employees must successfully complete any Manitoba Trades Training or other accredited program approved and scheduled by the Company.
27.04	An apprentice is subject to release from the apprenticeship program as follows:
a)	In a layoff the first demoted from a crew will be the apprentices by reverse seniority.
b)	An apprentice fails a training course at any one level twice.
c)	The employee voluntarily withdraws from any in-school training portion of the program without a reasonable excuse acceptable to the Company.
41
Should the apprentice be released s/he will be placed in the labourer classification if available at the time of release or may bump a junior Operator if they still remain in the Operator Training Manual.
Upon successful completion of the apprenticeship program, the employee will be notified that they will be given an additional period of at least ninety (90) calendar days of employment within the applicable trade.
27.05	The Company and the Union agree that the continued support of the factory apprenticeship program represents a significant commitment and investment by both the Company and the employees. For the purposes of protecting the value of this investment, the parties agree that Journeyperson employees of the Company, for whom the Company made this investment, who choose to leave the employ of the Company before completing three (3) years of service post-certification, are responsible for reimbursement of the costs provided by the Company associated with their training.
27.06	Employees who are entering the Manitoba Trades Training Program will be required to sign an agreement (Educational Assistance Agreement form) which obliges them to repay all costs provided by the Company if they have not achieved Journeyperson Certification and if employment is voluntarily terminated by the employee or if they are terminated by the Company for cause and have not been reinstated through the grievance and arbitration procedures outlined in Article 26 of this Agreement.
If an employee is displaced from a trades position but bumps into another non-trade classification in the Company for which the employee is qualified, there is no requirement to pay back any costs. The employee shall then be paid at the appropriate posted rate for that classification.
27.07	After obtaining Journeyperson Certification in an applicable trade, the expenditures on books, tuition, and wage top-up made by the Company will be required to be reimbursed by the employee back to the Company according to the following schedule:
Termination within 0-24 months after completion of the program	100%
Termination within 24-36 months after completion of the program	50%
Termination 37+ months after completion of the program	0%
27.08	Employees or former employees who choose to pursue an apprenticeship without being accepted into the Company's apprenticeship process will not receive financial support for their program. However, the Company shall provide the number of hours worked to the appropriate apprenticeship board for documentation purposes only.
42
ARTICLE 28
PENSION PLAN
28.01	The Company will continue to provide defined benefit pension as
specified under the current Carnation Retirement Plan No. 1 for all eligible employees as defined in a separate outline furnished to the employees.
The Company will ensure that employees are provided with annual statements indicating the pension benefits that they have accrued to date. In addition the pension benefit pamphlet will be periodically updated as require
The Union recognizes that the Company is exclusively responsible for the overall operation and administration of the Pension Plan and Fund. Further it is recognized that the Company reserves the right to merge other Company pension plans and funds into the current Plan and Fund, or vice versa, and also to arrange pension benefits for other employee groups under the current Plan and Fund, provided that such actions do not affect the accrued pension benefits of Carberry employees.
Effective October 1, 2002 Employees retiring will do so with the
following actuarial reductions from their basic pension plan:
Retiring Age	Pension Benefit
60	100%
59	80%
58	75%
57	70%
56	65%
55	60%
28.02	During periods of absence from work for which employees are receiving either Weekly Indemnity benefits or benefits from the Workers Compensation, pension credits shall continue as though the employee were actually at work.
28.03	Registered Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will administer through payroll deductions, a voluntary group RRSP as chosen by the Union. On a calendar year basis, the employee will determine the amount to be deducted weekly from regular earnings and this shall remain unchanged during the year except where no pay cheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted to the group RRSP by the Company on a monthly basis.
43
ARTICLE 29
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
29.01	In this article technological change means a change of an ongoing
nature in factory operations which is directly related to the introduction of equipment, material or processes different from that previously used in factory operations.
29.02	Where the Company proposes to effect a technological change that
is likely to affect either the terms and conditions or the security of the employment of a significant number of employees notice of the change shall be given to the Union no later than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date on which the change is to be affected.
29.03
The notice shall be in writing and shall state:
(a)	the nature of the technological change;
(b)	the proposed effective date of the technological change;
(c)	the approximate number and type of employees to be affected by the technological change;
(d)	the effects the technological change may be expected to have on employees' terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of bargaining unit members.
29.04	Where an employee who has completed their probationary period
has their regular position permanently eliminated as a result of a "technological change" such employee will acquire the right to "bump" less senior employees according to the following procedure:
(a)	The Company in consultation with the Union will endeavour to place the employee in an available classification, which is at a rate of pay equal to their previous classification.
(b)	Where the Company's efforts under (a) above, prove unsuccessful the employee shall be entitled to "bump" the most junior employee in their own Wage Group who holds a classification for which they are qualified;
(c)	Where the Company's efforts under (b) above, prove unsuccessful the employee shall be entitled to "bump" the most junior employee in a lower Wage Group who holds a classification for which they are qualified.
For the purpose of this section "qualified" shall mean that in the reasonable opinion of the Company the employee has the capability to qualify for the classification within a reasonable period of time and in any event currently possesses any license or trade qualifications which may be required.
44
29.05	All new classifications which are included in the bargaining unit, or existing classifications which are significantly altered, as a result of a technological change shall be subject to classification as provided in Article 16.02 of the Collective Agreement.
29.06	Where the employment of ten (10) or more employees who have completed their probationary period is expected to be permanently eliminated as a result of a technological change the Company will offer such employees a relocation counseling workshop to assist them in their search for new jobs.
29.07	The parties agree that the above provisions will be applicable in the event of technological changes and therefore that Articles 83, 84, and 85 of The Labour Relations Act do not apply during the term of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 30 SEVERANCE PAY
30.01	The Company agrees to make severance payments to all
employees who have completed their probationary period whose employment is permanently terminated as a result of technological change or a partial or complete factory closure. Payments will be determined as follows:
(a) Service Category	Severance Payment
• employees with less	1 weeks pay per year of
than10 years	seniority
seniority	
• employees with 10	1.75 weeks pay per year of
years seniority but	seniority
less than 15 years of	
seniority	
• employees with 15	2 weeks pay per year of
years or more	seniority
(b)	Seniority is determined as of the employee's termination date.
(c)	For the purpose of the above calculations seniority will be rounded to the next higher quarter (1/4) of a year.
(d)	A weeks pay is equal to forty (40) hours at the rate stipulated in the Collective Agreement for the classification held by the employee at the time of termination.
45
(e)	Severance payable under this section shall be deemed to include any severance pay as may be required under any Manitoba legislation.
(f)	Severance will not be payable to any employee who is discharged for just cause or who quits prior to their final scheduled day of work.
ARTICLE 31 TIGER PROGRAM
31.01	The parties agree on the importance of recognizing employees for
success at the factory. A Tiger Program has been implemented in 2004 and will remain in place each year thereafter, and will include the following measurement tools:
1.	percent of standards produced
2.	first pass quality
3.	safety
4.	costs and any other relevant measurement tool(s)
The TIGER Program will pay out up to 4% of yearly earnings with the opportunity to overachieve to 4.8 % maximum (maximum 2184 hours) if the measurement criteria, as described above, are exceeded. That is the Program must make money before it can pay out.
Effective July 1, 2009, the Tigerplan will run in accordance with the Company's fiscal year, July 1 to the following June 30. This will result in a pro-ration of the Program and any applicable payments in respect of January 1, 2009 to June 30, 2009.
The time period for payments applicable to the 2008 calendar year will be administered in accordance with Art. 32.01 (4) of the 2005-2008 Collective Agreement.
The Company will consult with the Union at the Joint Labour Management Committee regarding key performance indicators for the fiscal year. The Plan that is developed will be sent to the Director of Human Resources and the V.P. Potato Production for final approval.
1.	Eligible earnings shall be defined as the employee's hourly wage rate at
the year end multiplied by the number of hours they worked during the calendar year in question. Hours worked shall include vacation, statutory holidays and Union leave, but exclude weekly indemnity and WCB. The total number shall not exceed 2184.
46
2.	An employee recruited during the year will have their Employee Bonus payout prorated accordingly.
3.	Payouts are not pensionable.
4.	Payouts will usually be paid before September 30, of the fiscal year. If employment is terminated during the course of the fiscal year due to death, total disability, retirement or job redundancy, the payment will be prorated; otherwise no payment will be made.
5.	Notwithstanding the above, bonus shall not be included in the previous year's earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation as per Article 10.
ARTICLE 32 HARASSMENT/ABUSE
32.01	The Employer's "No Harassment/Abuse Policy" would be as
contained in Appendix "C" of this Collective Agreement. The policy will be posted in a prominent location, with a copy of same remitted to employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33 EDUCATION AND TRAINING TRUST FUND
33.01	Effective October 1, 2008, the Company will contribute one
thousand ($1,000.00) dollars per contract year to the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local No. 832, Education and Training Trust Fund.
ARTICLE 34 DURATION
34.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of October 1, 2008 and shall continue in full force and effect through September 30, 2011, and will continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice by either party of its desire to amend or terminate this Agreement is given by either party to the other not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement, or not more than ninety (90) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date in any year thereafter.
34.02	On the receipt of such opening notice, negotiations shall commence within ten (10) days of receipt of such, except that this time may be extended by either party or by mutual agreement.
47
34.03
force.
During the period of negotiations, this Agreement shall remain in
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS
AGREEMENT.		
SIGNED THIS	DAY OF	, 2009.
FOR THE UNION:		FOR THE COMPANY:
48
APPENDICES AND LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
All appendices and letters of understanding as attached to this Agreement shall form an integral part of this Collective Agreement
APPENDIX "A"
A-1.01
	Effective Oct. 1/07	Effective Oct.1/08	Effective Oct.1/09	Effective Oct.1/10
Production Personnel Crew				
Leader Microbiologist	$20.60	$20.91	$21.33	$21.86
Group I	$18.82	$19.10	$19.48	$19.97
Lead Personnel Lead Trainer WHMIS Coordinator Forklift Operator Trainer Pilot Plant Lead
Group IA Fryer Operator	$18.27	$18.54	$18.91	$19.39
Group IB	$17.71	$17.98	$18.34	$18.79
A.D.R. Operator Granule Dryer Operator Irrigation Operator Laboratory Operator Recovery Operator Transwrap Operator Blancher Operator Cutter Deck Operator Palletizer Operator Granule Line Packaging Operator
Raw Product Grading Operator Spare Operator QA Support Technician
49
Effective Effective Effective Effective Group 1B cont'd	Oct. 1/07	Oct.1/08	Oct.1/09	Oct.1/10
Material Receiving Operator	$17.71	$17.98	$18.34	$18.79
Pilot Plant Operator
Sanitation Technician
Case Seal Operator
Peel Room Operator
Group II	$17.27	$17.53	$17.88	$18.33
Sanitation Operator Even Flow Sanitation Operator
Evenflow Raw Supply Operator Forklift Operator Frozen Bag-Off Operator Grounds Keeper Raw Material Operator Knife Sharpener Blend Back Operator Critical Control Point Operator Shook Operator
Group III	$15.53	$15.76	$16.08	$16.48
Sanitation Labourer Trimmer Inspector Packaging Inspector Housekeeper Scalehouse Personnel Granule Line Packaging Labourer
Blend Back Labourer Raw Supply Labourer Even Flow Sanitation Labourer
Packaging Sanitation Labourer
Packaging Runner Segregation Runner
A-1.02	Scalehouse Lead Hand shall be paid one ($1.00) dollar over the
Scalehouse Personnel rate.
50
MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS
A-1.03	Effective Oct. 1/07	Effective Oct.1/08	Effective Oct.1/09	Effective Oct.1/10
Acting Chief Engineer	$34.85	$35.37	$36.08	$36.98
Assistant Chief Engineer	$32.75	$33.24	$33.91	$34.75
2nd Class Engineer	$31.00	$31.47	$32.09	$32.90
Electrical Dept. Crew Leader	$28.20	$28.62	$29.20	$29.93
Maintenance Personnel Crew Leader Condition Monitor Lubrication Technician	$27.32	$27.73	$28.28	$28.99
Journeyperson Electrician Instrumentation Technologist	$26.89	$27.29	$27.84	$28.54
3rd Class Engineer	$25.00	$25.38	$25.88	$26.53
Gas Pipe Fitter "A"	$27.25	$27.66	$28.21	$28.92
Journeyperson Industrial Mechanic Journeyperson Plumber Journeyperson Industrial Welder	$25.95	$26.34	$26.87	$27.54
Journeyperson Auto Mechanic Journeyperson Carpenter Machinist	$23.58	$23.93	$24.41	$25.02
4th Class Engineer	$22.94	$23.28	$23.75	$24.34
Computer Technologist Electronic Technician	$22.52	$22.86	$23.31	$23.90
Carpenter	$20.84	$21.15	$21.58	$22.12
51
Compressor Trainee A-1.03 cont'd	$20.93 Effective Oct. 1/07	$21.24 Effective Oct.1/08	$21.67 Effective Oct.1/09	$22.21 Effective Oct.1/10
Waste Water Treatment Operator 3	$23.25	$23.60	$24.07	$24.67
Waste Water Treatment Operator 2	$22.00	$22.33	$22.78	$23.35
Waste Water Treatment Operator 1	$20.80	$21.11	$21.53	$22.07
Maintenance Personnel Plant Electrician Auto Mechanic	$19.86	$20.16	$20.56	$21.08
A.D.R. Technician	$19.28	$19.57	$19.96	$20.46
Stock Room Clerk Maintenance Planner	$18.49	$18.77	$19.14	$19.62
Relief Mechanic	$17.71	$17.98	$18.34	$18.79
Retroactive pay on general wage increases effective to October 1st, 2008,				
applicable to employees who remain employed as of the date of ratification. The retroactive effect of this Agreement is limited to payment of wages pursuant to Appendix A. All other terms and conditions under this agreement will apply from the date of ratification unless otherwise specified.
A-1.04 An employee who holds a Pressure Welding Ticket shall be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour above their current rate if and when they are conducting pressure welding.
A-1.05 New employees in Wage Groups I, IA, IB, II, and III may be paid at a rate of 12.5% below the foregoing rates for the first four-hundred and eighty (480) working hours of employment, and 6.25% below the foregoing rates for the next four-hundred and eighty (480) working hours period. Following the completion of a total of nine hundred and sixty (960) working hours, the employee shall receive the appropriate contract rate. For the purpose of this section, a new employee shall be a person who has not worked for the Company during the twelve (12) months previous to date of hiring.
52
A-1.06
Relieving Rates of Pay
Employees shall not have their rate reduced by reason of being temporarily assigned to a lower paid classification.
Employees permanently assigned to a lower paid Wage Group shall have their hourly rate reduced to the rate for the classification to which they are assigned.
Employees temporarily assigned to work in a higher paid classification shall receive the higher rate of pay for all time so employed.
A-1.07 Upon acceptance into the classification of Maintenance Person, Maintenance Carpenter, Garageperson or Plant Electrician, an employee will enter a sixteen (16) month training program. Such program will consist of four (4) equal periods of four (4) months. The hourly rate of pay during the training program is outlined in paragraph (a) or (b) below, whichever is applicable:
The difference between the Wage Group IA or IB rate and the standard rate for the classification will be divided into four equal parts.
(a) First Period Second Period
Third Period
Fourth Period
-	Wage Group IA or IB
-	Wage Group IA or IB plus 25% of the
difference.
-	Wage Group IA or IB plus 50% of the
difference.
-	Wage Group IA or IB plus 75% of the
difference.
Employees accepting a Maintenance classification who have transferred to such a classification from a classification within the bargaining unit with an hourly rate of more than the Wage Group IA or IB rate, will have the difference between the rate of the classification transferred from the standard rate divided into four (4) approximately equal parts that will be put into effect as per the schedule in the paragraphs above.
On the first day of the work week following the employee's successful completion of the training program they will receive the standard rate.
A-1.08 Employees who successfully complete the Manitoba Provincial Training Program for Journeyperson shall be paid the rate for the respective Journeyperson classification set forth in Appendix "A". Progression to the Journeyperson rate shall be in increments equal to the difference between the employee's hourly rate at the time of entry into the training program and the respective Journeyperson hourly rate divided by
53
the number of training levels contained in the training program. The rate adjustment shall be effective upon return to work following successful completion of each level of training.
A-1.09 An employee entering the Stockroom Clerk Classification shall begin at the Wage Group II rate for training. Upon satisfactory completion of a four (4) month training period, the employee shall receive the contract rate.
A-1.10 Employees who train other employees are to receive fifty cents ($0.50) per hour for all the time spent training said employees upon ratification.
A-1.11 IRRIGATION PERSONNEL
Irrigation Personnel are defined as persons working on the irrigation project and all associated equipment.
The Irrigation Operator rates will apply only when irrigation personnel are actually assigned to the irrigation project.
All Irrigation Personnel are excluded from all provisions under Articles 7, 8, 9.03 and Article 12. Such exclusions will be allowed only when Irrigation Personnel are performing irrigation duties. Under Article 10 "Vacations" vacation pay for each week of vacation will be based on the employee's weekly rate at the time of taking vacation.
A-1.12 Notwithstanding 16.01, if during the term of this Collective Agreement, certain job titles are faced with difficulties in either recruitment or retention of employees, through mutual agreement of the Company and the Union the parties may enter into discussions for the purposes of increasing wage rates in Appendix "A" of the agreement for those job titles affected. If no agreement on wage rates can be reached between the parties the issue may be referred to arbitration under Article 25 of this Collective Agreement.
54
APPENDIX 'B' COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
B-1.01 The Union and the Company mutually agree, that the practice of scheduling a compressed work week for employees in a Maintenance Department classification shall continue. A compressed work week is defined as a series of shifts greater than eight (8) hours per shift, which averages forty (40) hours per week over a four (4) week period. It is further agreed that such scheduling may affect one or more Maintenance classifications at any one time, and that such practices, if in effect, may with reason (e.g. operational efficiency, economics, or improvements to maintenance services) be discontinued entirely or in part upon the written notice of either party to the other. The Company will do its' utmost to satisfy employee preference, however the needs of the business must take priority. Any employee affected by discontinuing a compressed work schedule shall be reassigned to work in accordance with Article 7 of the Collective Agreement.
When a Maintenance Department employee is working on a compressed work week schedule, it is agreed that:
1.	Article 7.01 of the Collective Agreement shall not apply with the exception of the definition of the plant's work week. In lieu of the balance of Article 7.01, the employee shall be compensated on a straight time basis for all hours worked except as provided below:
(a)	Working hours scheduled on a holiday.
(b)	Working hours scheduled on a Saturday or Sunday, except where a continuous shift operation (seven days per week) is in effect.
(c)	Work assignment that would cause an employee to work seven (7) consecutive days in a workweek.
(d)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in a day.
(e)	Any assigned hours worked in excess of the hours scheduled as an employee's regular week.
2.	Article 7.02 shall not apply.
3.	Article 8, Night Premium, shall be computed and applied to Maintenance employees working on a compressed workweek in accordance with the following:
55
(a)	The amount shall be determined by multiplying 8 times the amount of the second shift premium plus 8 times the amount of the third shift premium, the sum of which shall be divided by 12.
(b)	The amount as determined by (a) above only may be applied to the hours an employee works between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.
4.	If any other portion of the plant goes to ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts by mutual agreement, the Union and the Company agree that Appendix B with appropriate amendments for ten (10) hour shifts (if the changes are to ten (10) hour shifts) will apply.
56
APPENDIX ”C
HARASSMENT/ABUSE POLICY
PURPOSE
McCain Foods Limited is proud of its professional and congenial work environment, and seeks to ensure that the work environment remains pleasant for all that work here. The purpose of the Workplace Harassment Policy is to provide all employees with a work environment free from harassment and inappropriate, disrespectful, demeaning or bullying behavior. This policy outlines prohibited behaviour and the steps to be taken in seeking advice, or reporting an incident of work-place harassment. No employee shall engage in any form of harassment as defined by this policy.
HARASSMENT
McCain will not tolerate any form of harassment, including inappropriate, disrespectful or demeaning behavior involving references to: race, ancestry, place of origin, color, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, family status, political belief, political association and/or activity, source of income or disability, whether by management (including: supervisors), co-workers, customers, suppliers or others in the workplace or arising from employment.
Prohibited conduct includes behavior in any form (verbal, physical, visual, etc.,) that is reasonably likely to create a hostile, intimidating, offensive or poisoned work environment for others; including any objectionable or offensive behavior that is known or ought reasonably to be known to be unwelcome, or which might reasonably be expected to cause offense or humiliation. Employees who engage in such conduct are subject to discipline, up to and including dismissal.
No employee may, by speech or action, directly or by innuendo, require another employee to violate this policy.
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Sexual harassment is strictly prohibited. Sexual harassment means any conduct, comment, gesture or contact of a sexual nature, whether on a one-time basis or a series of incidents which:
a)	might reasonably be perceived as placing a condition of a sexual nature on employment, on opportunity for training or promotion, receipt of services or contract; or
57
b)the submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
c)conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
Examples of behavior that can constitute sexual harassment include, but are not limited to:
•	Unwanted touching, patting, leering or sexual advances.
•	Sexual assault.
•	Inquiries or comments about a person's sex life.
•	Telephone calls, with sexual overtones.
•	Requests for sexual favours.
•	Gender-based insults or jokes causing embarrassment or humiliation.
•	Repeated unwanted social or sexual invitations.
•	Inappropriate or unwelcome focus/comments on a person's physical attributes or appearance.
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE AND BULLYING
Violence in the workplace will not be tolerated. The Workplace includes but is not limited to the physical worksite, washrooms, cafeterias, training sessions, business travel, conferences, work-related social gatherings, the employee's or client's home or worksite, etc.
No employee shall be subject to bullying. Bullying includes offensive behavior through vindictive, cruel, malicious or humiliating attempts to undermine the competence, effectiveness, confidence and integrity of an individual or group of employees on a regular and persistent basis.
58
Examples of behavior that can constitute workplace violence and bullying include, but are not limited to:
•	A physical assault.
•	Threat of a physical assault.
•	Spreading malicious rumors.
•	Intimidating a person.
•	Excluding or isolating someone.
•	Making jokes that are offensive.
•	Unnecessary information or giving the wrong information
•	Intruding person by pestering or stalking
•	Belittling a person's opinions.
•	Yelling or using profanity
•	Tampering with a person's personal belongings.
•	Creating a feeling of uselessness towards an individual.
THE CRIMINAL CODE
Various forms of assault are covered under the Criminal Code of Canada, including sexual assault. The police may be asked to investigate allegations of assault.
REPORTING HARASSMENT
It is important that any employee, who feels he or she has been subjected to harassment, make his or her disapproval known to the "harasser". If, after being asked to stop, the harassment continues, employees are expected and encouraged to report any incident of harassment.
No retaliation will occur or be permitted against an employee for notifying his or her supervisor, a member of Human Resources or any member of management of a violation of this policy or for honestly cooperating in an investigation of such conduct.
An employee who feels he/she has been subjected to, or is aware of, conduct which may violate this Policy is encouraged to notify his/her immediate supervisor or any member of Human Resources, Management or the McCain Legal Department.
59
Prompt investigation will occur, and where warranted, McCain will take appropriate disciplinary action with employees or others engaged in the violation of this Policy, up to and including termination.
POISONED WORK ENVIRONMENT
A poisoned work environment is characterized by an activity or behavior, not necessarily at anyone in particular, that creates a hostile or offensive workplace. Examples include, but are not limited to:
•	Graffiti
•	Rumors or gossip
•	Swearing
•	Pranks
•	Property vandalism
•	Sabotage
•	Pushing
•	Theft
•	Physical assault
•	Sexual, racial or religious insults or jokes
•	Abusive treatment of an employee
•	Display of pornographic
or other offensive material
•	Bullying
Every employee has the right to be treated with respect and dignity, courtesy and consideration. All employees shall use courteous and respectful language and behavior when communicating with others in the workplace.
Anyone caught participating in conduct which may lead to a poisoned workplace will be subject to discipline, up to and including dismissal.
60