COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
MOIRS DIVISION, HERSHEY CANADA INC.
— And
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 446 and the
TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN, HELPERS AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 927
INDEX
Article	Page
1.	Object of this Agreement...........................2
2.	Bargaining Unit....................................2
3.	Mutual Rights and Benefits.........................2
4.	Union Security.....................................3
5.	Union Representation...............................4
6.	Grievancews Procedure..............................5
7.	Arbitration........................................6
8.Seniority............................................6
9.	Promotions, Transfers, Lay-Offs, Re-Hirings........8
10.	Discipline.......................................13
11.	Paid Holidays....................................14
12.	Vacations........................................15
13.	Absences.........................................18
14.	Wages............................................21
15.	HoursofWork and Overtime.........................22
16.	Bulletin Boards..................................22
17.	Medical Exams....................................23
18.	General..........................................23
19.	Safety...........................................25
20.	Mechanization....................................26
21.	Duration of Agreement............................27
Appendix "A" Schedule of Wages Rates..................28
Appendix “B" HoursofWork and
Overtime Regulations.......................30
Appendix *C" Schedule of
Wages Rates- Maintenance.....................36
Letters of Understanding..............................41
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Made this 8th day of June, 2003,
BETWEEN:
MOIRS DIVISION, HERSHEY CANADA INC.,
of 375 Pleasant Street, Dartmouth Nova Scotia
hereinafter referred to as the “Company”
OF THE FIRST PART - and-
THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL446 and the TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN, HELPERS AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKERS UNION, LOCAL927
hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Union”
OFTHE SECOND PART
Witnesseth that the Company and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
( 1 )
ARTICLE 1.00 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the basic relationshipbetween the Company and the Union, to set out the wages and basic working conditions of employees of the Company represented by the Unions and to set forth the means by which complaints, grievances and disputes shall be disposed of promptly and equitably.
1.02	The Union and the Company recognize that productivityimprovement is essential to the well beingof both the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Company will co-operate in effortsto maintain and improve productivityand efficiencies at all levels throughout the plant.
ARTICLE2.00 - BARGAINING UNIT
2.01	This Agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit defined by the relevant orders of the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board and the words “employee” and “employees” used herein refer to such employees. For brevity, the pronoun “he” shall be i nterpreted to mean both male and female employees.
ARTICLE 3.00 - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
3.01	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract with the Company which may limit, alter, modify or conflict with stipulationsof this Agreement without prior agreement between the Union and the Company.
A Union Official or Shop Steward shall be present when a member of management has a meeting with a group of employees dealing with working conditions.
3.02	There shall be no lockout by the Company and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize, nor sanction its members to cause or take part in any sit-down, stay-in, or slow-down, in any department, or any strike stoppage of any of the Company's operations, or any curtailment of work, or restriction of, or interference with production, or any picketing of the Company's premisesduring the term of this Agreement.
( 2 )
3.03	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
<b) To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote or discipline employees provided a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplinedwithout reasonablecause may be the subject of a grievance dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c) Generally to manage, control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in part, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged.
3.04	The Company shall exercise its rights under this CollectiveAgreement fairly and reasonably in good faith and without discrimination and in a manner consistent with tie provisions of this Collective Agreement.
3.05	Management shall not perform bargaining unit work except in cases of emergency or for instructional purposes.
ARTICLE 4.00 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	Any employee, as a condition cf employment, shall sign and deposit with the Company, an approved check-off form authorizing the Company to deduct from his pay an amount equivalent to Union dues, to be deducted weekly. Such checkoff form shall, when depositedwith the Company, be irrevocable except during the last two (2) months of the Agreement.
4.02	If an employee is absent or on vacation at the time any deduction should be made from his pay, such deduction shall be madefrom the first fall pay which he receivesfollowing his return to work. However, any employee on sick leave or leave of absence may contact their shop steward and obtain a withdrawal card. Persons receiving a withdrawal card shall not pay back dues missed on their return to work.
4.03	The Company shall remit all amounts so deductedto the Treasurer of the Union on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the following month, together with a list of all persons who have ceased to be or have become employeessince the preparation of the preceding list.
ARTICLE 5.00 - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint Shop Stewards for the employees - if necessary, additional Stewards may be appointed.
The Union shall also have the right to appoint .Alternate Stewards each of whom shall act only in the absence of the Shop Steward for whom he is designated as alternate.
All Shop Stewards and Alternate Stewards shall be elected by the Union members in the area concerned and shall be employees in the area for which they are Stewardsor Alternate Stewards. Election of all Stewards may be carried out on Company premises after agreement with the Company.
There shall be no discrimination against Stewards for Union activities.
5.02	The Union shall keep the Company advised in writing of the names of the Shop Stewards and Alternate Stewards and their usual areas of responsibility.
5.03	The Union representatives shall, with the Company's permission, be permitted to enter the Company premises on Union business so long as he does not unduly interfere with the work in progress.
5.04	(a)	All newly hired employees that will be working
in the bargaining unit will have an orientation session with a Union representative.This informationsession shall be limited to one (1) hour in duration. All new employees shall receivea copy of the CollectiveAgreement at this time.
(b)	All newly hired employees will also be introducedto
the Shop Steward for the departm'ent and shift they are assigned, normally on their first day of work.
( 4 )
ARTICLE 6.00 - GRIEVANCES PROCEDURE
6.01	Differences of interpretation or the violation by the Company or any employee of any of the provisions of this Agreement as well as any other complaint relatingto working conditions shall be considereda grievance, provided that no complaint by any employee shall be considered a grievance untilformal discussions between the individualconcerned and his immediate supervisor has taken place. The supervisor must deal with it within one (1) working day. No grievance shall be considered unless it is submitted within thirty (30) working days after the happening of the event which gave rise to the grievance, including Safety.
6.02	The procedure for processing the grievance of an employee or group of employees shall be as follows:
(a)	The Steward, acting on behalf of the employee cr group of employees, shall first submit the grievance in writing to the department supervisor or other immediate supervisor, whose decision shall be rendered within two (2) working days.
(b)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the chief steward or designatedUnion representativeshall, within four (4) working days, submit the grievance in writing the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative, who shall meet with the Union representative and render a decision within another three (3) working days.
(c)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the grievance shall be referred to single arbitration in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement. It should be noted that the decision to go to arbitration must be made within a period f twenty (20) working days after the meeting between the Union representative and the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative.
6.03	If, in case an extension may be required to Article 6 or 7, this will be only acceptable by mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union.
( 5 )
ARTICLE 7.00 - ARBITRATION
7.01	No matter shall be submitted to a single arbitrator until after it has been processed under the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
7.02	When notice of arbitration is given by the Union or the Company each shall, within the ensuing four (4) days, choose an arbitrator and notify the other of its choice.
7.03	The single arbitrator's fees and expenses shall be paid in equal parts by the Union and the Company.
7.04	Should either party refuse or neglect to appoint its arbitrator within the time stipulated in Clause 7.02 and 7.03 of this Article 7, such appointment or appointments may be made by the Minister of Labour for Nova Scotia.
7.05	The decisions of the arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the appointment and his view shall be binding on both the Union and the Company. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision, inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or to delete, alter or modify any part thereof.
7.06	The arbitration hearing shall be scheduled no later than three (3)weeks after the appointment of the arbitrator unless an extension to this period is mutually agreed by both parties.
ARTICLE 8.00 - SENIORITY
8.01	The purpose of seniority is to provide a policy governing promotions, transfers, lay-offs and re-hirings.
8.02	Upon completion of a probationary period of 45 working days within a period of six (6) months, every employee in the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority rights, but his seniority shall be calculated from the date of his hiring. However, that probationary period may be extended for a maximum of twenty (20) additional working days, with the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
( 6 )
Duringtheir probationary period, an employee will be on trial and may be suspended, laid-off, recalled or dismissed at the sole discretion of the Company. The Union recognizes that the grievanceand arbitration procedures will not apply in those cases.
8.03	An employee shall forfeit his seniority if he voluntarily resigns, is discharged for just cause or is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company or without reasonable excuse for not notifying.
8.04	Inability to work because of proven illness or injury with medical evidence shall not result in the loss of seniority rights, but the Company shall not be obliged to reinstate the employee in his formerjob. limel ost from work owing to illness or injurywithin the limits setout by this clause shall be i ncluded in the employee's seniority rating. If the employee does not agree with the Company's doctor, he shall have the right to ask for a mutually agreed independent medical opinion.
Where an employee has one year's continuous service, is physically injured at work and is unable to perform the job he had prior to the in , the rate of the job jury performed prior to the injury will be maintained on the new job the employee performs and for which the rate is lower. Such protection will be effective for a period not to exceed nine (9) months. Rate increaseswill not be granted to these persons until such time as their protected rate was equal to or less than the rate of the job.
Injury at work shall not result in the loss of any seniority rights and the employee(s) concerned shall be reinstated to their former position provided the injury has not resulted in a physical handicap to do their former job. If an employee is unableto perform hisjob as a result of physical injury at work, the employee shall be given the opportunityto train for another position providing there is a position available and he is capable of performing the work according to the Companies doctor.
8.05 (a)	Any employee who is laid off shall be retained on the seniority list for a period of twelve (12) months. If he is requested to return to work during this period, he shall forfeit
( 7 )
his seniority unless, within three (3)d ays after the date of the written request to the address on file with the Company, he notifies the Company of his intention to return to work and, within ten (10) days after the date of the request, reports to work. However, if he is incapacitatedfrom proven illness or injury at the time of such requestor becomes so during the ensuingten (10) days, clause8.04 of this Article will apply.
In the event of a layoff for regular employees beyond the twelve (12) month period, it is understood that this period may be extended as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
(b)	In cases when the Company has to increase its working force and the seniority list has been exhausted, it will endeavor to hire the additional new employees it may requirefrom amongstthose whose names have been deleted from the seniority list, according to their prior length of service with the Company.
8.06	In the case of a demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position, an employee may return to the bargaining unit within six (6) months without losing seniority rights.
8.07	After April 1st, 1996, all employees hired shall be regular employees.
ARTICLE 9.00- PROMOTIONS,TRANSFERS, LAYOFFS, RE-HIRING
9.01	Provided there is the ability to perform the work required, seniority shall be the governing factor in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and re-hirings.
9.02	(a)	When the Company finds it necessary to
increase its regular working force or to fill a vacancy in its -regularworking force, all such job openings will be postedon the plant bulletin boardsfor three (3)working days and a copy of the postingsent to the Union Office. Such noticewill briefly outline the job to be performed,the qualifications requiredfor the job, classificationand wage rate. The job will be filled on the basis provided in Article 9.01.
( 8 )
(b)	All employees may bid for these postedjobs, subject to the following:
(i) Employees working in the following classifications: Candy Maker, Mogal Operator, Enrober Operator, Chocolate Room Operator, Panning Operator, Shell Moulding Line Operator, Sollich Line Operator and Robotic Coordinatormust have completed two (2) continuous years in that job before being permitted to bid on a lower or equally rated job. All other employees shall be permitted to bid to lower or equally rated jobs and will receive the rate of the new job at the time of transfer.
(«) An employee who bids for a job vacancy and is accepted shall be disqualifiedfrom bidding on any job for six (6) months from the date they accepted the job posting, except for higher paying jobs. This clause does not disqualify an employee from applying for a job in another classification if they have rejected the new position within the first five (5) continuous working days after being placed on the job for all positionswith the exception of those listed in Article 9.02 (b)(i). An employee who acceptsa position listed in Article 9.02 (b)(i) will have twenty (20) continuous working days to reject the position. If extenuating circumstances arise, these periods may be extended with mutual agreement. The position of "warehouse person" will also have twenty (20) continuous working days to reject the position, however, will not be restricted from bidding down for two (2) years like those positions listed in clause (i) above.
(Hi) If the employee rejects the position within the five (5) or twenty (20) continuous working days, whichever is applicable, the employee is disqualifiedfrom bidding on the same job for sixty (60) continuous working days.
(c)	After the job postinghas been removed, the Company will prepare a list of the names of the applicants by seniority and will post this list within five (5) working days of the end of the job posting.
<d> The Company will notify the chosen applicant within ten (10) working days after the end of the job posting, unless the chosen applicant is not at work.
( 9 )
(e) An employee who has bid on several vacancies and is away from work for whatever reason is to advise the Company of his order of preferenceamong the vacancies for which he has bid.
<f) An employee who bids on a job and subsequently is offered the job, is requiredto advise the Company immediately upon receiving the offer, whether he wishes to accept or reject the offer.
jg\ Upon request, the unsuccessfulapplicant(s) will be informedof the reason(s) why they have not been chosen.
<h> Where the job is in operation, the chosen applicant shall be assigned to his new job within fifteen (15) working days after the date he has been notified of his successful application and will receivethe rate of the new job at the time of the transfer. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement in order to avoid affecting the normal operations of the plant. If employees are not placed on training following the fifteen (15J working day notice, the employee will be placed on the new rate, if the rate is a higher rate of pay.
(0 The Company may fill job openings temporarily before or after posting until applications have been considered and the chosen applicant has started working on the job.
(j) Job vacancies due to illness of short duration, leave of absence, or vacation need not be posted. However, senior employees able to perform the work will be given first choice of a higher paid classification in their department, provided no employee on an equal or higher rated job is available. Short duration means a period of thirty (30) days or less.
CO	No posting shall be required for any job opening which
the Company expects to remain in effect for less than thirty (30)days. If such temporary job openings should subsequently become permanent, or exceed thirty (30) days, the job posting procedure shall apply, but such application shall be without retroactive effects.
(I) Where openings occur in a job within forty-five (45) days after that particular job has been first posted, the job
(10)
opening need not be reposted but shall be. filled from the qualified employees who have bid on the posting or reposted.
9.03	Any employee who feels that he has been unjustly dealt with in any promotion, transfer, lay-off or re-hiring may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6.00 of this Agreement. In no event shall there be discrimination.
9.04	Whenever a reduction of the working force is necessary, employees shall be laid off in accordance with seniority. Union officials and Shop Stewards will be notified prior to the layoff, with a list of those employees to be laid off.
All Shop Stewards will be advised in writing of the name of all new hires prior to the orientation day. Shop Stewards will b e advised in writing of the names of all employees to be laid off and/or recalled priorto the occurrence of the recallor layoff. Shop Stewards will be presentwhen employees are informed of their lay off.
9.05	For seniority purposes, a lay-off shall be considered to be more than one (1) shift's duration.
9.06	When employees are transferred to another department and are informed on the previous day, they will work the hours of the new department. However, if employees are transferred without notice on the previous day, they will work their normal hours for that day.
■9.07 (a)	The Company will provide employees with a
week's notice of a change in their shift schedule. However, in circumstances where unscheduled changes must occur, employees will receive a minimum of 24 hours' notice. Scheduleddaysoffwill notbeincludedinthe24 hours'notice.
(b)	The Company will postthe schedule onThursdayfor
the week starting the following Monday.
9.08	(a)	Employeesare permitted to holdonly one (1)
spare position at a time.
(11)
/m If a regular vacancy opens up, it will be filled as follows:
(j) first, the Company will ask, by seniority, all regulars currently in the position;
(jj) secondly, the Company will ask, by seniority, all spares currently in the position;
(iii)	thirdly, the senior spare on the shift where the vacancy exists will have one week to decide whether or not he will accept the regular position; if the senior spare on shift does not accept the position, he is removed from his position as a spare and cannot post for that spare position (any shift) for sixty (60) working days and the job vacated by that spare will be offered to other spares in that position from other shifts;
(iv)	the Company will post the resulting vacancy/ vacancies.
(c)	Employees who are currently a spare in a postedjob, and will be needed for six (6) months (administered by days worked, not hours worked) or more in the job during a rolling twelve (12) month period (a block of twelve (12) consecutive months), as a result of an increase in production (not as a result of an employee(s) being absent or. on leave) will be moved to regular status in order of plant seniority in accordance with paragraph (b) above and will be paid the regular rate of pay whether in the position or not. The department Shop Steward and Supervisorwill meet to discuss and agree priorto moving anyone from a spare to a regular status using the current year's production plan as a guideline.
(d)	If a job posting is needed for a regular position as there are no spares currently in the job, and it is known that the person will be required in the job for six (6) months or more of the year, the job will be posted as a regular, not a spare. Spare positions will be postedfor afterwards if required.
(e)	An employee must give the department Supervisor adequate notice of his intention to give up a spare position to allow for the vacancy to be filled.
(12)
ARTICLE 10.00 - DISCIPLINE
10.01	The right to discharge, or otherwise discipline employees shall remain at the discretion of the Company, except that there shall be no discharge or disciplinary action without just cause and such action subject to the grievance procedure.
10.02	The normalprocedure in discipliningemployees shall be first to verbally warn the employee and to record this warning on the employee's record card. Secondly, to issue a written warning and to furnish a copy to the Department Steward and a copy to the Chief Steward. A repetition of the offence or another offence by the same employee automatically involves suspension. The length of such suspension is to be at the discretion of the Plant Manager or his delegated Manager, but it is not to exceed one (1) week. A further repetition may automatically involve discharge or suspension on the first offence. This, of course, is subject to the grievance procedure. Where a discharge or suspension is involved, a Shop Steward shall be called in to be present at the interview between the employee and the management representative. The Shop Steward shall be informed of the suspension or discharge prior to the interview.
10.03	Three (3) months after the issuing of a formal verbal warning, the warning so given for the purpose of this section shall be automatically cancelled. Six (6) months after the issuing of a first written warning, the warning likewise will be automatically cancelled if no further disciplinary action has been committed. In cases where the Company has given a third disciplinary warning which involves suspension, such third disciplinary notice shall be automatically cancelled after twelve (12) months.
10.04	Whenever an employee is discharged,the Company shall immediately notify the discharged employee in writing of his discharge and the reason thereof.
10.05	The Company shall pay any discharged employee all his wages in full as soon as possible after his discharge and after any liability owed by him to the Company has been paid or satisfied.
(13)
10.06	A complaint by an employee that he had been unjustly discharged shall be considered a grievance. In processing such a grievance, the first step of the grievance procedure shall be dispensed with and the grievance shall be submitted in writing directly to the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representativewithin three (3) working days after the discharge.
10-07 Any employeefound through the grievance procedure or arbitration to have been unjustly discharged shall, within three (3) working days after the date of settlement or the decision of the arbitration,be reinstated in his former position with full compensation for time lost and all seniority rights.
ARTICLE 11.00 - PAID HOLIDAYS
11.01	New Year's Day, Heritage Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Queen's Birthday, Dominion Day, Dartmouth Natal Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be considered paid holidays during the term of this Agreement.
11.02	To be eligible to receive payment for a holiday designated in lieu thereof
(a)	a probationary employee shall have worked at least five (5) working days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday, and
(b)	all employees shall have worked the working day immediately precedingand immediatelyfollowingthe holiday. Exceptions to the latter requirement will be made when an employee is absent on either or both of the said shifts only because of verified personal illness, death in his immediate family or if he has been given permission by his Supervisor or his designated superior to be absent.
11.03	Pay for holidays will be at the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by one fifth (115th) of the number of hours in the employee's regular work week.
11.04	Except in emergencies, employees shall only be requested and not compelled to work on paid holidays.
(14)
11.0S	When an employee is required to work on a paid holiday, or any part thereof, the Company shall (in additionto any pay to which the employee is entitled) pay the employee at the rate of double time for the time worked on such holiday. Overtimeat the rate of triple (3) his hourly rate will be paidto an employee for any hours worked beyond eight (8) hours on a paid holiday.
11.0$ When a paid holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the Friday or Monday by agreement between the Company and the Union.
11.07	Employees who are laid off from December 17th to 25th, shall be paidfor Christmas and Boxing Day.
11.08(a) The Company will post the paid holiday schedule for the year by January 31.
<b)	If the Company agrees to allow employeesto vote on
the day on which a paid holiday will be celebrated, the Union will be permitted to have a designated person monitor the voting process.
ARTICLE 12.00 - VACATIONS
12.01	Vacation with pay will be granted in accordance with the following scale:
(a)	1 year's service
(b)	5 years' service
(e)	10	years' service
(d)	18	years' service
(e)	25	years' service
(f)	30	or more years of
last pay in	November.
2	weeks' vacation
3	weeks' vacation
4	weeks' vacation
5	weeks' vacation
6	weeks' vacation
■vice - $300 payable annually
Employees service with the Company at December31st of the year in which vacation is taken shall be the measure of employee vacation entitlement.
Example where an employee has been hired in 1996.
(15)
__ On December 31, 1996, the employee has not yet
completed one (1) year's service, so is not granted any vacation in 1996.
_ On December 31, 1997, the employee will have completed one (1) year's service so will be granted two weeks' vacation in 1997.
_ On December 31 of 1998, 1999 and 2000, the employee has not yet completed five (5) years of service, so in each of these years, he is again granted two weeks' vacation.
__ On December31,2001, the employee has completed
five (5)years of service (hisfifth anniversary wasduring2001), so he will be granted three (3) weeks' vacation in 2001.
__ Similarly, on December31, 2006, the employee will
have completed ten (10) years of service (his tenth anniversary was during 2006), so will be granted four (4) weeks' vacation in 2006.
12.02	Pay for vacation referredto abovewill beat2 percent per week of vacation, of the employee's gross wages in the previouscalendar year. Vacation pay will be paid on a separate cheque.
In the case of sickness duly recognized by the Group Insurance Plan (Short Term Disability) or in the case of accident by the Workers' Compensation, the Company shall calculatea regularweek of 40 hours, for each week lost due to the above reasons, in order to calculate the vacation pay entitlement.
When an employee who has three (3)or more weeks’ vacation entitlement and is absent due to extenuating circumstances, then the employee may be allowed to use an excess vacation day to be paid for the absence, and it will not be recordedon his card as an absent day. The employee will endeavor to give as much advance warning as possible under the circumstances.
(16)
Employeeswho are currently on vacation shall not have their vacationcancelled. If circumstances dictatethat an employee is needed while on vacation, the steward will be notified and the employee will be asked to come off vacation. If the employee agrees, they will be paid time and a half and be allowed to rescheduletheir vacation in accordance with Article 12.
When employees have vacation scheduled, but it has not started and circumstances dictate that the employee is now needed, they will be asked if they can reschedule their vacation. Should the employee agree, they will be paid their regular rate of pay.
12.03	Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period, vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority among employees in a classification (includingspares), by department and shift (an employees' usual or “home” shift where the employee would be working at the time of vacation) with the senior employees being given the first choice of vacation dates. If an employee later successfully applies for a job in another classification, department and/or shift, the employee's vacation schedule may be changed depending upon the days then available for vacation in their new classification, shift, and/or department.
The vacation year will begin January 1st of the current year and end December31st of thatyear.
Inthe prime vacation period, which is June 15 to September 15, Managementwill schedule two weeks'vacation time off for all employees who request it. The Company shall maintain sufficient employees by Department who are qualified to do the work.
Scheduling for vacations will begin January 1st of the current year and a final approval list will be posted in each department by April 15. An employee who does not exercise their seniority rightsto schedule vacation for the prime vacation period prior to April 1 will forfeitthe rightto select usingtheirseniority and must take whatever is available as mutually agreed with their supervisor. Employees are required to schedule and use all vacation time earned for the year.
(17)
Employees who have been laid off and request and receive vacation earnings upon layoff, will not be required to take vacation time off for which they have no vacation earnings.
Employees are permitted to schedule single days vacation. Management may use a call in pool consisting of employees on layoff to cover the resulting vacancies.
12.04	Should any employee's service terminate, he shall receive at the termination cf his services with the Company, compensation to be calculated on the basis of 4%, 6%, 8%,
10% or 12% depending on the employee's entitlementunder Sections 12.01 and 12.02.
12.05	All deductions normally made from an employee's regular pay shall be made from his vacation pay.
12.06	Employees of the Service Department and any other scheduled to remain on duty during the period the plant is shut down may be allowed their vacation at sometime convenient to the Company. All such employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks' vacation may have three (3) of their vacation weeks consecutively.
12.07	Employees shall not be allowed to carry over vacation allowancefrom one (1) year to the next except in extenuating circumstances.
12.08	When the plant is shut down for vacation purposes, any employee not entitled to vacation pay under Rule 12.02 of this Article shall be required to take time off without pay unless the Company is able to provide work for him during that period.
ARTICLE 13.00 -ABSENCES
13.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to an employee where the Company is satisfied that the employee is unable to work because he is sick or otherwise disabled. The Company may grant leave of absence in any case when it deems leave appropriate.
13.02	Leave of absence shall be granted by the Company to Union Delegates and Officers to attend Union conventions providedthat notice in writing of two (2) weeks in advance of such Union conventions is given by the Union to the Company. Such leave shall be without pay and without loss of seniority.
13.03	The provisions of the Labour Standards Code of Nova Scotia with respect to pregnancy leave and parental leave (which includes adoption leave) and any other governing legislaturewith respect to these leaves, shall apply hereto. A further leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee. Total accumulated leave shall not exceed fifty-two (52) weeks.
13.04	When the partner, child, father, mother, grandchild cr guardian of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay duringfour (4) consecutiveworkingdays following the death.
When the brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, halfbrother or half-sisterof any employeedies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during three (3)consecutive working days following the death.
When the grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law of any employee dies and the employee has completed his probationaryperiod with the Company, he shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during two (2) consecutive working days following the death. The employee shall notify the Company of any such death. Extenuatingcircumstances shall be considered by the Company.
The days referredto above shall bethe employee's scheduled working days.
13.05	The Short Term Disability (Group InsurancePlan)will be 66 2/3% of your regular weekly earnings, subject to the current maximum established by the Unemployment InsuranceCommission for the first twenty-six (26) weeks of disability.
(19)
Where an employee who had at least one (1)year's seniority with the Employer, is off work and has satisfactorily demonstrated that he is entitled to benefits under the Short Term Disability (Group Insurance Plan) or the Workers’ Compensation Act, the Employer shall advance to such employee the weekly benefit for which the employee has demonstrated entitlementand the employee shall assign the employee's right to equivalent payment under the Short Term Disability (Group Insurance Plan) or Workers’Compensation Act. The employeeshallfurtherendorseoverto the Employer and deliver the cheque for such amount immediately upon receipt by the employee.
13.06	An employee who loses time from his regularly scheduled work as a result of Jury Service or witness shall havethe difference betweenthe pay receivedfor such service and his straight time earnings eight (8) hours in a day (forty (40) hours in a week) he would have received if it were not for the service, made by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(d) An employee on the night shift shall not be required to report for work on the night of the same day on which he serves or on the night before where he has a reasonable expectation of so serving.
13.07	(a) The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan to a limit of fifty percent (50%) of Base Wages to age 65.
(b) The Company shall pay One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) once every two (2) years towards the cost of an employee's and an employee's eligible dependant's glasses. For the employees, these glasses must have safety lenses.
(20)
(c)	Prescription Plan:
All employees will be issued a prescription drug card. This card will provide the following benefit:
•	Plan pays seventy-fivepercent (75%) reimbursement for brand name drugs and ninety-five percent (95%) generic drugs.
Dispensingfee. Plan pays upto seven dollars($7.0O).
•	No deductible.
•	Positive dependent	enrolment/coordination	of
benefits.
•	One Thousand Dollars ($ 1,000. 00) per person out of pocket maximum.
Retirees will also be issueda prescriptiondrug card for retiree benefits.
ARTICLE 14.00-WAGES
14.01	Subjectto the provisions of this Article 14.00 andthe provisions of Article 18.00, the wages set out in Appendix “A & C of this Agreement shall be paid during the term of this Agreement.
14.02	The Union and the Company recognize that there are instances where certain employees are receiving a rate in excess of the job rate, and this higher rate shall be considered a red circle rate. In no case will this special red circle rate establish a higher rate for the job, but employees presently receivingthem shall continue to receivethese red circle rates so long as they continue to perform their presentjobs. When an employee is transferred or demoted, he shall retain the red circle rate differential, but when he is promoted, he shall retain only the excess if any, over the higher rate. Employees with red circle rates shall receive all the general wage adjustments.
14.03	All new employees shall be paid ten cents (10c) an hour less than the hourly rate for their jobs during their probationary working period. No employee will be paid an hourly rate that is less than the current Nova Scotia Minimum Wage.
(21)
If it is found that a former employee who returns to the Company as a probationary employee, and performs satisfactorily the same job classification, such employee will be paid the rate of the job prior to the completion of their probationary period at the discretion of their supervisor.
14.04	When shift work is performed, a shift differentialshall be paid as follows for all hours worked on such shifts:
3 - 11 P.M. - Afternoon Shift .600
11 - 7 A.M. - Night Shift	.700
14.05	(a) Employees shall be paid on a weekly basis by bank deposit and shall receive a deposit statement with all deductions plainly marked thereon. Employees who were paid by cheque as of December 31, 2002 may continue to receive their pay by cheque with all deductions to be plainly marked thereon.
(b) If errors occur, all monies in excess of $ 10.00 per pay cheque will be paid in that pay week. Amounts less than $10.00 will be corrected in the following week.
ARTICLE 15.00- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
15.01	Hours of work, overtime and miscellaneous other matters shall be governed by the regulations set out in Appendix “B” of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16.00 - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Union may post notices of Union meetings and other activities on a bulletin board provided for that purpose and conspicuously placed. Such notices shall have the prior approval of the Company's Personnel Manager or a designated representative. The Collective Agreement shall be placed in a case, under glass, for the viewing of the employees.
(22)
ARTICLE 17.00 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
17.01	Every applicant for employment shall, at Company expense, furnish the Company with a medical certificate. Every employee shall, at the Company's request and expense, submit to further medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Company, but the Union may, if it thinks that an injustice may have been done, request any employee to submit, at the Union's expense, to medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Union.
ARTICLE 18.00 - GENERAL
18.01	Any employee presently receiving more than the hourly rate providedfor his job by this Agreement shall sutler no decrease through the signing of this Agreement and any employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulatedin the Agreement shall continueto enjoy them.
18.02	Any employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for all the time worked on such job, but an employee who is temporarily transferredfrom his regularjob to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his regular rate for all time worked on such other job.
18.03	The Union shall have the privilegeof negotiating with the Company, rates for new types of work not established by this Agreement and such rates, when agreed upon, shall be effectivefrom the date such new type of work is commenced.
18.04	The Company shall classify all employeesand furnish a copy of the classification to the Union. Before making any amendments to the classifications, the Company shall discuss such amendments with the Union.
18.05	in addition to the number of Mogul Operators required for the Moguls being operated, one (1) spare operator shall be carried.
18.06	Each regular employee who ceases to be a regular employee of the Company by reason of the permanentclosing of a department, or the introduction of labour saving
(23)
equipment, will be entitled to a severance allowance. The size of this allowance will be related to years of service as shown in the schedule below or the Labour Standards Code whichever is greater.
18.07	Any employee who is transferred because of displacement by reason of the permanent closing of a department, or by the introduction of labour saving equipment will have his original pay rate maintained for a period of eighteen (18) months on any new job which is accepted, and for which the rate is lower. Only employees who have five (5) years or more of continuous servicewould be eligible for this wage security. The rate maintained would be an out of line rate on the new job.
18.08	Any employee who feels that work assigned to them involves physical effort beyond their capacity, may bring the matter immediately to the attention of their supervisor. If their supervisor is unableto resolvethe matter satisfactorilywithin two (2) working days, the supervisor shall refer the matter immediately thereafter to the Production Manager.
18.09	The Company and Union agree that they will not threaten, or unlawfullydiscriminateagainst any employeefor reasons of that employee's pregnancy, age, marital status, disability, sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, color, national origin, political affiliation with a legitimatepolitical party or for
Years of Service
Weeks cf Pay
Less than 5 years
(24)
exercising any right under this Collective Agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subject to harassment.
18-10 When an employee is scheduled to work or is transferredto another department, the employee will only be permitted to overtime in their home department.
18.11	When an employee is first hired, they will be placed on the seniority list, in alphabetical order for those group of individuals, in order of start date and be assigned a number.
Their position on the seniority list shall not change for the employee regardless if the employee has a change of last name in the future.
18.12	Hershey Pension Plan/ORSP as presented.
18.13	Employees in QA, WarehouseandPlantCleanersare permittedto hold a spare position in another department and maintain their regular position in their home department. Employees in other departments who take a spare position inQA, Warehouseoras PlantCleanersare permittedto retain their regular job in their home department.
18.14	Job Evaluation
In an effort to ensure the accurate objective grading of any new position, Union and Management agree to select a job evaluation system within ninety (90) days of the signing of this Agreement.
An evaluation committee consisting of Union and Management representativeswill be trained in the process and jointly perform the evaluations. Evaluationswill be bench marked against mutually agreed upon job(s).
ARTICLE 19.00 - SAFETY
19.01	The Company and the Union agree to make all reasonable and proper provisions for the continued high standards for the health and safety of all employees. This will be done through adherence to the Occupational Health and
(25)
Safety Act of the Province of Nova Scotia.
19.02	All employees will be given an allowance of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for safety shoes or One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) for safety boots each year. Plant cleaners will receive an additional One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for safety shoes or One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) for safety boots due to abnormal wear caused by the nature of theirjob. This allowance will be paid by separate cheque with the lastpay in July. Employeeswho makeasafety shoe purchase exceeding One Hundred Dollars ($ 100.00) will be reimbursedthe additional cost up to a yearly maximum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) with proper receipts. Employees in other positions which cause abnormal wear may request an additional pair of shoes throughout the year. Upon approval, the employees will be reimbursed for purchaseprice up to One Hundredand Fifty Dollars ($150.00) with proper receipts.
19.03	A safety committee of Union and Employer representatives shall be established on each shift and be, known as the Plant Safety Committee. This committee shall discuss and investigateonly matters pertaining to on-the-job safety. It shall record minutes of its meetingto be posted in a place for all employees to view. All employees are requested to bring concerns of safety to the attention of a committee member. This will be done through adherence to the Occupational Health andSafetyAcf of the Province of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 20.00- MECHANIZATION
20.01	The Company shall havethe right to modify production methods or introduce mechanization changes. As soon as feasible after any such decision is made priorto implementation of such decision, the Company shall notify the Union officials. It will always be the Company's intention to notify and involve the Union officials of forthcoming changes.
20.02	Both partiesundertaketo use every reasonableeffort to prevent, limit, or minimizeany hardshipsresultingfrom such changes upon the employees to avoid any reduction in earnings.
(26)
ARTICLE 21.00 - DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
21.01 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 8th day of June, 2003 to the 31st day of March, 2006, both inclusive and shall remain in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, within the period of not more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the automatic renewal date of its intention to revise or amend this Agreement or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a new CollectiveAgreement is signed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HAVE HERETO SIGNED;
FOR THE UNION:
Jim Russell Glen Rowsell Marie Eddy Lynette Boutilier Jamie Bissett Lori Spear Andre'Aucoin Reg. O’Melia Donnie Richards Mona Thompson Shelly LaPierre Myles Beals
FORTHE COMPANY
____Bill Graves_
Vern Graham
(27)
Sandra Whitehead
APPENDIX "A"
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
	June 4,	April 1,
	2003	2004
Group 1 Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate Room Operator Sollich Operator Shell Molding Operator PanningOperator Robotic Coordinator	$15.60	$16.02
Warehouse Person PackagingStockperson		
Group 1A Hayssen Bagger Operator	14.84	15.24
Group 2 Mogul Feeder	14.60	14.99
Group 3	14.54	14.93
Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate Room Operator Sollich Operator Shell Molding Operator Panning Operator Robotic Coordinator Mogul Receiver
Cherry Spinner/Sander Operator Racine Utility Person Machine Cleaner Enrober Trucker MogulTrucker
Bridge MixTrucker/Sugar Hopper Nut Roast Operator
Group 5	14.34	14.73
Card Wash Trucker
(28)
April 1, 2005
$16.48
15.68
15.42
15.36
15.16
June 4.	April 1, April 1,
2003	2004	2005
Group 6	$14.20	$14.58	$15.00
General Helper
Packaging Charge Hands
Q.A. Inspector/Flavour RoomAttendant
Group 7	13.98	14.36	14.78
Packaging Inspector Quality Control Inspector Racine Operator Wrapper Operator-Auto Wrap
Group 8	13.86	14.23	14.64
Enrober & Stock Card Person Enrober Feeder Enrober Packer Packaging Belt Attendant Box Machine Operator Cello Operator Wrapper Feeder Card Wash Operator Relief Crew
Group 9	13.72	14.09	14.50
Mogul Trayer
Group 10	13.64	14.01	14.41
Enrober Pre Feeder Racine Feeders Receiver Packaging Packer Packaging Cartoner PackagingBelt Worker Wrapping Machine Packer General Helper
The above rates include the following across the board increases:
Date of ratification (June4,	2003):	$0.50/hr
April 1,2004	2.70%
April 1,2005	2.89%
(29)
APPENDIX “B”
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME REGULATIONS No Guarantee of Work
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee during regularly assigned cr any other hours, but will continue to endeavour to provide a full work week.
Normal Work Week
2.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the normal hours of work shall be 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. The Company may, at any time, determine that any employee shall work regularly assigned hours that are less than the normal work week. For definition purposes, the pay week shall be from 11 P.M. Saturdayto 11 P.M.
the following Saturday.
When a situation arises that it becomes necessary to send employees home, the Company will provide employees with a minimum of four (4) hours' pay.
Employees who have already begun to work will receive pay for the hours they have worked, plus an additional four (4) hours, to the maximum of eight (8) hours' total.
Employees who have been contacted prior to the beginning of their shift will not be entitled to this four (4) hours as outlined above.
3.	Because of the nature of the industry, certain preparatory work must be completed before the production lines can be operated and thus, the starting hours of employees engaged in such preparatory work must vary.
Overtime
4A. When scheduled overtime is required, the Company shall notify employees on the previous day. This shall not apply for replacement for shift workers who do not report for work, nor in the case of emergency overtime.
(30)
4B. Except in cases of emergency, an employee shall not be required to workovertime in excess of 2 nights per week duringthe period Mondayto Fridayinclusiveor 8 hourswithin the above period. Preparatory work shall be includedinthese provisions. Any employee may volunteer to work beyondthese limits.
Overtime
5.	Overtime pay at one and one-half his normal hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works in excess of his regular 8 hours in a day, or on his regularly scheduled day off.
6.	Overtime at one and half times his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 6th day of his work week. Overtime at twice his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 7th day of his work week.
Employees who are required to work beyond eight (8) hours of their 6th day shall receive twice their hourly rate for those hours.
Employees who are absent during part of their normal work day throughout the week, will not be affected in their rate of pay for the 6th and 7th day of overtime.
6B. When an employee is called back to work after he has left the Company property, he shall be paid a minimumof four (4) hours pay, at time and one-half his regular rate of pay, or pay for the hours worked at the appropriate rate. whichever is greater. This provisionshall not apply where the employee is called in to work prior to his regular shift and continuesto work his regular shift.
6C. All hours worked after 16 continuous hours shall be at double time. After 16 hours' work, all overtime shall be voluntary.
6D. All regular spare employees Will be included in the overtime within the job classification they hold as a spare.
(31)
Unauthorized Working
7.	No employee shall be paid, either straight time or on overtime basis, for any work done or any time shown on the electronic time keepingsystem before his regularly assigned starting time or after his regularly assigned finishing time unless authorized by the immediate supervisor.
Lunch
8.	Employees shall be allowed a paid lunch period of twenty (20) minutes daily. The Company may vary or stagger this period to suit production requirements. Employees shall not be required to take their lunch periods before three (3) hours after the start of their shift and commence the same before the completionof five (5) hours. Except in the event of a breakdown lasting more than one (1) hour, the Company may requestthe Service Department employees to work until the repair has been effected.
9.	To any employee required to work two (2) hours or more of overtimefollowingcompletion of his regular shift, the Company shall pay a lunch allowance of $7,00.
The allowanceshall be paid during their overtime shift, where possible, or their next following shift.
Swiping Your Card
10.	All employees will be required to swipe in and out when reporting to and leaving work including overtime and leaving work early.
11.	An employee who swipes in once a week up to 3 minutes late will notincurany penalty subject to Clause7 of this Appendix. However, an employee shall only be paid thereafter for the time indicated by his swipe.
12.	Repeated early or late swiping shall cause an employee to be subject to discipline as set forth in Article 10.00 of this Agreement.
(32)
13.	Any employee who is unable to report for work must notify the Company one (1) hour prior to the start cf their shift.
14.	The shift work hours for continuous operation jobs shall be:
or any 8 hour shift mutually agreed upon by-the Company and the Union.
The Company and the Union have come to an understanding at the bargaining table in that the Company will endeavor to provide employees with a week's notice of a change in their shift schedule.
15.	No employee shall swipe otherthan his own time card. Failure to comply with this Clause may be cause for dismissal.
16.	In recognition of the difficulty imposed upon Management and members of the Union through failure of some employees to comply with working schedules, employees shall give prior notice to the Company whenever he expects to be absent from work. When an employee is absent from his regularly scheduled work, he must report to his Supervisor at the beginning of the shift upon his return. It is not the intention of this absenteeism clause to impose any additional hardship on employees for absence due to circumstances beyondtheir control. Repeated violation of this clause may result in a formal warning, followed by a suspension and finally discharged for additional violations.
Rest Period
17.	All departments shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods per day in addition to the lunch break. Such rest periods to be arranged so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production. All employees are requiredto be ii work position and ready to start work at the end of the break period. The Company agrees to allow time for travel to and from the rest area.
Day Shift Afternoon Shift Night Shift
(33)
18,	When any shift work employee or an employee connected with shift work operation is required to work overtime, he shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute break prior to working overtime plus a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break for overtime of four (4) or more hours' duration. Such periods to be at the discretion of the Department Supervisor so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production.
Training
19.	The Company and the Union recognize the need to train employees in work responsibilities, when they have received a job posting.
The Company shall provide the initial training of five (5) consecutive days.
All such employees will serve a probationarytraining period of twenty (20) working days for groups 5-10 inclusive. Employees in groups 1-4 will serve a forty-five (45) working day probationary training period.
It is also understood that these employees: Candy Makers, Mogul Operators, Enrober Operators, Chocolate Room Operators, Panning Operators, Shell Moulding Operators, Sollich Line Operators, and Robotic Coordinators will have a training periodof nine (9) months. The employee being trained may requestan evaluation prior to the completionof the nine (9) month period and if the requirements for the job have been successfully demonstrated, the normal rate of the job will be paid. The employee beingtrained will, in any case, be subject to review at forty-five (45) working days and will receive 50% of the differential between the training rate and the normal rate for the job at that time.
Warehouse employees receiving forklift certificationtraining shall be placed on the day shift for the week in which the certification training takes place.
A training manual shall be set for all postings. Employeeswill be trained in all aspects of the position. The person training the employee for the positionwill have input to any additional training the employee may require. This will take place
(34)
between the trainer, trainee, and the department supervisor.
The trainer shall receive a premium of .50 cents per hourfor all hours training. The senior employee on the shift will be given the opportunity to provide the training.
20. Uniforms
Employees will be given five (5) uniforms. Worn and torn uniforms will be turned in for replacement when required. Maintenance will be provided with cotton uniforms.
(35)
APPENDIX C
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES - MAINTENANCE
Group 3 Plant Cleaners
Group 13 Machinist
Mechaniclst Class Pipe Fitter Boiler Operator Welder
Group 14
Mechanic 2nd Class Storeperson-Maintenance
Group 15
Packaging Specialist Maintenance Coordinator
Group 15 Robotics Specialist
Group 16
Mechanical Specialist Group 17
Building Service Specialist
June 4, 2003
$14.54
17.90
16.68
21.88
21A7
20.20
20.20
April 1, 2004
$14.93
18.38
17.13
22.47
22.05
20.75
20.75
April 1, 2005
$15.36
18.91
17.63
23.12
22.69
21.35
21.35
The above rates include the following across the board increases:
Date of ratification (June 4,	2003):	$0.50/hr
April 1,2004	2.70%
April 1,2005	2.89%
(36)
Apprenticeship Program - Schedule of Wage Rates
Group 16
Hours	%
June 4, April 1, April 1, 2003	2004	2005
4001-5000 hrs 80 5001-6000 hrs 85 6001-7000 hrs 90 7001-8000 hrs 95 8001- 100
$16.16
17.17
18.18
19.19
20.20
$16.60
17.64
18.64 19.71
20.75
$17.08
17.30
18.32
19.33
21.35
To get to the next step of full rate, the employee must have completed 8000 hours and have their journeymen ticket, or have a minimum of ten. (10) years equivalent mechanical specialist qualifications.
(37)
APPENDIX C
1.	Tool Allowance
An allowance of $300.00 for replacement of broken and worn tools purchased by the Company will be provided.
2.	Travel Allowance
Meetings, training programs, equipment inspections or any other job related assignments which keep an employee away from home overnight will be compensated for travel time, meals, plus any time spent on site but will not exceed eight (8) hours per day. Saturdays and Sundays are treated the same as weekdays.
An employee travellingon Saturday or Sunday for assignment scheduled to begin on Monday will be compensated for the days spent away from home.
The Company agrees to provide a $25.00 per day incidental allowance.
3.	A washer and dryer will be placed in the Maintenance Department for the cleaning of heavily soiled uniforms and will be available to all employees to use for that purpose.
(38)
OVERTIME PROCEDURE:
FOLLOWING RULES WILL APPLY
1.	Employees are not permitted to trade overtime shifts with another employee under any circumstances.
2.	Employees may agree to split an overtime shift any day of the week, includingweekends, however the following will apply:
1.	Must have the Supervisor's approval.
2.	They must be the next person on the overtime list in the proper order.
3.	If the next person on the list does not want to split the shift but prefers to work the full hours available, they will have the right to do so. The person ahead of them who wanted to split the shift will now have to decide if they will now work the full overtime shift available or refuse the overtime. Under no circumstanceswill anyone be skipped on the list to see if the next person down would prefer to split the shift.
4.	For those who split a shift this will count as their turn for the purpose of the overtime list.
3.	All departments except centre makingcollect overtime by asking those who are on the prior shift first then go to the opposite shift. The Enrobing, Packaging, and Centre Making departments will collectweekend overtime in advance using sign up lists with shift preference indicated. Employees will get their choice of shift where possible providingthey indicate this choice on the sign up sheet.
4.	Employeesthat are off sick or on vacation are deemed to be unavailable. Employees in either category will not be eligible until they return to work and have begun their next regularly schedule shift.
5.	Total maximum number of hours worked in any twenty four hour period will be eighteen.
6.	From Monday to Friday no one in the department wants to work overtime including spares. Assuming the job does not require specific skills that require the junior person
(39)
to be forced, the following is the list in order of the next department from which to select:
Bridge	Choc. Rm.	Whse	C. Making	Enrobing	Pack.	Q.A. Cleaners
Pack.	Enrobing	Bridge	C. Making	Choc. Rm.	Whse.	Q.A. Cleaners
Enrobing	C. Making	Pack.	Bridge	Choc. Rm.	Whse.	Q.A. Cleaners
C. Making	Bridge	Choc. Rm.	Enrobing	Pack.	Whse.	Q.A. Cleaners
Choc. Rm.	Bridge	C. Making	Pack.	Enrobing	Whse.	Q.A. Cleaners
C. Making	Bridge	Choc. Rm.	Enrobing	Pack.	Whse.	Q.A. Cleaners
7.	Overtime will be scheduled by classification then the general list.
8.	Employeeswill be permitted to refuseovertime in their posted position and work as general help providedthe posted position can be filled without forcing overtime from Monday to Friday.
9.	Overtime will be by strict seniority.
10.	Employees will not be called at home and forced to work overtime.
11.	Any employee being accommodated for a restriction of any kind will not be permitted to work overtime either on weekends or weekdays unless the employee is capable of doing all the work required in the job classification in which he/she is working during the overtime.
12.	The next person to work overtime will be governed by the last worked, for all departments.
13.	Employees will be informed of the anticipated overtime hours to be worked.
14.	Employees who do not want to be asked for overtime shall sign a form to confirm they do not want to be asked. They can change their mind and reverse this form at a later date.
15.	Packaging and Enrobing departments will have two
lists. One for weekdays and another for weekends. All other departments will have only one list for overtime for both the weekend and week day overtime. If not enough employees sign upfor the weekend overtime, the Company will ask those employees who have not signed up, in order of seniority.
(40)
April 28, 1996
Sandra Whitehead BCTU, Local 446
Jim Russell Teamsters, Chauffeurs
14 McQuade Lake Crescent, Warehousemen
Banking of Overtime
The, purpose of being able to “bank" a portion of overtime hours is to allow employees the opportunity to cover unpaid days throughout the year.
Employees who work overtime hours would be allowedto set aside or “bank” an unlimited amount in the year. This time could be taken off in equivalent eight (8) hour days (maximum 5 peryear)when it is mutually agreed betweenthe employee and the supervisor.
Banked hours may not be carried over into the next calendar year and any hours not taken by December 1 St will be paid out at that time.
Employees wishing to bank overtime will sign a form at the end of the week advising the Company of the number of hours the Employee wishes to bank, and the number of hours the employee wishes to be paid for.
G.W. Roy Plant Manager
Suite .201
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3S 1 B6
Helpe	Workers
Local
19 Alma Crescent Halifax, Nova Scotia B3N 2C4
GWR/ya
(41)
April 1, 1999
Sandra Whitehead BCTU, Local 446 14 McQuade Lake Crescent, Suite 201
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3S 1 B6
Jim Russell Teamsters, Chauffeurs Warehousemen Helpers & Misc. Workers Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, Nova Scotia B3N 2C4
Subject:	Banked Hours
As an alternative to banking overtime hours, employees can receive their overtime pay in a direct deposit account while continuing to receive their pay in the separate cheque. With Supervisory approval, employees will be granted time off without pay which will not be recorded as an absence.
Employees choosing to opt out of this program will not be eligible to re-enroll until after January I of the following year.
Loris Jarvis Plant Manager
LJ/ya
(42)