COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LANT1C SUGAR LIMITED AND
LOCAL NO. 443
CF THE
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
Effective from November 11, 1992 to
August 31, 1995
INDEX TO COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Title	Article
Adjustment (Power Of The Board) ... 6.2 ....
Adjustment Board......................6.3	....
Adjustment Procedures.................5.0	. . . .
Arbitration...........................6.0	.. . .
Arbitration Cost .....................6.5	....
Arbitration Procedure ...............6.40	.,..
(also see Grievances)
Bereavement Leave ...................14.2	....
Call-out Pay.........................12.4   
Continuous Schedule............................
Dental Plan..........................14.12	. ..
Dues Deduction........................8.0	....
Duration Of The Agreement.............1.0	....
Education Leave .....................18.0....
Grievances ..........................6.40	... .
(sec also Adjustment Procedures)
Guarantees By Tlie Company And Union .3.00 .... Holidays (Statutory And Negotiated) . .10.4 ....
JobPosting............................9,5	....
Jury My..............................14.5	....
Lay-off...............................9.7	....
Lay-offs (Notification)..............9.11	....
Leave Of Absence For Union Officials 7.0	....
Licensing............................14.14	...
(see also Maintenance Tickets)
Life Insurance.......................14.9	....
Long Term Disability ................14.1	....
Page
.11
,.12
..5
10
13
13
51
44
98
57
15
.2
62
13
..3 .35 . 19 .53 .24 .27 .14 .58
54
55
Title	Article Page
Maintenance Tickets ................14.14.....58
(seealso Licensing)
ManagementRights.....................4.0.......4
Meal Allowance......................14.3......52
Medical Insurance...................14.11.....56
Overtime............................13.2......46
Overtime And Premium Pay ...........13.0......45
Overtime Computation................13.1	 45
Overtime No Pyramiding .............13.5	 50
Personnel Files.....................17.0......62
Premium ............................13.3......48
Pay (Sundays, Saturdays, Holidays)
ProbationaryEmployees .........(....9,1.......17
Progression..........................9.6......22
Promotion ...........................9.2......18
Promotions (Temporary)........................82
Rates Of Pay On Transfer ...........12.3	 43
Regular Hours Per Day and Per Week 10.0.......31
Rest And Lunch Periods..............10.2	 32
Safety..............................14.15.....58
Safety Footwear.....................14.7	 53
Schedule Of Wages.............................64
Seniority (Definition) .............17.0......17
Seniority (Restrictions on Application) 9.8...24
Seniority(Termination) ..............9.9......25
Severance Pay .......................9.1......26
Shift Differentials.................13.4......50
Sick Leave Program..................14.6	 53
Title	Article Page
Technological Change .......... ... ., . 16.0.60
Tool Allowance ,,.,........14.8 ..... 54
Tradesmen..........................19.0 ....	105
Transportation ....................14.1.......51
Uniforms...........................14.4.......52
Union Recognition..................2.0........2
Vacation (Holiday During Vacation).. 11.4 ..	41
Vacation Dates.....................11,3 ..	40
Vacation Pay.......................11.2 ..	38
Vacation Pay On Separation ........11.5 . .	41
Vacation Rights ...................11.1..	37
Vacations..........................11.0..	37
Wage Schedules.....................12.2 ..	42
Wages..............................12.0 ..	41
Weekly Pay Adjustment..............12.5 . .	44
Weekly Rest Period ................10.3 ..	34
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED AND
LOCAL NO. 443 OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is between the Lantic Sugar Limited, located at 333 Charlotte Street, Saint John, New Brunswick, E2L 4L4, (hereinafter called the Company) and Local No. 443 of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union (hereinafter called the Union) as follows;
FORWARD
For the purpose of this Agreement, the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include the feminine.
1
ARTICLE 1
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective for a period of three (3) years from November 11. 1992 to August 31, 1995 and shall be automatically renewed from year to year unless notice is given by either parry of their desire to terminate or amend this Agreement, provided that such notice is given during the period from 90 to 30 days prior to August 31, 1995 or the annual renewal date thereafter.
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
(1)	The Company recognizes that the Union is the sole bargaining agent for the employees of the Company at its sugar refining operations at Saint John, New Brunswick, for the classifications listed in this Agreement under the “Scheduled^ Wage Rates” attached to and forming part of the Collective Labour Agreement. However, all Foremen, Supervisors and all other employees not especially and specifically listed in the above mentioned Wage Section shall be excluded from the Bargaining Unit.
2
(2)	The Company agrees to negotiate with the Union, rates of pay, hours of work, severance pay and other conditions of employment as set forth in this Agreement.
(3)	The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on bulletin boards supplied by the Company for this purpose, of which one will be for exclusive Union use, located in the canteen. All notices to be placed on the above mentioned boards must be specifically approved by the Human Resources Manager or his appointee.
ARTICLE 3
GUARANTEES BY THE COMPANY AND UNION
(1)	The Company and the Union agree that their authorized officials will meet within three (3) days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed upon, of a request by either party, to discuss problems which may arise from time to time. The Union Committee shall consist of at least three (3) employees.
3
(2)	The members of the Union shall observe all Company rules and regulations presently in force cr which may be issued from time to time and the Union agrees to support their observance provided that such regulations do not contravene the present Agreement.
(3)	The Union agrees that neither it nor any cf the employees in the Bargaining Unit covered by this Agreement, will collectively, conceitedly cr individually engage in cr participate, directly cr indirectly in any strike, slowdown, stoppage cr other interferenceof production cr work during the term of this Agreement; and the Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement it will not lockout any of the employees covered by this Agreement. The Company retains the right to discipline cr discharge any employee who violates this provision.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.
(1)	The Union agrees that it is the sole and exclusive right of the Company to manage the business and direct the working forces and that all functions which have not been
4
specifically restricted by the clauses cf this Agreement are the right cf Management.
2) Management will not perform work which is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit except:
a)	in case of emergency. Emergency is defined to be danger to employees, equipment, or loss of the melt rate.
b)	when performing experimental or developmental work
c)	training of Bargaining Unit employees
ARTICLE 5
ADJUSTMENTPROCEDURES
(1)	Definition of a Grievance
A grievance is defined as an alleged violation of a specific article cr section of this agreement.
(2)	Nothing in this Article, nor in any other Article of this Agreement, shall prevent any employee cr group of employees from dealing directly and informally with their immediate supervisor or supervisor involved if they wish to make a request, present a complaint cr make suggestions concerning conditions of employment.
5
(3)	Every employee or group of employees shall have the right to seek adjustment of a complaint or grievance arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement; provided that the matter is brought to the attention of the Company through the following procedure.
(4)	Step 1
In the first instance the employee shall bring the matter to the attention of his or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within six (6) working days of the occurrence of the action which has resulted in the complaint. If the employee wishes, the Shop Steward shall be present when the matter is discussed with the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved. A decision shall be given by the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within twenty-four (24) hours cr such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
Step 2
If satisfaction is not obtained, the Shop Steward or the employee shall complete a Notice of Grievance Form, stating what article of the collective agreement has been
6
violated, the reasons giving rise to the grievance and the corrective action requested. The employee will then present it to his or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within seven (7) working days of the occurrence of the action which resulted in the complaint. The Shop Steward shall assist the employee in completing the form and shallbe present when it is presented to his or her immediate supervisor or supervisor involved. A decision shall be given in writing by the immediate supervisor or supervisor involved within two (2) working days from the date the notice is received or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to. Errors and omissions in the stated grievance will not be cause for it being defeated cr denied.
Step 3
If satisfaction is not obtained, the Shop Steward or the Shop Steward and the employee, shall present the grievance to the Ifed of the Department in which the employee works, together with the original Notice of Grievance within two (2) working days from the date the notice was returned by the immediate supervisor or
7
supervisor involved. A decision shall be given in writing by the Head of the Department concerned within three (3) working days cr such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
Step 4
If satisfaction is not obtained, the Union Representatives (no less than 3) on behalf cf the employee,may present the grievance to the Management cf the Company through the Human Resources Department together with the-original Notice cf Grievance Form, within three (3) working days from the dare the notice was returned ty the Head of the Department. A final decision shall be given within seven (7) working days or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
Step S
If satisfaction is not obtained, the Union Representatives (no less than 3) may request a meeting with the Human Resources Manager and/or the Refinery Manager, within seven (7) working days from the date the notice was returned, by the Management of the Company.
8
(5)	In all cases of discharge, the employee who feels that he cr she has been unfairly treated, the Union Representatives (no less than 3) on behalf cf the employee, if they decide to support the case, must within seven (7) working days from the date of discharge complete a Notice of Grievance Form and present it to the Head of the Department in which the employee was last employed. A decision shall be given in writing by the Head of the Department within seven (7) working days and if satisfaction is not obtained, the employee, and/or the Union Representatives (no less than 3) shall present it to the Management of the Company as in Step 4 above.
Arbitration may apply to all such cases of discharge complained of. Should a Board of Adjustment determine that an employee was unjustly discharged, the employee shall, if the Board recommends, be reinstated to his/her former job with full seniority and compensation for time lost cr ty any other arrangement the Board of Adjustment recommends.
9
(6)	The Company and the Union shall at each stage of the above adjustment procedure make every effort to reach a prompt and satisfactory solution.
ARTICLE 6
ARBITRATION
(1)	Procedure
A Board of Adjustment shall be established, upon the written request of either party to this Agreement and provided that such request is made within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the Company's answer provided for in Step 4 cf Article 5, or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to.
a)	A policy grievance is defined as a difference between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation,' application, administration or alleged violation of this Collective Agreement.
b)	Either party may request in writing that a Board of Adjustmentbe established to deal with a policy grievance as set out in the request whereupon the provisions of Clare 3 hereafter shall apply.
10
(2)	Power of the Board of Adjustment
It shall be the function of the Board cf Adjustment to make a decision in cases of alleged viciLafcicns of the specific articles and sections of this Agreement. They shall have no power to add to, subtract from, disregard,alter, cr modify any of the terms of this Agreement. It being understood that any matter not specifically set forth herein remains within the reserved rights of the Company.
Notwithstanding the above the Board will have the right to amend the wage rate of a classification which is the subject matter of a grievance brought before it under Article 12, 2b; Article 16,c and Article 16,d. In its decision, on grievances concerning a wage rate, the Board will establish a rate which is reasonably consistent with the Schedule of Wage Rates attached to and forming part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
a) It shall be the function of the Board of Adjustment to make a decision on any policy grievance which will resolve the question in dispute.
II
b) The question as to whether cr not the matter is arbitrable may also be a subject for arbitration. In the event that the Board has no power to rule on a case, it shall be referred back to the parties without decision cr recommendation on its merits.
(3)	Board of Adjustment
The Board of Adjustment shall consist cf three (3) members and shall be selected in the followingmanner: The Company shall appoint one member and the Union shall appoint one member. These two members shall be appointed within eight (8) calendar days following the receipt of the written request for arbitration referred to in Clause 1 or Clause 1(b) of this Article. Within eight (8) calendar days after their appointment, these two members shall select a third member who shall be appointed Chairman. In the event that the two members appointed by the Company and the Union fail to agree upon a Chairman within the time allowed, the Minister of Labour for the Province of New Brunswick shall be requested to appoint a Chairman.
12
(4)	Arbitration Procedure
Hearings shall commence promptly after the appointment of the Chairman and upon hearing the arguments presented by both parties, the Board shall render a decision within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the completion of the hearings. The decision cf a majority of the Board of Adjustment shall be final and binding on both parties.
(5)	Cost of Arbitration
The expenses and remuneration, if any, of the members cf the Board named by the Company and the Union shallbe borne by the Company and the Union respectively. The expenses and remuneration, if any, of the Chairman shall be borne in equal shares by the Company and the Union.
(6)	a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Ar-
ticle 6, of the present agreement concerning arbitration, the matter at issue can be referred, by mutual agreement of the parties, to a single arbitrator rather than a Board of Adjustment.
b) The Company and the Union, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the Company's answer provided for
13
in Step 4 of Article 5 or such longer time as may be mutually agreed to, will select a single arbitrator. If agreement is not reached, the matter will be referred to a Board of Adjustment and the provisions of Article 6 concerning a Board of Adjustment will apply and the delays provided in Article 6 (1) will take effect as of a date mutually agreeable to both parties.
c)	When a single arbitrator has been selected, he will have the power and obligations incumbent upon a Board of Adjustment as described in Article 6, Paragraph Two (2), Four (4) and Five
(5).
ARTICLE 7
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION OFFICIALS
(1)	Always provided that production and work schedules must not be interrupted nor slowed down, Union officials may apply to their immediate supervisors for permission to leave their place of work without loss of pay, to handle complaints or to process grievances. Union officials
14
may be granted a reasonable amount of time for these purposes but in no case shall a Union official leave his place of work without permission.
Always provided that production and work schedules must not be interrupted nor slowed down, Union officials may apply to their immediate supervisors for leaves cf absences without pay for the purpose of Union Business. Union officials may be granted a reasonable amount of time for these purposes, but in no case shall a Union official leave his place of work without permission.
ARTICLE 8
CHECK-OFF
(I) The Company shall introduce new regular employees, during their first week of regular work, to an executive officer of the Union.
Each week the Company shall deduct from the pay of all employees who have completed their probationary period, an amount equal to the regular weekly union dues as determined by a resolution of the
15
Union. A certified copy of such resolution shall be remitted to the Company.
The Company will deduct the amount specified each week. The total so collected shall be remitted to the Union by the 15th of each month following the end of the monthly accounting period.
The Company will deduct, upon receipt of a duly signed Union card, the specified initiation fee. The total so collected shall be remitted to the Union by the 15th cf each month following the end of the monthly accounting period.
(2)	The Union to Indemnify the Company Against Claims
It is understood and agreed that the Union will indemnify the Company and save it harmless from any and all claims which may be made against the Company by an employee or employees for amounts deducted from wages as herein provided.
16
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
Definition:
Seniority shall mean the length of continuous employment in the Company and shall date from the day on which uninterrupted employment began.
Probationary Employees
(1) Employees hired by the Company shall serve a probationary period of sixty (60) continuous working days. During the probationary period such employees shall be subject to a termination without prior notice at the sole discretion cf the Company and such action shall not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure in the Contract. After an employee has continued in the employment cf the Company for sixty (60) continuous working days, he/she shall cease to be a probationary employee and shall be entered on the Seniority List and shall rank for seniority from the date and time on which the employee began to work after hired.
17
(2)	Seniority Applied to Promotion
a)	Seniority shall prevail in promoting and transferring employees provided there be equality cf skill, efficiency and general ability. (Refer to Appendix B)
(3)	Tradesmen
a)	To be eligible for promotion to any Grade I Tradesman Classification shown in the attached Wage Schedules, an employee must have attained the level of journeyman under the Apprenticeship Program of the New Brunswick Department cf Labour cr have qualifications at least equal to this standard.
b)	Promotion to cr within any Grade I1 cr Grade III Tradesman Classification shown in the attached Wage Schedules will be based solely upon the merit and experience of the individualTradesman as determined by the Company at a semi-annual review.
(4)	Apprentice Tradesman, Technical and Clerical Classifications
To be eligible for promotion to cr within the respective Apprentice Tradesman, Technical and Clerical Classifications, the necessary qualifications shall include skill,
18
ability, technical training, education,expe-rience levels and seniority.
(5)	Job Posting
a)	When a vacancy occurs in a job (other than those designated as progression jobs and marked in the attached Wage Scheduleswith a “P”) cr a new classifr-cation is created, the Company will post a notice stating the number of vacancies on the Bulletin Boards, in the following 6 locations: Employees Main Entrance; Canteen; Boiler House; Warehouse; Machine Shop and Place 400 in order that men cr women who consider themselves qualified may apply. Job notices will be dated and shall be posted before 12:00 noon on such date. Applications will be received until 12430 noon of the fifth working day following the date of the notice.
b)	Employees who are absent due to Worker’s Compensation, lay-off, illness or vacation during the five working day job posting period will be considered along with the other applicants. If selected, he/she will be transferred to the new jcb upon return to work provided he/she returns within sixty (60) days
19
from the date cf posting. During this time the job will be filled on a temporary basis.
c)	The Company will review all applications on the basis of seniority, skill, efficiency, general ability and select a suitable candidate. The results of a job posting will be announced within twenty-one (21) days after the job posting has elapsed. In the event that no suitablecandidate applies for the job, the Company may select another employee or consider applications from outside the Company.
d)	Nothing in this Clause shall prevent the Company from assigning an employee to a job for short periods, hiring employees for casual work or from making a temporary appointment to a job which has been posted. However, no final appointment to a regularly scheduled job shall be made until the job posting period of five (5) working days has elapsed and all applications have been considered. The Company will inform the Union of the name <f the successful applicant prior to making the appointment and will post the name of the
20
successful applicant on the Bulletin Board in the following 6 locations: Employee Main Entrance; Canteen; Boiler House; Warehouse; Machine Shop and Place 400.
e)	It is fully understood that an application for transfer or promotion as outlined above does not automatically give the applicant a right to the job nor obligate the Company in any way other than to give serious consideration to the applications received.
f)	In cases where due to the training and experience required, it is foreseen that the filling of one vacancy will create vacancies in a succession of jobs, the Company reserves the right to post all anticipated vacancies at the same time so that successive promotions or transfers may be considered and decided upon as quickly as possible. Should the anticipated vacancies not materialize, applications will be cancelled automatically. Temporary day work positions of more than 30 days duration will be posted.
21
(6)	Progression
a)	It is understood that the Company must select for the bottom step in a line of progression, employees capable of advancing to the top step in that line of progression. Effective September 1, 1976, employees transferred to a classification within a line of progression will be required to advance to the top step, as a conditionof continued employment within a progression system.
b)	Promotion from one step to the next higher step within a line of progression will be on the basis of progression seniority. On failing to find a suitable employeeinthe step immediately below that step in which the vacancy occurred, the next lower steps will be searched to find an employee to fill the vacancy. These lower stepswill be searched in the reverse order of the steps in normal promotion.
c)	The senior employee in line for progression promotion will be provided, if required, with a training and/or trial period to demonstratethe skill and ability for promotion.
22
d)	An employee’s seniority in a line of progression is determinedly the step in the line of progression he/she occupies and not the total time an employee has been a member cf the line of progression. Seniority of the employees occupying the same step in a line of progression is determined by the total amount of time each employee has on the particular step.
e)	In case of reduction in the total number of steps cr in the total number of employees within a step, in a line of progression, employees will be demoted stepby step down the line of progression with employees being removed from the bottom step.
0 An employee within a line of progression who is unable cr refuses to progress, shall meet with Management and Union Representatives. At this meeting, the employee will have explained to him/her the seniority rights within the progression system which he/she is relinquishing.
g)	Nothing in this Clause shall prevent the Company from making a temporary appointment to a job within a Line of
23
Progression. However, the Company will on temporary appointments cf one week or more duration assign employees based on progression seniority on the applicable shift.
(7) Seniority Applied to Lay-off
Subject to the provision that there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability, the last employee hired shall be the first to be laid off when staff is being reduced. This provision shall apply to progression classifications after a lay-off of thirty (30) days.
(8)	Restrictions on the Application of Seniority Seniority shall not apply:
a)	During the first sixty (60) working days of continuous employment by the Company.
b)	In assigning of overtime work. However, the Company will endeavour to distributeovertimeequitablywhere possible and appropriate log books will be maintained.
c)	In the assigning of casual labour to the Mechanical Department during shut-
24
downs. A list of those assigned will be posted.
d)	In the event cf a reduction in the work week from forty (40) hours to thirty-two (32) hours any work beyond thirty-two (32) hours shall be assigned to the senior employee on the applicable shift provided the employee selected is capable of doing the required job. However, progression seniority will apply.
(9)	Termination of Seniority
Seniority shall cease and be cancelled for
any of the following reasons:
a)	If an employee quits the service of the Company.
b)	After an employee has been laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive months.
c)	If an employee is discharged for just cause.
d)	If an employee has been considered to have quit due to the fact that he/she has not returned to work within two
(2)	days after the termination of a leave of absence, being recalled following a lay-off or has been absent without leave
25
for two (2) days without notifying his/her supervisor of the cause and receiving permission to be absent.
(10)	Severance Pay
a)	An employee, who has completed five years of service, whose employment is terminated due to technological changes introduced by the Company at Saint John and to whom the Company is unable to offer employment at the Refinery cr at other Lantic locations within the City of Saint Johnshall receive 3% of their base rate on the last day of employment multiplied by 2080 hours multiplied by their number of years of service throughout their period of employment or throughout their last period of employment if they were formerly employed and rehired.
b)	In the event the Company permanently ceases operation of the Refinery or if regular members of the unionized workforce are permanently laid-off and forfeit all recall rights, during the life of this agreement, employees who are permanently laid off shall receive 3% of their base rate on the last day of employment multiplied by 2080 hours
26
multiplied by their number of years of service throughout their period of employment cr throughout their last period of employment if they were formerly employedand rehired. Employees will be given the option of receiving such severance pay immediately upon termination andthereby forfeiting recall rights or maintain their recall rights to a maximum of one year and there upon receive their severance pay.
If future government legislation provides for severance pay cr pay in lieu of notice, then the employee will be entitled to the greater of the two, but not both.
(11) Lay-offs
a)	When lay-offs can be foreseen by the Company,based on the forecasted packaging schedule, regular employees will be given a minimum of four (4) days notification of such lay-off, unless circumstances beyond Company control (such as late arrival cf raw materials, late cancellation of customer order, equipment or power failure, act of God, unforseen return to work by an em-
27
ployee from sick leave or compensation) prevent it from doing so.
b)	Contracting Out:
Regular employees qualified to perform the contracted work will not be laidoff, terminated or reduced to a lower classification if they once held the qualified position, during the time a contractor is performing work at the Refinery. The foregoing shall not apply:
i)	To the tee of specialized equipment to do work that employees of the Refinery are not capable of performing efficiently.
ii)	To the fulfilment of normal warranty obligations by vendors or work which a vendor is required to perform to prove out equipment.
(12)	a) When it is necessary to increase the work force the Company shall not hire a person not formerly employed if there is available a former employee who was laid off within the previous twelve months, who had acquired seniority status prior to such lay cff, and who has the skill, efficiency and general ability to perform the available work.
28
b)	A former employee who has not filed his current address and telephone number with the Company shallbe ineligible for re-employmentunder the provisions of clause (a).
c)	The Company will advise the qualified eligible former employee by telephone or failing this by registered letter of the availability of a job opening. Should the former employee fail to reply within ten (10) days (excluding Saturday, Sunday and those holidays described in Clause 10.4 (A) of this Agreement) from the date of mailing of such registered letter to the last forwarding address filed with the Company, he shall be deemed ineligible for re-employment under the provision of CHare (a).
d)	A former employee who is unable or unwilling to accept re-employment when required by the Company will forfeit all recall rights. This will not apply if the employee is under doctor’s care, provides the Company with a medical certificate and is available for regular work within sixty (60) days of recall. Company reserves the right to have such employees examined by the
29
Company Doctor. In the event of a dispute the two Doctors will choose a third Doctor to settle the dispute.
e)	Former employees who have been laid off for twelve (12) consecutive months cr less are entitled to Medical, Dental and Group Life Insurance. The former employee must make the necessary payments for these benefits as provided by the Collective Agreement.
(13)	Employees occupying tradesmen, technical cr clerical classifications described in Section II and XIV of the Schedule cf Wages contained in the present agreement, may if displaced from such classification elect layoff instead of exercising their plant seniority rights. Such employees will thereby forfeit their right to severance pay (Article 10) and recall (Article 9-12) except to the classification from which they were laid-off.
(14)	All employees hired as students on and after May 1, will not acquire seniority. Should any of these students remain after September 1, they will be considered as probationary employees and acquire seniority rights thirty (30) working days after September 1st.
30
These students will be paid the student classification rate for all work performed, except in classifications with a rate of pay higher than the labour rate.
ARTICLE 10
(I)	Regular Hours per Day and per Week
a)	The regular work week for Clerical and T echnical Classificationsshallbe thirty-five (35) hours divided into five (5) working days of seven (7) hours.
The regular work week for all other classifications shall be fcrty (40) hours divided into five (5) working days of eight (8) consecutive hours.
Shift schedulesfor the coming week for all employees in the Mechanical, Production Departments, Lab Testers, Packaging, Warehousing and Shipping Departments shall be posted by 3:30 p.m. on Thursday of the current week.
Employees left off the Shift Schedule will be paid time and one half only when this rEsults in a change in their normal shift rotation.
These shifts shallbe the shifts currently in use but it does not preclude the
31
addition of other shifts necessitated by conditions beyond the Company’s control. Ey mutual agreement other shift arrangements may be established.
b)	The Company shall not reduce the regular hours of work of any employee in an area having a fixed lunch period not paid for by the Company who shall be called upon to work during his lunch period.
c)	When five (5) days production are scheduled, the Company will endeavour to have this carried out between midnight Sunday and 11:30 p.m. Friday and will make every effort to release junior employees,thereby preventing as much as possible a reduction in the working hours of senior employees.
d)	The twelve (12) hour Shift Schedule applying to the Stationary Engineers will remain in effect during the term of this agreement subject to the Lantic Sugar Limited-Guidelines dated Cfcto-ber 5, 1990. (refer to Appendix C)
(2)	Rest Periods and Lunch Periods
a)	Each employee will be allowed a ten (10) minute rest period each half-shift
32
to be taken at a time designated by his/her immediate supervisor.
b)	All employees working on continuous operations shall be given twenty (20) minutes off for a meal on the job or off the job where relief workers are available without loss of pay.
c)	Each employee engaged in shift operations in Packaging and Warehousing will be allowed a twenty (20) minute lunch period at a time designated by his/her immediate supervisor and shall go to the lunch room for his/her meal during this period. The designated lunch period will fall between the hours of 11.00 a.m and 100 p.m, on the Day shift; between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m, on the Middle Shift; and between the hours of 2.00 am and 4:00 am. on the Night Shift.
d)	No employee may demand to be absent at any particular time, leave work without permission, stay longer than the prescribed time, nor . smoke in unauthorized places.
e)	Employees who are required to interrupt their rest or lunch period, will be
33
given a continuous rest or lunch period at another reasonable time during the shift. Employees who’s lunch periods are not paid and have this period interrupted will receive time and one half for the half hour lunch period. They will also be given a continuous half hour paid lunch period after the work is completed or at a reasonable time during the shift.
A rescheduled lunch period, for which the employee is given notice two hours or more in advance, does not constitute an interruption and therefore will not require payment at time and one half.
(3)	Weekly Rest Period and Restrictions on
Hours of Work
a)	Each employee shall have twenty-four (24) continuous hours off each week.
b)	No female employee hired prior to September 1, 1976 shall be required to work longer than nine (9) hours in any 24-hour period.
c)	No hourly paid employee shall work longer than sixteen (16) hours in any 24-hour period.
34
(4)	Statutory & Negotiated Holidays a) HOLIDAYS RECOGNIZED
The Company shall observe the following holidays during the year:
Christmas Period Holiday
By mutual agreement, Dominion Day and Remembrance Day shall always be observed on a Monday cr Friday. In the event that the actual day is not proclaimed by the government authority, the holiday shall be observed on the Monday cr Friday nearest to the calendar date of those days.
In the event that Christmas Day, December 26th, cr New Year’s Day falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.
The additional Christmasperiod holiday will be observed on December 31, 1992, December 3 L, 1993, and December 27, 1994.
New Year‘s Day Good Friday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
Easter Monday Queen’s Birthday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day
December 24th Christmas Day December 26 th
35
b) Payment for Holidays
The purpose cf recognizing Statutory Holidays is to allow employees time off to observe the Holiday without loss of pay, provided this can be done without seriously affecting production schedules. Therefore, employees with one month or more continuous service, whom the Company allows to be absent on those days, shall receive one day’s pay at the base rate. Notwithstanding the above provisions, if an employee other than one on vacation, bereavement leave, leave of absence, or on lay-off of less than six (6) months, due to lack of work, is absent on either the day before or on the day after the holiday for any reason, he shall not receive pay for the holiday. Employees that qualify for Sick Leave Pay will be paid holiday pay at their base rate when such holiday is observed in the three (3) working day waiting period cr the day immediately preceding the three (3) working day waiting period. Payment of holiday pay to employees on lay-off of less than six (6) months, shall be determined by their presence or absence on the last day before the holiday and the
36
next day after the holiday when work was available. Persons on lay-off for more than six (6) months will not be eligible for Statutory Holiday pay for those Statutory Holidays observed during their lay-off,
c)	DURATION OF THE HOLIDAY
The holiday shall extend from 11 ;30 p.m. or 12:00 midnight on the day preceding the holiday, to 11:30 p.m. or 12:00 midnight on the holiday, according to the established arrangement of the shifts.
5) CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
Appendix “E” of the present Collective Agreement, contains the terms that will apply when continuous operations are in effect.
ARTICLE 11
PAID VACATIONS
(1)	Right to a vacation
a)	The vacation year shall be the twelve (12) month period from June 30th of one calendar year to June 29th inclusive of the following calendar year.
37
b)	Vacations in respect of service rendered during the preceding vacation year shall be granted to employees regularly employed by the Company and who have completed periods of service as follows:
SERVICE	LENGTH OF VACATION
less than one (1) year	one (I) day per lull month <£
before May 1 of current year	sendee prior to May 1st of
current year
SERVICECOMPLETED LENGTH OF VACATION
On June30th Of Current Year
One year but less than 5 years 2 Weeks 5 years but less than 10 years	3 Weeks
10 years but less than 20 years 4 Weeks 20 years but less than 30 years 5 Weeks 30 years a: more	6 Weeks
(2)	Vacation Pay
a)	Rate cf Pay:
The vacation pay for an employee who is eligible for a paid vacation of two weeks or less shallbe 4% of gross earnings for the vacation year. Benefits paid under Article 14, Clause 6, Lantic Sugar’s Sick Leave Program, shall not be included as part of gross earnings.
38
b)	The vacation pay for an employee who is eligible for a paid vacation of three
(3), four (4), five (5) cr six (6) weeks shall consist cf forty (40) hours pay for each week cf vacation for which the employee is eligible.
The vacation pay for all employees in the Technical and Clerical Classifications who are eligible for a paid vacation cf three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks shall consist of one (l)week’s pay for each week of vacation for which the employee is eligible.
The vacation pay shall be calculated at the base rate applicable to the particular employee at the time the vacation is taken. Temporary employment involving a higher rate of pay shall not be considered when calculating vacation pay.
c)	Vacation Bonus
Effective June 30th, 1993 every employee covered by this Agreement who, on June 30th, has been regularly employed by the Company shall receive a Vacation Bonus. The amount payable to any employee in each vacation year
39
shall be$l75,EffectiveJune30th, 1995 every employee covered by this Agreement who, on June 30th, has been regularly employed by the Company shall receive a Vacation Bonus. The amount payable to any employee in the vacation year shall be $200,
d)	Vacation pay shall be paid to employees before they leave for vacation in accordance with the New Brunswick Employment Standards Act.
e)	Subject to mutual agreement, vacation privileges may be accumulateduntil conditions permit them to be used.
(3)	Vacation Dates
a)	While the Company will endeavour to arrange dates on which vacations shall commence in a manner satisfactory to the employees concerned, final decision as to the date on which the employee’s vacation shall commence shall rest with the Company.
b)	When plant shutdowns are scheduled the employees will be given the option to use their vacation privileges or to be placed on temporary lay-off. This provision does not apply when a plant
40
shutdown ar planned vacation period is scheduled during the months of July and August.
(4)	Holiday During Vacation
a)	If one of the holidays listed in Article 10, Clause 4 (a) is observed by the Company during an employee’s vacation, the employee shall be entitled to an extra day of vacation with pay cr an extra day’s pay.
(5)	Vacation Pay on Separation
If an employee leaves the service cf the Company at a time when an unused period of vacation with pay stands to his credit, he shall be paid the amount due him in lieu of vacation, provided one week‘s notice has been given.
ARTICLE 12
WAGES
(1)	a) Effective November 11, 1992, all wage
rates shall be increased and adjusted to the base rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
b)	Effective September 1, 1993, all hourly and weekly wage rates shallbe increased
41
and adjusted to provide the rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
c)	Effective September 1, 1994, all hourly and weekly wage rates shall be increased and adjusted to provide the rates shown in the attached Wage Schedules.
(2)	Wage Schedules
a)	The base rates for the job classifications covered in this Agreement and for the periods referred to in Paragraph (1) above are shown on the Wage Schedules attached to and forming part of this Agreement. These Scheduleswillnotbe reduced during the life of this Agreement.
b)	The Company will notify the Union two weeks in advance when a new job classification is created; or, the duties of a classification arc changed for a significant degree; or the skill levels of a classification are increased. The Company will at the same time inform the Union of the temporary rate they have set for it.
Following a trial period of one (I) month, the Company will negotiate with the Union to establish a base rate
42
of pay for the new or modified classification which will be effective on the date the trial period began. If agreement is not reached, the matter will be referred to arbitration (Article 6).
c)	Apprentice Tradesmen will be paid the base rate shown on the Schedule when starting their apprenticeship and their performance and rate of pay will be reviewed every six (6) months.
d)	Apprentices,who are required to attend Block Release" training, as provided by the New Brunswick Department of Labour shall be paid each week the difference between their base rate times forty (40) hours and the total of all training allowances received each week from government agencies.
e)	Industrial Mechanics Grade III and Grade II, will be paid the minimum rate for the classification when appointed cr promoted to these classifications. Their performance and rate of pay will be reviewed every six (6) months.
(3)	Rate of Pay on Transfer
When an employee is promoted or transferred on a regular basis to a job carrying
43
a higher base rate, he shall be paid his former base rate of pay during the training period which shall not exceed one (1) month. In the case of an employee in a progression job who has already been trained in the job, he shallbe paid the base rate for the higher paid job immediately on transfer.
When an employee is temporarily transferred to a higher paid job, he shall be paid
the base rate for the higher paid job.
(4)	Call-Out Pry
When an employee, after leaving the Company’s premises, is calledty the Company and requested to return to work, outside his scheduled shift, he will be paid the greater of, the applicable rate of pay for all hours worked outside his scheduled shift or four (4) hours at his base rate.
(5)	Weekly Pay Adjustment
Regular employees in the Technical and Clerical Classificationswho are absent for less than a week due to illness or justifiable absence shall not have their pay reduced pro rata. Employees who qualify for Worker’s Compensation or Lantic Sick
44
Leave Program will not qualify for the above benefit.
ARTICLE 13
OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY
The provisions of this article shall net apply to
Technical and Clerical Classifications.
(1)	Computation
In computing overtime and premium pay the following definitions shall apply:
a)	The base rates are defined as those rates which appear in the attached Wage Schedule.
b)	The regular rate is defined as the base rate ef the classification plus any shift differential applicable to the shift worked as specified in Article 13, Clause 4.
c)	Premium pay is defined as the premium paid for all hours worked on Sunday as specified in Article 13, Clause 3(a), the premium paid for all hours worked on holidays as specified in Article 13, Clause 3(b) and the premium paid for
45
all hours worked on Saturday as specified in Article 13, Clause 3(c).
(2)	Overtime
Overtime at one and one-half times the
regular rate shall be paid:
a)	After eight (8) hours at regular rates of pay on any shift.
b)	After eight (8) hours have been worked at regular rates in any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight.
c)	After forty (40) hours have been worked at regular rates in a weekly payroll period. When one or more holidays referred to in Article 10, Clause 4(a) occurs during the weekly payroll period, overtime at the above rate shall be paid-after the remaining hours at regular pay have been worked.
d)	For all time worked outside the posted hours. This shall not apply to relief workers whose relief job requires them to move from one shift to another during the week, nor shall it apply in a reduction of the work week to not less than 32 hours.
46
e)	Any shift employee who is required to work on his/her scheduled day c£f shall be paid at least one and cnehalf times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on that day. This provision shall not apply to an employee who is transferred on a regular basis to another job or another Shift which automatically changes his/her schedule.
0 Employees wishing to change shifts may do so provided they obtain permission from their respective supervisors and there is no cost or penalty to the Company.
g) Banking of overtime
Upon the request of an employee, the Company will accumulate overtime hours to be taken in time off to a maximum cf ten (10) working days in any vacation year. Time off can only be taken during the period of November 15 to May 1, Employees will be required to take 5 days accumulated time in a single calendar week. While the Company will endeavour to arrange mutually acceptable dates, final decision will rest with the Company. Any employee who has any outstanding
47
accumulated time as of May 1 will receive pay in settlement of this accumulated time. Employees may request pay in lieu of accumulated time cff, at any time.
(3)	Premium Pay for Sunday, Statutory Holidays and Saturdays
The Company when and where possible shall avoid Sunday work but when deemed necessary by the Company the employees shall work on Sunday, Statutory Holidays and Saturday.
a) PREMIUM PAY FOR SUNDAY WORK
Hourly-paid employees required to work on Sunday shall be paid at twice the regular rate of pay for all time worked between 11:30 p.m, or midnight on Saturday to 11:30 p.m, or midnight on Sunday according to the established arrangement of the shifts provided that Stationary Engineers scheduled for shift work shall be paid regular rates on Sunday for all posted hours.
48
b)	PREMIUM PAY FOR WORK ON HOLIDAYS
When an employee is required to work on one f the holidays listed in Article 10, Clause 4(a), he/she shall be paid at two and one-half times the regular rate of pay for all time worked. However, when an employee is required to work on Good Friday, Labour Day cr Christmas Day, he shall be paid at three tires the regular rate for all time worked.
c)	PREMIUM PAY FOR SATURDAY WORK
Hourly-paid employees required to work on Saturday shall be paid at one and one-half times the regular rate of pay for the first eight (8) hours worked and double time for hours worked in excess of eight hours between 11:30 p.m, or midnight on Friday to 11:30 p.m, cr midnight on Saturdayaccording to the established arrangement of the shifts provided that Stationary Engineers scheduled for Shift Work shall be paid at regular rates on Saturday for all posted hours.
49
(4)	Shift Differentials
All employees working on evening and night shifts shallbe paid a shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between 2r00 p,m, and 4:00 p.m, and a shift differential of sixty-five (65) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between lOrOO p,m. and midnight.
(5)	No Pyramiding
Notwithstanding the above provisions regarding payment of overtime and premium pay, it is agreed that under any circumstances where overtime cr premium pay exists, only the highest of the two shall apply and there shall be no pyramiding of these rates.
(6)	When the Company requires an employee to work overtime, he shall not be required to lay off during his scheduled working hours on account of so doing.
50
ARTICLE 14
GENERAL
(1)	Transportation
Employees called out to work cr sent home between the hours of 12r00 midnight and 6:00 am shall be paid a transportation fee of $S,00 applicable each way.
(2)	Bereavement Leave
Bereavement Leave of three (3) full days with pay shall be granted to employees, upon their request, due to the death of their mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-lawcr father-in-law, grandchild, step-mother or stepfather. The three days shall be consecutive working days. Bereavement Leave of five (5) full days with pay shall be granted to employees, upon their request, due to the death of their spouse, son, daughter, stepchild, cr common-law-spouse, The five (5) days shall be consecutive working days.
Employees laid off or on sick leave with pay etc., will not partake in the above benefit. Employees on vacation will partake in the above benefit.
51
Bereavement Leave of one (1) day with pay shall be granted to employees upon their request due to the death of a grandfather; grandmother; brother-in-law; or sister-inlaw. This provision shall apply to a scheduled working day only.
Pay for the time off shall be at the employee’s base rate.
(3)	Meal Allowance
Each employee when required to work an overtime period of two (2) hours or more immediately before or following an eight (8)hour shift will receive a neal allowance of $6,00. The Company will provide a 20 minute lunch break within the first two hours of the overtime period. A second meal allowance of $6,00 will be given to an employee after (5) hours cf overtime work. This provision shall not apply to scheduled overtime on Saturdays and Sundays.
(4)	Employee Uniforms
Employees covered by this Agreement shall wear uniforms as provided by the Company. The total cost of this service to each employee shall not exceed $.75 per week.
52
(5)	Jury Duty
An employee who is absent from work because cf jury duty cr jury duty roll call cr court witness shall be paid by the Company the difference between his base rate and the amount he received for jury duty, etc.
Payment by the Company is contingent upon:
1.	The employee shall give prior notice to the Company that he has been summoned for jury duty.
2.	The employee will present proof cf jury service and the amount of pay received therefore.
(6)	Lantic Sugar Sick Leave Program
The Company will provide Sick Leave Benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in Appendix “A”of this Agreement. The full cost of this Plan will be paid by the Company.
(7)	Safety Footwear
Regular employees will be given $100,00 for the purchase of safety footwear. This provision will apply only once from the date cf signing this Agreement to August
53
31, 1993 and once between September 1, 1993 and August 31, 1994.
Regular employees will be given $110.00 for the purchase of safety footwear. This provision will apply only once between September 1, 1994 and August 31, 1995.
(8)	Tool Allowance
Regular employees employed in tradesmen classifications will receive a IboL Allowance of $80.00. This amount will be paid once from the date of signing this Agreement to August 31, 1993 and once between September 1, 1993 and August 31, 1994.
Regular employees employed in tradesmen classifications will receive a Tool Allowance cf $90.00. This amount will be paid once between September 1,1994 and August 31, 1995.
(9)	Group Life Insurance
a)	All employees who are actively at work with one year of service are insured for $50,000.
Conditionscf coverage provided will be those as set out by the Insurer.
54
The Company will pay 50% cf the premiums.
b)	The Company will make available optional life insurance to a maximum of $50,000 RATES; (subject to changes as determined ty the insurer.)
Less than 40 years cf age = .09 per $1000 40 years to 44 = .18 45 years to 49 = .30 50 years to 54 *= .53 55 years to 59 = .90
60 years to 64 = 1.44
(subject to medical evidence)
The employee will pay the full cost of this insurance.
(10)	Long Term Disability.
The Company will provide, at no expense to the employees, a Long-Term Disability Plan administered by an insurance company, that will provide subject to the rules of the plan 66 2/3% of an employee’s wages to a maximum cf $559.20 effective immediately per week, $576,00 per week effective September 1 1993, $593.33 per week effective September 1, 1994, less offsets, beginning on the 27th week cf disability. Regular employees only with
55
one year cf service shall be eligible for participation in the plan.
Employees after having been in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits for two years will no longer qualify for this benefit if their health condition permits them to accept a vacant unionized position at the Refinery. This position must be obtained according to the posting procedure of the Collective Agreement and the salary be equal to cr greaterthan 75% cf the rate cf the position they held Immediately prior to starting sick leave. Whereby a position is not available, the employee will continue to receive equivalent benefits including but not limited to pension credited service to which he/she received while on Long Term Disability.
(11)	Medical Insurance
The Company will provide to eligible employees Medical Insurance coverage. The plan will be administered by London Life cr with another carrier, providing similar benefits. The Company will pay 50% of the premiums. The Plan will provide for:
a)	A copayment of $5.00 for each prescription, cost of which will be shared
56
50/50 by the Company and the employees.
b)	Generic drugs to be used whenever available unless Doctor states no substitute.
c)	Exclude over the counter drugs.
d)	Positive enrolment for all members and their dependants.
Cost of prescription glasses to be covered to a maximum of 80% of $200.00.
Effective September 1, 1994 the cost of prescription glasses to be covered to a maximum of 80% of $220.00,
Conditions of coverage provided will be those as set out by the Insurer.
(12)	Dental Plan
The Company will provide, at no expense to the employee a Dental Plan administered by an insurance company. Regular employees only with sixty (60) working day s of serviceshall be eligiblefor this plan. Each member of a family will be eligible to a maximum coverage of $2000.00 per year. Cost cf orthodontic services at 80% to a lifetime maximum of $4000.00 for each member of the family. Conditions of
57
coverage will be those as set out by the Insurer. Update dental fee guide each year of the Collective Agreement. The 1992 fee guide to apply in 1993,1993 in 1994 and 1994 in 1995.
(13)	Benefits
The Company undertakes, for employees covered by this agreement, during the term of this agreement, not to reduce, without mutual agreement, the benefits provided under the terms of the pension plan cr the life, health, dental, short term and long term disability plans. Agreement will not be unreasonably withheld by the Union.
(14)	Legal Licensing
Fees for legally required licenses for Welders and Stationary Engineers will be paid by the company.
(15)	Safety
The Company will provide all personal protective clothing and equipment as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
58
ARTICLE 15
1. PROVISIONS FOR UNION BUSINESS
a)	The representatives of the Union and/or anyUnionOfficer ofLocal443, for the purpose of Union Business, without further disclosure, may upon application to and with the consent of the Refinery Human Resources Manager, or in his absence, the Refinery Manager, or in the absence of both, the person in charge cf the Refinery at that time, have any Shop Steward made reasonably available to him/her,
b)	When a grievance has been processed in accordance with Article 5 to the point where the employee feels that action is required by the Union Executive, the representatives of the Union shall be permitted to enter the Company premises under escort of the Refinery Human Resources Manager or his delegate to view the work situation. After reviewing the work situation, the Union Representative may have made available to him for private discussions off Company premises any of the employees involved with the grievance, always
59
provided that the absence of such employees will not hinder production.
c)	An employee has a right to a union representative when requesting a meeting with a management member, at grievance investigation meetings with a management member and when being advised of a formal verbal warning, written warning, suspension cr termination.
2. PAYMENT OF NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE,
The Company agrees to pay up to 8 hours per day at the applicable base rate for each member of the Union’s negotiating committee for joint contract negotiating meetings with the Company’s representatives.
This provision will not apply during the mediation process.
ARTICLE 16
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
a) Definition: Technological Change means the introduction of equipment different in nature, type cr quantity from that previously utilized cr the introduction of new materials cr processes which will cause the reduction of
60
one cr more positions, (Process means the rmrificat-irn to systems such as the affining, clarifying, decolorizing, crystallizing and drying processes.)
b)	Notification:
In the event technological change is planned, the Company will meet with the Union Executive as soon as possible but no less than two (2) months before implementation, to inform them of the technological change and the positions affected.
c)	Wage Rates:
When functions of a position eliminated due to technological change are reassigned to another classification, the wage rates of such classification will be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union.
d)	When functions of a position eliminated due to technological change are reassigned within the same classification (except Labourers, packers, a tradesmen classification and general maintenance section classifications, for example labourer to labourer, packer to packer, electrician to electrician, rigger to rigger)
61
then the wage rates cf such classification will be subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union.
e)	If agreement is not reached the matter will
be referred to arbitration (Article 6).
ARTICLE 17
PERSONNEL FILES
a)	An employee, upon request, shall be entitled to review his or her complete personnel file. The file will be reviewed in the office of the Human Resources Officer. Disciplinary records dating over thirty-six (36) months will be cleared from the personnel files.
Discipline
b)	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without, just cause.
ARTICLE 18
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE (See Appendix D)
62
ARTICLE 19
TRADESMEN
(See Appendix F)
ARTICLE 20
PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY
Should any of the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment thereto be rendered cr declared invalid by reason of any existing or
of a court of competentjurisdiction, such invalidation of such part cr portion of this agreement shall not invalidate the remaining porticos hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
This Agreement signed at Saint John, N, B, this 26th day cf November, 1992.
For the Company:
D, Bishop R. Fulton E Mathurin
For the Union:
M. Trecartin T. Shipley D. Keenan P. Kingston B. Conley
63
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES ATTACHED TO AND FORMING PART OF
THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED AND
LOCAL 443 OF THE BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sep. 1/93 Svpt 1/94
I	- BOILER HOUSE AND ENGENEROOM
Stationary Engineer
2nd Class Certificate	20,97 ■ *..21.60 .., .22.25
Stationary Engineer
3rd Class Certificate ....18.16 .,..18.70 ....19.27
Stationary Engineer
4th Class Certificate.....17.22 ....17*74 ....18.27
II-TRADESMEN
Electrician - Instrumentation .20.24 ....20.85 ....21.47
Pipefitter-Welder .  ..... 20.24 • . . .20.85 ... .21.47
Mechanic. Pipfitter	20,24 - * . .20,85 .... 21-47
Machinist, Grade I ....... 19.83 ....20.43 ,.,.21.04
Machinist, Grade II ...... 19.09 . . . .19.66 . . . .20.25
Instrument Mechanic. Grade I 19.83 ....20.43 ....21.04
64
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Nov 11/92 Se@ 1/93 Sept 1/94
Instrument Mechanic -Grade II . 19.09
Welder Grade I...............19.83
Welder Grade II ............19.09
Tinsmith Grade I.............19.83
Tinsmith Grade II............19.09
PipefitterGradel.............19.83
PipefitterGrade II ..........19.09
Industrial Electrician Grade I .19.83 Industrial Electrician Grade II 19.09
CarpenterGrade I.............19.83
Carpenter Grade II .........,19,09
Industrial Mechanic Grade I .. 19.83 Industrial Mechanic Grade II .19.09 Industrial Mechanic Grade III 17.90 Apprentice Tradesman.........15,80
. . . 19.66 . . . 20.43 ...19.66 . . . 20.43 ...19.66 ... 20.43 . . . 19.66 . . . 20.43 ...19.66 . .. 20.43 ,.,19.66 .., 20.43 .,. 19.66 ...18.44 ...16.27
20.25 21.04
20.25
21.04
20.25
21.04
20.25
21.04
20.25
21.04
20.25
21.04
20.25 18.99 16.76
III * GENERAL MAINTENANCE
Painter................. . 16.29 .... 16.78
Rigger Grade I............16.93	.... 17-44
RiggerGradell ...........16.14	....16.62
Pallet Repair Man.........15.85	.... 16.33
Sprinkler Maintenance Man . . 16.48	.... 16.97
Tradesman Helper..........15,80	.... 16.27
General Helper............15,72	.... 16,19
Labourer ................15.68	....16.15
17,28
17.96
17.12
16.82
17.48
16.76
16.68
16.64
IV . MISCELLANEOUS SECONDARY
CLASSIFICATIONS<P*id only for hours worked)
Mason.......................18.78	....	19.34
Tube Blower...............  15.84	• • ■ ■	16.32
Front End Loader Operator .., 15,89	....	16,37
Knapp Packer ...............16.64	. ...	17.14
Thayer Packer	16.64	....	17.14
Insulator ..................16.29	....	16.?8
19.92
16.81
16,86
17.65
17.65 17.28
65
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sept 1/93 Sept 1/94
V * MELT HOUSE AND RSJtf SUGAR
Melt House Operator ....17.17 ....17.69 ....18.22
R. S. Drag Operator..... 15.89 ....16.37 ....16.86
Weigh House Operator.... 16.24 ,...16.73 ....17.23
Weigh House Utility Man ... 15.73 ,...16.20 ,...16,69
VI-	CLARIFICATION (P) Liquid Sugar Attendant... 17.67
(P) Clarifier Operator.........17.00
(P) Enzinger Filter Operator .. 16.70 (P) Liquor Gallery Attendant .	16.60
Production Utility Man..16.24
VII-	CHARKILNS
(P) Multi-Hearth Kiln Operator	16.66	....17.16	....17.68
Kiln Helper....................16.12	 16.60_____17.10
VIII-	PAN ROOM
(P) Sugar boiler.............. 17.99	....18.53	 19.09
Pan Room Attendant............ 16.38	....16.87	....17.38
LX ■ CENTRIFUGALS P.H. Extension Centrifugal
Operator ..................... 16.74	....17.24	....17.76
P.H. Centrifugal Operator . . . 16.74 . . . .17.24 • • ■ ,17.76
X	* FINISHING
Powder Mill Operator.... 17.35 .,,.17.87 .,,.18.41
Granulator Operator..... 16.74 ....17.24 ....17.76
XI	■ PACKAGING Package Machine Operator
-Grade I ......................17.19	... .17.71 ... .18.24
H.S. Weigher ..................17.19	....17.71	....18.24
BundlerOperator................17.19	 17.71	....18.24
Transwrap Machine Operator 17.19 ,...17.71 ....18.24
S.	l.G. Operator.......17.19 ....17.71 ....18.24
...18.20 ....18.75
...17.51 ....18.04 ...17.20 ....17.72 ...17.10 ....17.61 ...16.73 ....17.23
66
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92
Package Machine Operator Grade II	16,64
Cube Machine Operator........16.64
Granulated 20/1 *s...........16.64
Delta Seal...................16.64
5/4's Rotary.................16.64
Triangle.....................16.64
Eagle Scale Operator.........16.64
Individual Services..........16.64
Package Utility Man ........15.85
Labourer ....................15.68
Packers......................15.68
Sept 1/93 Sept 1/94
...17-14 ....17.65 ...17.14 ....17.65 ...17.14 .... 17.65 ...17.14 .... 17.65 ...17.14 .... 17.65 ...17.14 ....17.65 ...17.14 .... 17.65 ...17.14 .... 17.65 ...16.33 .... 16.82 ...16.15 ....16.64 .. .16.15 .... 16.64
XU * WAREHOUSE AND SHIPPING
(P) Fork Lift Driver.....16.88 .... 17.39 .... 17.91
(P) • Relief Forklift Driver ., .15.99 .... 16.47 .... 16.96
CarPiler.................15.80 ....16.27 ....16.76
Car Liner................16.15 ....16.64 .... 17.14
Labourer - Palletizer Operator .15.85 .... 16.33 .... 16.82 Labourer ................, . 15.68 .... 16.15 .... 16.64
XIII • MISCELLANEOUS CLASSIFICATIONS
(P) Tester - Grade I........16.43	.... 16.92	....	17.43
Tester-Gradell..............15.99__________16.47______16.96
Stockman (perweek).........638.73	...657.89	...677.63
Storekeeper(per week)......667.63	. .. 687,66	.. . 708.29
Truck Driver ...............15.84	.... 16,32	....	16.81
Fork Truck Driver (Stores) ■ . .16.88	.... 17-39	....	17.91
Elevator Operator...........15.81	.... 16.28	....	16.77
Insecticide Sprayer ........15.72	.... 16.19	....	16.68
Labour Pool.................15.85	.... 16.33	....	16.82
Truck Loader................15.85	.... 16.33	....	16,82
Warehouse Cleaning
Machine	........15.99 .... 16.47 .... 16.96
General Labour ..........15.68 ,,,.16.15 .... 16.64
Gate House Clerk (per week) .602.70 . . . 620.78 . . . 639.40
67
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sept 1/93
Labour (probationary period) . 15.23 ... .15.69 Packers (probationary period). 15.23 ....15.69
Housekeeper.................15.68	... .16.15
Summer Students ......... 12.19 , . , .12,56
XIV - TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL
CLASSIFICATIONS
Clerk Typist ............. 490.45	...505,16
Clerk Typist (probation) ... 470.51 ...484.62
Sr, ClerkTypist........... 530.95	...546,88
Sr, ClerkTypist (probation) . 509.08 ...524.35
Purchasing Clerk.......... 556,60	. . .573,30
Engineering Clerk........ 546.34	.. .562.73
Inventory Clerk........... 592.56	...610.34
Eng, Technologist* Grade I , 631.57 ...650.52 Eng. Technologist. GradeII , 607.53	.625.76
Eng. Technologist. Grade II
(probation)............. 594-44	■ ■ ,612,27
Eng. Technologist. Grade III 558.96 . . ,575.73
Draftsman. Grade I ....... 608.78	,,.627.04
Draftsman, Grade II...... 602.54 . . .620.62
Lib Technician • Grade I ... 621.32 ...639,96 Lab Technician. Grade II ,, 607.53 ...625,76 Lab Technician- Grade II
(probation)............. 594.44	. . .612.27
Lab Technician-Grade III ., 564.61 . . .581.55
Sept 1/94
... .16.16
....16.16 . . . .16.64 . . . .12.93
520.32
499.16
563.29
,. 540.09 ..590.50 . .579.61 ,.628.65 ..670.03 ..644.53
. .630.64 ..593,00 . .645.86 . .639.24 . .659.16 . .644.53
630.64
599.00
NOTE 1 - When an hourly paid employee is assigned to replace a foreman, this will be done on a voluntary basis. He/she shall be paid at the rate often (10) cents above his regular rate of pay.
68
APPENDIX A
LANTIC SUGAR SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
69
70
APPENDIX A
LANTIC SUGAR SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
ARTICLE 14 (6)
When an employee, covered by the Collective Labour Agreement, who has three (3) months or more of continuous service and has been transferred to Regular Status, is absent from work due to illness cr non-occuparional accidents, the amount and duration of sick leave pay shall be determined by reference to the attached schedule.
This provision shall apply to absences due to illness or non-occuparional accidents for a period of longer than three (3) working days, from the 1 st day of hospitalization,as evidenced on Company provided hospitalization form, (Hospitalization means:
(1)	When the employee is effectively admitted to hospital with doctor authorization or
(2)	When the employee has had surgery requiring general anaesthesia, in a hospital.
or
71
(3)	When the employee remains in a hospital for more than 12 hours under observation and treatment.)
and during which time an employee is under the care of a qualified doctor. The Company reserves the right to have the employee examined by a doctor of its choice. Sick leave pay shall be terminated immediately and all monies returned to the Company in cases where the employee wilfully neglects to follow the advice of the doctor, where the doctor has declared the employee fit to return to work or where the employee has refused examination by the Company appointed doctor. Sick leave pay shall terminate on the date the employee retires from the Company.
Employees on lay-off shall not be eligible for benefits under this plan.
No benefits shall be paid under this plan for the following absences:
a)	During the first three (3) working days an employee is absent.
b)	In cases of pregnancy without complications.
c)	In cases of occupational accidents covered under Workers’ Compensation.
72
d)	Intentionally inflicted injuries cr dis-
ease.
e)	Service in the Armed Forces.
f)	While vacation pay is being received.
g)	Injuries cr diseases sustained while committing a criminal offence cr disorderly conduct.
h)	For any period during which an employee engages in an occupation or employment for wage cr profit.
i)	During any concerted acts by employees, including a strike, unless the Company desires to do so.
To be eligible for sick leave pay, the employee must make application for sick leave pay, report the nature of the illness and the name of the attending doctor. The application for sick leave pay must be completed and filed with the Human Resources Department at the earliest opportunity. Providing the aforementioned information has been supplied, the Company will pay sick leave pay in accordance with the schedule which follows.
"Years of Service" referred to in the schedule shall be determined as at the date of
73
illness and shall include full years only. No allowance shallbe made for part years after completion of one year’s service.
Sick leave pay will net be paid for a period longer than that shown in the schedule. However, full benefits will be reinstated one (1) month after return to active employment in the case of a new disability, er after three (3) months in the case of a previous disability.
74
SCHEDULE OF BENEFIT WEEKS
LENGTH OF SERVICE
3 months to 1 year
1	year
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
BENEFIT WEEKS
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
16 18 20 22 24 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26 26
75
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS PAYABLE
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sept 1/93 Sept 1/91
I - BOILER HOUSE AND ENGINE ROOM
Stationary Engineer
2nd Class Certificate......629,10 . , .648.00
Stationary Engineer
3rd Class Certificate....... 544.80 ...561.00
Stationary Engineer
4th Class Certificate ....... 516.60 ...532.20
667.50
578.10
548.10
II ■ TRADESMEN
Electrician-Instrumentation 607.20
Pipefitter-Welder......... 607.20
Mechanic- Pipefitter...... 607.20
MachinistGrade I ......... 594.90
Machinist-Grade 11 ....... 572.70
Instrument Mechanic
Grade I ................. 594.90
InstrumentMechanic
Grade II................. 572.70
Welder Grade 1 ........... 594.90
Welder Grade II........... 572.70
Tinsmith -Grade I......... 594.90
Tinsmith Grade II ....... 572.70
Pipefitter Grade I ....... 594.90
Pipefitter Grade II....... 572.70
Industrial Electrician
Grade I ................. 594.90
Industrial Electrician
Grade 11 ................ 572.70
Carpenter-Grade I ........ 594.90
Carpenter Grade II ....... 572.70
Industrial Mechanic-Grade I 594.90 Industrial Mechanic Grade II.................. 572 .70
.625.50
.625.50
.625.50
.612.90
.589,80
.644.10
.644.10
.644.10
.631.20
.607.50
.612.90 ...631.20
.589.80
.612.90
.589.80
.612.90
.589.80
.612.90
.589.80
.607.50
.631.20
.607,50
.631.20
.607.50
.631.20
.607.50
.612.90 . . .631.20
,589,80
.612.90
.589.80
.612.90
. .607.50 . .631.20 . .607.50 . ,631.20
.589 . 80 . .607.50
76
pB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sept 1/93 Sept 1/94
Industrial Mechanic
- Grade III .............537.00 ... 553.20 ... 569.70
Apprentice Tradesman.....474.00 . . . 488.10 ... 502.80
III - GENERAL MAINTENANCE
Painter..................488.70 ... 503.40 ... 518.40
Rigger - Grade I ........507.90	... 523.20	...	538.80
Rigger - Grade II........484.20	... 498.60	...	513.60
Pallet Repair Man........475.50	. . . 489.90	. . .	504.60
Sprinkler Maintenance Man .494-40	... 509.10	. . .	524-40
TradesmanHelper..........474.00 .. . 488.10 ... 502.80
General Helper...........471.60	.. . 485.70	. . .	500.40
Labourer ................470.40	... 484.50	. . .	499.20
V	* MELT HOUSE AN D RAW SUGAR
Melt Houseoperator.......515.10 .. . 530.70 .. . 546.60
R.S. Drag Operator.......476.70	... 491.10 ... 505,80
Weigh House Operator ..... 487.20 .. . 501.90 ... 516.90 Weigh House Utility Man .. .471.90 ... 486.00 ... 500.70
VI	* CLARIFICATION
(P) Liquid Sugar Attendant . .530.10 . . . 546.00 . . . 562,50
(P) Clarifier Operator...510.00 . . . 525.30 . . . 541.20
(P) Enzinger Filter Operator .501.00 ...516.00 ... 531.60 (P) Liquor Gallery Attendant .498.00 ... 513.00 . . . 528.30 Production Utility Man...487.20 . . . 501.90 . . . 516.90
VII	- C HAR KILNS
(P) Multi-Hearth Kiln
Operator.................499.80	.,. 514-80 _________ 530.40
Kiln Helper .............483.60	... 498.00 ... 513.00
VIII. PAN ROOM
(P) Sugar boiler.........539.70	. . . 555.90 . . . 572.70
Pan Room Attendant ., ,, , ,491.40 . , . 506.10 . . . 521.40
77
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11192
IX	• CENTRIFUGALS P.H. Extension Centrifugal
Operator............... 502.20
P.H. Centrifugal Operator .. 502.20
X	• FINISHING
Powder Mill Operator.... 520,50
Granulator Operator..... 502.20
XI	- PACKAGING
Package Machine Operator Grade I	515,70
H.S. Weigher.............515.70
Bundler t^a^tr...........515.70
Transwrap Machine Operator 515.70
S.I.G. Operator......	515.70
Package Machine Operator
■Grade II ..............499.20
Cube Machine Operator . . . 499.20
Granulated 20/1's....... 499.20
Delta Seal.............. 499.20
5/4's Rotary ........... 499.20
Triangle................ 499.20
Eagle Scale Operator.... 499.20
Individual Services..... 499,20
Package Utility Man..... 475.50
Labourer .............   470.40
Pickers................. 470.40
Sept 1/93
.517.20
.517.20
,536.10
517.20
.531.30
.531.30
.531.30
.531.30
.531.30
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.514.20
.489.90
.484.50
.484,50
XII • WAREHOUSE AND SHIPPING
(P) Fork Lift Driver ... 506.40	...521.70
(P/Relief Fork Lift Driver ...	479.70	.. .494.10
CarPiler................. 474.00	...488.10
Car liner .............. 484.50	...499.20
Labourer-Palletker Operator	475.50	...489.90
Labourer................ 470.40	. . .484.50
Sera 1/94
532.80
532.80
.552.30
.532.80
.547.20
.547.20
.547.20
.547.20
.547.20
. 529.50 .529,50 .529.50 .529.50 . 529.50 . 529.50 .529.50 .529.50 .504.60 . 499.20 . 499.20
. .537.30 .. 508.80 .. 502.80 . .513.90 . .504.60 . .499.20
78
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Sept 1/93
XIII - MISCELLANEOUSClassifications
(P) Tester -Grade I ......492.90	... 507.60
Tester Grade II ........  479.70	. . , 494.10
Stockman (per week).......479.05 ...493.42
Storekeeper (per week) ...500.72	...515.75
Truck Driver ..........   475.20	... 489.60
Fork Truck Driver (Stores) ..506.40 ...521.70
Elevator Operator.........474.30	... 488.40
Insecticide Sprayer.......471.60	...485.70
Labour Pool ............. 475.50 ... 489.90
Truck Loader..............475.50	...489.90 .
Warehouse Cleaning
Machine Operator ....... 479.70 ,,. 494.10 ,
General Labour ...........470.40	...484.50 .
Gate House Clerk..........452.03	. .. 465.59 .
Labour (probationary period) . 456.90 . . . 470.70 . Packers (probationary period) 456.90 . . . 470.70 .
Housekeepers..............470.40	. . . 484.50 .
Summer Students...........365.70	. . . 376.80 .
xrv.
TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS
Cleric Typist...................367.84	...378.87	.
Cleric Typist (probation)	....352.88	...363.47	.
Sr. CierkTypIst.................398.21	... 410.16	.
Sr. ClerkTypist (probation)	.	. 381.81	. .. 393.26	.
Purchasing Clerk ...........417-45	. . . 429.98	.
Engineering Clerk............409.76	. . . 422.05	.
Inventory Clerk ...........  444*42	... 457-76	,
Eng. Technologist Grade I - .473.68 ...487.89 . Eng. TechnologistGrade II .455.65 ...469,32 . Eng. TechnologistGrade II
(probation)........... , , , . 445.83 , . . 459.20 .
Eng, Technologist -Grade III .419.22 ...431.80, Draftsman Grade I...........456.59 ...470,28 .
Nov 11/92
79
Sept 1/94
. 522.90 . 508.80 . 508.22 . 531.22 . 504.30 . 537.30 . 503.10 . 500.40 . 504.60 . 504.60
, 508.80 . 499.20 . 479.55 . 484-80 . 484.80 . 499.20 . 387.90
. 390.24 . 374.37 . 422.47 . 405.06 . 442.88 . 434.71 . 471.49 . 502.52 . 483.40
. 472.98 . 444.75 . 484-40
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov 11/92 Sept 1/93 Sept 1/94
Draftsman. Grade II	451.91 ., .465.47 _____479.43
lab Technician- Gradel ... 465.99 .. .479.97 .. -494-37
lab Technician.Grade II ..455.65 ...469.32  483.40
lab Technician - Grade II
(probation).............. 445.83 . .459.20 ... 472.98
labTechnician-Gradelll.. 423-46 ,,.436.16 ...449.25
80
OCTOBERS, 1990 APPENDIX B
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
81
APPENDIX B
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Interpretationof Article 9,2:
Temporary promotions and transfers of employees, made after the posting of shift schedules, will be the most senior employee on the applicable shift and department provided there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability.
Temporary promotions and transfers of employees, made before the posting of shift schedules will be the most senior employee in the applicable department provided that their be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability.
Notwithstanding the above, employees from the labour pool will continue to be used for temporary promotions and transfers to the Pan House Department, and Filter House and Melt House Department.
The Company will select senior employees for the purpose of training to ensure that senior employees are capable of providing the necessary relief for temporary assignments within the Department, provided there be equality of skill, efficiency and general ability. It is understood that the senior employee will not always be
83
available and therefore will not receive training on all jobs to ensure adequate relief coverage.
If there is a dispute, a committee of two union representatives and two management members will meet in order to resolve the difference. If an agreement cannot be reached an adjudicator from the Department of Labour will be called to settle the dispute and render a decision. The Company and Union will have the necessary time to present their cases.
84
APPENDIX C
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED GUIDELINES 12 HOUR SHIFTS POWER HOUSE
85
APPENDIX C
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED GUIDELINES
12 HOUR SHIFTS - POWER HOUSE
The 12 hour shift schedule applies only to the 7 day continuous operation of the power plant. It is not the intent that this agreement in any way improve or reduce existing wages and benefits cr significantly affect existing working hours on an annual basis. It is further understood that the implementation of the 12 hour shift must in no way hinder cr jeopardize the continuous operation of the power plant in supplying services to the Refinery.
1. Work Schedule/Hours of Work
The 12 hour shift will be based on a 4 day on, 4 day off schedule with the exception of those periods of the year when additional days off will be granted in order that employees continue to work 2080 straight
time hours including paid time off in a
normal calender year. These additional days off must be scheduled at a time agreeable to the Company and with sufficient advance notice to allow relief to be posted in the regular weekly posting. The
87
total number cf hours of work per week will vary depending on the shift schedule of the individual. Normal paid hours of work shall be 12 hours per day. Hours of work shall be from 7:00 am to 7:00 pm and from 7:00 pm to 7:00 am. . The normal work week for the relief man shall be 40 hours per week. This 40 hours shall consist of a combination of 12 hour and 8 hour shifts as required to provide relief for continuous shift people on time off.
By mutual agreement an employee on day work who in providing relief for 12 hour shifts and is required to work a 44 hour week shall receive 40 hours pay at regular rates and accumulate a half day off with pay. Accumulated days off must be scheduled at a time agreeable to the Company and with sufficient notice to be included in the weekly posting.
2. Overtime Provisions
Overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate shall only be paid:
a)	After 12 hours at regular rates of pay on any shift.
88
b)	After 40 hours have been worked in a weekly payroll period at regular rates when an employee is on day work only.
c)	For all time outside the posted hours. This shall not apply when an employee on day work is rescheduled to cover the absence of an employee on continuous shift.
d)	After 48 hours have been worked in a weekly payroll period at regular rates when an employee is on continuous shift operation, including those weeks in which a holiday falls.
e)	Article 13-2 (c) shall not apply to those on 12 hour continuous shift operation.
f)	Pay for all unscheduled hours worked by Stationary Engineers on Sunday will be at double time.
3, Premium Pay
When an employee is required to work on one of the holidays listed in Article 10 of the agreement he shall be paid as outlined in Article 13,3(b) in the existing agreement, (with the exception that the rate of two and one half times will become two times and the rate cf three times will become two and one half times. This will
89
ensure that the employee receives the same number of premium hours of pay as were received in the original agreement for holiday pay), The holiday shall be considered to begin at 700 am on the day of the holiday and extend to 7.00 am on the day immediately following the holiday for those persons working the 12 hour shift.
The existing shift differentials would be combined to provide a 70 cent per hour shift differential for night shift (700 pm to 700 an).
4,	Bereavement Leave
Bereavement Leave will be as per Article 14(2) except that each 12 hour shift will account for 1 1/2 days. When leave of 5 full days is applicable 4 consecutive 12 hour shifts will be granted, and when leave of 1 day is applicable one 12 hour shift will be granted.
5,	Payment for Holidays
Article 10,4(b) will be applied in determining payment for holidays and one days pay will be calculated on the basis of 12 hours for a day.
90
6.	General
It is understood that the availability cf relief personnel to cover absentees is critical to the success c£ the 12 hour shift. Employees who will not be able to report for work at their scheduled time call in to the foreman on duty as early as possible. Under normal circumstances this call should be made no later than 4 hours prior to the scheduled time for reporting to work. It is also understood that those people on time off must show a willingness when contacted to report for relief work. Any difficulty in providing adequate relief personnel will require an immediate return to the historical 8 hour shift schedule.
7.	Return to 8 Hour Shift
The Company retains at all times the right to return to 8 hour shift schedule. The Company will as well respond to a written request by the Union to return to the 8 hour shift schedule.
8.	Payroll Period
Ebr those employees on 12 hour shift the payroll week will end on 7:00 am Sunday. The total number of accumulated hours per week for the operators will vary de-
91
pending on the actual hours worked according to the shift schedule. The number of regular paid hours will be 40 hours per week.
92
APPENDIX D
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE POLICY
93
94
APPENDIX D
EDUCATIONAL LEAVE POLICY
Purpose: To provide an opportunity for employees to have educational leave and retain their seniority.
Guidelines:
1)	Written request will be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor at least two (2) months prior to the requested date of leave. The written request will include the following information: the course sub ject with a brief explanation of the curriculum, starting and finishing dates of the course, and the name of the accredited educational institution.
Approval of such request will depend on the Company’s ability to replace the employee.
2)	A maximum of five (5) employees at any time may be on educational leave. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number to one employee per classification.
3)	The leave must be for no less than three (3) months and no longer than twelve (12) months. An employee will be granted
95
educational leave only three (3) times during their career.
4)	The full premium (Company and employee share) of health, dental and life insurance coverage must be paid on a monthly basis by the employee.
5)	Employee contributions to the Pension Plan will be owed on their return to work and will be deducted from their pay cheque during the following year.
6)	Vacations and Statutory Holidays will not accrue during the period of leave.
7)	Only employees with two (2) years cr more of seniority will be eligible to apply for educational leave.
8)	Employees will retain their seniority during the period of leave and upon their return will be assigned to the position they held when educational leave started. Vacancies created by an educational leave will be filled by a temporary assignment.
96
APPENDIX E
CONTINUOUS SCHEDULE
97
APPENDIX E
CONTINUOUS SCHEDULE
This Letter of Understanding contains the condition under which continuous schedule will be implemented and administrated.
The minimum duration ac period of continuous operation shall be three(3) months.
Initiation of the continuous operation schedule will be by mutual agreement each time it is to be implemented.
Designated ‘continuous operators” would not be laid off during normal maintenance shutdowns of twodays duration ,oremergency maintenance of up to three days duration. Normal lay off policies would apply for all other conditions.
The following conditions will take precedence over other clauses contained elsewhere in the Collective Agreement.
If the continuous schedule goes less than three months duration then all workers on the schedule shall be paid in accordance to the Collective agreement.
99
WORK SCHEDULE\HOURS OF WORK
The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours divided into five (5) working days of eight (8) consecutive hours extending from Monday 0.01 A.M. to Sunday midnight.
All workers will have two consecutive days off per week.
Anyone required to work on an unscheduled Sunday will receive double time for all hours worked.
Shift schedules for the coming week for employees working continuous schedule shall be posted by 3:30 p.m, on Thursday cf the current week.
OVERTIME COMPUTATION
In computing overtime the following definitions shall apply:
a)	The base rates are defined as those rates which appear in the Schedule of Wage Rates attached to and forming part of the Collective Agreement.
b)	The regular rate is defined as the base rate of the classification plus the shift differential applicable to the shift worked as specified in this Letter of Understanding.
100
OVERTIME
Overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate shall be paid:
a)	After eight (8) hours at regular rate of pay on any shift.
b)	After eight (8)hours have been worked at regular rates in any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight.
c)	After forty (40) hours have been worked at regular rates in a weekly payroll period. When one cr more holidays referred to in this Letter of Understanding occurs during the weekly payroll period, overtime at the above rates shall be paid after the remaining hours at regular pay have been worked.
d)	For all time worked outside the posted hours. This shall not apply to relief workers whose relief job requires them to move from one shift to another during the week, nor shall it apply in a reduction of the work week to not less than 32 hours.
e)	Any employee who works six (6) days in the work week, shall be paid one and one-half time his regular rate of pay for
101
the first eight hours worked and two times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked beyond eight hours that 6th day. On the seventh (7) day worked in the week employees will receive two times their regular rate for all hours worked.
f)	Employees wishing to change shifts may do so provided they obtain permission from their respective supervisors and there is no cost cr penalty to the Company.
SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
All employees working on evening and night shift shallbe paid a shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m, and a shift differential of sixty-five (65) cents per hour for all work on shifts starting between 10:00 p.m, and midnight.
BONUS DURING CONTINUOUS OPERATION
A bonus of $1.50 per hour will be paid for all hours worked from Monday to Friday. On Saturday and Sunday a bonus of $2.00 per hour will be paid for all hours worked. This bonus
102
shall be excluded from the calculation of overtime and premium pay.
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
The company shall observe the following holidays during the year:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Queen’s Birthday Dominion Day New Brunswick Day Easter Monday Christmas Period Holiday
All holidays shall always be observed on the first or last scheduled working day or days cf the week in which it falls.
The additional Christmas period holiday will be observed on December 31, 1992, December 31, 1993 and December 27, 1994.
The Company will endeavour not to schedule work on Christmas Day.
PREMIUM PAY FOR STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
When an employee is required to work on one of the holidays listed in this Letter of Understanding, he/she shall be paid at two and
Labour Day Thanksgiving Remembrance Day Christmas Day December 26th December 24th
103
one-halftimes the regular rate of pay for all time worked.
However, when an employee is required to work on Good Friday, Labour Day or Christmas Day, he/she shall be paid at three times the regular rate for all time worked.
NO PYRAMIDING
Not withstanding the above provisions regarding payment of overtime and premium pay, it is agreed that under any circumstances where overtime cr premium pay exists, only the highest of the two shall apply and there shall be no pyramiding of these rates.
104
APPENDIX F
TRADESMEN
105
APPENDIX F
TRADESMEN
a)	Offer a development program to provide the necessary training to update or learn these new skills.
b)	A pre-apprentice training program will be offered to those employees wishing to pursue a career in the trades.
c)	No current regular tradesmen will lose their job because of trade flexibility and dual ticketing. In the event of a lay-off in a trade classification,work which was previously performed under the historical trade assignment by that classification will not be done by another trade.
d)	Dual Ticketing
The Company will extend, to tradesmen classified as Electrician, Instrument Mechanic, Pipefitter, Welder and Mechanic the support needed to attend Block Release training. Employees with more than ten (lO)years remaining to retirement will be accepted in this program,The number of candidates will be subject to maintenance staffing needs.
107
As an apprentice, the candidate’sperfor-mance will be reviewed semi-annually until his successful completion of the apprenticeship program. Failure to pass the department cf Advanced Education and Labour test cr to meet expected practical experience progress may mean the immediate discontinuance of the candidate’s participation to the apprenticeship program.
e) DESCRIPTION
In addition to refinery historical work assignments the following trade tasks have been agreed upon;
-	setting up of staging to two l ifts by all trades.
-	rigging work by all trades to the extent necessary to maintain equipment within their trade. Special training will be given to certain individuals for heavy or unusual rigging. The Rigger classification will be eliminated by attrition.
-	heating, burning, and tack welding by all trades to the extent necessary to maintain equipment within their trade.
108
minor painting by all trades for the purpose of properly completing trade tasks assigned. Field painting will be limited to corrosion protecting touch-up. Shop rebuilds cr new fabrications may include primer and finish coat.
piping and tubing by trades other than pipefitters to the extent necessary to maintain equipment within their trade. Mechanics will also continue to be expected to re move and replace piping and fittings.
PLC and DCS installation, replacement servicing and troubleshooting by both Electricians and Instrument Mechanics regardless of the application.
The agreement signed June 10, 1991 concerning the work pitformed by the tradesmen at the Saint John Refinery is hereby extended to the end of this collective agreement.
109