SOURCE			i a.	■—"i — •
irfY	fife			ft
TERM.	7	7		
EMPLOYEES			k3l>'	
NOMERE D’EMPIOYES				if.
CONVENTION COLLECTIVE 1996-1999 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1996-1999
TUAC
UPON
LOCAL 766P
UNION INTERNATIONALE DES TRAVAILLEURS ET TRAVAILLEUSES UNIS DE L’ALIMENTATION ET DU COMMERCE, CTC, FAT-COI UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION,CLC,A Fi,-CIO
Kraft Canada Inc
Usinede LaSalle/ LaSalle Plant LaSalle, Quebec
CONVENTION
COLLECTIVE
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
ENTRE
BETWEEN
KRAFT CANADA INC.	KRAFT CANADA INC.
LASALLE, QUEBEC	LASALLE, QUEBEC
ET
AND
L'UNION INTERNATIONALE DES TRAVAILLEURS UNIS DE L'ALIMENTATION ET DE COMMERCE
SECTION LOCALE 766P (FAT-COI, CTC, FTQ)
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 766P (AFL-CIO, CLC, QFL)
1996 - 1999
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	Recognition................................................................3
2.	Bargaining Unit............................................................3
3.	Management.................................................................4
4.	Union Security.............................................................4
5.	Grievance Procedure........................................................5
6.	Arbitration...............................................................10
7.	Paid Plant Holidays.......................................................12
8.	Rest Periods..............................................................14
9.	Meal Periods..............................................................15
10.	Tool Allowance for Trade Employees........................................17
11.	Working Clothes...........................................................18
12.	Appearance in Court.......................................................18
13.	Licenses..................................................................18
14.	Health and Safety.........................................................19
15.	Union Notices.............................................................21
16.	Absence with Pay..........................................................22
17.	Vacations.................................................................24
18.	Normal working hours, overtime and working schedules (5-2 & 3-2-2)........26
19.	Minimum Recompense........................................................30
20.	Benefits..................................................................34
21.	Wages and Job Rate Rules..................................................35
22.	Shift Premiums............................................................38
23.	Seniority.................................................................39
24.	Notice of Lay-off.........................................................47
25.	Leaves of Absence.........................................................48
26.	No Strike or lockouts...................................................., ,50~
27.	Duration of Agreement.................................................50
Memorandum of interpretation	""
- Distribution of Overtime.....................................i......52
Employment Security Plan..................................................57
Appendix "A" - Hourly Wage Rates..........................................60
Appendix "B" - Laboratory.................................................61
Appendix "C" - Benefit Plans..............................................62
1)	Extended Health Plan...............................................62
2)	Dental Plan........................................................70
3)	Life Insurance.....................................................75
4)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.......................79
5)	Non-Occupational Accident and Sickness Disability Plan (weekly indemnities)81
6)	Long Term Disability (LTD).........................................85
7)	Retirement Plan....................................................88
Letter of agreement - Pension Committee...................................94
Letter of agreement - Committee to study a new working schedule...........95
Letter of agreement - Temporary replacement of supervisors................96

AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
KRAFT CANADA INC.
LASALLE, QUEBEC
and/or its Successor
Hereinafter called "the Company"
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION affiliated with the A,F, ofL.-C.I.O,, The Canadian Labour Congress (C.L.C.), and the Quebec Federation of Labour (Q.F.L.) on behalf of Local 766P
and/or its Successor.
Hereinafter called "the Union".
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties of this contractjoin together in the following Agreement.
2
^RTICl E 1 - RECOGNITION
1.1	The company recognizes the Union as the Sole collective bargaining agency in regard to rates of pay, hours of work, and such other working conditions and provisions as are included in this Agreement for the bargaining Unit, as defined in Article 2 - Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization on natters affecting these employees during the tarn of this Agreement.
1.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "President of the Union" refers to the actual president of the Union or his designated representative.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Bargaining Unit is composed of all the employees below the rank of foreman, in the employ of the Company, at its plant in LaSalle, Quebec, as hereunder defined.
The term "employees" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include all the employees directly or indirectly attached to production, including employees in receiving, shipping, delivery, maintenance, stationary engineers, plant service employees, janitors and machine cleaners as well as all laboratory personnel, including technicians, Quality Control Microbiologists, employees within the meaning of the Labour Code but excluding office employees, control and development employees, watchmen and guards, Maintenance Work Clerk as well as Quality Control and Technical Services Managers, Quality Control Supervisors, and Quality Control Chemists.
The term "employee(s) on probation" is used for the purpose of seniority only in this Agreement, as defined in Article 23, section23.2.
2.2	Work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, (but not excluding new jobs associated with existing or new operations related to, or under the scope of Section 2,1 of this Article), shall not be done on the plant premises by persons excluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purpose of experimental development, non-manual work in connection with audits, on the job training or instruction of employees, or in cases of emergency (2.3 below), or by subcontracting (2.4 below).
2.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "emergency" is understood to mean an Act of God, catastrophe, disaster or any reason of a similar nature and unanticipated conditions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to persons or property.
3
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING IJNTI (cont'd)
2.4	In accordance with 2.2 above, it is understood that the Company may need to occasionally subcontract work, but the Company agrees that there shall be no hiring of sub-contractors to ppyfrrm such work on the plant premises before informing the union where:
1)	The work can be performed by bargaining unit employees, (e.g. appropriate skills, availability of personnel).
2)	Necessary equipment or tools to p=rfirm the work are available at the plant.
3)	Such work can be performed by bargaining unit employees within required time limits. The tram "bargaining unit employees" in the foregoing shall mean to include employees on lay-off.
2.5	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement is considered also to include the feminine. ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off, termination, retirement, reprimand, suspension, or discharge of employees or just cause, is vested solely in the hfanagarmt of the Company. The exercise of such functions is not subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of the Agreement.
3.2	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influence, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union, its officers and stewards, or against any present and prospective member of the Union.
3.3	It continues to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against or intimidate employees because of religious, political or Union beliefs, race, colour, creed, nationality or sex.
3.4	Throughout this Agreement the term "Plant Manager" refers to the actual Plant Manager or his duly designated representative.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.1	All employees who after the anniversary date of this Agraarait are members of the Union (in accordance with its constitution and by-laws) and all employees who become members after such period must, as a condition of employment, maintain their membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Agreement or its renewal continues in force.
4
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY (cont’d)
The Company agrees to deduct each week from earnings due and payable to each employee coming within the scope of the bargaining unit as defined in Article 2.1 of this collective agreement, the regular weekly union dues and to remit such deduction, together with a list of all employees for whom such deductions have been made and indicating the name of those who have not paid their union dues to the Financial Secretary of Local 766P, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. The weekly union dues deducted are remitted during the week which follows the deductions.
Any union dues payable and not processed through payroll deductions because the employee has no earnings at the time the deductions are made is claimed and collected by the Union directly from the employee.
4.3	The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union Membership Card, to deduct from the earnings of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement the initiation fee due from him to Local 766P, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union and to remit the amount so deducted to the Union at the time of the next remittance of weekly union dues. Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union are deducted at source for all members of the Union who have earnings due and payable at the time of the deduction upon proper notification from the Union.
4.4	The Company is not responsible financially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee, for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittance. However, in any instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from an employee's earnings, the Company adjusts it directly with the employee.
In the event of any mistake by the Company in the amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjust the amount in a subsequent remittance. The Company's liability for any or all amounts deducted pursuant to the provisions in this Article shall terminate at the time it remits the amounts payable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
4,2 a)
b)
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5,1	a) Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements, dissatisfactions, differences or alleged grievances pertaining to any reprimand, warning or any disciplinary measure whatsoever of employee(s), arising out of the provisions of this Agreement.
5
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCFDI IRF (cont’d)
5.1	b) The Company shall notify the President and Recording Secretary of the Union in
writing within one (1) working day from the date the employee is notified in writing of hris suspension or discharge. The written notice to the employee shall specify the reasons for his suspension or discharge. If the employee believes that he has been unjustly laid-off, suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a member of the Grievance Committee, within five (5) working days, or any other mutually agreed time period, from the date that the official written notice was given to the President of the Union. The grievance procedure in these cases shall begin at the Second Step of the Grievance Procedure no later than five (5) working days from the date that the written grievance is received by the Department Manager, after which it can be submitted by either party to the subsequent steps of the Grievance Procedure.
For the purpose of Article 5, Section 5,1 b), and Article 6, Section 6,6, the terms "laid-off or "lay-off shall also be understood to mean and include the case of any employee who believes that he was not recalled, in accordance with Article 23 -Seniority, of this Agreement.
c) The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months (i.e. the second week of March, June, September and December) by the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager. If, after nine (9) months from the date of the warning letter or disciplinary note, there has been no need for a further warning letter or disciplinary note for the same offence, the warning letter or disciplinary note will be removed from the employee's record. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum,
5.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect, and the Company to recognize Stewards (one for every Foreman) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments in the Company's plant.
A list of these Stewarts shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised by the Union as soon as possible of any change in this list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Foremen and Supervisors and the department to which they are attached. The Union shall be advised by the Company as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
6
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont’d)
5.3	The Union also agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with grievances which may not be settled in the first or second steps described in Section 5,4 below. This Grievance Committee will not exceed four (4) in number including the President of the Union. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any changes in this list vziihin five (5) work days of such changes.
5.4	Since the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible, grievances should be submitted as soon as possible.
Therefore neither the Company or the Union shall be required to recognize a grievance submitted by an employee after thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed from the date of the incident, or after some further period with the consent of both parties.
The above time limit shall not apply in those instances where the grievance involves an error in the computation of an employee's pay.
For the purpose of this Article, the term "work days" is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, except for departments which are operating on a seven (7) day continuous operation basis, in which case work days, for the First Step of the Grievance Procedure only, shall mean those days when the Steward or officer of the Union and the Department foreman are at work.
If an employee believes he has a grievance, he should report the grievance at once in the manner described hereafter.
The aggrieved employee or employees may also be present during the above three steps of the Grievance Procedure, or if desired, by either party,
With the consent of both parties, the delays mentioned hereafter can be extended.
Failure of the Union to notify the Company in accordance with the procedure hsted below, 'the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of that decision, and shall not be subject to further proceeding.
7
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont’d)
5.4	Grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the following manner.
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved employee with the Steward, and the Foreman of the Department in which the employee works - or - between the Steward and the Foreman. The Foreman shall meet the aggrieved employee and the Steward within two (2) hours from such request.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
The Union will notify the Company of its intention to appeal firm the decision given in the First Step by submitting the grievance in writing to the Manager of the Department or his duly designated replacement within two (2) full work days.
The Company has two (2) full work days, following the Union's decision to appeal, to proceed at the Second Step.
SECOND STEP
Between the President of the Union, with or without the Steward, and one other officer of the Union and the Manager of the Department, the Supervisor and/or the Foreman with or without the Industrial Relations Manager, or his representative. Grievances presented at this step shall be in writing.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
The Union will notify the Company of its intention to appeal from the decision given in the Second Step within five (5) full work days.
The Company has five (5) full work days, following the Union's decision to appeal, to proceed at the Third Step.
8
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont'd)
5.4	THIRD STEP
Between the President of the Union with the Grievance Committee, with or without the Steward, and representatives of Management. A Representative of the Union may be present at such meeting.
The Company shall render its decision within five (5) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to Arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
5.5	It is understood that all meetings between Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance Committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee, and members of Management, for handling matters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, shall be scheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. In the event that such meeting are held during prevailing rate periods, the Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance Committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee affected shall be paid the prevailing rate, i.e., the rate the employee would have been paid had he been at work. The above provisions shall also be paid to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspension or who has been discharged), or any employee who is required to attend such meetings as a witness with respect to the grievance.
5.6	Any grievances arising directly between the Union and the Company, instead of following the regular grievance procedure may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at the Third Step. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart from the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
5.7	A Union Steward may discuss with the Foreman of his department matters which may directly affect the welfare of his department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance.
In the absence of the Steward, the Union President may have such discussions wiih the Foreman. The Union Steward may be accompanied by the President of the Union in the event that either the Steward or the Foreman requests his presence. Snndar discussions may take place between a representative of the Union or an officer of the Union local and a representative of Management.
9
ARTICLE 5 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont'd)
5.8	The Union agrees that its Officers, Stewards and members shall not transact Union business during hours for which they are paid by the Company, except as provided by this Agreement. It is understood that a Steward, or in his absence an Officer, is expected to assist in the adjustment of grievances as provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union business falling under the scope of the Agreement. In order to prevent disruptions to the regular work, the Steward, or in his absence an officer, will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements so that he can be reheved from his job (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but within one (1) hour. In accordance with the foregoing, if a Steward, or in his absence an Officer of the Union, needs to have a discussion with an employee in another department about a grievance, he will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements with the Foreman of the other department so that he can visit that department.
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION
6.1	Any grievance which has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled, and which involves the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referred by either party to Arbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) days following the meeting referred to in the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure,
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the other party in writing and by registered mail. For the purpose of this clause, the date appearing on this registered mail shall be considered to be the date that the grievance has been fiVgi for the purpose of Arbitration. Where a grievance is submitted to arbitration by the Union, the notice of arbitration is sent to the Industrial Relations Manager.
At the request of officials of either the Company or the Union a grievance which has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting between the respective representatives of the parties. The object of the clause is to give the parties an opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance prior to Arbitration.
6.2	Each grievance filed for Arbitration will be assigned in rotation order to one of the following Arbitrators :
Marc Gravel Franyois Hamelin Andre Sylvestre Richard Marcheterre
10
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION (cont'd)
6.3	The Arbitrator shall hear the case within three (3) weeks of his appointment and render his decision within three (3) weeks of the date of the last hearing. These time limits may be extended by agreement between both parties or at the discretion of the Arbitrator if he deems it necessary.
6.4	The decision rendered by the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon ail parties concerned.
6.5	The Arbitrator shall be limited to the consideration of the matter submitted to Mrrv and shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall not have the effect, in any way whatsoever, to alter, add, substitute, modify or change any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Subject to the foregoing, and providing that the grievance is referred to an Arbitrator in accordance with Section 6.1, neither party shall prevent the Arbitrator from hearing the real matter in dispute and the giving of a decision.
6.6	In the case referred to in Article 5, Section 5,1 b), the decision of the Arbitrator shall be governed by the following rules: as agreed between the Union and the Company
The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement and with full compensation for all time lost from the date that the employee was laid-off, suspended or discharged.
The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with partial compensation for time lost as determined by the Arbitrator, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator with no compensation whatsoever for time lost, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
The decision of Management related to said lay-off, suspension or dismissal of the employee to be upheld by the Arbitrator.
It is understood that time lost will be computed on the basis of a normal work week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, including those of its representatives.
a)
b)
c)
d)
11
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS
7.1
The following paid plant holidays are observed:
1996
New Year’s Day Day after New Year Good Friday Victoria Day StJean-Baptist’s Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Christmas Boxing Day Floater Floater Floater
1997 Jan. 1 Jan. 2 March 2$ May 20	May 19
June 24	June 24
July 1 June 30 sept. 2	sept. 1
Oct 14	Oct. 13
Dec. 25	Dec. 25
Dec. 26	Dec. 26
Dec. 27	Dec. 29
Dec. 30	Dec. 30
Dec. 31	Dec. 31
1998 Jan. 1 Jan. 2 April 10 May 18 June 24 June 29 sept. 7 Oct. 12 Dec. 25 Dec. 28 Dec. 29 Dec. 30 Dec. 31
1999 Jan. 1 Jan. 4 April 2 May 17
The date for the observance of the three (3) floaters will be agreed upon from year to year between the Company and the Union
It is agreed that on the work days immediately preceding Christmas Day and New Year's Day, that is, the eve of Christmas Day and New Year's Day, the regular schedule of hours for these days shall not exceed four (4) hours, except for the night shift.
7.2	If a paid plant holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding such Saturday or the Monday following such Sunday, and if Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday following such Monday shall be observed, and if the Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday preceding such Friday shall be observed as a substitute holiday for all employees covered by this Agreement.
7.3	An employee is entitled to holiday pay for each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 7.1, whether or not he works on such holidays, providing that:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which the holiday occurs, or
ii)	he is laid-off as of the Friday immediately preceding the Monday holiday and works on that Friday, or
iii)	he has received a minimum of 26 pay cheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occurs, and
iv)	such paid plant holiday(s) is observed during his period of employment.
12
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PI .ANTH OLID AYS (cont'd)
7.3	However he shall forfeit his holiday pay if:
1)	He has agreed to work on the hohday and fails to do so, unless he informs the Company that he does not want to work the holiday at least fortyeight (48) hours ahead of his scheduled starting time.
2)	He is absent from work on either his regular scheduled work day immediately preceding or his regular scheduled work day immediately following the paid holiday, unless such absence is excused by the Company, is due to sickness, leave of absence, or circumstances beyond his control.
The Company will advise the President of the Union of those cases where hohday pay has been forfeited. If an employee beheves that he has been unjustly denied hohday pay, he shall submit his grievance through the regular Grievance Procedure.
Note 1: If an employee is not at work during the week when a paid plant holiday(s) is observed, but qualifies under Article 7.3 (iii), he will be paid hohday pay in accordance with the following:
a)	If qualified prior to the holiday (s) the rate of pay he was receiving during his last week of work.
b)	If qualified and paid retroactively - the rate he received on his initial return to work.
Note 2:	The following cheques will be counted:
A regular pay cheque A Sick Benefit cheque
An LTD cheque within the initial 18-month LTD period.
A Vacation or percentage cheque.
A CSST payment.
7.4	An employee assigned to a regular schedule 5-2 who does not work on a paid hohday is paid eight (8) hours or the number of hours on his daily schedule, at his regular rate. An employee assigned to continuous operations 3-2-2 (relay worker) who, according to his regular schedule, is on a day off during a paid holiday, is paid twelve (12) hours at his regular rate.
If an employee works on a paid hohday, he is paid for that hohday based on a minimum of eight (8) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and twelve (12) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule as defined in Section 7,3 or the number of hours actually worked, whichever is greater. In addition, he is paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked on the paid holiday.
13
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS (cont'd)
7.4	In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled first day off, he is paid an additional half-time (1/2) his regular rate for all hours worked.
In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled second day off, he is paid an additional regular rate for all hours worked.
7.5	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan receives holiday pay in lieu of Sick Benefit payments in the event that paid plant holiday(s) falls during this absence.
An employee who is eligible to receive LTD payments is paid the difference between the LTD payment and holiday pay in the event that the paid plant holiday(s) falls during his absence within the initial 18-month LTD period.
Paid holidays falling during the absence of an employee who is eligible to receive payments under the CSST, is paid in accordance with Section 7.3
7.6	Article 21 - Wages and Job Rate Rules, determines the hourly rates which apply for computing holiday pay.
ARTTCLR 8 - REST PERIODS
8.1	The Company shall grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes during the first half of the shift and fifteen (15) minutes during the second half of the shift, not exceeding 30 minutes before or after the regular meal period entitlement.
8.2	Employees who work more than one (1) hour overtime are granted a fifteen (15) minutes rest period at the regular quitting time. The same rest period is granted to employees starting more than one (1) hour before their regular shift. Entitlement for subsequent fifteen (15) minute rest periods is established by every two (2) hours of work thereafter, and in accordance with the posted schedules of entitlement.
8.3	All employees shall be given ten (10) minutes before quitting time to wash up and change clothes.
14
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS
9.	la) Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to an unpaid meal period of thirty (30) minutes after having completed five (5) hours of work. Time off for such meal period is scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours from his regular scheduled starting time, except for employees covered in the next paragraph below and where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods is in accordance with the posted schedules.
Employees who are relieved at their job during meal periods shall take their meal break between the following hours, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production.
Day drift 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
Evening shift 4:00 p.m, to 6:30 p.m.
Night shift 3:00 a.m. to 5:30 a.m.
b)	Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule
An employee assigned to continuous operations (relay worker) is entitled to two (2) paid meal periods of thirty (30) minutes distributed conveniently on the work shift, in order to avoid spoilage or loss of production. The meal periods are distributed according the following schedule:
MEAL	DAY SHIFT 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.	NIGHT SHIFT 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
1" meal-30 minutes 2nd meal-30 minutes	between 10:30 a.m. & 1:00 p.m. between 4:00 p.m. & 6:30 p.m.	between 10:30 p.m. & 1:00 a.m. between 4:00 a.m. & 6:30 a.m.
9.2	a) Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a second meal period if he works more than one (1) hour after his regular quitting time. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules such meal period to take place as soon as possible after one (1) hour has elapsed from his regular scheduled quitting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a second meal period when he starts. to work more than one (I) hour before his regular starting time. The Company allows him. thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules such meal period to take place immediately before his regular scheduled time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
15
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (suite)
9.2	b) Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a third meal period if he works more than one (1) hour after his regular end of shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules this neal period so that the employee can take it as soon as possible one (1) hour after his regular end cf shift, except if this could cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a third meal period when he starts work more than one (1) hour before the beginning of his regular shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules this meal period so that the employee can take it immediately before the beginning of his regular starting time according to his schedule, except if this could cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
9.3	a)Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9.2). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
b) Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9.2b)). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completing four (4) hours of work but no later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
16
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (cont'd)
9.4	An employee is entitled to a meal period of thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate after having completed five (5) hours of work on his non-scheduled day. Time off for such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours of work from his starting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production, and in accordance with posted schedules of entitlement. For employees who are relieved at their job during meal periods, the meal break schedule provided at 9.1 a) and b) shall apply. For subsequent meal periods on non-scheduled days, the provisions of Section 9.3 a) and b) shall apply.
9.5	Subject to the foregoing provisions of the Article, The Company pays five dollars ($5.00) for a meal in the following instances:
a)	When an employee works more than one hour after his regular shift or begins to work more than one (1) hour before his regular shift.
b)	When an employee has been informed on the day before he works an unscheduled day, that his work on the unscheduled day will not exceed five (5) hours, but during the day in question he is asked to work and does work more than five (5) hours, such will be construed to mean that he has worked after his scheduled quitting time for the purpose of meal allowance.
9.6	Section 9.4 does not apply to employees working on continuous operations. These employees nust remain available during these meal periods.
ARTICLE 10 - TOOT, ALLOWANCE FOR TRADE EMPLOYEES
10.1	Regular trade employees of the maintenance department employees are entitled to the following annual tool allowance as long as they possess at least one year's seniority. This allowance is payable at the beginning of the calendar year to the employee who has the tools required by the Company for this trade.
Effective January 1, 1997 - $180.00 Effective January 1, 1998 - $200.00 Effective January 1, 1999 - $210.00
A newly hired employee must complete one (1) year of service to be eligible for this allowance. After the date of his first anniversary, he will receive the annual allowance for the current year, and the portion of the allowance for the previous year on a pro-rata basis for full months of service.
An employee absent fern work at the time of payment, will receive the complete allowance for the year in which he returns to work.
ARTICLE 11 - WORKING CLOTHES
11.1	The Company shall launder and furnish all uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which may be required for work in cold or wet areas.
JSiZl such working clothes issued by the Company to employes remains the property of the Company and employees are held accountable for the return of such property to the Company.
A Committee comprised of Union and Management representatives make recommendations on the style of uniforms and the Safety Committee shall make recommendations on the safety of clothing furnished by the Company.
11.2	The Company contributes:
Effective January 1, 1997 - $105.00 Effective January 1, 1999 - $115.00
towards the cost of safety shoes and/or boots purchased by employees for their personal use. Exceptions to the number of pairs of safety shoes and/or boots per year is in accordance with past practice.
Any unused portion of the current calendar year's allowance may be carried over to the following calendar year. He is entitled to the full annual allowance if he works during the calendar year. An employee is entitled to use this allowance if he is at work.
ARTICLE 12 - APPEARANCE IN COURT
12.1	The Company makes up the difference between the employee's wage rate and the amount he is paid by the Government during the time he is required to be away on jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in court.
ARTICLE H - LICENSES
13.1	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses required in the performance of their duties.
18
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
14.1	The Company and the Union recognize that the participation of employees is essential for the prevention of accidents and to this effect agree to closely cooperate for the realization of this objective as follows:
14.1a) The Company shall continue to make appropriate provisions for the safety and health of its employees during hours of work, including,
1)	set-up, inspect and maintain work areas in order to maintain safe working conditions;
2)	inform employees of the risks related to their work and safety precautions to take;
3)	analyze and investigate events which have caused occupational accidents;
4)	Up-date the information and training program for the identification of hazardous materials;
5)	provide employees with personal protective equipment, such as safety glasses with or without prescription, when required by the Company by the jobs as per Company policy and replaces it when necessary. The employees must return to the Company the personal protective equipmentto be replaced.
6)	ensure that all employees receive proper training necessary for the j ob in order not to put their health, safety and physical integrity, and of other employees, in danger.
b)	The Company expects that all employees will meet their obligations as workers:	Each
employee must:
II)	become familiar with the prevention program which applies to him;
2)	take the necessary measures to protect his health and physical integrity;
3)	ensure not to place at risk the safety, security or physical integrity of other persons who are in the work areas or at proximity of the work areas;
4)	report to his supervisor, all accidents or injury which occur at work.
5)	undergo required health exams to conform to Ifcaliti & Safety A± and its regulations.
19
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
14.2	a) A Health & Safetyjoint committee created as pa* Health and Safety Act and formed as
per the disposition of the present paragraph meet at least once a month.
The CknnittEe is to be formed of four (4) Union representatives, elected or appointed by the Union, and four (4) management representatives appointed by the Plant Manager. One (1) of the four (4) Union representatives exercises the functions of Prevention Representative for who the functions are those indicated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations.
Alternatively, the co-presidents prepare and hold the Health and Safety meetings, coordinate the follow-up of safety recommendations, prepare and distribute the copies of the minutes of the meetings of the said committee to management and to stewards and officers of the Union.
b) The Central Health & Safetyjoint committee is responsible for the implementation of the mechanisms insuring participation of the employees and Insuring the follow-up as per the prevention program. The employees who participate in these activities are considered to be at work.
14.3	An employee victim of an occupational disease suffers no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he requires medical treatment if as a result of such occupational disease he is sent home or to the hospital of his choice by the medical department or a Company representative. In any case the Company assumes the transportation cost.
14.4	In order to insure that the employee meet the standards of personal physical fitness established by the Company and he comply with the specific programs anticipated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations, the Company can request a physical examination given by the Company Physician, at Company expense, or request a medical certificate from the employee’s Physician of his choice.
Employees who are working on a shift other than day shift by their own choice are paid their regular rates when they are required to have such examinations before their regular starting time or after their regular quitting time.
14.5	The Company may transfer, require a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employee who, in it’s belief, does not meet the normal and usual physical requirements of the job as evidenced by the written medical certificate issued by the Company’s physician .This action will be taken by the Company only after reasonable effort of accommodation has been made to provide employment.
In the event of disagreement between the employee’s physician and the Company’s physician interpretation relative to the employee’s physical condition, the Employer may referred to a third recognized medical authority before final decision.
20
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
14.6	In consideration of the nature of the Company's business, the Union recognizes the need for maintaining high standards of sanitation and employee health in accordance with Federal and Provincial laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and procedures pertaining to the foregoing. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union any changes to pohcies and procedures as they affect employees before implementing such changes.
14.7	a) When the Employer exercises it’s right, as per the Workmen's Compensation and
Occupational Disease A±, to assign an employee on a temporary assignment following an occupational disease, the assignment will be determined on an individual basis as per the employee's physical capacities, the Company business needs, and according to the opinion of the attending physician.
b)	A copy of the temporary assignment, following an occupational disease, will be given to the Prevention Representative within 48 hours.
c)	These temporary assignments are not subjectto the posting procedure and are not eligible for overtime work.
14.8	The employee, for whom there was consolidation, must return to his regular job. The employee, for whom there was consolidation but who has a permanent medical restriction, submits a bid on a permanent job available which he is capable of doing in respect with the recommendations of the Company physician in consultation with the Health and Safety Committee, without contravention to the posting procedure. ThLs job could be given to the employee due to particular circumstances independently of the seniority after reaching agreement between the Union and the Company.
14.9	Any grievance related to this article is referred directly to the third step.
ARTICLE L5 - UNION NOTICES
15.1	The Union President shall have the right to post on notice boards, bulletins pertaining to meetings of the Union, election of officers, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
21
ARTICLE 16 - ABSENCE WITH PAY
16.1	Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lost during the period between the death and up to and including five (5) days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and including three (3) days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraphs b), c) and d),
1a)	five (5) days' pay in the case of the death of an employee's child and/or cf the spouse
who resided in a marital relationship with the employee.
b) three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparents of the employee and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
c)	three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of the parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters of the spouse who resides in a marital relationship with the employee.
d)	three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in a marital relationship with a child of the employee.
In the case where there would be interment of the ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date of the interment of the ashes.
16.2	Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule
An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lost during the period between the death and up to and including three (3) twelve (12) hour-working days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and including two 0 twelve (12) hour-working days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraphs b), c) and d).
a) three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of an employee's child and/or the death of the spouse who resided in a marital relationship with the employee. b) two 0 days' pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparents of the employee and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
c) two (2) days' pay in the case of the death of the parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters of the spouse who resides in a marital relationship with the employee.
d)	two 0 days' pay in the case of the death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in a marital relationship with a child of the employee.
In the case where there would be interment of the ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date of the interment of the ashes.
22
ARTICLE 16 - ABSENCE WITH PAY (cont’d)
16.3	The above benefits shall not be implemented during sick leave, accident leave, or leave of absence. In the event that bereavement (as defined in Section 16.1 and 16.2 occurs during the vacation of an employee or during the Seasons Holiday, one day with pay will be added to his vacation period or to the Seasons Holiday.
16.4	On the occasion of the birth of his child or the adoption of a child other than a child of his spouse, the employee can obtain a leave from work up to five (5) days within the fifteen (15) days following the arrival of the child at the employee's home. Two (2) of these five (5) days shall be paid at the employee's regular hourly rate, for eight (8) hours each day for employees assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and for twelve (12) hours for employees assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule.
16.5	Effective as of January 1, 1998, an employee will be entitled to one (1) day of paid absence for personal reasons, hereby called a personal day, which will be paid at prevailing rate for eight (8) hours for employees assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and for twelve (12) hours for an employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule. This day is not cumulative and is non-reimbursable if not taken.
The employee must give the company advance notice of at least forty-eight (48) hours before the date he wishes to take this day, and approval be given unless reasonable argument presented. By reasonable argument is meant, for example, if a personal day given would cause interruption or serious delay of operations. This personal day cannot be taken with another paid holiday except during the Seasons Holiday.
23
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
17.1	Employees who have the required seniority and active employment requirements listed below are granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
Seniority Requirement	Active Employment Requirement	Length of Vacation	Computation of Vacation Pay
1 year	26 pay cheques in any 52 consecutive weeks measured from any point in the current calendar year	2 weeks	4% of wages earned in the previous calendar year tending December 3 1st
3 years	II ll ll	3 weeks	6% " "
10 years	ft II II	4 weeks	8% " "
20 years	!l II II	5 weeks	10% " "
25 years	II II II	6 weeks	12% " "
Note—lr An employee who meets the active employment requirement receives vacation pay based on the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendar year, but such payment shall not be less than the regular work week cf forty (40) hours, or the relay worker’s regular schedule of production at the employee's regular rate including his shift premium and three tenths (.3), meaning fifty hours and seyenty-fiye tenths (50.75). The relay worker's vacation pays are separated equally by the number of weeks he is admissible. Whether a vacation week is equal to twelve (12) days or whether it is equal to seven (7)days, it will have the same remuneration. Furthermore, for the relay workers, the vacation week will start and end at 7; 00 a.m. on Monday. The employee receives his vacation cheque on his regular pay-day preceding his vacation, except for vacation outside the shutdown unless a request has been made at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance.
Note 2: In cases or absences due to sickness and non-occupational accidents duly recognized by the Sick Benefit Plan or within the initial eighteen (18) month period of Long Term Disability, or duly certified by a physician, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an accident duly recognized by the CSST, the Company computes a regular normal work week in lieu of each week lost under the above mentioned instances for the purpose of calculating vacation pay.
Note 3; Receipt of Sick Benefit, the initial eighteen (18) months of LTD benefits, and twenty-four (24) months of Workmen's Compensation payments is considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques in fulfilling the active employment requirement, providing that the employee has worked during the calendar year.
24
ARTICLE 17-VACATIONS (cont'd)
17.2	An employee who fails to meet the active employment requirement receives the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendar year. Should the employee not wish to take his vacation entitlement, the entitlement will be the subject of a mutual agreement between the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager, inasmuch as the law permits it.
17.3	The occurrence of a paid holiday(s) during an employee's vacation will add a day(s) to the vacation period. Such day(s) will be considered for ail purposes as a holiday(s) and such time off may be granted at the beginning or the end of the vacation period, or at any time following the vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken. Exception is made for relay workers, as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1 whereby they will be paid in heu of such time off.
17.4	a) The Company shall pubhsh a vacation calendar on April 1 of each year and employees
will make their vacation preferences known based on availabilities within each department at the latest on April 15 for the period of May 1 to October 31. The Company agrees to confirm the dates of the summer vacations to the employees within 30 days following the publication of the calendar. The calendar is designed to allow each employee to take his vacation entitlement up to three (3) consecutive weeks during the period between June 1 and Sunday preceding Labour Day.
On October 1, a second vacation calendar shall be pubhshed to cover the period of November 1, to April 30 of the following year. Employees will make their preferences known based on availabilities within each department at the latest on October 15, and the Company shall confirm the dates to the employees wtihin 30 days following the publication of the calendar.
b)	Vacations may not be postponed fern one year to another and made cumulative. However an employee entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation may postpone one (1) week of his vacation entitlement to the next calendar year.
17.5	On termination of an employee's service with the Company, he shall be entitled to the following:
a)	If he has not taken the vacation to which he was entitled, he shall receive vacation pay based on his years of seniority and shall in addition be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of termination of his employment.
b)	If he has taken his vacation, he shall be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of termination of his employment.
25
ARTICLE 18	NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-2)
18.1	Eight (8) hours per day shall constitute the basic working day, and five (5) consecutive working days, (Monday through Friday inclusive) shall ocnstitute the basic working week of forty (40) hours for ail employees on 5-2.
AU employees working on continuous operations (relay workers) are assigned on a 3-2-2 production schedule the basic working day is twelve (12) hours.
The Company can create new continuous operations only in the case whereby the production volume regularly exceeds the three (3) work shifts.
18.2	Applicable rules for entering and exiting a 3-2-2 working schedule
a)	Moving a departmental operation or individual from a 3-2-2 production schedule to a 5-2 production schedule
1)	An employee will complete his production schedule 3-2-2 during the transition period ending S aturday at 7:00 p. m.
2)	During this transition week, the employee is entitled to a mhrnim of 40 hours of work. Those hours can only be scheduled between Sunday and Saturday 7:00 a.m.
3)	If forty (40) hours of work (form Sunday to Saturday 7:00 am.) cannot be scheduled for the employee, according to the 3-2-2 production schedule, he will be entitled to work on one of his days off, from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Friday 7:00 p.m. The Company may schedule the employee to work during one of his days off and he will be paid at the applicable rate for that day. In the event the Company does not schedule the employee to work on either day, the employee, if he Wishes to work, may select the day and will be paid one and one-half tires (1-1/2) for work done on that day. If the employee wishes to work but does not wish to select a day, the Company then schedules the employee.
4)	During the transition period, the provisions of Article 18 - Section 18.7 will not apply.
26
ARTICLE 18 NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-21 (cont’d)
18.2 a)EXAMPLE (3-2-2 to 5-2)
In the example which follows, teams 1, 2 and 3 would be entitled to work during their days off.
Team no 1 - Wednesday or Thursday Team no 2 - Wednesday of Thursday Team no 3 - Monday or Tuesday
7:00am-7:00pm	1	i 3 3 m	2	2	4	4	1
7:00pm-7:00am	2	2 4 4 4	1	r	1 3	_J_L	2
18.2	b) Moving a departmental operation or individual from a 5-2 production schedule to a 3-22 production schedule
1)	An employee will complete his 5-2 basic work week schedule on Friday and will start the 3-2-2 schedule on Monday 7:00 am.
2)	An employee is entitled to three (3) days of work during the transition week but such days of work may only be scheduled during the period from Monday 7:00 am. to Saturday 7:00 am.
3)	If three (3) days of work from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Saturday 7:00 am. cannot be scheduled for the employee, according to the 3-2-2 production schedule, he wi 11 be entitled to work on one of his days off from Monday 7:00 am. to Friday 7:00 p.m, The Company may schedule the employee to work during one of his days off and he will be paid at the applicable rate for that day. In the event the Company does not schedule the employee to work on either day, the employee, if he wishes to work, may select the day and will be paid one-half times (1-1/2) for work done on that day. If the employee wishes to work but does not wish to select a day, the Company then schedules the employee.
4)	During the transition period (minimum of two (2) weeks), the provisions of Article 18 -Section 18,7 will not apply.
27
ARTICLE 18 NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-2) (cont’d)
18.2	b) EXAMPLE (5-2to 3-2-2)
In the example which follows, teams 3 and 4 would be entitled to work during one of their days off.
Team no 3 - Monday, Tuesday, of Friday Team no 4 • Monday or Tuesday
7:00am-7:00pm	1	1	3	3	2	2	2	4	4	1	1
7:00pm-7:00am	2	2	4	4	1	1	1	3	3	2	2
ARTICLE 18 NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-21 (cont’d)
18.3	a) Ail hours worked in excess of the normal shift schedule, or outside the basic daily shift
schedule, or a day the employee is not normally assigned to work shall be considered overtime.
b)	i) Employee assigned to a 5-2 schedule.
Ail hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or outside the basic daily shift schedule, or on a Saturday are paid at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall be paid at double rate.
ii)	Employees assigned to a 3-2-2 schedule
All hours worked outside the basic daily shift or on the first day off are paid at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve hours or on the second day off wlD. be paid at double rate. When overtime is worked on a day off that is a Saturday or a Sunday, these hours are paid at double rate and one-half (2-1/2).
18.4	The schedules of hours, established by the Human Resources Manager at the time of signing this Agreement, setting forth the basic daily shift schedules of hours for every department, or for job groups within a department, and indicating the normal times of voxk to begin and end, shall be given to the Union, its officers and stewards. A copy of these schedules of hours shall be posted at the time-clocks and copies shall also be made available to all employees.
28
ARTICLE 18 NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-21 (cont'd)
18.5	Notice of changes to the schedules of hours referred to in Section 18.4 above, but excluding reference to modifications mentioned in Sections 18.6 and 18.7 below, and subject to the provisions of these sections, shall be given by the Industrial Relations Manager or in his absence by his superior to the Union President, not later than ten (10) work days prior to such changes. If an employee affected by such change is not given ten (10) work days' notice in accordance with the foregoing, he will be paid time and one-half (1 lA) his regular rate for the next ten (10) regular work days that he works, except when these changes have been made as a result of an emergency.
18.6	If an employee is instructed to report later than the normal scheduled starting time for his job, time and one-half (IV2) his regular rate will apply after his normal scheduled quitting time. The Company similarly agrees to pay an employee time and one-half (1V2) his regular rate for all hours worked before the normal scheduled starting time for his job. This provision shall only apply for a maximum period of one (1) work week (or in the case of a relay worker, his regular production schedule of work), and any consecutive period longer than one (1) work week shall be interpreted to be a change in basic schedule and the premium provided in Section 18.5 shall be applied.
If after an employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production schedule of work), has begun, he is instructed to work on another job, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he started but which modification does not represent a change of shift as established and referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%)his regular rate for all hours worked outside of his initial schedule in that work week, (or production schedule), but only for the first day any such modification is made.
This shall also apply for subsequent modifications within the same work week, (or production schedule).
18.7	If after any employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production schedule of work), has begun, he is instructed to work on a job, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he started, and which represents a change of shift as established in the schedules referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (IV2) his regular rate for all hours worked for the balance of his basic work week, or his regular production schedule of work.
29
ARTICLE 18 NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-2) (cont'd)
18.8	The provisions of Sections 18.6 and 18.7 shall not apply when an employee is offered overtime in accordance with the Memorandum of Interpretation relative to distribution of overtime, and his acceptance of the overtime work requires him to work on a different basic schedule or shift.
18.9	Distribution of overtime shall be made in accordance with the Memorandum of Interpretation exchanged between the Company and the Union.
The response of employees requested to work overtime will be on a voluntary basis.
Relay workers which have working days of twelve and three tenths hours (12.3) represent an exception to the above. It is necessary that these employees complete their daily schedule.
Exceptions are also made for all relay workers whose regular production schedule of work requires them to work on Saturday and Sunday.
18.10	Any hours paid on the basis under this Agreement shall not be counted again for any other purpose.
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
19.1	Providing that an employee in the bargaining unit (including an employee on probation) is in the employ of the Company, and is scheduled, available and report to work, the Company shall provide him with work to the extent of his weekly hours on the following basis:
1)	Employees, excluding relay workers, shall be provided with work, or pay in lieu of
work, for not less than their basic daily and weekly schedule of hours as defined in
Article 18, Section 18.1
2)	Employees who are relay workers shall be provided with work, or pay in lieu of work, for not less than their daily and weekly production schedule of hours as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1
30
ARTICLE 19 -
iv I luKv l
JM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.1	The foregoing provisions shall be governed by the following conditions:
a)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a department in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employees of one department to another based on seniority.
b)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If any employee declines to perform the task assigned to hirry the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such hours so lost by him.
c)	Any employee who is tardy or absent from work on any day or part of a day that he is scheduled or instructed to work shall have reduced, by the time so lost, the weekly hours of work with which the Company will provide him.
d)	An employee who is employed after the beginning of the calendar week, shall be provided with work for not less than the basic daily schedule as defined in Article 18, Section 18,1, for the remaining work days in that calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
e)	The hours of work for paid plant hohdays referred to in Article 7 shall not be computed under the provisions of Sections 1 or 2 of this Article. During calendar weeks in which paid hohdays occur, the Company shall provide work on the basis of the basic working days scheduled for the remainder of such calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
f)	Employees who have been given notice of lay-off in accordance with Article 24 shall be provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article subject to the following:
Employees whose lay-off notice expires in a week subsequent to the calendar week in which the notice was given shall be provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article, or pay in lieu of work for the number of days of notice remaining.
31
ARTICLE 19 -
SllCllfil
JM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.1	g) The provisions of this Article shall not apply to employees discharged for just cause,
suspended, retiring or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company, or in the event of closing of the Plant or part of the Plant due to an emergency.
19.2	An employee called in to work from off the premises for an emergency at times other than his regular scheduled hours shall receive his prevailing rate for the hours so worked or a minimum of four (4) hours, whichever is the greater, and shall be through when the emergency is over. In the event the emergency is not over at the time the employee's regular schedule begins, the foregoing shall apply up to his regular scheduled starting time, then the employee shall be paid his regular rate as of his regular scheduled starting time. Such emergency call-in shall not be construed as an early start. Hours worked during an emergency will not be recorded as overtime,
19.3	An employee who, at the request of the Company, works overtime on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays and/or Paid Plant Holidays and/or scheduled days off will be paid for the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with not less than four (4) hours at the applicable rate of pay. The Company shall be absolved of the above guarantee if this is due to tardiness on the part of the employee.
19.4	Employees, excluding employees on probation, who are permanently laid off due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the Plant or part of the Plant, or other causes which, insofar as the Company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, are entitled to a Termination Allowance, in accordance with the following provisions:
Note:	For the purposes of this Article, a permanent lay-off is understood to be a lay-off
which is expected to last continuously for a period of at least one (1) year.
1)	The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a permanent lay-off with Termination Allowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2)	Employees who are permanently laid off and who are eligible for Termination Allowance shall be paid in accordance with the following:
a)	When the number of weeks of an employee's Termination Allowance is equal to or less than the number of weeks remaining in the calendar year, payment in full is made on date of termination.
b)	When the number of weeks of Termination Allowance exceeds the number of weeks remaining in the calendar year, two payments are made:
32
ARTICLE 19
5IIUI31
JM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.4	2) b) First Payment: On date of Termination - Average weekly earnings for the number
of weeks remaining in the calendar year.
Second Payment During first month of the following calendar year - Balance of Termination Allowance.
Should an employee die before the second payment is made, it shall be paid to his Estate.
3)	Termination allowance payment is based on the length of continuous service of the employee up to his termination date, and is calculated as follows:
One (1) week's earnings for each completed year of continuous service to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with less than twenty-five (25) years of continuous service.
One and one-haif (PA) week's earning for each completed year of continuous service to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with twenty-five (25) or more years of continuous service.
One week's earnings for purposes of this article are based upon an employee's average weekly earnings received during the latest fifty-two (52) weeks in which he worked one (1) hour or more divided by fifty-two (52). Any week in which an employee did not work one (1) hour or more is not to be considered a part of the fifty-two (52) weeks.
3)	Average weekly earnings are an employee's regular base wages, including shift premiums but exclusive of compensation for overtime or other premiums provided for by this Agreement.
4)	A terminated employee re-employed within one (1) year from the date of termination, has the option of returning the Termination Allowance paid by the Company and receiving service credit, or, retaining the Allowance and starting as a probationary employee. Reimbursement may be made in instalments,
If re-employment occurs after one (1) year, the employee will be considered as newly hired and shall have no rights other than those extended to probationary employees under this Agreement.
5)	Employees who are permanently laid off may elect to remain on the Plant seniority list for possible recall. In such cases, the Company will hold the Termination Allowance payment for maximum of twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request payment with a complete break in service.
33
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.4	6) The number of weeks' Termination Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks
remaining to the employees' normal retirement date.
7) Termination Allowance is not paid:
a)	To an employee with less than three (3) year's seniority;
b)	To an employee laid off due to the fluctuation of volume of business;
c)	To an employee discharge for just cause;
d)	To an employee who voluntarily resigns firm the Company's employ;
e)	To an employee who retires from the Company's employ;
f)	in the event of closing the Plant or part of the Plant due to Acts of God, or in times of public peril, war, disaster, or any other reason of similar nature.
ARTTCT F 7.0 - BENEFITS
20.1	HI eligible employees are entitled, subject to conditions therein, to benefit from the various plans such as supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidentai death and dismemberment insurance, short term and long term disability and group pension plan established and occasionally amended by the Company.
In the case where Kraft Canada Inc. should modify one or more of these plans for ell Canadian employees, whether unionized or non-unionized, such as the supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidentai death and dismemberment insurance and long term disability insurance, the Company is committed to offer to the unionized employees at LaSalle plant the same amended plans offered to non-unionized employees of Kraft Canada Inc. and this, for the duration of this collective agreement. Those amended plans would become effective only with the consent of the Union in consultation with their members.
In case of acceptation of these modified plans, they will have to be accepted by the Union and the employees as presented by the Company. In case of refusal, the actual plans will remain the same until the expiry date of the collective agreement.
34
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES
21.1	A new employee shall be paid the base rate as indicated in Appendix "A" - "Hourly Wage Rates", unless he is assigned to a higher rated job in which case he shall be paid the regular rate of the job.
The term "Regular Rate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to include the shift premium, if any. The term "Prevailing Rate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to be the applicable rate the employee shall be paid under the provisions of this Agreement.
21.2	A successful applicant who has been assigned to a job as a result of job posting shall receive the regular rate of the job as soon as he starts his trial period.
21.3	When an employee is requested by the Company to temporarily transfer to a higher rated job, he shall be paid the regular rate for that job while he is carrying out his assignment.
When an employee is transferred from a higher rated job which he was filling on a temporary basis to a lower rated job because the Company could not find suitable replacement, the employee shall keep the rate for such higher rated job for as long as the situation exists, at which time shall revert back to his regular assignment and be paid accordingly.
(Refer to Article 23, Section 23.6b), for procedure covering temporary assignments).
21.4	When an employee is requested by the Company to temporarily transfer to a lower rated job, he shall carry the rate of the job which he would normally be performing while he is carrying out his assignment, but may be transferred back to his regular job if a suitable replacement is obtained. Such temporary transfers will be limited to thiity (30) work days.
(Refer to Article 23, Section23.6b), for procedure covering temporary assignments).
21.5	When an employee requests a transfer to a lower rated job, he shall immediately be paid the rate of the job. Such adjustment in rate does not remove the necessity for fulfilling the trial period requirement.
21.6	When, at the Company's request, an employee works eight (8) or more hours during a week on a higher rated job, he shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked by him. during that week.
21.7	When an employee is scheduled to work on a higher rated job and his schedule is changed later than 10:00 a.m. Friday preceding the beginning of the week, and such change requires him to work on a lower rated job, he shall be paid the higher rate as set up by the schedule.
35
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES (cont'd)
21.8	In the event that an employee works four (4) or more hours at a higher rate during his regular work day immediately preceding or following a paid plant holiday within the work week in which the holiday murs, he is paid the higher rate for the holiday.
21.9	During the development stages of new operations, the Company may assign employees excluded from this Agreement to work on the jobs in these new operations as set forth in Article 2, Section 2.2, but said employees shall not be maintained when these jobs operate normally. It is understood that the incumbent(s) will be assigned to the job(s) no later than the start of actual production.
Similarly, the foregoing shall apply to new jobs in existing operations.
21.10	For purposes of administration of this Agreement, the development of a new job will be considered to be completed when the job reaches actual production. Within ten (10) work days from the date of completion of development, the Company will write the job description, will evaluate the job and establish the rate of pay, copy of which will be given to the Union.
21.11	When additional duties assigned become a permanent part of an existing job, the job description shall be revised immediately and a copy of the new job description and the rate of pay for the changedjob will be given to the Union, within five (5) work days.
Settlement of grievances due to changed job content shall be retroactive to the date on which the complaint was first submitted to the Company in writing.
21.12	When the rate of job is lowered as a result of changed job content and re-evaluation, the incumbent shall continue to receive the former rate, that which existed at the time the rate was lowered, while he continues on that job. Continuance on the job shall be broken by bidding off or requests for transfer by the employee. A new incumbent on that job shall receive the established lower rate for the job.
21.13	Settlement of grievances pertaining to job rates which originate from the application of the Sections 21.10, 21.11 and 21.12, shall be retroactive to the date the Union was given the new job rate. In such cases, the grievances are to be submitted in writing at the third step of the grievance procedure, within thirty (30) days from the date that the Union was given the new job rate.
21.14	When a job disappears because of technological improvements or changes, changes of production methods or processes, transfer of process of operations to another plant of Kraft Canada Inc., discontinuance of products, or because of business fluctuations, the regular incumbent of such job will keep the regular rate of the job fern which he is transferred for a period of one (1) year unless he is transferred to a higher rated job, subject to the following conditions:
36
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JCB RATE RULES (cont'd)
21.14	a) The incumbent of a new permanent job, obtained by bid, will have tbe
opportunity to return to his previous job should it become reinstated. However, the Company will assign an employee who is not an incumbent of a permanent job to his previous job should it become reinstated.
b) The conditions relative to protection of rates shall not apply on jobs created by the advent of a new product until such product is in national distribution.
21.15	The Company shall continue to be the administrator of the job evaluation system, including the preparation of job description and determining job content.
Although the Union is aware that such a system exists, it reserves the right to grieve any action taken by the Company directly related to the job evaluation system. It is also understood that the job evaluation system is not part of this Agreement.
21.16	In all situations other than those covered by the above Job Rate Rules, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is assigned.
21.17	When a job is or is to be established, or an existing job is changed, which cannot be properly placed in an existing classification by mutual agreement, management will establish a classification and rate on a temporary basis.
Written notification of the temporary rate and classification will be ftimished to the Union President.
The new rate and classification shall be considered temporary for a period of thirty (30) calendar days following the date of notification to the Union President.
During this period (but not thereafter) the Union President may request the Company to negotiate the rate and the classification for the new job. The negotiated rate, if higher than the temporary rate, shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary classification and rate.
If no request has been made by the Union President to negotiate the rate within the thirty (30) calendar day period the temporary rate and classification shall become a part of the wage scale.
21.18	If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on a rate and classification for the new job or an existing job that has been changed, the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration under Article 6.
21.19	If the Arbitrator sets the new rate higher than the temporary rate it is applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary rate and classification.
37
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND .TOR RATE R 11RS (cont'd)
21.20	It is specifically agreed that the Arbitrator will have no authority to alter or modify the existing rates and classifications but shall have the authority, subject to the provisions of this agreement, to determine the new rate and/or classification.
21.21	The Company shall give the Union a notice of three (3) weeks prior to the abolition, the transfer of functions within one job to another and/or the combination of jobs.
The purpose of this notice is to inform the Union and then to develop the best approaches for the implementation of these changes. If there is disagreement between the parties on the approaches for the implementation of these changes, this disagreement will be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 22 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
22.1	Shift premiums shall be paid as follows:
A.	Shifts which start no earlier tban6:30 a.m. nor later then 9:00 a.m. shall be day shifts and shall not carry any shift premium, the whole in accordaxice with the basic daily shift schedules as established under Article 18, Sections 18.4 and 18.5, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
B.	Shifts which start after 9:00 a.m., but no later than 5:00 p.m, shall be afternoon shifts and shall carry a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
C.	. Shifts which start after 5:00 p.m. or before 6:30 a.m., shall be night shifts and shall
carry a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
D.	Employees who starttheir shift between 6:00 a.m. and6:30 a.m., at their request, will be paid the regular rate and are not eligible to the shift premium.
E.	Employees who presently start their shift at 6:30 a.m. at the request of the employer will maintain the shift premium for as long as they remain on that job.
F.	An employee assigned to continuous operations 3-2-2 (relay worker) is entitled to the shift premium between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
22.2	An employee who works overtime during the following shifts shall receive the shift
premium only if such overtime hours fall within 22.1 B, or C.
22.3	The shift premium mentioned in Section 22.1 B and C shall always form part of the
employee's regular rates for all the time worked during these shifts,
38
ARTICLE23-SENIORITY
23.1	a) Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's service with the Company, within the
bargaining Unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the date he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, as defined in Article 23, Section 23.3, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he was returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
23.1	b) Seniority groups
i)	Group A -All employees other than trade employees and laboratory technicians
ii)	Group B	-	Ail	trades employees
iii)	Group C	-	All	laboratory technicians
Employees will have rights in respect of jobs classified in Appendix "A" as follows:
i)	Group A -Ail jobs, except those listed under Trades and Laboratory Technicians
ii)	Group B	-	Ail	Trades jobs
iii)	Group C	-	All	Laboratory Technicians) obs.
Employees will be laid-off and recalled in Group seniority order, subject to the appropriate rules of the Collective Agreement.
The probationary period for a new employee shall be forty-five (45) days worked in any twelve (12) month period. As a part of the Company's normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability, job performance and general work attitudes of an employee on probation. The Company will discharge such employee, if he fails to meet the above selection criteria. On completion of the above service requirements, he shall then acquire seniority status dating back to the first (1) day of the forty-five (45) day period. However, in specific cases the period of forty-five (45) working days mentioned above can be extended to a maximum of sixty (60) working days by mutual agreement.
In order to allow a probationary employee hired in seniority group "A" and "C" to be properly evaluated and adequately trained, the company can temporarily assign him to any job without having to follow the job posting procedure as long as he is accompanied by the employee who holds the job during such an assignment.
23.2 a)
b)
39
ARTICLE23-SENIORITY (cont'd)
23.3	Termination of employment and loss of seniority rights shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge for just cause or termination of employment.
2.	Voluntary resignation of the employee.
3.	Retirement in accordance with the Company's retirement policy.
4.	Failure to notify the Company of intention to return to work following a lay-off, within fortyeight (48) hours after receiving notice by registered nail or telegram to return to work.
5.	Failure to return to work within two (2) weeks from the date of original notice to do so, sent to the last address as shown by Company records.
Note:
The Company to nail a form which the employee returns informing the Company as to the date he reports to work.
6.	Continuous absence for three (3) days without permission of the Company or without good and proper reason or reasons beyond his control.
7.	Continuous lay-off for a period exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
Subject to the provisions of the respective benefit plans, participation in such plans terminates at the end of one (1) year from the date of lay-off.
In the event that the Company recalls an employee who has at least three (3) years of seniority from lay-off, the employee may decline the recall to our employ. In such cases, the Company is not required to recall him for future openings until the employee informs the Company that he is again available for recall. (Refer to Article 23, Section 23.10 relative to declining recall to his regular job). It is understood that such an employee may not be on such voluntary lay-off for longer than six (6) consecutive months without breaking his seniority.
An employee who possesses less than three (3) years of seniority and recalled to work from lay-off for a period of four (4) weeks or less can make arrangements with the Company to retain his recall rights even if refusing to return to work for such reasons as illness, accident, other employment for a longer period of time or other serious reasons.
40
ARTICLE23-SENIORITY
23.4a) Reduction of Plant Work Force:
The order of lay-off in each seniority group shall be:
First: Employees on probation as determined by the Company.
Second: Employees by seniority dates.
The Company is permitted to keep an experienced employee regardless of his seniority on the job for the purpose of training the applicant during the posting period as well as during the thirty (30) work days trial period.
b) Increase in Plant Work Force:
The order of recall in each seniority group shall be:
First: Employees by seniority dates.
Second: Employees on probation as determined by the Company.
An employee shall have recall rights up to two (2) years franthe date of his last lay-off.
Although employees on probation have not acquired seniority status as defined in Article 23, Section 23,2, consideration shall be given to their length of service at the time of recall.
23,5	Seasonal employee
The seasonal employee is hired on a temporary basis during the summer period between June 1st and the Sunday preceding Labour Day each year. Any period before June 1st will serve for training purposes only. However, a new seasonal employee may be trained after June 1st, according to the needs of the operations.
The seasonal employee is hired to replace regular permanent employees during annual vacations, according to article 17. The number of seasonal employees is equivalent to the number of vacations to replace by job posting. Seasonal employees' assignment shall not contravene the job posting procedure.
To be eligible for employment, the "seasonal candidate" must possess a Secondary V diploma. The seasonal employees will be hired though a draw which will determine the order of the starting date according to their availability. The priority will first be given to the regular employees' children,
41
ARTICJ E 23 - SENIORITY (cont'd)
The seasonal employee is not eligible to the following conditions:
•	accumulation of seniority;
•	recall privilege;
•	job posting procedures;
•	company benefits;
•	minimum recompense.
Each year in February, the Company will post a note inviting the regular employees' children to submit their employment application for the following summer period.
23.6	Filling Job Vacancies
a) Of More Than Thirty (30) Working Days (Regularjob)
1.	All regularjob vacancies for a period of thirty (30) days or more which need to be filled by regular incumbent and shall be subject to the followingjob posting procedure:
2.	Aptitude, ability and seniority shall be the determining factors. Seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be sufficient, subject to the Grievance Procedure.
3.	For the purpose of application of Article 23.6 a), a laboratory technician must as well possess the necessary qualifications to be trained to perform the world within a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30) work days. Management will determine the successful applicants. This decision may be the subject of a grievance.
4.	in all such cases mentioned above, the Company shall post the openings on a plant-wide basis within five (5) working days fcon date of occurrence, on a notice board. The openings shall be posted for three (3) working days. The Company shall endeavour to fill such openings within five (5) working days following the last day of posting. This paragraph shall not be applied during the period of June 1, to Fabour Day of each year. Jobs which become vacant during this period shall be posted as soon as possible in September.
5.	Vacant jobs are posted starting every Thursday morning until the following Tuesday morning. An employee who has bid on a job, may withdraw his bid exclusively during the posting period previously mentionned,
6.	The job posting bulletin will show posting date and the closing date of the posting, the job classification, the rate of pay, whether shift work and, shift work if available. An employee who applies for a posted position will submit a written application no later than the last day of posting. The name of the successful applicant will be posted in the Plant promptly but not later than three (3) days after the closing date of the posting.
42
ARTICLE 23-SENIORITY (cont'd)
23.6	a) Of More Than Thirty (30) Working Days (Regular job) (cont'd)
In the event that no candidates, whose name appeared on the posting, accepts the vacant job, the candidate with the least seniority at the time the job is to be filled, is then considered as being the regular incumbent of the said vacant job. The employee who becomes the regular incumbent cannot bid on the first posting of his previous job. The trial period of fifteen (15) working days during which the employee is free to return to his former job, as mentionned in paragraph 23.8, does not apply in this case.
8 At the time of a job posting for a regular job vacancy, should no employee submit a bid by means of the job posting, the employee with the least seniority in the plant and who does not hold any regular job, then becomes the regular incumbent of the said job.
9.	When an employee becomes the incumbent of a regular job by means of the job posting, his name is then automatically removed from all other existing job postings unless notified otherwise by the employee.
10.	Furthermore, according to the needs of operations, the Company posts regular jobs of replacement for each department in order to fill the jobs that are vacant temporarily for the said department.
11.	The primary responsibilities for those regular jobs of replacement are to replace the employees that are absent temporarily and must not, in any event, be used in a manner that would infringe the rights of any other employee.
12.	The temporary vacantjobs to be filled will be for the following reasons:
a)	vacation
b)	accident or illness
c)	leave of absence
d)	during the posting of a vacant regular job
e)	all other temporary absence
13.	The employee who becomes the incumbent of a regular job of replacement by means of posting, and who has qualified, cannot bid on another vacant regular job for a period of twelve (12) months starting from the beginning of the training. However, if the worker has not been assigned in the department in which he bid for a job, after six (6) consecutive months, he is again entitled to bid on another posting.
14.	The incumbent of a regular replacement job must receive training for all the jobs he will replace. The said training may be interrupted to allow replacement on a job he is already trained for. The incumbent of a regular replacement job nust replace a vacant job u±il the regular incumbent returns. If, before the return of the regular incumbent, the number of incumbents is reduced, the incumbent of a regular replacement job is moved from his job regardless of his seniority.
43
ARTICLL 21 - SENIORITY (cont'd)
23.6	a) Of More Than Thirty (30) Working Days (Regularjob) (cont'd)
15.	The thirty (30) working days trial period mentionned in section 23,8 may be extended by
mutual agreement.
b) Of Thirty (30) Working Days or Less (Temporary job)
1	.Sil job vacancies of thirty (30) working days or less within seniority group "A" will be filled by the Company with employees of the Pool Group or employees whose job will not be in operation the following week, providing such employees are qualified.
in making such temporary assignments, the company will take into consideration the seniority of employees involved. Since such openings are of short duration, and training time is limited, it will be necessary from time to time to assign an employee of lesser seniority to fill the opening.
2	All employees whose regular jobs are down may apply for a temporary opening of a duration equal or shorter than the period of time during which their regular jobs will be down as long as they are qualified. These employees will be considered along with the employees who are not regular job incumbents and who are part of the Pool Group.
3	Ail unfilled temporary openings will be posted each week no later than 5:00 p.m, Tuesday. Postings will remain on the board util 1:00 p.m, Wednesday.
4	In the event that new temporary openings are created after 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, as a result of Company action, the revised posting will take place no later than 5:00 p.m. Thursday and remain on the board until 1:00 p.m. of the following day.
5]	Employees in the Pool Group and those whose regular job is down the following week can apply for such temporary openings and the temporary openings will be allocated to the senior qualified employees who apply.
6 Temporary openings not filled under 5) above will be filled by assignment with employees remaining in the Pool Group or those whose regular job is down the following week.
These assignments are considered equivalent to a request for temporary jobs in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 5).
1]	Employees filling temporary openings under 5) and 6) above will fill the opening for as long as the situation exists, i.e. up to thirty (30) work days.
44
ARTICLE 23-SENIORITY (cont'd)
23.6	b) Of Thirty (30) Working Days or Less (Temporary job) (suite)
18)	Notwithstanding 7) above, an employee who has been allocated a temporary job under
5) above may apply in the following weeks for an available higher rated job.
9) In the event that temporary jobs are not filled under 5) and 6) above by qualified employees, a junior qualified employee on a protected rate may be assigned to such opening.
10) The above thirty (30) work days may be extended by mutual agreement. In such event, temporary openings filled under 6) above, will be re-posted each week for as long as the situation exists.
c)	Training and/or specific projects (temporaryjob of more than thirty (30) days)
II)	When the Company introduces a special project (technical development, training,
continuous improvement, etc.) to be assigned to an employee, the Company creates a temporaryjob to be filled according to the following procedures.
2)	Before posting the job, the Company and the Union jointly evaluate the responsibilities of the job in order to define the selection criteria and the objectives.
3)	The Company and the Union jointly agree on the scope of these jobs (department or plant) and on the duration of these assignments. These elements will be indicated on the job posting as a best estimate.
4)	This procedure will be applicable to each seniority group and an employees keeps
his permanent job while assigned to this temporaryjob.
5)	The aptitutes, skills, qualifications and abilities are the determining factors to obtain those jobs, however, the seniority becomes the governing factor when several candidates meet the job requirements.
23.7	In the event that a job posting is made in advance of the actual occurrence of a vacancy, applications to such a posting will be valid for six (6jmonths from the date of the posting.
45
ARTICLE23-SENIORITY (cont'd)
23.8	The successful applicant to a job vacancy shall be considered to be on triai until he has worked thirty (30) accumulated work days on the job in the six (6)month period dating from his first day of his trial period. In the event that the Company declares through a written form that he has qualified at any time during the trial period and he, at the same time, agrees in writing to accept the job, the triai period shall be fulfilled. During the first fifteen (15) work days of the triai period, the employee shall be free to return to his formerjob.
A j ob vacancy resulting while an employee is in the triai period of a permanent opening, is not required to be posted until the employee becomes the regular incumbent.
23.9	An employee who has completed his triai period towards filling a job vacancy which needs to be filled by a regular incumbent, shall be considered to be a regular incumbent and his seniority shall give him preference over junior incumbents of the same job.
23.10	An employee with seniority status who is transferred from his job due to a reduction in staff, is expected to return to his job when it is again open to him. He shall transfer to Pool Group during the period that his job is down. In the event that he bids for and qualifies to fill a permanent job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 23, Section 23.6 a) during the time his regular job is down, he loses his claim to his regular job when it re-opens, in the event that his job opens to him while he is on lay-off, and he declines a recall to work, he shall hold no further claim to the job and the opening shall be posted.
In the event that an employee is on lay-off for more than six (6) consecutive months, and that employee was a regular incumbent of a permanent job at time of lay-off, such job will be posted in accordance with Article 23.6 a).
23.11	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees or by the return to work of employees from sick leave, personal leave of absence of lay-off during any week, are not required to be made until the start of the next scheduled week.
23.12	If an employee's regular job starts up during the week, the employee may request a transfer to the job and such transfer will be made at the start of the next regular daily shift, providing that such transfer does not require a change of shift.
23.13	Employees are expected to rotate on shifts beginning with the first week of any multiple shift schedule. The senior employees among the regular job incumbents shall have preference of shifts only for the first week of such schedules.
23.14	In the event of transfer of operations to this Plant from other Kraft Canada Inc. plants, employees possessing particular skills required by the operation shall be allowed to transfer into the bargaining unit with one (1) month's seniority.
46
ARTICLE23-SENIORITY (coni'd)
23.15	Employees who, prior to this Agreement, were or hereafter are transferred to a position at the LaSalle Plant outside the bargaining unit, and then returned by the Company to jobs within the bargaining unit, shall return with the seniority possessed at the time the transfer first took place.
An employee with no past service within the bargaining unit, transferred into the bargaining unit, shall have one (1) month's seniority.
23.16	At the time of signing this Agreement, the Company shall give a seniority list to the President of the Union and shall assist him in keeping his list up-to-date by advising him in writing of any changes not later than one (1) full work day following such changes.
23.17	Seniority provisions contained in this Agreement shall apply from the date of signing this Agreement only to present employees and to future employees, as defined in Article 2 -Bargaining Unit - of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
24.1	a) In cases of lay-off, employees are entitled to a notice of lay-off in accordance with the
following:
Less than 1 year of service 1 to 5 years of service 5 to 10 years of service 10 years plus
b)	Nonetheless, in the situation of a lay-off for less than six (6) months, the employees affected who have less than three (3) years of seniority are given a notice of at least one (1) week.
c)	in cases where the Company omits to give sufficient notice, it must pay the employee an amount equal to the notice omitted.
24.2	When the notices of lay-off are cancelled, the Company shall issue new notices of lay-off to employees concerned as provided in Article 24.1.
1	week
2	weeks 4 weeks 8 weeks
24,3	The President and Financial Secretary of the Union shall be given, whenever possible, a list of employees to be laid-off or recalled, twenty-four (24) hours before such notices are given, but at the latest prior to the issuance of such notices.
47
ARTICLE 25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
25.1	Practices with respect to leaves of absence without pay shall be in accordance with the following policy:
a)	Upon receipt of a written request, the Company may grant a personal leave of absence to an employee, Such written request will indicate 1he reason for the leave of absence, and such reason will be considered by the company in arriving at its decision. It is understood that, in addition, the Company will also take into consideration 1he operating needs of the business. Such leaves, except those granted for personal disability or for service in the Armed Forces, may not exceed twelve (12) calendar months without breaking seniority. In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time olf, he may apply .for an extension, but his application must be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the termination of his original leave of absence.
Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position, try out new work or venture into business for himself. If leave of absence is granted, the employee shall be advised in writing with a copy to the Union.
His leave of absence shall be cancelled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activities other than those for which the leave was granted.
A pregnant employee has the right to a leave of absence for maternity of a maximum duration of eighteen (18) consecutive weeks.
The maternity leave may be taken after written notice is given at least three (3) weeks in advance to the employer indicating the date the leave of absence will start and the date of return to work. A medical certificate confirming the pregnancy must accompany this notice and mention the expected delivery date.
The father and the mother of a newly-born child and the person adopting a child who has not reached the school age have the right to a parental leave of absence without pay for a maximum of thirty-four (34) weeks.
The parental leave of absence may begin at the earliest on the day of the child's birth. It can be taken after written notice is given of at least three (3) weeks to the employer indicating the first day of leave of absence and the date of return to work. It ends at the latest one (1) year after the birth or adoption of the child.
In accordance to the Labour Standards Act governing the maternity and parental leaves, the employee, who does not present himself/herself to work on the return to work date given in the notice to the employer, is considered having given his resignation.
ML other conditions inherent to the maternity leave and parental leave are subject to the Labour Standards Act and are applied in conformity to this Act.
48
ARTTCT .F. 25 - T .F.AVF.S OF ABSENCE (cont'd)
25.1	b) A pregnant worker who furnishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions may be physically dangerous to her unborn child, or to herself by reason of her pregnancy, may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such danger that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If a requested reassignment is not made immediately, 1he pregnant worker may stop working util she is reassigned or util the date of delivery.
A worker who furnishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions involve risks for the child she is breast-feeding may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such risks that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If the requested reassignment is not made immediately, the worker may stop working until she is reassigned or the child is weaned.
All inherent conditions to a preventive withdrawal for a pregnant employee or breastfeeding employee are subject to the Health and Safety Act and is applied in conformity to this legislation.
c)	In addition to the foregoing, an employee will be granted leave of absence for file purpose cf accepting appointment to carry out official Union duties or fill an elected public office outside the Plant. It is agreed that no more than six (6) members of file Union be granted such leave concurrently ty the Company. In the event of appointment of employee members of the Union as delegates to a Union Convention, no more than twelve (12) members of the Union will be granted a leave of absence concurrently by the Company. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave.
On return from such leave of absence, the employee is entitled to return to his regular job. In the event that his regular job is down, or he declines to return to that job, he shall be placed in the Pool Group.
The Union will furnish file Company with two (2) weeks' notice, if possible, on requests for such types of leave.
d)	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years' seniority who requests such leave for the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognized educational standards, but such leave shall only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave.
The employee shall be eligible for recall in accordance with Article 23, Section 23.4, and such eligibility for recall shall be effective at the beginning of file second full work week following the date of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressed to the Human Resources Manager.
49
ARTICLE 25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE (cont'd)
25.1	e) An employee who is adopting a child will be granted a leave of absence for such time as is necessary to fulfil the legal adoption requirement. Such leave of absence will be requested in writing.
ARTICLE 26 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
26.1	During the tram of this Agreement, the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike.
Neither the Union, nor any of its stewards, officers, or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slowdown or walk-out,
The Union will not recognize the rights of employees who participate singly or collectively in such a slowdown or walk-out.
26.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requested or required to cross a picket line established by the Union.
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.1	In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be altered by legislation, such changes shall not affect the remainder of the provisions hereof.
27.2	This Agreement shall be in effect until 23:59 hours on the 22th day of May 1999. Either party can give the other, no less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to renew this Agreement or seek amendments to same, in which case this present Agreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
27.3	After either party has given written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this Agreement the parties shall meet to exchange listings of the changes desired Negotiations shall start at least twenty (20) clear days prior to the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
21A The notice required in Section 27.2 shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed to the President of the Union, and if to the Company to the Plant Manager, Kraft Canada Inc., LaSalle, P.Q,
50
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT (cont'd)
27.5 In the event of difference in interpretation of the printed copies of this Agreement, the parties shall refer to the original signed French and English documents.
Sub-titles of the provisions of this Agreement are for index purposes only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation of the Agreement.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this Agreement on the
day of June
1997,
KRAFT CANADA INC.
UNITED POOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 766P
Manager, Human Resources
_ Lambeft Manufacturing Engineering Manager
Andre Mallet
President
^n-Yve/Bou^ue^
j£an-Y ve/ikMbque*1*^
Is1 Vice-president
?n0 Vice-president
Pierre Poitras Recording Secretary 51
MEM
JM )F INTERPRE____N
JTK N OF ERTIME
1.	Order of Priority
1.1	Overtime offered to employees is distributed to those who have signified their availability following a request of the foreman or his designate, in the following priority:
a)	Among employees scheduled cn the job on which overtime is required, and who are qualified to perform the work.
b)	Among employees who are scheduled on a job in the department unit to which the overtime job is related, and who are qualified to perform the work.
c)	Among employees who are scheduled on a job in the department to which the overtime is related, and who are qualified to perform the work.
d)	In the event that the overtime assignment cannot be filled under a), b), and c) above, the Company may then offer the overtime to any employee from any other Department.
1.2	At each of the above steps a), b), c), overtime is distributed ty offering to the employee with the least amount of overtime; in case of equal hours, seniority takes precedence.
1.3	For the purpose of application of this memorandum of interpretation, jobs, department units, and departments are recorded in a document transmitted to the Union. The Company updates this document if necessary to reflect changes that the Company can make from time to time, while respecting the principal that only jobs held ty employees of the same seniority group can be listed within the same department.
2.	Supplementary Provisions
2.1	Relay Workers
A relay worker shall not perform work cn a Saturday, Sunday, on a day observed as a paid plant holiday, or on a scheduled day off, which is not part of his job and which would otherwise be performed on overtime by an employee who is not a relay worker.
52
MBMORA ^ OF INTERPRET/
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
2.1	When a relay worker is absent during his normal working hours, the Company will use a relay worker according to the following order of priority:
a)	the regularjob incumbent on his regular day olf, qualified to perfom the work.
b)	the relay worker in the unit, on his regular day off, qualified to perform the work.
c)	the relay worker in the department on his regular day off, qualified to perform the work.
d)	the regularjob incumbent scheduled to work immediately before or after.
e)	any other relay worker in the plant qualified to perform the work.
If the overtime assignment cannot be filled according to the above order of priority, the Company will offer the overtime to any employee in the plant, qualified to perform the work.
However, if a relay worker does not complete his shift, the Company can ask the worker from the preceeding or following shift, depending on the circumstances, for a maximum of four (4) hours.
If a relay worker is reheved from his job for more than four (4) hours and less than twelve (12) hours, to receive training or for other activities, the Company will ask the relay worker on his day olf according to the above order of priority for the number of hours required.
When those activities are for less than four (4) hours, the order of priority will be as _ Mows: d), a), b), c) and e).
It is mandatory for relay workers to have a minimum of eight (8) hours rest between two shifts.
2.2	Trade Employees
A trade employee assigned to ajob or overtime or on regular time must complete Ihe project even if another employee becomes eligible to that overtime, inasmuch as at the end of the three (3) month period, the overtime is distributed in accordance with article 18.9.
53
i
_J___________INTE ATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
2.3 Laboratory Technicians
When a technician works overtime cn a non-scheduled day, he must spend the majority of his time working on the job where 1he overtime is required. However, he may be required to work on other jobs whose duration does not exceed one hour.
3.	Overtime on Scheduled Days:
Overtime on scheduled days, that is on days which are part of the employee's weekly work schedule, is offered in the order of priority a), b), c), on the basis of hours recorded at the time of the offer. To be entitled to overtime which follows his shift, the employee must be at work at the end of the shift which immediately precedes the overtime. TO be entitled to overtime which immediately precedes the beginning of a shift, the employee must be scheduled on this shift in accordance with the weekly work schedule and be available for work.
4.	Overtime on Non-scheduled Days:
4.1	Overtime on non-scheduled days, that is Saturday, Sunday, and if applicable on a plant holiday, is offered cn the basis of hours recorded cn the overtime register as at 3:00 p.m. cn the Tuesday which immediately precedes the execution of the overtime, within the order of priority a), b), and c).
a)	The employee within the priority a) is offered in a single opportunity and based on overtime requirements, the total of non-scheduled days at the rate of one shift of his choice for each non-scheduled days that he accepts to work.
b)	The hours not filled are then offered in the order of priority to b) and, if required c), at the rate of one shift at the employee's choice for each non-scheduled day(s) in the order these days occur. Hours offered and accepted by an employee for a non-scheduled day are taken in to account to establish his overtime entitlement for the next unscheduled day.
54
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
4.1	c) An employee cannot work sixteen (16) consecutive hours by choice of shift.
4.2	In the case that a Monday holiday becomes part of an overtime opportunity of non-scheduled days, 1he employee must be scheduled cn the job 1he week following the Monday to be eligible for the overtime in accordance with a), b), and c).
4.3	To be entitled to Saturday or Sunday overtime, the employee is not required to be scheduled an a corresponding job the following week.
4.4	Two Shift Operation
In the event of sixteen (16) hours of overtime, it will be distributed in two segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in toe order of priority, and thereafter in accordance with b) for toe hours not filled, and thereafter in accordance with c) for hours still not filled. If an employee in a) accepted a segment of eight (8) hours and toe Company does not succeed in filling toe second segment in accordance with b), or c), toe Company offers toe second segment to toe employee who accepted the first segment before going into the plant.
4.5	TfTiree Shift Operation
In toe event of twenty-four (24) hours of overtime, it will be distributed in three segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in toe order of priority. If one segment is not filled, toe two employees who accepted are offered twelve (12) hours. If one of the two refuse the twelve (12) hours, we come back to segments of eight (8) hours and toe non-filled segment of eight (8) hours is offered to toe employees in b) in toe order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c). If toe segment is still not filled, toe employee who accepted twelve (12) hours will be offered sixteen (16) hours.
In the event there is two segments to fill, the non-filled segments are offered to employees in
b)	in toe order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c). If there are still non-filled segments, we offer sixteen (16) hours to the employee in a) who has accepted, before going into the plant.
The Same principle applies for segments of less than eight (8) hours.
55
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
5.	Recording of Overtime Hours:
5.1	Overtime offered, and accepted in the order of priority a), b), c), and d) are recorded cn the register posted in the department of the employee by the foreman in charge at the beginning of these overtime hours, except if the overtime is cancelled by the Company.
5.2	Hours of overtime declined by an employee shall not be accumulated as having been worked, but shall nevertheless be recorded as having been offered to him.
5.3	When an employee is scheduled cn a different job or who is absent on leave without pay for more than tHi (10) work days, he will be recorded with the highest number of overtime hours already accumulated cn that job by the other incumbents. In such cases, the regular incumbent will have preference over the temporary transferee for the first offer only.
5.4	If the displacement for one (1) week or more is required by 1he Company to meet temporary requirements, the employee will return with the hours cn the register when he left, plus any overtime hours worked during his reassignment.
5.5. Hours of overtime recorded is accumulated for periods of three (3) months only. The Company shall distribute overtime as evenly as possible during each calendar three (3) month period. These periods are:
" January 1 to March 31 ' April 1 to June 30 ' July 1 to September 30 - October 1 to December 31
If at the end of a three (3) month period, an employee believes that he has not been provided with a fair opportunity to share the overtime available within the order of priority a), his claim shall be processed through the Grievance Procedure.
At level b) or c) of the order of priority, the claim is dealt with immediately, up to thirty (30) days following the date of the incident, through the Grievance Procedure.
56
NDUM OF AGRE
MEN! SECURITY PLAN
j) This plan applies only to active employees on June 1, 1992 ana assures to these employees a minimum number of annual hours of work with the Company or pay in lieu of hours of work which appears in the following table next to the Se of employment of the employee.
Junel, 1982 to May 31, 1983
1,800
June 1, 1983 to May 31, 1984
1,600
Junel, 1984 to May 31, 1985
1,400
June 1, 1985 to May 31, 1986
1,200
June 1, 1986 to May 31, 1987
1,000
June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988
800
June 1, 1988 to May 31, 1989
600
June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990
400
1
a)	For the purpose of this plan, the admissible employee must:
i)	has received not less than thirty-five (35) pay cheques from the Company within any twenty-four (24) consecutive months from his date of hire but prior to the beginning of the year for which he becomes eligible; and
ii)	performs no less than two hundred (200) hours of work for the Company during the year; and
iii)	is employed by the Company and covered by the Collective Agreement both immediately prior to the beginning of the year and continuing up to and including the last day of the year.
b)	"Year" means the calendar year
57
JQB________OF JTERPRETA
DTSTRTBTJTTONOF OVERTIME
n) At the conclusion of the year, the Company shall determine the following:
a)	The total hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu ty the
Company, which includes:
1)	all hours worked within an employee's regular schedule of work; and
2)	ail hours for which an employee was provided with pay for Vacation, Holiday, Bereavement, appearance in Court, Notice of layoff, and Minimum Recompense; plus
5) The total hours that an eligible employee was absent from work for any of the following
reasons:
1)	absence with pay, including absence under Article 25, Leaves of Absence;
2)	sickness or accident;
3)	disciplinary suspension from work;
4)	discharged and reinstated where the terms of reinstatemen do not provide for compensation for time lost with respect to the period from discharge to reinstatement.
5)	the employee is unavailable or unable to perform the task assigned to him;
6)	the employee is ineligible for benefits under the provisions of Article 7, Paid Plant Holidays;
7)	a Plant or part of a Plant is closed by circumstances beyond the control of the Company including, but not restricted to, an emergency, a loss of power or water supply, unavailability of raw materials, for all eligible employees so affected; and
8)	in the event of a strike, any situation arising out of a strike, or a lockout, for all eligible employees at the affected Plant The words "strike" and "lockout" is defined as under the Labour Code.
58
MEMORANDUMOF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
HI) If, at the conclusion of the year, the total hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu plus the total hours he was absent from work under Section 2) is not equal to or higher then his apphcable minimum hours under Section 1) then he shall be eligible for an Employment Security payment on 1he net difference.
To determine any payments due, the net difference in hours is multiplied by the weighted average
base rate for the year. Such payment shall be made ty the Company as soon as possible but not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the year.
Any payments made in compliance with the provisions of Labour Standards Legislation, in excess of the terms of the Collective Agreement, is deducted from such payment.
IV) An employee shall lose his eligibility under the Plan and shall forfeit any payments which may otherwise have been due to him if during the course of the year.
a)	he resigns, retires, or otherwise loses his seniority rights under 1he provisions of Article 23, Seniority;
b)	he is discharged for just cause or his employment with the Company is otherwise terminated and he is not reinstated through the Grievance or Arbitration Procedures;
c)	he is permanently laid-off within the meaning of the Collective Agreement;
d)	he transfers to a position within the Company not covered by the Collective Agreement;
e)	he is deceased; or
f)	he declines more than four (4) full scheduled weeks of work during the year.
V) The Employment Security Plan shall terminate and the Company shall not be liable to make any payments under the Plan whatsoever in the event that:
a)	the Company becomes bankrupt or insolvent;
b)	the Company terminates its operations at the location provided for under the Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shall terminate in respect of eligible employees at the affected location; or
c)	1he Company terminates part of its operations at the location provided for under 1he Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shall terminate automatically in respect of any eligible employee who was laid-off as a result.
59
APPENDIX A - HOURLY RATE
w ,/JIORITYGROUPA	CLASSIFICATIONS
grouper-^7.V“*; '
H2009006-H2009007-H2009004
H2009009-H2009003 H2009002-H2009002 H2009008-H2009005-H2047001
H2035003-H2038001
GROUP II ,	_ .
H2034014-H2034016
Operators-F.L.T.O, dumper,labeller H2034012-H2038002-H2038003-H2034015 cloud, automaticpalletlzer, filler H2035001-H2034010-H2034007-H2034008 case packer unloader, SIG, I.V.F., D.P.S.A, (Coffee)
Machine cleaner-soluble,rdgulier, D-W (Packing) Process cleaner-regular, W-B Janitor-soluble, W-B
Attendants-mobile unitWB-shippIng, refuse col lector D-W Packer, palletizer caroussel W-B
H2034035-H2034003-H2034027
H2022006 -H2035002 H2013Q01-H2050004 H2050001-H2014002-H2050003 H2003001-H2050006-H2050002 H2033001-H2050005
GROUP III
H2034019-H2034018-H2034011-H2034013 Operators-percolater#1 ,#2, Dry, Wet,
Wrapper 1oz, D-W packer, Packer chips W-B Process helper, Packer 1 oz.
Attendants-depalletizer, F.L.T.O. service soluble-packing reworkF.L.T.O,, cocoa bean dumper, D-W service person laundry, process service W-B oiler, battery
H2034023-H2034009-H2034002
H2034006-H2034025
H2034026-H2034028-H2034024
H2034033-H2034034 H2034001-H2034002-H2034004 H2014001- H2028001 H2034017-H2044002-H2044001
H2060001-H2060003
GROUP IV
H2034021-H2046001-H2034005
H2034029-H2034030
H2060002-H2054001
roastercoffee, W-B
blender grinder (regular), liquor mill (W-B)
chocolate mixer, chocolate refiner, dry compound grinder
tempering lot- chips
process D-W (dryer, mixer)
coffee bean dumper, percolator loader
Attendants- packoff, W-B receiving, receiving,
shipping, shipping F.L.T.O,/F.S.P.D.
Relief-soluble, regular, D-W, W-B 1 oz, chips
warehouse checker, storekeeper
May 1S 1996
$16.38
May 18 May 17
$16.78
$17.28
$17,78
1997
$16.83
$17.23
$17.73
$18.23
1998
$17,33
$17.73
$18,23
$18,73
SENIORITY GROUP B
GROUP I
H2031002-H2031008
H2031004-H2031006-H2031001-H2031007 H2031009-H2031005-H2064001
H2029001-H2052001-H2031003
GROUP II
H2017001-H2023001
GROUP III
H2017002
General mechanic-soluble,W-B Packing mechanic-soluble,regular, W-B, D-W central gen. mechanic, central packing, stationary enginee machinist, steamfitter, fork lift truck
Electrician, instrument man
Master electrician
$20,23
$20.73
SENIORITY GROUP C
GROUP I
H2057008-H205500-H2057010
GROUP II
H2057006-H2057011
GROUP III
H2055002-H2057004-H2057013-H2057012 H2057014-H2057015-H2057016-H2057017
GROUP 17
H2057009
Micro sample tech., taste panelist, weight
Raw material (cocoa)tech., various ass.
Test panel coordinator, analytical, project, calibration, technic res., quality production
Skilled technician micro.
$20.58
$21.13
$16.68
$16.98
$17.28
$17.58
$21.08
$21.63
$17.13
$17.43
$17.73
$18.03
NOTE: The temporary permanent replacementjobs are paid at the rate of the job they are replacing.
60
$21.33
$21.68
$22.23
$17.63
$17,93
$18,23
$18,53
APPENDIX hB"___________________________________________________________LABORATORY
TASTE PANEL TECHNICIAN
Concerning the inclusion of Taste-Panel Technician within the scope of the Agreement, it is agreed that;
1)	Notwithstanding Article 18.1, the basic work day will be not less than five (5) hours per day, nor more than eight (8) hours per day. The normal schedule of hours, if less than eight (8) hours per day, will be determined by the Company.
The current schedule of hours will be 8:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. with an unpaid meal period 12:15 to 1:00 p.m.
2)	Notwithstanding Article 7, payment for paid holidays and minimum guarantees will be pro-rated in accordance with the basic work day as determined under 1) above.
In the event that he works more than five (5) hours on the work day before or after the paid holiday, his holiday pay will be based on the number of hours so worked, but not to exceed eight (8) hours.
3)	Notwithstanding Article 9.1, the unpaid meal period will not be less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than sixty (60) minutes.
4)	Notwithstanding Articles 12, 16, 17 and 19, all guarantees will be pro-rated in accordance with the basic work day and work week as determined under 1) above.
5)	In ail other respects, the current Collective Agreement as amended by this appendix, will apply as written to Taste-Panel Technicians.
61
APPENDIX "C"_________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
PREAMBLE
The benefits outlined in this appendix describe the coverage and provisions under which the Kraft Canada Inc. Medical and Dental Plans will be administered. Should the need for additional interpretative or adjudicative language arise, the official plan document will prevail.
1)	EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Kraft Canada Inc. Medical Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependents are covered under this plan as soon as you have completed your probationary period.
b)	Cost of the Pian
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the present coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependents. As of January 1, 1997, a portion of the drug plan contained within this plan will be at the cost of the employees through a monthly premium of $5.00 per employee.
c)	Deductible
A deductible of $25 per person, maximum $50 per family, is applied every year to all eligible medical and dental expenses combined.
The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses which you must pay in full each calendar year before you can receive a reimbursement of covered expenses. If the eligible expenses you incurred during the first nine months of the year are less than the deductible amount, additional expenses up to the deductible amount incurred in the last three months of the year may be carried over as a credit towards satisfying the deductible amount of the following year.
d)	Eligible Expenses
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health Care Plan reimburses a percentage of the eligible expenses, provided these expenses are reasonable and customary, and that they are medically necessary and prescribed by a physician. Reimbursement is subject to a lifetime maximum of $250,000, excluding the drug plan expenses. In addition, up to $1,000 of this maximum will be reinstated each January 1. The actual amount will be based on the amount of benefits, exluding expenses for drugs, you had received from the plan in the previous calendar year.
62
APPENDIX "C"__________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1) EXTENDED HEAT TH PT ,AN (cont’d)
e) DEFINITION of "EligibleDependents"
Eligible dependents include your spouse and your dependent children.
Dependent children are defined as your unmarried children who are:
-	less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
-	less than 25 years old if full-time student attending an accredited educational facility and chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
-	incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
Spouse is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. By "common-law spouse" we mean any person of the opposite sex who lives with you and is publicly presented as your spouse. To qualify, your common-law spouse must have been living with you for at least one year.
f)	Hospital Expenses
For licensed hospitals and convalescent care facilities, the plan covers:
Hospital:
"	100% of the difference in cost between ward and semi-private or private room up to
$55 per day and 80% of charges in excess of $55 per day.
Convalescent care
■	100% of the cost of semi-private accommodation up to $55 per day and 80% of the
excess over $55,
63
APPENDIX "C"______________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1) EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN (cont'd)
Hospitalization costs outside Canada are reimbursed at 100% for emergency treatment of an illness or accident.
If you are hospitalized outside Canada for a medically necessary treatment not available in Canada and for which there is no alternate treatment available in Canada, medical expenses that exceed the allowance paid by any provincial government plan are reimbursed based on reasonable and customary charges.
No deductible applies to hospital expenses.
g)	Medical Expenses
The plan reimburses 100% of the following eligible medical expenses:
Drug Pian:
-	After deductible has been met, plan reimburses expenses at 100% for drugs and medicines which require a prescription by law.
-	Drug pian is not subject to $250,000 lifetime maximum.
- Prescription nicotine patches are limited to one twelve week treatment maximum for a lifetime. Nicorettes (chewing gum) on prescription are not covered by the plan.
■ Emergency treatment of an illness or accident occurring while outside Canada is reimbursed on a reasonable and customary basis.
' Emergency travel assistance expenses as follows:
You can leave with peace of mind, knowing that if you or a member of your family require emergency medical assistance - help is just a phone call away.
Should an emergency occur, the first step is to dial the number on the back of your identification card.
Should you or a member of your family require EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT while travelling, the following services are available to you from World Access:
. Referral to a physician, dentist or appropriate medical care facility.
. Payment coverage for emergency medical, pharmaceutical, surgical and hospital bills.
64
APPENDIX "C"___________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1) EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN (cont’d)
World Access will also provide you with the following EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION services:
" Emergency medical transportation if necessary (1)
• In the event of death, necessary arrangements will be made to have the deceased's body returned home to Canada. Expenses of up to $5,000 are covered.
■	If you or your spouse require hospitalization while travelling, arrangements will be made for your children, should they be left unattended, to return to their home in Canada. Children must be under 16 years of age. If necessary, arrangements for an escort to accompany the children will be made. (1)
■	If a covered traveller should lose his/her return flight due to the hospitalization of a covered family member, arrangements for one way Economy Class transportation to the place of departure will be provided. (1)
■	Should a covered traveller be travelling alone and be confined to a hospital for more than seven days, the cost of transportation of an immediate family member to visit the
hospitalized person is covered. Return economy fare for one family member will be
permitted. A family member is a person who is a blood relative or who normally resides with the hospitalized person.( 1)
(1) Reimbursement is limited to $5,000 per event.
World Access - A Communication Centre
. World Access also functions as a message centre. By dialing World Access' number in Washington, you can leave important messages for up to fifteen days.
. World Access will contact family members' and your employer to update them.
. Your regular physician will be consulted if necessary.
. In an emergency, World Access can provide telephone interpretation services in most major languages.
Additional Services:
.	Assistance in arranging the replacement of lost documents or tickets.
. Expenses of up to $700 are covered for commercial accommodation and meals incurred by you, or a member of your family while staying with the hospitalized person.
65
APPENDIX "C"____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1) EXTENDED HE AI TH PT,AN (cont’d)
. Your Emergency Travel Assistance benefit will help cover the cost of accommodation if you should require convalescence following hospitalization. Expenses of up to $75 per day will be covered for a maximum of 5 days.
. If an emergency should occur and you are unable to drive your vehicle home, excluding commercial vehicles, arrangements will be made to co-ordinate the return of your vehicle. Expenses of up to $500 are covered.
. Referral for legal services.
h)	The plan also reimburses 80% of the following:
Private duty nursing. Services must be recommended by a physician and rendered by a registered nurse who is not a relative and does not ordinarily reside in your home. There is a maximum reimbursement of $10,000 every 36 months.
Charges for room and board in a licensed chronic care facility up to a maximum reimbursement of $ 10 per day for a period of 120 days per calendar year.
Charges for the use of a licensed ambulance for local transportation to and from the nearest hospital. Emergency transportation by airline to and from the nearest hospital within your province of residence and equipped to provide the required medical services are also eligible, subject to a maximum equal to an economy airfare.
Paramedical services by a licensed physiotherapist, psychologist, osteopath, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath or speech therapist, up to a maximum reimbursement of $300 for each practitioner each calendar year. In addition, covered expenses include the cost of one x-ray per practitioner per calender year. To be considered eligible expenses, the services provided must be within the scope of the license held by the practitioner.
Laboratory tests and x-rays for diagnosis not covered by any government plan.
Prescription contact lenses or eye glasses and/or eye examination up to a maximum reimbursement of $150 effective November 1st, 1994 per person every 24 months. This reimbursement applies for either contact lenses or eyeglasses, but not both.
66
APPENDIX "C"____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1) EXTENDED HEAT TH PT ,AN (cont’d)
Dental services required to repair natural teeth damaged as a result of an accident up to $5,000, provided the repairs commence within three months of the accident.
Hearing aids up to a maximum reimbursement of $300 per person every 36 months.
Charges for:
■	Rental or purchase of braces and crutches, and purchase or prostheses required for therapeutic use.
-	Rental or purchase of a wheelchair, hospital bed, iron lung or oxygen equipment required for therapeutic purposes.
■	Radium and radio-isotope treatment and blood transfusions.
• Orthopaedic shoes and orthotics prescribed by a physician and required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Once the first expense has been paid for by the plan, the cost of replacement will only be covered if it is required as a result of pathological change.
-	Blood sugar monitoring devices for insulin dependent diabetics, when prescribed by a physician, up to a lifetime maximum reimbursement of $200.
i)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similar plans. Similar plans refer to those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer other than Kraft General Foods contributes or deposits employee contributions, or State governed plans or plans supported by public contributions.
j)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health Care Plan does not cover:
■	Services and supplies not included in the list of eligible expenses.
67
APPENDIX "C"_______________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
1)	EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN (cont’d)
•	Charges for general health examinations.
-	Services paid for under any federal or provincial government legislation.
' Cosmetic surgery or treatment, including hospital confinement for such surgery or treatment.
_ Charges related to any disability for which benefits are provided under any workers' compensation legislation.
■	Dental work where a third party is responsible for payment of such charges.
■	Charges related to injury resulting directly or indirectly from war, declared or not, insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind.
-	Charges for services or supplies which are furnished without the recommendation and approval of a physician acting within the scope of his or her license.
‘ Charges related to intentionally self-inflected wounds.
■	Drugs, serum, injectable drugs or supplies that are not approved by Health and Welfare, Canada, and that are experimental or limited in use.
•	Charges which are not medically necessary for the care and treatment of any existing or suspected injury, disease or pregnancy.
•	Charges made by a physician for travel, broken appointments, communication costs, completion of claim forms or physician's supplies.
■	Charges which would not normally have been incurred but for the presence of this coverage or for which the employee or dependent is not legally required to pay.
k) In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under the Kizfb
Canada Inc. Health Care Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependents, at
no cost to you, except for the drug plan premium which will continue to be
deducted from your disability cheques, for as long as you are receiving Kizfb
Canada Inc. disability benefits.
68
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX MCH
1)	EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN (cont’d)
l)	In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. employee, coverage under the Health Care Plan continues for your eligible dependents for three months from your date of death.
m)	Authorized Short Term Absence
In the event of short term authorized absence, you remain covered free of charge by the extended health plan, except for the drug plan premium of $5.00/month/employee, which must be paid in order to retain coverage, as well as your eligible dependents during an authorized absence from work of one month or
less.
n)	In the Event of a Lay-off
If you are iayed-off for a period of 6 months or less, you remain covered free of charge by the extended health plan as well as your eligible dependants, except for the drug plan premium of $5>00/month/employee, which must be paid in order to retain coverage.
o)	Termination of employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents at the end of the month in which you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc.. Out-of-Canada coverage ceases on the date of termination of employment.
69
APPENDIX "C"	BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTALPLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Dental Care Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependents are covered under this plan upon completion of your probationary period.
b)	Cost of the Plan
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for your and your eligible dependents.
c)	DEITINITICN of "Eligible Dependents"
Eligible dependents include your spouse and your dependent children.
Dependent children are defined as your unmarried children who are:
‘	less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
"	less than 25 years old if full-time student attending an accredited educational
facility and chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
' incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support and are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. By "common-law spouse" we mean any person of the opposite sex who lives with you and is publicly presented as your spouse. To qualify, your common-law spouse must have been living with you for at least three years.
70
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "CH
2) DENTAL PLAN (cont’d)
d)	Deductible
A deductible of $25 per person, maximum $50 per family, is applied every year to all eligible medical and dental expenses combined.
The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses which you must pay in full each calendar year before you can receive a reimbursement of covered expenses. If the eligible expenses you incurred during the first nine months of the year are less than the deductible amount, additional expenses up to the deductible amount incurred in the last three months of the year may be carried over as a credit towards satisfying the deductible amount of the following year.
e)	Eligible Expenses
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan covers 80% of the eligible expenses for three categories of dental care:
-	Basic services
-	Major restorative work
-	Orthodontic treatment
The maximum amount reimbursed for the first two categories combined is $ 1,200 per person per calendar year for you and each of your eligible dependents. The lifetime maximum benefit for orthodontic treatment is $2,000 per person.
Maximum eligible expenses are established in accordance with the current fee guide of the dental association. When several treatment possibilities exist, reimbursement of eligible expenses may be determined based on an alternate benefit.
f)	Basic Services
Diagnostic
-	Consultations
-	Single diagnostic x-rays
-	Complete series of x-rays: once every 24 months
-	QaL examinations: once every six months
-	Study casts: once per year
Preventative
-	Scaling and polishing (prophylaxis) once every six months
-	Topical fluoride
-	Passive space maintainers (that do not move the teeth) for dependent children only
-	Oral hygiene instruction once every six months
71
APPENDIX HCH
BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PI AN (cont’d)
g)	Minor restorative work
" Fillings (silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations)
-	Stainless steel crowns
Oral Surgery
-	Removal of teeth, including impacted teeth and residual roots
-	Anaesthesia
-	Post operative care
Endodontics
"	Emergency endodontic procedures and root canal therapy
Periodontics
■ Treatment of diseases of the gum and other supporting tissue of the teeth.
Repair or relining and rebasing of dentures including addition of new teeth.
MAJOR RESTORATIVE WORK Gold inlays, onlays and crowns Note:
When a tooth can be restored with silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations, benefits will be determined based on the usual costs of such a restoration.
Replacement of dentures and other dental appliances:
The initial purchase of a dental appliance is covered as well as the replacement of an existing appliance which is at least five years old and no longer serviceable.
Orthodontic treatment
'	Correction of malocclusion of the teeth
-	Full-mouth reconstruction
72
APPENDIX "CH____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN (cont’d)
h)	In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan is maintained, at no cost to you for you and your eligible dependents. This coverage is maintained for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc. disability benefits.
i)	In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. Employee, coverage under the Dental Care Plan continues for your dependents for three months from your date of death.
j)	Authorized Short Term Absence
In the event of short term authorized absence, you remain covered free of charge by the dentai plan as well as your eligible dependents during an authorized absence from work of one month or less.
k)	Termination of Employment or Lay-off
1.	Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents at the end of the month in which you get layed-off or terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc..
2.	in the event of a lay-off, you will continue to be covered by the dental plan as well as your eligible dependants for a maximum of six (6) months.
l)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similar plans. Similar plans refer to those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer other than Kraft Canada Inc. contributes or deposits employee contributions, or State governed plans or plans supported by public contributions.
m)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Care Plan does not cover:
' Services or supplies that are primarily for cosmetic dentistry, e.g., bonding, bleaching and facings.
73
APPENDIX "C"__________________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
2) DENTAL PLAN (cont’d)
' Services covered by any government plan.
' Services or supplies not furnished by a legally qualified dentist or denturist.
-	Services or supplies necessitated directly or indirectly as the result of committing, attempting to commit or provoking an assault or criminal, or by a war or act of war, declared or not, insurrection or not, or hostilities of any kind.
-	Miscellaneous charges such as counselling, travel, broken appointments, communication costs or completion of claim forms.
■	Services or supplies resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted wound.
'	Any hospital charges for board and room and related services and supplies.
' Any dental examinations required by a third party.
" Services or supplies not medically necessary,
-	Services or supplies for implantology, including tooth implantation or transplantation and surgical insertion of fabricated implants.
74
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE
a)	Eligibility
The basic life insurance coverage becomes effective at the completion date of the probationary period.
You may apply for the optional insurance plans for you and your eligible dependents within 30 days following the completion of your probationary period. Optional Life coverage for you and your spouse becomes effective once accepted by the insurance company. Optional Life coverage for your eligible children becomes effective as soon as you apply.
In order to select optional coverage for your dependents, you must also select optional coverage for yourself Coverage may be changed any January 1. However, approval by the insurance company is required for increases to Optional Life Coverage.
b)	Summary of Coverage
AMOUNT OF INSURANCE
EMPLOYEE
SPOUSE
CHILDREN
Basic Life insurance
1 x annual base salary
Optional Life Insurance
Units of $10,000* to
a maximum $500,000
Units of $10,000 up to 50% employee coverage
$5,000
per child
*Up to 8 times your base salary
75
APPENDIX "C"_______________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
c)	RASTr T.TFF. INSURANCE Amount of Coverage
Under the Basic Life Insurance Plan, you are insured for an amount equal to one time your annual base salary. This amount is paid to your beneficiary if you die from any cause.
Effective May 21, 1995, the Company will assume the full cost of providing Term Insurance coverage of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) decreasing by one thousand dollars ($1,000) each year until a minimum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for an employee effective his normal retirement date, or who retires from the Company while in active employee status on or after age fifty-five (55) with ten (10) years or more of service.
Cost of the Pian
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the Basic Life Insurance Plan.
d)	OPTION A T. life insurance Amount of Coverage
The Optional Life Insurance Plan provides you with the opportunity to purchase additional amounts of life insurance, if you need it. This extra-coverage is available in units of $10,000 up to 8 times your base salary, maximum $500,000 and is payable to your beneficiary upon your death.
You may also purchase coverage for your spouse and your children. Coverage for your spouse may be obtained in units of $10,000 up to 50% of your own coverage, with evidence of good health. Coverage for children is $5,000 per child.
In the event of the death of one of your insured dependents, the amount of their coverage will be paid to you.
An employee who has purchased Paid-up Insurance under the previous insurance plan will be issued a statement indicating the value of their Paid-up Insurance as of June 1st, 1975, and no further purchases of Paid-up Insurance will be made after such date.
76
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
3) LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
This amount of Paid-up Insurance will remain in force until the employee leaves Kraft Canada Inc. or retires. At that time, the Paid-up Insurance (providing the face amount is one hundred dollars ($100.00 or more) may be kept in force, or surrendered for its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of the contributions the employee had made to the Paid-up Insurance Plan.
e)	General Provisions
Your basic life insurance coverage remains in effect during an authorized leave of absence of one (1) month or less.
The basic life insurance continues free of charge in the case of a lay off from work of 12 months or less. The optional coverage for the employee and its eligible dependents can be maintained in force for the same period as long as the employee pays the premiums in advance to the Company. If termination of coverage occurs and the employee wants reinstatement in the optional plan, the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence in insurability from the employee including eligible dependents.
LTD payments will not reduce the amount of life insurance in force just prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such insurance will remain in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age sixty-five (65).
All term insurance coverage will stop at the end of the month in which you leave Kraft Canada Inc., but if you die within the following thirty-one (31) days, the full amount will be paid. Also during this thirty-one (31) day period you convert all or part of your insurance, without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company's regular rates; it may be written on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one (1) year of term insurance coverage.
When you die from any cause, the full amount of your Kraft Canada Inc. life insurance then in force will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice, you may change the beneficiary designation at any time in the manner provided by the Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage will be employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at Kraft Canada Inc. and both are enrolled in the Life Insurance Plan, the employee claiming the child (ren) as dependent(s) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
77
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3) LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
f)	Cost of the Plan
The Optional Life Insurance is paid for entirely by you. The cost of coverage for you and your spouse is based on the amount of insurance you select and on your respective ages:
Monthly Premiums Per
$1.000 of coverage	Dependent Children
Less than 30
$0.07
The premium is $0.95 per month for $5,000 of insurance per dependent child. Regardless of number of children insured premium remains $0.95/month.
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
$0.08
$0.10
$0.16
$0.23
$0.38
$0.60
$0.98
Note: Quebec employees will have the 9% sales tax added to their premiums as required by law.
g)	Definitions
Eligible dependents include your spouse and your dependent children.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. By "common-law spouse", we mean any person of the opposite sex who hves with you and is pubhcly presented as your spouse. To qualify, your common-law spouse must have been living with you for at least three years.
"Dependent children" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
. less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment;
. less than 25 years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and chiefly dependent cn you for support and maintenance;
. incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
78
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3)	T.TFF. INSURANCE (cont’d)
The tarn "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
4)	ACCID T DEATH AND )ISMEMBER	INSURANCE
The Optional AD&D plan offers a full 24-hr, all year long coverage against accidents occurring anywhere in the world, whether you are on or off the job.
a)	Amount of Coverage
Under this plan, you may purchase accidental death and dismemberment coverage up to $500,000 in units of $10,000 for yourself You may also request coverage for your spouse of up to 50% of your own coverage, in units of $10,000. Each child may be insured for $5,000.
The full amount of insurance is payable if death is the result of an accident. In the event of accidental dismemberments and other physical losses, a percentage of the amount of insurance may be payable for example.
Accidental Loss	Percentage of coverage
(Partial list of indemnities)
Loss of life, both hands, both feet, the entire sight in both eyes, or any combination thereof	100%
Loss of use of both arms or both hands	100%
Loss of one arm or leg	75%
Loss of use of one arm or one leg	75%
Loss of one hand, foot or sight in one eye	66 2/3%
In the event of your accidental death while insured, the amount of insurance will be paid to the beneficiary. All other indemnities are payable to you.
79
APPENDIX "C"_____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
4)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (cont’d)
Cost of Plan
Employee - $0,026* per month per $1,000 of insurance Spouse - $0,026* per month per $1,000 of insurance
Dependent children - a fixed amount of $0,25* per month per child regardless of number of children covered * plus applicable taxes
Exclusions
The AD&D plan does not cover losses resulting from the following:
-	suicide or self-destruction, or any attempts by the insured person while sane or insane,
-	flying in any aircraft or other airborne vehicle as a pilot, operator or member of the crew
-	declared or undeclared war or any act thereof,
-	active full-time service in the armed forces of any country.
Definitions
Eligible dependents include your spouse and your dependent children.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. By "common-law spouse", we mean any person of the opposite sex who lives with you and is publicly presented as your spouse. To qualify, your common-law spouse must have been living with you for at least three years.
"Dependent children" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
.	less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment;
.	less than 25 years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and
chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance;
. incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
80
APPENDIX "C"______________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
5)	NON-OCCUPATTONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DTSABTT TTY PT AN
This plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding probationary employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
a)	Eligibility for Benefits
To establish eligibility for benefits, an employee must show disability due to non-occupational accident or sickness by reasonably satisfactory evidence, which in the Company's judgement, prevents him from performing normal work assignments. No Supplemental Benefits are payable until an Attending Physician's Statement has been submitted attesting to the nature and severity of disability and certifying that the disability precludes the employee fron performing regular work assignments.
Further, the Company, at its expense and discretion, may have a physician or nurse of its own choice examine any employee who seeks benefit payments; if in the physician's or nurse's opinion the employee was able to perform regular work assignments, he will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any employee who fails or refuses to submit to such an examination will not be eligible for benefit payments.
An employee has responsibility for informing his supervisor immediately with respect to a
disability. Further, to qualify for benefits he has the responsibility for taking all proper steps to insure early recovery. Such steps may include the attendance of a qualified physician and the purchase of drugs, medicines, medical supplies and hospitalization services as necessary.
b)	Benefits
Plan benefits are payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefit period of twenty-six (26) weeks per disability but not more than twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
i)	Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic Benefits upon attainment of seniority and with ten (10) additional days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment. If employment is continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130) days.
When disabled, an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters (3/4) of his basic rats of pay, after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days, for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75) days per disability, as long as the disability is continued.
81
APPENDIX "C"____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATTONAT. ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DTSARTT.TTY PT.AN (nnnt'd)
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the Basic Benefit period of seventy-five (75) days will be fully reinstated after the employee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
If he is back at work for at least a four (4) week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of Basic Benefits will apply.
If he is absent again due to the same or associated disabilities that caused the first absence and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since this initiai absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
Basic benefits are payable to employees after a waiting period of two (2) working days as per the regular schedule of employees on 5-2 and one working day (of 12 hours) as per the regular schedule of relay workers on 3-2-2. Further, if the first day following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, basic benefits will not begin until the employee's next regularly scheduled working day.
There will be no waiting period if the disability results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for seven (7) working days beginning with the first regularly scheduled working day of disability, Basic Benefits are payable retroactively for all regularly scheduled working days in the waiting period, if such benefits have not been exhausted.
Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lost will count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instances where he has worked one-half or less of his regular shifts.
ii)	Supplemental Benefits
After all Basic Benefits for which an employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Benefits amounting to 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the twenty-six (26) week benefit period for the disability but not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks in the calendar year.
82
APPENDIX "C"__________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATTONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DISABILITY PI.AN (eont’d)
Ic)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee, who after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefits after the day on which such event occurs.
In the event of a lay off, the employee who is already receiving disability benefits at the time the lay off occurs, continues to receive the disability benefits for the duration of his period of disability to a maximum of 15 weeks in total from the beginning of his period of disability.
d)	Employees Not Actively Employed
An employee who becomes disabled while on lay-off, leave of absence or vacation, or while on strike, suspension from work or otherwise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligible for benefits under this Plan on the first regular scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
e)	Part-time Employment Due to Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount of daily benefits for which he is eligible. This provision only applies when the Company can provide part-time employment. Otherwise, such employees will receive the full amount of daily benefits.
If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits, after any applicable waiting period, he will receive pay for ail hours worked and Basic Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligible for Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked, and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be considered a full day for purposes of determining the maximum benefit period of twenty-six (26) weeks per disability or per calendar year.
83
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
5)	NON-OCCUPATTONAL A ((I DIM AND SICKNESS DTSABTT JTY PLAN (coni'A)
f)	Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i)	Disability arising from or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee had an employee/employer relationship with the other employer, and received remuneration for his services. Disability from work performed on an employee's own residence or property will not be considered "employment by another employer".
ii)	Disability caused by or resulting from use of alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating in a Kraft Canada Inc. sponsored program toward rehabilitation.
iii)	Disability resulting from acts of immorality or fighting.
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company rule.
v)	Disability resulting from a pregnancy related illness during:
a)	a pregnancy leave of absence
b)	the period commencing with the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth week of confinement.
g)	Definitions
a) Disability
"Disability" means the inability or incapacity to perform regular work assignments resulting from sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out of or in the course of employment, which is compensable under CSST is not a disability under this Plan.
84
APPENDIX "C"_____________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DISABILITY PLAN (cont’d1
b)	Hospitalization
"Hospitalization" occurs when the employee is admitted to and confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident. At the discretion of the Company Doctor, an employee treated in the out-patient or emergency service or facilities of a hospital, without confinement as a bed patient, may be considered hospitalized for purposes of this Plan.
c)	Hourly Rate of Pay
The employee's basic rate of pay (excluding shift premium).
6) LONG TERM DISABILITY: (LTD) a) Benefits
This plan is fully paid by the Company. Coverage commences upon completion of probationary period and applies to ail employees who have completed their probationary periods.
If you are unable to work after 26 weeks of disability, you may be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan.
LTD benefits may be paid up to two years if you are totally disabled and cannot perform the duties of your current job. If you continue to be totally disabled after two years and cannot perform the duties of a job related to your skills and experience, payments will continue to the earliest of recovery, death or age 65.
This plan provides you with a monthly income equal to 67 % of the monthly base salary you were receiving when you became disabled, up to a maximum benefit of $15,000 per month.
To be eligible for benefits, you must be under the care of a legally qualified physician at all times. Medical reports will be required periodically.
Benefits payable under this plan are considered taxable income.
85
APPENDIX "C"______________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
6) LONG TERM DTSARTT.TTV fLTDi (cant'd)
b)	Recurrence of Disability
If you become disabled for the same reason within six months of your return to fulltime work after a long-term disability, the second disability period will be considered a continuation of the first. You will then immediately begin receiving your long-term disability benefits.
However, if the period exceeds six months or if the new disability is not related to the first, a new claim must be filed under the Short-Term Disability Plan.
c)	Rehabilitative Employment
As an incentive to promote an early return to gainful employment after a total disability, you may perform certain work without forfeiting the benefits payable under the LTD plan.
If you engage in an approved rehabilitative employment program, you will be entitled to receive your long-term disability benefits over and above the employment income payable from the program.
The rehabihtation benefits may be paid for a maximum period of 24 months during which your income from all sources must not exceed your gross earnings at the time you became disabled.
Should disability prevent you from continuing with the program, your regular disability benefits will continue to be paid.
d)	Coordination with Other Sources of Income
Long-Term Disability Benefits are reduced by disability benefits payable from CSST, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan (excluding any payments for your dependent children) and by any other income from employment or otber government plans.
e)	Continuation of Other Employee Benefits during Disability
While you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, you and your dependents remain covered under all Kraft Canada Inc. plans, except for the Optional AD&D Insurance Plan and the Non-Occupational Accident and Short-Term Disability Plan.
86
APPENDIX "C"________________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
6) IjONG TERM DISABILITY; (LTD) fcont’d)
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefits are paid.
Effective May 21, 1995, while you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, Kraft Canada Inc. will assume the entire cost of your contributions into the company retirement plan.
f)	Exclusions
No Long-Term Disability benefits are payable for:
A disability for which you are not treated on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician. If you are heated by a chiropractitionner, a medical leave of absence in excess of 2 weeks must be justified by a medical certificate signed by a medical doctor. If the sickness is due to a mental or emotional disorder, you must be receiving continuing treatment by a physician who is certified in psychiatry.
A disability for which you may be entitled to indemnity in accordance with the provisions of a CSST compensation plan, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan, a provincial auto insurance plan or a group benefit plan.
A disability caused by or resulting from a self-inflected injury or illness. A disability caused by or resulting from alcoholism or drug addiction, unless you are treated for the problem on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician, or are being treated through the Employee Assistance Program.
A disability caused by or resulting from participation in a criminal act or any act of war, declared or not.
A disability resulting from injury sustained while engaged in an employment for wage or profit during any period for which benefits are claimed under the plans.
87
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The employee hired before November 1st, 1994 has the right to join this retirement plan on the first day of the month after obtaining one year’s seniority, or earlier, as requested by law.
Every employee hired after November 1, 1994, must, as a condition of employment, participte in the retirement plan. He is automatically enrolled to this plan on the first day of the month after obtaining one year’s seniority, or sooner if required by law.
Once you become eligible, you may join by completing an enrolment form authorizing Kraft Canada Inc. to make payroll deductions and naming a beneficiary.
b)	Benefit Formula
i)	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement is the first day of the month following attainment of age sixty-five (65).
The monthly pension you will receive subject to section d) will be calculated as follows:
Effective November 1, 1996, forty-four dollars ($44), effective May 18, 1997, forty-five dollars ($45) and as of May 17, 1998, forty-seven dollars ($47) per month for each year of credited service.
ii)	Early Retirement
You may retire on the first of any month after your fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
The monthly pension you will receive subject to section d) will be calculated as follows:
Effective November 1, 1996, forty-four dollars ($44), effective May 18, 1997, forty-five dollars ($46) and as of May 17, 1998, forty-seven dollars ($47) per month for each year of credited service.
Less: 3 % for each year of early retirement before age sixty (60).
88
APPENDIX "C"____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
in addition, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of twelve dollars ($12.00)* per month per year of credited service, (maximum thirty (30) years) will be payable until age sixty-five (65).
iii)	Deferred Retirement
An employee may elect to continue to work beyond the normal retirement date, but in any event shall retire, or be deemed to have retired for purposes of the Plan, on the first day of any subsequent month not later than the first (1st) day of the month immediately prior to his 71st birthday.
An employee may elect to continue making contributions to the Plan during the deferred period in accordance with c).
An employee who defers his retirement shall be entitled to receive a monthly pension calculated in accordance with the Plan document and Section d) and not less than:
Effective November 1, 1996, forty-four dollars ($44), effective May 18, 1997, forty-five dollars ($45) and as of May 17, 1998, forty-seven dollars ($47) per month for each year of credited service.
N.B.:	Employees who have retired since May 19, 1996, are eligible to the monthly
pension of forty-four ($44).
Note 1:	Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which
you made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor plans or for which you withdrew contributions. Further, no credit will be given for periods of military service if contributions are not made upon return to active employment.
For a regular employee who is hired on or after January 1, 1988, the service prior to becoming a member of the Plan shall not be included in the computation of credited service.
Note 2:	The Quebec Pension Plan (QPP) and the Old Age Security (OAS) pensions are in
addition to your Kraft Canada Inc. Pension.
89
APPENDIX "C"_______________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
c)	Employee Contributions
The monthly contribution is determined as follows:
Until November 1, 1996, ninety dollars ($90)
Effective November 1, 1996, ninety-three dollars ($93)
Effective May 18, 1997, ninety-six dollars ($96)
Effective January 1, 1999, one hundred and one dollars ($101)
d)	Spouse's Benefit
This benefit provides the surviving spouse with 60% of the monthly pension paid to the retired employee for as long as the spouse remains alive. The monthly pension will be automatically reduced by 10% unless prior to retirement the employee chooses to opt out of this benefit by submitting a Spouse Premium Waiver which requires the witnessed signature of the employee's spouse. In the case of early retirement, this reduction or resultant pension benefit will not include the early retirement supplement referred to in Section b). Should your spouse predecease you, the Spouse's Benefit reduction shall not apply after his/her death.
e)	Death Benefit
i)	Should you die before retirement and before the date of your normal retirement, your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum of the following:
1)	The total amount of your contributions to December 31, 1986 plus compound interest to date of payment.
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January 1, 1987 together with the additional retirement income granted on and after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987,
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interest over 50% of the commuted value in paragraph 2),
ii)	Should death occur after your normal retirement date but before your deferred retirement date, and the Spouse's Benefit is in effect, you shall be deemed to have retired on the day preceding death for purposes of calculating the amount of the benefit settlement.
90
APPENDIX "C"_____________________________________________________________BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
iii)	Should death occur after retirement but before receiving your total contributions plus compound interest, and the Spouse's Benefit is not in effect, your beneficiary will receive the difference.
f)	General Provisions
i)	You become entitled to a pension benefit under the plan after ten (10) years' continuous service for benefits earned prior to January 1, 1987 and/or after two (2) years' plan membership for benefits earned after January 1, 1987.
Contributions which are made after January 1, 1987 are lacked-in (not refundable in cash) after two (2) years' plan membership. Contributions made between January 1, 1966 and January 1, 1987 are locked in at age forty-five (45) and ten (10) or more years continuous service.
ii)	If you leave Kraft Canada Inc. any plan contributions which are not vested, as described in i), will be refunded to you with compound interest. Such refunds remain eligible for transfer to an RRSP without lacking-in provisions.
If you are vested, you may leave your money in the plan and receive retirement income or transfer the value from the plan as outlined in vii) which describes the portability provisions.
If you do not transfer your money from the plan, as outlined in vii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retirement date equal to the amount calculated at the time you leave. If you elect to have your retirement income begin before age sixty (60), the reduction for early retirement will apply.
Any time after you leave, but before your retirement income starts, you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under the Plan are cancelled.
91
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
iii)	If you are absent on layoff, leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work. Except for absences due to Military Service, Workers's Compensation or Long Term Disability, missed contributions cannot be paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees on Workers' Compensation and Long Term Disability. However, a payment made under the Job Security Plan will qualify for employee contributions and credited service under this pian.
iv)	You may change your beneficiary subject to provincial legislation at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
v)	To permit an employee to take advantage of this tzK concession and provide greater retirement income, the Plan allows for voluntary contributions. A participant age twenty-one (21) or over and enrolled in the Retirement Plan is thus eligible to contribute additional funds through regular payroll deductions. The minimum contribution is ten dollars ($10.00) per month, and the employee has a choice of three funds (common stock, fixed funds and guaranteed deposits) in which these contributions are invested and administered by the Royal Trust Company.
In addition to regular payroll deductions, two lump sum contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more may be made by payroll deduction on two (2) specified dates each year.
There is no Company contributions to this section of the Plan; however, the Company assumes all administrative and brokerage costs.
vi) "Surviving spouse" means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the commencement of your monthly pension meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
92
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN fcont’dt
1)	The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife: or
2)	If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has been residing with you in a conjugal relationship, whether continuously for not less than three (3) years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child.
However, not more than one (1)person can be a surviving spouse. In the event of more than one (1) person claiming to be such Kraft Canada Inc. will determine, based on evidence available that Kraft Canada Inc. considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designated a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. Kraft Canada Inc. decision in this regard shall be final and binding.
vii)	If you terminate your employment on or after January 1, 1988 and you are entitled to a monthly pension as described in the preceding paragraphs, you may direct the commuted value of your pension be transferred to another registered pension plan (subject to plan provisions) or a lock-in registered retirement savings plan.
viii)	The cost of vested benefits earned for service commencing January 1, 1987, plus additional retirement income granted on or after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987 must be at least 50% employer paid. Any excess employer contributions will be refunded upon retirement, termination, or death prior to retirement.
8. New Savings Program
Effective:	January 1st, 1995
Eligibility:	Must be a participant of the retirement plan
Functioning:	You may contribute up to a maximum of 5% of your salary including
overtime.
Kraft Canada Inc. will make contributions equal to 25% of your contributions. In other words, each dollar that you will contribute to the program, Kraft Canada Inc. will contribute 25 cents.
Detailed information on the program are contained in the Savings Program brochure available at the Human Resources Department.
93
Letter of agreement
between
The United Ebod and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc. for its LaSalle plant, Quebec
SUBJECT: Pension Committee
The Company and the Union agree to form a Pension Committee which will represent the unionized active employees participating to the Retirement Plan and the retirees of LaSalle,
The Pension Committee's role is exclusively consultative and its primary purpose is to facilitate the exchange of information between the representatives of the company and the representatives of LaSalle members with respect to the administration and the financial condition of the Plan as to how they relate to the LaSalle members.
The general rules governing the functioning and role of the Committee will be issued at the creation of the Committee.
94
Letter of agreement
between
The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc. for its LaSalle plant, Quebec
SUBJECT : _____ork R______________Committee
The Company and the Union recognize the necessity to establish a partnership and agree to form a standing committee on Work Reorganization within sixty (60) days of the signature of the collective agreement.
This joint committee will be formed of four members from the management team and four members from the union who will meet on a regular basis.
Its mandate:
To participate in the implementation of a management style which favours everyone’s responsibilisation and which makes possible for each individual to use his/her knowledge, abilities, potential and training.
To participate in the development of work organization in order to guaranty the viability of the LaSalle plant through the continuous improvement of the quality of our products, our productivity and our operations’ efficiency; to allow a superior performance of the plant against competition in an environment which favors health and safety, better quality of worklife and employees’ work satisfaction.
The committee will look more closely into technology changes, working methods, team work, etc. in order to ensure permanent cooperation and consultation amongst all parties.
According to the proposed project, the committee may form a sub-committee with representatives from the areas of activities affected by this reorganization project.
When a project requires changes to the collective agreement, the committee will have the power to make its rrecommendations to the management and union executives teams. All changes to be made to the collective agreement must be will have to be presented to all employees during a general assembly.
The projects may originate from the management members as well as from the union and the employees.
95
Letter of agreement
between
The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc. for its LaSalle plant, Quebec
SUBJf.CT : Temporary replacement of supervisors
The Company and the Union agree to appoint some employees from the negotiation unit, on an experimental basis and for the duration of the agreement, as substitutes to supervisors for short time absences, holidays, sick leaves, etc.
The choice of these employees will be done on a voluntary basis and in consultation with their working teams. During those replacement periods, their role will consist in coordinating the departmental activities.
The employee appointed in this role will be replaced on his/her regular job, in accordance with the dispositions of the collective agreement.
While respecting the above-stated principles, the application of this agreement may vary based on the operations’ needs of each department.
Notwithstanding article 23,15, employees assigned to such temporary replacement will continue to be covered by the collective agreement during the entire duration of their assignment.
The replacement premium will be $1,00 per hour.
96
Letter of Agreement between
The United Food and Commercial Workers International Unio.n local 766P and
Kraft Canada Inc.	• '
LaSalle Plant, Quebec
SUBJECT LEA
The Employer and the Union agree on the concepts and principles of a Leave of Absence with Deferred Pay Program.
The implementationof such program should be done on an experimental basis during and for the duration of the present Collective Agreement.
As soon as adequate and acceptable financial and fiscal mecanism will be identified and agreed by the Union and the Employer, the program will be presentedto all employees and will become effective at that time. .
The program will be re-evaluated at the end of the present contract,
Following is a table of the different options, for your information:
6	months
7	months
8	months
9	months
10	months
11	months
12	months
75 % 70.8%
83.34% 80.53% 77.76% 75	%
72.2 %
87.50% 85.4 % 83.32% 81.25% 79,15% 77.07% 75	%
90	%
88.32% 86.6 % 85	%
83.32% 81.66% 80 %