MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LANTIC SUGAR LIMITED (hereinafter refered to as “Lantic”) AND
LOCAL, NO. 443 -
(hereinafter refered to as “the Union”) of the
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY AND TOBACCO WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
WHEREAS a collective agreement is currently in force between Lantic and the Union to govern the terms and conditions that apply to them until August 31,1998 regarding the operation of the Saint John refinery;
WHEREAS Lantic has communicated its decision to close the Saint John refinery by year-end 1999;
WHEREAS the Union and the members it represents recognize that the date indicated in the preceeding paragraph is indicative only and does not constitute a firm commitment nor a guarantee to anyone or to all employees regarding the effective date of closure or the aspect of garanteed continued employment until that date;
WHEREAS Lantic intends to continue normal operations of its Saint John refinery until closure;
WHEREAS the Union and the members it represents recognize that the statement indicated in the preceeding paragraph does not constitute a firm commitment nor a guarantee regarding the level of activities at the refinery or the guaranteed continued active employment of anyone or all employees during the period prior to closure;
WHEREAS the Union and the members it represents are committed to provide full support and cooperationto Lantic for a normal and smooth continued operation and ultimate closure of the Saint John refinery;
NOW THEREFORE both parties have agreed to the following regarding the terms and conditionsthat will apply to them regarding the continued operation and ultimate closure of the Saint John refinery.
i i;
Gi'Ai t ■ y
TO
..12
. X (	r\-


■2'
The collective agreement effective May 1, 1996 to August 31, 1998, is renewed and extended until June 30, 2001. All terms and condition remain in effect (this includes benefits which were continued annually, i.e. LTD maximum payment, dental fee schedule, vacation bonus, tool and boot allowance) until then except as noted below;
DURATION:
July 1st 1998 to June 30,2001; WAGE ADJUSTMENT:
On each of the following dates, September 1st 1998, September 1st 1999 and September 1st 2000, wages will be adjusted by the percent amount of the Consumer Price Index rise for Saint John or the national percent increase, whichever is highest, as reported by Statistics Canada for the year ending with the previous month of July;
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS:
If the refinery closure takes place at any time between November 30,1999 and January 1, 2000, all normally scheduled statutory holidays for the Christmas and New Year period will be acquired to each employee still employed by Lantic at the closure date;
VACATION PAY:
Vacation pay is calculated as at the last day of active employment of the employee. In the case of employees terminated by Lantic because of the closure, no pro-rata will apply for the calculation of the vacation entitlement for the current vacation year during which he/she is terminated. The employee will be given credit for a full vacation year.
The preceeding provision will also apply to employees quittting/dying after May 31, 1999.
NORMAL SEVERANCE PAY:
Severance pay is calculated as at the last day of active employment of the employee at the wage rate attached to the function he/she normally occupies when laid-off. It is understood that an employee will not be penalized by any transfer caused by the refinery closure.
,/3
-3-
If an employee quits/dies before the refinery closure, a portion of the normally calculated severance pay will be acquired to him/her, which corresponds to 1/18 of a full severance pay calculated as of the date the employee quits/dies, per completed month of employment after June 1998.
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTARY SEVERANCE AMOUNT:
Lantic will subscribe a $ 1,000,000 maximum special supplementary severance amount to be acquired over the period of continued operation of the Saint John refinery in recognition for the continued support and cooperation of Lantic’s employees in Saint John. The precise amount will be a function of the closure date. 1/3 of the maximum amount will be acquired at the closure date and the other 2/3 will be acquired provided there are continued operations of the Saint John refinery on December 31, 1998 (for 1/3) and on June 30,1999 (for 1/3).
All Lantic regular active employees as of July 1st 1998, will be eligible to an equal portion of the precise special supplementary severance amount determined in accordance to the preceeding paragraph. This portion will be added to the employee’s normal severance pay after termination date.
If an employee quits/dies before closure, a portion of the individual special supplementary severance amount to be paid to h i d e r at termination date, will be acquired to him/her, which corresponds to 1 /18 of a maximum payment, per completed month of employment after June 1998.
LTD/WCB:
Employees on LTD/WCB at the closure date will continue on these programs until they retire from Lantic at normal retirement age or until they are confirmed as suitable for work, according to medical certification and as per the applicable provisions of the relevant programs. In the latter case, it is understood that the employee will then immediately qualify for his/her normal severance pay to be calculated at that time, for the purpose of the number of years of service, and at the last specified wage rate for his/her previously occupied function.
RECALL RIGHT PERIOD:
The employee who chooses to maintain his/her recall rights after his/her permanent layoff, will continue to receive group insurance benefits (i.e. Life insurance, Medical and Dental) during that period provided he/she continues to pay his/her prescribed share of the cost.
.../4
PENSION:
►
•4
As an exception and for the purpose only of the special amendment to the Pension Plan providing for the subsidized early retirement benefits to apply to terminated employees having the sum of their age and continuous service equal to, or greater than, 55, the one year recall right period will be included in the calculation of age and number of years of service. This will not have an impact on the number of credited years of service.
Lantic will not require the one year recall right period to be completed for the purpose of acknowledging the employees eligibility to the transfer of their pension credits as a consequence of the wind-up of the Pension Plan.
Employees aged 5 5 and over at their termination date will be entitled to the retirees benefits applicable to the group, provided they pay the normal costs required for such benefits.
► ADJUSTMENT COMMITTEE:
The creation of ajoint Adjustment Committee under the New Brunswick Employment Services Branch Department of Labour, was discussed and is being initiated at the time of the present proceedings.
Lantic will give serious consideration to qualified employees interested in openings at any Lantic owned locations. Information will be provided through an Adjustment Centre currently being opened on site at the Saint John refinery. Relocation assistance will be available for any resulting transfers.
Lantic will also provide information through the Adjustment Centre regarding any openings existing within the whole Corporation.
This Memorandum of Agreement signed at Saint John, N.B., this 30th day of June 1998,