CONVENTION COLLECTIVE 1999^ COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1999-2002
TUAC
UPON
LOCAL 766P
UNION INTERNATIONALE DES TRAVAELLEURS ET TRAVADLLEUSES UNIS DE L'ALIMENTATION ET DU COMMERCE,CTC, FAT-COI UNITEDFOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, CLC, AFL-CIO
Kraft Canada Inc.
Usine de LaSalle/LaSalle Plant LaSalle, Quebec
C£>(o6p-'(o<e)
COVENTION
COLLECTIVE
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
ENTRE
BETWEEN
KRAFT CANADA INC.	KRAFT CANADA INC.
LASALLE, QUEBEC	LASALLE, QUEBEC
ET
AND
L’UNION INTERNATIONALE DES TRAVAILLEURS UNIS DE L’ALIMENTATION ETDE COMMERCE
SECTIONLOCALE766P (FAT-COI, CTC, FTQ)
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
LOCAL 766P (AFL-CIO, CLC, QFL)
1999 - 2002
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE	PAGE
1.	Recognition,...............................................................4
2.	Bargaining Unit............................................................4
3.	Management.................................................................5
4.	Union Security.............................................................6
5.	Grievance Procedure........................................................7
6.	Arbitration..............................................................10
7.	Paid Plant Holidays.......................................................12
8.	Rest Periods..............................................................15
9.	Meal Periods..............................................................15
10.	Tool Allowance for Trade Employees........................................17
11.	Working Clothes...........................................................18
12.	Appearance in Court.......................................................18
13.	Licenses..................................................................18
14.	Health and Safety.........................................................19
15.	Union Notices.............................................................22
16.	Absence with Pay..........................................................22
17.	Vacations.................................................................24
18.	Normal working hours, overtime and working schedules (5-2 & 3-2-2)........26
19.	Minimum Recompense........................................................30
20.	Benefits.................................................................34
21.	Wages and Job Rate Rules.................................................34
22.	Shift Premiums.........................................................  37
23.	Seniority................................................................38
24.	Notice of Lay-off........................................................46
25.	Leaves of Absence......................................................  47
26.	No Strike or lockouts....................................................50
27.	Duration of Agreement....................................................50
Memorandum of interpretation
- Distribution of Overtime.............................................52
Employment Security Plan..................................................57
Appendix "A" - Hourly Wage Rates..........................................60
Appendix "B" - Laboratory.................................................64
Appendix "C" - BenefitPlans...............................................65
1)	Extended Health Plan................................................66
2)	Dental Plan.....................................................   74
3)	Life Insurance.....................................................79
4)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.......................83
JjNon-Occupational Accident and Sickness Disability Plan (weekly indemnities). 85
6)	Long Term Disability (LTD).......................................  89
7)	Retirement Plan..................................................  92
8)	Retirement Committee...............................................97
9)	Kraft Saving Plan (ESP/RSP)........................................98
Annexe “D” Revision Process of Job Description............................99
Letter of agreement - Medical Plan Premium...............................100
Letter of agreement - Lump Sum...........................................101
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
KRAFT CANADA INC.
LASALLE, QUEBEC
and/or its Successor Hereinafter called "the Company" AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION affiliated with the A.F. of L.-C.I.O., The Canadian Labour Congress (C.L.C.), and the Quebec Federation of Labour (Q.F.L.) on behalf of Local 766P
and/or its Successor.
Hereinafter called "the Union".
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties of this contractjoin together in the following Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.1	The company recognizes the Union as the Sole collective bargaining agency in regard to rates of pay, hours of work, and such other working conditions and provisions as are included in this Agreement for the bargaining unit, as defined in Article 2 - Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization on matters affecting these employees during the term of this Agreement.
1.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "President of the Union" refers to the actual president of the Union or his designated representative.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Bargaining Unit is composed of all the employees below the rank of foreman, in the employ of the Company, at its plant in LaSalle, Quebec, as hereunder defined.
The term "employees" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include all the employees directly or indirectly attached to production, including employees in receiving, shipping, delivery, maintenance, stationary engineers, plant service employees,janitors and machine cleaners as well as all laboratory personnel, including technicians, Quality Control Microbiologists, employees within the meaning of the Labour Code but excluding office employees, control and development employees, watchmen and guards, Maintenance Work Clerk as well as Quality Control and Technical Services Managers, Quality Control Supervisors, and Quality Control Chemists.
The term "employee(s) on probation" is used for the purpose of plant seniority only in this Agreement, as defined in Article 23, section 23.2.
2.2	Work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, (but not excluding new jobs associated with existing or new operations related to, or under the scope of Section 2.1 of this Article), shall not be done on the plant premises by persons excluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purpose of experimental development, non-manual work in connection with audits, on the job training or instruction of employees, or in cases of emergency (2.3 below), or by sub-contracting (2.4below).
2.3	Throughout this Agreement, the term "emergency" is understood to mean an Act of God, catastrophe, disaster or any reason of a similar nature and unanticipated conditions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to persons or property.
4
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT (cont'd)
2.4	In accordance with 2.2 above, it is understood that the Company may need to occasionally subcontract work, but the Company agrees that there shall be no hiring of sub-contractors to perform such work on the plant premises before informingthe union where:
1)	The work can be performed by bargaining unit employees, (e.g. appropriate skills, availability of personnel).
2)	Necessary equipment or tools to perform the work are available at the plant.
3)	Such work can be performed by bargaining unit employees within required time limits. The term "bargaining unit employees" in the foregoing shall mean to include employees on lay-off.
2.5	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement is considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business, and the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, lay-off, termination, retirement, reprimand, suspension, or discharge of employees or just cause, is vested solely in the Management of the Company. The exercise of such functions is not subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of the Agreement.
3.2	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influence, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union, its officers and stewards, or against any present and prospective member of the Union.
3.3	The Company and the Union adhere and support the following human rights principles:
The Company does not refuse to employ, to continue to employ and/or does not discriminate or intimidate any person based on Quebec Human Rights and Freedoms prohibited motives related to employment and working conditions based on race, religion, age, sex or sexual orientation, handicap, ethnic or national origin concerning the exercise of a right recognized in the Collective Agreement.
3.4	Throughout this Agreement the term "Plant Manager" refers to the actual Plant Manager or his duly designated representative.
3.5	Electronic watching and observation system are used exclusively to protect the employer's property against criminal actions such as theft and property damage. At no time, these systems are to be used to evaluate employee performance or as proof for disciplinary measures unless it is a result of a criminal action.
5
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.1	All employees who after the anniversary date of this Agreement are members of the Union (in accordance with its constitution and by-laws) tod all employees who become members after such period must, as a condition of employment, niaintain their membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Agreement or its renewal continues in force.
4.2	a) The Company agrees to deduct eac|h week from earnings due and payable to each
employee coming within the scope ofjthe bargaining unit as defined in Article 2.1 of this collective agreement, the regular weekly union dues and to remit such deduction, together with a list of all employees for whom such deductions have been made and indicating the name of those who have not paid their union dues to the Financial Secretary of Local 766P, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. The weekly union dues deducted are remitted during the week,which follows the deductions.
b) Any union dues payable and not processed through payroll deductions because the employee has no earnings at the time the deductions are made is claimed and collected by the Union directly from the employee.
4.3	The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union
Membership Card, to deduct from the earnings of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement the initiation fee due from him to Local 766P, United Food and Commercial Workers International Union and to remit the amount so deducted to the Union at the time of the next remittance of weekly unicjin dues. Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union are deducted at source for all members of the Union who have earnings due and payable at the time of the deduction upon proper notification from the Union.	i
4.4	The Company is not responsible financially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee, for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittance. However, in any instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from an employee's earnings, the Company adjusts it directly with the employee.
In the event of any mistake by the Company in the amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjust the amount in a subsequent remittance. The Company's liability for any or all amounts deducted pursuant to the provisions in this Article shall terminate at the time it remits the amounts payable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
6
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.1	a) Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance
procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements, dissatisfactions, differences or alleged grievances pertaining to any reprimand, warning or any disciplinary measure whatsoever of employee(s), arising out of the provisions of this Agreement.
b)	The Company shall notify the President and Recording Secretary of the Union in writing within one (1) working day from the date the employee is notified in writing of his suspension or discharge. The written notice to the employee shall specify the reasons for his suspension or discharge. If the employee believes that he has been unjustly laid-off, suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a member of the Grievance Committee, within five (5) working days, or any other mutually agreed time period, from the date that the official written notice was given to the President of the Union. The grievance procedure in these cases shall begin at the Second Step of the Grievance Procedure no liter than five (5) working days from the date that the written grievance is received by the Department Manager, after which it can be submitted by either party to the subsequent steps of the Grievance Procedure.
For the purpose of Article 5, Section 5,1 b), and Article 6, Section 6.6, the terms "laid-off or "lay-off shall also be understood to mean and include the case of any employee who believes that he was not recalled, in accordance with Article 23 - Seniority, of this Agreement.
c)	The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months (i.e. the second week of March, June, September and December) by the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager. If, after twelve (12) months from the date of the warning letter or disciplinary note, there has been no need for a further warning letter or disciplinary note for the same offence, the warning letter or disciplinary note will be removed from the employee's record. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
5.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect, and the Company to recognize Stewards (one per group of 30 employees) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments in the Company's plant.
A list of these Stewards shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised by the Union as soon as possible of any change in this list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont’d)
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Foremen and Supervisors and the department to which they are attached. The Union shall be advised by the Company as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
The Union also agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with grievances which may not be settled in the first or second steps described in Section 5.4 below. This Grievance Committee will not exceed four (4)in number including the President of the Union. A list of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any changes in this list within five (5) workdays of such changes.
Since the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances as promptly as possible, grievances should be submitted as soon as possible.
Therefore neither the Company or the Union shall be required to recognize a grievance submitted by an employee after thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed from the date of the incident, or after some further period with the consent of both parties.
The above time limit shall not apply in those instances where the grievance involves an error in the computation of an employee's pay.
For the purpose of this Article, the term "work days" is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, except for departments which are operating on a seven (7) day continuous operation basis, in which case work days, for the First Step of the Grievance Procedure only, shall mean those days when the Steward or officer of the Union and the Department foreman are at work.
If an employee believes he has a grievance, he should report the grievance at once in the manner described hereafter.
The aggrieved employee or employees may also be present during the above three steps of the Grievance Procedure, or if desired, by either party.
With the consent of both parties, the delays mentioned hereafter can be extended.
Failure of the Union to notify the Company in accordance with the procedure listed below, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of that decision, and shall not be subject to further proceeding.
8
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE (cont’d)
5.4	Grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the following manner.
FIRST STEP
Between the aggrieved employee with the Steward, and the Foreman of the Department in which the employee works - or - between the Steward and the Foreman. The Foreman shall meet the aggrieved employee and the Steward within two (2) hours from such request.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full workdays, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next stjpp.
The Union will notify the Company of its inti :nt on to appeal from the decision given in the First Step by submitting the grievance in writin; tt the Manager of the Department or his duly designated replacement within two (2) full wc rkdays.
The Company has two (2) full workdays, fol the Second Step.
owine tf e Union's decision to appeal, to proceed at
SECOND STEP
Between the President of the Union, with o| without the Steward, and one other officer of the Union and the Manager of the Department, the Supervi sor and/or the Foreman with or without the Industrial Relations Manager, or his represenjtative. Gri evances presented at this step shall be in writing.
The Company shall render its decision within two (2) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
Second Step within five (5) full work days.
The Company has five (5,) full work days, following the Union's decision to appeal, to proceed at the Third Step.
THIRD STEP
Between the President of the Union with the Grievance Committee, with or without the Steward, and representatives of Management. A Representative of the Union may be present at such nB^buxp
The Company shall render its decision within five (5) full work days, but failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to Arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days.
9
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (cont’d)
5.5	It is understood that all meetings between Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee, and members of Management, for handling matters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, shall be scheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. In the event that such meeting are held during prevailing rate periods, the Officers of the Union, Stewards, the Grievance Committee, the Safety Committee and the Francization Committee affected shall be paid the prevailing rate, i.e., the rate the employee would have been paid had he been at work. The above provisions shall also be paid to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspension or who has been discharged), or any employee who is required to attend such meetings as a witness with respect to the grievance.
5.6	Any grievances arising directly between the Union and the Company, instead of following the regular grievance procedure may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at the Third Step. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart fi-om the grievance procedure shall not preclude resort to the grievance procedure.
5.7	A Union Steward may discuss with the Foreman of his department matters which may directly affect the welfare of his department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance.
In the absence of the Steward, the Union President may have such discussions with the Foreman. The Union Steward may be accompanied by the President of the Union in the event that either the Steward or the Foreman requests his presence. Similar discussions may take place between a representative of the Union or an officer of the Union local and a representative of Management.
5.8	The Union agrees that its Officers, Stewards and members shall not transact Union business during hours for which they are paid by the Company, except as provided by this Agreement. It is understood that a Steward, or in his absence an Officer, is expected to assist in the adjustment of grievances as provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union business falling under the scope of the Agreement. In order to prevent disruptions to the regular work, the Steward, or in his absence an officer, will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements so that he can be relieved from his job (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but within one (1) hour. In accordance with the foregoing, if a Steward, or in his absence an Officer of the Union, needs to have a discussion with an employee in another department about a grievance, he will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements with the Foreman of the other department so that he can visit that department.
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION
6.1	Any grievance which has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled, and which involves the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referred by either party to Arbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) days following the meeting referred to in the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure.
10
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION fcont’dl
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the other party in writing and by registered mail. For the purpose of this clause, the date appearing on this registered mail shall be considered to be the date that the grievance has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration. Where a grievance is submitted to arbitration by the Union, the notice of arbitration is sent to the Industrial Relations Manager.
At the request of officials of either the Company or the Union a grievance which has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting between the respective representatives of the parties. The object of the clause is to give the parties an opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance prior to Arbitration.
6.2	Each grievance filed for Arbitration will be assigned in rotation order to one of the following
Arbitrators:	Marc Gravel
Francis Hamelin Andre Sylvestre Richard Marcheterre
6.3	The Arbitrator shall hear the case within three (3) weeks of his appointment and render his decision within three (3) weeks of the date of the last hearing. These time limits may be extended by agreement between both parties or at the discretion of the Arbitrator if he deems it necessary.
6.4	The decision rendered by the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned.
6.5	The Arbitrator shall be limited to the consideration of the matter submitted to him, and shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall not have the effect, in any way whatsoever, to alter, add, substitute, modify or change any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Subject to the foregoing, and providing that the grievance is referred to an Arbitrator in accordance with Section 6.1, neither party shall prevent the Arbitrator from hearing the real matter in dispute and the giving of a decision.
6.6	In the case referred to in Article 5, Section 5.1 b), the decision of the Arbitrator shall be governed by the following rules: as agreed between the Union and the Company.
a)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement and with full compensation for all time lost from the date that the employee was laid-off, suspended or discharged.
b)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator, with partial compensation for time lost as determined by the Arbitrator, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
c)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitrator with no compensation whatsoever for time lost, but with all the rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
11
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION (coni’cH
d)	The decision of Management related to said lay-off, suspension or dismissal of the employee to be upheld by the Arbitrator.
It is understood that time lost will be computed on the basis of a normal work week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, including those of its representatives.
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS
7.1	The following paid plant holidays are observed:
	IQQO	mon		200')
New Year's Day		Jan. 3	Jan. 1	Jan. 1
Day after New Year		Jan. 4	Jan. 2	Jan. 2
Good Friday		April 21	April 13	March 29
Victoria Day	May 24	May 22	May 21	
St-Jean-Baptist'sDay	June 24	June 23	June 25	
Canada Day	July 2	June 30	July 2	
Labour Day	Sept. 6	Sept. 4	Sept 3	
Thanksgiving	Oct. 11	Oct 9	Oct 8	
Christmas	Dec. 27	Dec. 25	Dec. 25	
Boxing Day	Dec. 28	Dec. 26	Dec. 26	
Floater	Dec. 29	Dec. 27	Dec. 27	
Floater	Dec. 30	Dec. 28	Dec. 28	
Floater	Dec. 31	Dec. 29	Dec. 31	
The date for the observance of the three (3) floaters will be agreed upon from 'ear to rear between the Company and the Union
It is agreed that on the work days immediately preceding Christmas Day and New Year's Day, that is, the eve of Christmas Day and New Year's Day, the regular schedule of hours for these days shall not exceed four (4)hours, except for the night shift.
7.2	If a paid plant holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Friday preceding such Saturday or the Monday following such Sunday, and if Monday is also a holiday, the Tuesday following such Monday shall be observed, and if the Friday is also a holiday, the Thursday preceding such Friday shall be observed as a substitute holiday for all employees covered by this Agreement.
12
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PT ANT HOLIDAYS fconfd)
7.3	An employee is entitled to holiday pay for each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 7.1, whether or not he works on such holidays, providing that:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which the holiday occurs, or
ii)	he is laid-off as of the Friday immediately preceding the Monday holiday and works on that Friday, or
iii)	he has received a minimum of 26 pay cheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occurs, and
iv)	such paid plant holiday(s) is observed during his period of employment.
However he shall forfeit his holiday pay if:
1)	He has agreed to work on the holiday and fails to do so, unless he informs the Company that he does not want to work the holiday at least forty-eight (48) hours ahead of his scheduled starting time.
2)	He is absent from work on either his regular scheduled work day immediately preceding or his regular scheduled work day immediately following the paid holiday, unless such absence is excused by the Company, is due to sickness, leave of absence, or circumstances beyond his control.
The Company will advise the President of the Union of those cases where holiday pay has been forfeited. If an employee believes that he has been unjustly denied holiday pay, he shall submit his grievance through the regular Grievance Procedure.
Note 1: If an employee is not at work during the week when a paid plant holiday(s) is observed, but qualifies under Article 7.3 (iii), he will be paid holiday pay in accordance with the following:
a)	If qualified prior to the holiday(s) the rate of pay he was receiving during his last week of work.
b)	If qualified and paid retroactively - the rate he received on his initial return to work.
13
ARTICLE 7 - PAID PLANT HOLIDAYS fconfd)
7.3	Note 2: The following cheques will be counted:
A regular pay cheque A Sick Benefit cheque
An LTD cheque within the initial 18-month LTD period.
A Vacation or percentage cheque.
A CSST payment.
An employment insurance payment for a maternity leave
7.4	An employee assigned to a regular schedule 5-2 who does not work on a paid holiday is paid eight (8) hours or the number of hours on his daily schedule, at his regular rate. An employee assigned to continuous operations 3-2-2 (relay worker) who, according to his regular schedule, is on a day off during a paid holiday, is paid twelve (12) hours at his regular rate.
If an employee works on a paid holiday, he is paid for that holiday based on a minimum of eight (8) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and twelve (12) hours pay for an employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule as defined in Section 7.3 or the number of hours actually worked, whichever is greater. In addition, he is paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked on the paid holiday.
In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled first day off, he is paid a n additional half-time (1/2) his regular rate for all hours worked.
In the event that a relay worker works on a paid holiday and that day is also his scheduled second day off, he is paid an additional regular rate for all hours worked.
7.5	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan receives holiday pay in lieu of Sick Benefit payments in the event that paid plant holiday(s) falls during this absence.
An employee who is eligible to receive LTD payments is paid the difference between the LTD payment and holiday pay in the event that the paid plant holiday(s) falls during his absence within the initial 18-month LTD period.
Paid holidays falling during the absence of an employee who is eligible to receive payments under the CSST, is paid in accordance with Section7.3.
7.6	Article 21 - Wages and Job Rate Rules, determines the hourly rates which apply for computing holiday pay.
14
ARTICUS 8 - REST PERIODS
8.1	The Company shall grant rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes during the first half of the shift and fifteen (15)minutes during the second half of the shift, not exceeding 30 minutes before or after the regular meal period entitlement.
8.2	Employees who work more than one (1) hour overtime are granted a Fifteen (15) minutes rest period at the regular quitting time. The same rest period is granted to employees starting more than one (1) hour before their regular shift. Entitlement for subsequent fifteen (15) minute rest periods is established by every two (2) hours of work thereafter, and in accordance with the posted schedules of entitlement.
8.3	All employees shall be given ten (10) minutes before quitting time to wash up and change clothes.
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS
9. la) Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to an unpaid meal period of thirty (30) minutes after having completed five (5) hours of work. Time off for such meal period is scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4)hours of work but not later than five (5) hours from his regular scheduled starting time, except for employees covered in the next paragraph below and where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods is in accordance with the posted schedules.
Employees who are relieved at their job during meal periods shall take their meal break between the following hours, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production.
Day shift 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
Evening shift 4:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
Night shift 3:00 a.m. to 5:30 a.m.
b) Employee assigned to a 3 -2-2 working schedule
An employee assigned to continuous operations (relay worker) is entitled to two (2) paid meal periods of thirty (30) minutes distributed conveniently on the work shift, in order to avoid spoilage or loss of production. The meal periods are distributed according the following schedule:
MEAL	DAY SHIFT 7:00 am. to 7:00 p.m.	NIGHT SHIFT 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 am.
1st meal-30 minutes 2nd meal-30 minutes	between 10:30 am. & 1:00 p.m. between 4:00 p.m. & 6:30 p.m.	between 10:30 p.m. & 1:00 am. between 4:00 am. & 6:30 a.m.
15
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (cant'd)
9.2	a) Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a second meal period if he works more than one (1) hour after his regular quitting time. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules such meal period to take place as soon as possible after one (1) hour has elapsed from his regular scheduled quitting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a second meal period when he starts to work more than one (1) hour before his regular starting time. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules such meal period to take place immediately before his regular scheduled time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
9.2	b) Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule
An employee is entitled to a third meal period if he works more than one (l)hour after his regular end of shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules this meal period so that the employee can take it as soon as possible one (1) hour after his regular end of shift, except if this could cause spoilage or loss of production.
An employee is also entitled to a third meal period when he starts work more than one (1) hour before the beginning of his regular shift. The Company allows him thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and schedules this meal period so that the employee can take it immediately before the beginning of his regular starting time according to his schedule, except if this could cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
9.3	a) Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule.
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4)hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9.2). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
b) Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule.
An employee is entitled to a subsequent meal period if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period (Section 9.2b)). He will be allowed thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate and such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completing four (4) hours of work but no later than five (5) hours from his previous meal period, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production. Entitlement for such meal periods will be in accordance with the posted schedules.
16
ARTICLE 9 - MEAL PERIODS (cont'd)
9.4	An employee is entitled to a meal period of thirty (30) minutes at his prevailing rate after having completed five (5) hours of work on his non-scheduled day. Time off for such meal period shall be scheduled by the Company to take place as soon as possible after completion of four (4) hours of work but not later than five (5)hours of work from his starting time, except where such would cause spoilage or loss of production, and in accordance with posted schedules of entitlement. For employees who are relieved at theirjob during meal periods, the meal break schedule provided at 9.1 a) and b) shall apply. For subsequent meal periods on non-scheduled days, the provisions of Section 9.3 a) andb) shall apply.
9.5	Subject to the foregoing provisions of the Article, The Company pays five dollars ($5.00) for a meal in the following instances:
a)	When an employee works more than one hour after his regular shift or begins to work more than one (1) hour before his regular shift.
b)	When an employee has been informed on the day before he works an unscheduled day, that his work on the unscheduled day will not exceed five (5) hours, but during the day in question he is asked to work and does work more than five (5) hours, such will be construed to mean that he has worked after his scheduled quitting time for the purpose of meal allowance.
9.6	Section 9.4 does not apply to employees working on continuous operations. These employees must remain available during these meal periods.
ARTICLE 10 - TOOT, ALLOWANCE FOR TRADE EMPT DYERS
10.1	Regular trade employees of the maintenance department employees are entitled to the following annual tool allowance as long as they possess at least one year's seniority. This allowance is payable at the beginning of the calendar year to the employee who has the tools required by the Company for this trade.
Effective January 1,2000 - $220.00 Effective January 1,2001 - $230.00 Effective January 1,2002 - $240.00
A newly hired employee must have one (1) year of group seniority to be eligible for this allowance. After the date of his first anniversary, he will receive the annual allowance for the current year, and the portion of the allowance for the previous year on a pro-rata basis for full months of service.
An employee absent from work at the time of payment, will receive the complete allowance for the year in which he returns to work.
17
ARTICLE 11 - WORKING CLOTHES
11.1	The Company shall launder and furnish all uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which may be required for work in cold or wet areas.
Ail such working clothes issued by the Company to employees remains the property of the Company and employees are held accountable for the return of such property to the Company.
A Committee comprised of Union and Management representatives make recommendations on the style of uniforms and the Safety Committee shall make recommendations on the safety of clothing furnished by the Company.
11.2	The Company contributes:
Effective January 1,2000 - $125.00 Effective Januaiy 1,2002 -$135.00
towards the cost of safety shoes and/or boots purchased by employees for their personal use. Exceptions to the number of pairs <± safety shoes and/or boots per year is in accordance with past practice.
Any unused portion of the current calendar year's allowance may be carried over to the following calendar year. He is entitled to the full annual allowance if he works during the calendar year. An employee is entitled to use this allowance if he is at work.
ARTICLE 12 - APPEARANCE IN COURT
12.1	The Company makes up the difference between the employee's wage rate and the amount he is paid by the Government during the time he is required to be away on jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in court.
ARTICLE 13 - LICENSES
13.1	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses required in the performance of their duties.
18
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
14.1	The Company and the Union recognize that the participation of employees is essential for the prevention of accidents and to this effect agree to closely cooperate for the realization of this objective as follows:
a)	The Company shall continue to make appropriate provisions for the safety and health of its
employees during hours of work, including:
1)	set-up, inspect and maintain work areas in order to maintain safe working conditions;
2)	inform employees of the risks related to their work and safety precautions to take;
3)	analyze and investigate events which have caused occupational accidents;
4)	up-date the information and training program for the identification of hazardous materials;
5)	provide employees with personal protective equipment, such as safety glasses with or without prescription, when required by the Company by the jobs as per Company policy and replaces it when necessary. The employees must return to the Company the personal protective equipment to be replaced.
6)	ensure that all employees receive proper training necessary for the job in order not to put their health, safety and physical integrity, and of other employees, in danger.
b)	The Company expects that all employees will meet their obligations as workers: Each
employee must:
1)	become familiar with the prevention program which applies to him;
2)	take the necessary measures to protect his health and physical integrity;
3)	ensure not to place at risk the safety, security or physical integrity of other persons who
/74+1* are in the work areas or at proximity of the work areas;
4)	report to his supervisor, all accidents or injury which occur at work.
5)	undergo required health exams to conform to Health & Safety Act and its regulations.
19
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
14.2	a) A Health & Safetyjoint committee created as per Health and Safety Act and formed as per the
disposition of the present paragraph meet at least once a month.
The Committee is to be formed of four (4) Union representatives, elected or appointed by the Union, and four (4)management representatives appointed by the Plant Manager. One (1) of the four (4)Union representatives exercises the functions of Prevention Representative for who the functions are those indicated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations.
Alternatively, the Co-presidents prepare and hold the Health and Safety meetings, coordinate the follow-up of safety recommendations, prepare and distribute the copies of the minutes of the meetings.
b)	The Central Health & Safetyjoint committee is responsible for the implementation of the mechanisms insuring participation of the employees and insuring the follow-up as per the prevention program. The employees who participate in these activities are considered to be at work.
14.3	An employee victim of an occupational disease suffers no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he requires medical treatment if as a result of such occupational disease he is sent home or to the hospital of his choice by the medical department or a Company representative. In any case the Company assumes the transportation cost.
14.4	In order to insure that the employee meet the standards of personal physical fitness established by the Company and he comply with the specific programs anticipated in the Health and Safety Act and it’s regulations, the Company can request a physical examination given by the Company Physician, at Company expense, or request a medical certificate from the employee’s Physician of his choice.
Employees who are working on a shift other than day shift by their own choice are paid their regular rates when they are required to have such examinations before their regular starting time or after their regular quitting time.
14.5	The Company may transfer, require a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employee who, in it’s belief, does not meet the normal and usual physical requirements of the job as evidenced by the written medical certificate issued by the Company’s physician. The Company will take this action only after reasonable effort of accommodation has been made to provide employment.
In the event of disagreement between the employee’s physician and the Company’s physician interpretation relative to the employee’sphysical condition, the Employermay referred to a third recognized medical authority before final decision.
20
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
14.6	In consideration of the nature of the Company's business, the Union recognizes the need for maintaining high standards of sanitation and employee health in accordance with Federal and Provincial laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and procedures pertaining to the foregoing. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union any changes to policies and procedures as they affect employees before implementing such changes.
14.7	a) When the Employer exercises it's right, as per the Workmen's Compensation and Occupational
Disease Act, to assign an employee on,a temporary assignment following an occupational disease, the assignment will be determined on an individual basis as per the employee's physical capacities, the Company business needs, and according to the opinion of the attending physician and without contraveningto the job posting procedure.
b)	The employee may be assigned by the Company:
On his usual job, on the tasks the employee is able to accomplish, taking into account his temporary functional limitations.
On any other work that consists of a group of tasks that he is capable of accomplishing taking into account his temporary functional limitations.
c)	A copy of the temporary assignment following an occupational disease will be given to the Prevention Representative within forty-eight (48) hours.
d)	The employee on temporary assignment is eligible for overtime which he would have been eligible on his regularjob if he would not have been a victim of an occupational disease,™ conformity with the Memorandum of Interpretation - Distribution of Overtime.
14.8	The employee, for whom there was consolidation, must return to his regularjob. The employee for whom there was consolidation but who has a permanent medical restriction, submits a bid on a permanentjob that is available and which he is capable of doing in respect with the recommendations of the recognized medical authority in place, in consultation with the Prevention Representative. This j ob could be given to the employee due to particular circumstances independently of the seniority after reaching agreement between the Union and the Company.
In accordance with duty to accommodate, an employee for whom there was consolidation with a permanent medical restriction may obtain a transfer to ajob that he is capable of performing.
In such case, a job transfer form will be posted and an employee interested in exchanging job with the incumbent of the said identified job, must write down his name and the job he holds. A notice of job transfer will be posted during four (4) working days.
21
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont'd)
Amongst the applicants, priority will be given to the employee holding a regularjob which the employee to be transferred is capable of performing according to the evaluation and the group seniority. The two (2) employees must reach mutual agreement and consent in the said transfer. Upon such a transfer, a five (5) day acceptance period applies to the employee who applied for the job transfer.
14.9	Any grievance related to this article is referred directly to the third step.
ARTICLE 15 - UNION NOTICES
15.1	The Union President shall have the right to post on notice boards, bulletins pertaining to meetings of the Union, election of officers, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
ARTICLE 16 - ABSENCE WITH PAY
16.1	Employee assigned to a 5-2 working schedule.
An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lost during the period between the death and up to and including five (5) days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and including three (3) days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraphs b), c) and d).
a)	five (5) days’ pay in the case of the death of an employee's child and/or of the spouse who resided in a marital relationship with the employee.
b)	three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparents of the employee and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
c)	three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of the parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters
of the spouse who resides in anaaiaL relationship with the employee.
d)	three (3) days' pay in the case of the death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in
a marital relationship with a child of the employee.
e)	one (1) days' pay in the case of the death of the employee's spouse' brother or sister.
In the case where there would be internent of Ihe ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date of the interment of the ashes.
22
ARTICLE 16 - ABSENCE WITH PAY fcont’d)
16.2	Employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule.
An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work, shall receive for such time lost during the period between the death and up to and including three (3) twelve (12) hour-working days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraph a) and up to and including two (2) twelve (12) hourworking days following the day of the funeral in the case of a death covered in paragraphs b), c) andd).
a)	three (3) days’pay in the case of the death of an employee’s child and/or the death of the spouse who resided in a marital relationship with the employee.
b)	two (2) days’ pay in the case of the death of parents, brothers and sisters, grandchildren, grandparents of the employee and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
c)	two (2) days’pay in the case of the death of the parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters of the spouse who resides in a marital relationship with the employee.
d)	two (2) days’pay in the case of the death of a daughter-in-law or son-in-law who resided in a marital relationship with a child of the employee.
e)	one (1) days’ pay in the case of the death of the employee’s spouses’ brother or sister.
In the case where there would be interment of the ashes of the deceased at a date later than the bereavement leave provided above, the employee can postpone one of the days of the leave to the date cf the interment of the ashes.
16.3	The above benefits shall not be implemented during sick leave, accident leave, or leave of absence, hi the event that bereavement (as defined in Section 16,1 and 16.2 occurs during the vacation of an employee or during the Seasons Holiday, one day with pay will be added to his vacation period or to the Seasons Holiday.
16.4	On the occasion of the birth of his child or the adoption of a child other than a child of his spouse, the employee can obtain a leave from work up to five (5) days within the fifteen (15) days following and including the date of birth or the day of adoption. Two (2) of these five (5) days shall be paid at the employee’s regular hourly rate, for eight (8) hours each day for employees assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and for twelve (12) hours for employees assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule.
16.5	Effective as of January 1, 1998, an employee will be entitled to one (l)day of paid absence for personal reasons, hereby called a personal day, which will be paid at prevailing rate for eight (8) hours for employees assigned to a 5-2 working schedule and for twelve (12) hours for an employee assigned to a 3-2-2 working schedule. This day is not cumulative and is nonreimbursable if not taken.
The employee must give the company advance notice of at least forty-eight (48) hours before the date he wishes to take this day, and approval be given unless reasonable argument presented. By reasonable argument is meant, for example, if a personal day given would cause interruption or serious delay of operations. This personal day cannot be taken with another paid holiday except during the Seasons Holiday.
23
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
17.1	Employees who have the required seniority and active employment requirements listed below are granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
Plant Seniority Requirement	Active Employment Requirement	Length of Vacation	Computation of Vacation Pay
1 year	26 pay cheques in any 52 consecutive weeks measured from any point in the current calendar year	2 weeks	4% of wages earned in the previous calendar year tending December 31st
3 years	II n II	3 weeks	6% " "
10 years	ii II ti	4 weeks	8% " "
20 years	tl ii II	5 weeks	10%" "
25 years	II II II	6 weeks	12%" "
Note 1: An employee who meets the active employment requirement receives vacation pay based on the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendar year, but such payment shall not be less than the regular work week of forty (40) hours, or the relay worker's regular schedule of production at the employee's regular rate including his shift premium and three tenths (.3), meaning fifty hours and seventy-five tenths (50.75). The relay worker's vacation pays are separated equally by the number of weeks he is admissible. Whether a vacation week is equal to twelve (12) days or whether it is equal to seven (7) days, it will have the same remuneration. Furthermore, for the relay workers, the vacation week will start and end at 7:00 am. on Monday. The employee receives his vacation cheque on his regular payday preceding his vacation, except for vacation outside the shutdown unless a request has been made at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance.
Note 2: In cases or absences due to sickness and non-occupational accidents duly recognized by the Sick Benefit Han or within the initial eighteen (18) month period of Long Term Disability, or duly certified by a physician, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an accident duly recognized by the CSST, the Company computes a regular normal work week in lieu of each week lost under the above mentioned instances for the purpose of calculating vacation pay.
Note 3: Receipt of Sick Benefit, the initial eighteen (18) months of LTD benefits, and twenty-four (24) months of Workmen's Compensation payments is considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques in fulfilling the active employment requirement, providing that the employee has worked during the calendar year.
24
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS (cont'd)
17.2	An employee who fails to meet the active employment requirement receives the applicable percentage of earnings of the previous calendar year. Should the employee not wish to take his vacation entitlement, the entitlement will be the subject of a mutual agreement between the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager, inasmuch as the law permits it.
17.3	The occurrence of a paid holiday(s) during an employee's vacation will add a day(s) to the vacation period. Such day(s) will be considered for all purposes as a holiday(s) and such time off may be granted at the beginning or the end of the vacation period, or, at any time following the vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken. Exception is made for relay workers, as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1 whereby they will be paid in lieu of such time off.
17.4	a) The Company shall publish a vacation calendar on April 1 of each year and employees
will make their vacation preferences known based on availabilities within each department at the latest on April 15 for the period of May 1 to October 31. The Company agrees to confirm the dates of the summer vacations to the employees within 30 days following the publication of the calendar. The calendar is designed to allow each employee to take his vacation entitlement up to three (3) consecutive weeks during the period between June 1 and Sunday preceding Labour Day.
On October 1, a second vacation calendar shall be published to cover the period of November 1, to April 30 of the following year. Employees will make their preferences known based on availability's within each department at the latest on October 15, and the Company shall confirm die dates to the employees within 30 days following the publication cfthe calendar.
b)	Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another and made cumulative. However
an employee entitled to three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks of vacation may postpone one (1) week of his vacation entitlement to the next calendar year.
17.5	On termination of an employee's service with the Company, he shall be entitled to the following:
a)	If he has not taken the vacation to which he was entitled, he shall receive vacation pay based on his years of plant seniority and shall in addition be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of plant seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of termination of his employment.
b)	If he has taken his vacation, he shall be paid the percentage of his wages earned, based on his years of plant seniority, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, to the date of termination of his employment.
25
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
__________AND WORKING SCHF.DI ILLS (5-2 & 3-2-21
18.1	Eight (8) hours per day shall constitute the basic working day, and five (5) consecutive working days, (Monday through Friday inclusive) shall constitute the basic working week of forty (40) hours for all employees on 5-2.
All employees working on continuous operations (relay workers) are assigned on a 3-2-2 production schedule the basic working day is twelve (12) hours.
The Company can create new continuous operations only in the case whereby the production volume regularly exceeds the three (3) work shifts.
18.2	Applicable rules for entering and exiting a 3-2-2 working schedule.
a) Moving a departmental operation or individual from a 3-2-2 production scheduleto a 5-2 production schedule.
1)	fin employee will complete his production schedule 3-2-2 during the transition period ending
Saturday at 7:00 p.m.
2)	During this transition week, the employee is entitled to a minimum of 40 hours of work. Those hours can only be scheduled between Sunday and Saturday 7:00 a.m.
3) If forty (40)hours of work (form Sunday to Saturday 7:00 a.m.) cannot be scheduled for the
employee, according to the 3-2-2 production schedule, he will be entitled to work on one of his days off, from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Friday 7:00 p.m. The Company may schedule the employee to work during one of his days off and he will be paid at the applicable rate for that day. In the event the Company does not schedule the employee to work cm either day, the employee, if he wishes to work, may select the day and will be paid one and one-half times (1-1/2) for work done on that day. If the employee wishes to work but does not wish to select a day, the Company then schedules the employee.
4)	During the transition period, the provisions of Article 18 - Section 18.7 will not apply.
26
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS,OVERTIME
______________AND WORKING SCHEDULES 15-2 & 3-2-21 fcont’d)
18.2	a) EXAMPLE 13-2-2to 5-21
In the example, which follows, teams 1,2 and 3 would be entitled to work during their days off.
Team no 1 - Wednesday or Thursday Team no 2 - Wednesday of Thursday Team no 3 - Monday or Tuesday
	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F
7:00am..-7:00pm	1	1	3	_jl|	.3	2	*2%	4	4	T I
7:00pm-7:00am	2	2	4	4	4	i l i		w..	1	
DavCBf	3-4	3-4	1-2	1-2	1-2	3-4	3-4	1-2	1-2	3-4
18.2	b) Moving a departmental operation or individual from a 5-2 production schedule to a 3-2-2 production schedule
1)	An employee will complete his 5-2 basic work week schedule on Friday and will start the 3-2-2 schedule on Monday 7:00 a.m.
2)	An employee is entitled to three (3) days of work during the transition week but such days of work may only be scheduled during the period from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Saturday 7:00 a.m.
3)	If three (3) days of work from Monday 7:00 a.m. to Saturday 7:00 a.m. cannot be scheduled for the employee, according to the 3-2-2 production schedule, he will be entitled to work on one of his days off from Monday 7:00 am. to Friday 7:00 p.m. The Company may schedule the employee to work during one of his days off and he will be paid at the applicable rate for that day. In the event the Company does not schedule the employee to work on either day, the employee, if he wishes to work, may select the day and will be paid one-half times (1-1/2) for work done on that day. If the employee wishes to work but does not wish to select a day, the Company then schedules the employee.
4)	During the transition period (ndxdirunof two (2) weeks), the provisions of Article 18 - Section 18.7 will not apply.
27
ARTICLE 18 - NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
_____________AND WORKING SCHEDULES 15-2 & 3-2-21 Icont’d)
18.2	b) EXAMPLE 15-210 3-2-21
In the example which follows, teams 3 and 4 would be entitled to work during one of their days Off.
Team no 3 - Monday, Tuesday, of Friday Team no 4 - Monday or Tuesday
	M	T	W	T F	S	S	M	T	W	T
7:00am-7:00pm	1	1	3	3 1 2	2	2	4	4	1	1
7:00pm-7:00am	2	2	4	1 4 1 1	1	1	3	3	2	2
DAY OFF	3-4	3-4	1-2	1-2 3-4	3-4	3-4	1-2	1-2	3-4	3-4
18.3	a) All hours worked in excess of the normal shift schedule, or outside the basic daily shift
schedule, or a day the employee is not normally assigned to work shall be considered overtime.
b) i.	Employee assigned to a 5-2 schedule.
All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or outside the basic daily shift schedule, or on a Saturday are paid at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall be paid at double rate.
ii. Employees assigned to a 3-2-2 schedule
All hours worked outside the basic daily shift or on the first day off are paid at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve hours or on the second day off will be paid at double rate. When overtime is worked on a day off that is a Saturday or a Sunday, these hours are paid at double rate and one-half (2-1/2).
18.4	The schedules of hours, established by the Human Resources Manager at the time of signing this Agreement, setting forth the basic daily shift schedules of hours for every department, or for job groups within a department, and indicating the normal times of work to begin and end, shall be given to the Union, its officers and stewards. A copy of these schedules of hours shall be posted at the time-clocks and copies shall also be made available to all employees.
28
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
________________AND WORKING SCHEDULES (5-2 & 3-2-2) fcont'df
18.5	Notice of changes to the schedules of hours referred to in Section 18.4 above, but excluding reference to modifications mentioned in Sections 18.6 and 18.7 below, and subject to the provisions of these sections, shall be given by the Industrial Relations Manager or in his absence by his superior to the Union President, not later than ten (10) work days prior to such changes. If an employee affected by such change is not given ten (10) work days' notice in accordance w ith the foregoing,he will be paid tim e and one-half {\Vz) his regular rate for the next ten (lO)regular work days that he works, except when these changes have been made as a result of an emergency.
18.6	If an employee is instructed to report later than the normal scheduled starting time for his job, time and one-half (1Vi) his regular rate will apply after his normal scheduled quitting time. The Company similarly agrees to pay an employee time and one-half (l%)his regular rate for all hours worked before the normal scheduled starting time for his job. This provision shall only apply for a maximum period of one (1) work week (or in the case of a relay worker, his regular production schedule of work), and any consecutive period longer than one (1) work week shall be interpreted to be a change in basic schedule and the premium provided in Section 18.5 shall be applied.
If after an employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production schedule of work), has begun, he is instructed to work on anotherjob, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he started but which modification does not represent a change of shift as established and referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%) his regular rate for all hours worked outside of his initial schedule in that work week, (or production schedule), but only for the first day any such modification is made.
This shall also apply for subsequent modifications within the same work week, (or production schedule).
18.7	If after any employee's basic work week, (or in the case of a relay worker his regular production scheduleof work), has begun, he is instructed to work on ajob, the basic daily schedule of hours for which is different than on which he started, and which represents a change of shift as established in the schedules referred to in Section 18.4 above, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%) his regular rate for all hours worked for the balance of his basic work week, or his regular production schedule of work.
18.8	The provisions of Secticns 18.6 and 18.7 shall not apply when an employee is offered overtime in accordance with the Memorandum of Interpretation relative to Distribution of Overtime, and his acceptance of the overtime work requires him to work on a different basic schedule or shift.
29
ARTICLE 18- NORMAL WORKING HOURS, OVERTIME
____________AND WORKING SCHEDULES 15-2 & 3-2-21 fcont'd)
18.9	Distribution of overtime shall be made in accordance with the Memorandum of Interpretation exchanged between the Company and the Union.
The response of employees requested to work overtime will be on a voluntary basis.
Relay workers which have working days of twelve and three tenths hours (12.3) represent an exception to the above. It is necessary that these employees complete their daily schedule.
Exceptions are also made for all relay workers whose regular production schedule of work requires them to work on Saturday and Sunday.
18.10	Any hours paid on the basis under this Agreement shall not be counted again for any other purpose.
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
19.1	Providing that an employee in the bargaining unit (including an employee on probation) is in the
employ of the Company, and is scheduled, available and report to work, the Company shall provide him with work to the extent of his weekly hours on the following basis:
1)	Employees, excluding relay workers, shall be provided with work, or pay in lieu of work, for not less than their basic daily and weekly schedule of hours as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1
2)	Employees who are relay workers shall be provided with work, or pay in lieu of work, for not less than their daily and weekly production schedule of hours as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1
The foregoing pro visions shall be governed by the following conditions:
a)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a department in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employees of one department to another based on group seniority.
b)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If any employee declines to perform the task assigned to him, the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such hours so lost by him.
30
ARTTrT.F. 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.1	c) Any employee who is tardy or absent from work on any day or part of a day that he is scheduled or instructed to work shall have reduced, by the time so lost, the weekly hours of work with which the Company will provide him.
d)	An employee who is employed after the beginning of the calendar week, shall be provided with work for not less than the basic daily schedule as defined in Article 18, Section 18.1, for the remaining work days in that calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
e)	The hours of work for paid plant holidays referred to in Article 7 shall not be computed under the provisions of Sections 1 or 2 of this Article. During calendar weeks in which paid holidays occur, the Company shall provide work on the basis of the basic working days scheduled for the remainder of such calendar week.
Exceptions shall be made for relay workers whereby their regular production schedule of work shall apply instead of the calendar week.
f)	Employees who have been given notice of lay-off in accordance with Article 24 shall be provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article subject to the following:
Employees whose lay-off notice expires in a week subsequent to the calendar week in which the notice was given shall be provided with work in accordance with the provisions of this Article, or pay in lieu of work for the number of days of notice remaining.
g)	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to employees discharged for just cause, suspended, retiring or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company, or in the event of closing of the Plant or part of the Plant due to an emergency.
19.2	An employee called in to work from cff the premises for an emergency at times other than his regular scheduled hours shall receive his prevailing rate for the hours so worked or a minimum of four (4) hours, whichever is the greater, and shall be through when the emergency is over, In the event the emergency is not over at the time the employee's regular schedule begins, the foregoing shall apply up to his regular scheduled starting time, then the employee shall be paid his regular rate as of his regular scheduled starting time. Such emergency call-in shall not be construed as an early start. Hours worked during an emergency will not be recorded as overtime.
19.3	An employee who, at the request of the Company, works overtime on calendar Saturdays and/or Sundays and/or Paid Plant Holidays and/or scheduled days off will be paid for the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with the number of hours offered by his immediate supervisor with not less than four (4) hours at the applicable rate of pay. The Company shall be absolved of the above guarantee if this is due to tardiness on the part of the employee.
31
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cont'd)
19.4	Employees, excluding employees on probation, who are permanently laid off due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the Plant or part of the Plant, or other causes which, insofar as the Company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, are entitled to a Termination Allowance, in accordance with the following provisions:
Note: For the purposes of this Article, a permanent lay-off is understood to be a lay-off which is expected to last continuously for a period of at least one (1) year.
1)	The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a permanent lay-off with Termination Allowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2)	Employees who are permanently laid off and who are eligible for Termination Allowance shall be paid in accordance with the following:
a)	When the number of weeks of an employee's Termination Allowance is equal to or less than the number of weeks remaining in the calendar year, payment in full is made on date of termination. 1
b)	When the number of weeks of Termination Allowance exceeds the number of weeks remaining in the calendaryear, two payments are made:
First Payment: On date of Termination - Average weekly earnings for the number of weeks remaining in the calendaryear.
Second Payment During first month of the following calendar year - Balance of Termination Allowance.
Should an employee die before the second payment is made, it shall be paid to his Estate.
3)	Termination allowance payment is based on the number of complete years of plant seniority accumulated by the employee up to his termination date, and is calculated as follows:
One (1) weeks earnings for each completed year of plant seniority service to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with less than twenty-five (25) years of plant seniority.
One and one-half (1%) weeks earning for each completed year of plant seniority to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay for an employee with twenty-five (25) or more years of plant seniority.
32
ARTICLE 19 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE (cant'd)
19.4	3) One week's earnings for purposes of this article are based upon an employee's average
weekly earnings received during the latest fifty-two (52) weeks in which he worked one (1) hour or more divided by fifty-two (52). Any week in which an employee did not work one (1) hour or more is not to be considered a part of the fifty-two (52) weeks.
Average weekly earnings are an employee's regular base wages, including shift premiums but exclusive of compensation for overtime or other premiums provided for by this Agreement.
4)	A terminated employee re-employed within one (l)year from the date of termination, has the option of returning the Termination Allowance paid by the Company and receivingthe credit of his years of plant seniority, or, retaining the Allowance and starting as a probationaiy employee. Reimbursement may be made in instalments.
If re-employment occurs after one (1) year, the employee will be considered as newly hired and shall have no rights other than those extended to probationary employees under this Agreement.
5)	Employees who are permanently laid off may elect to remain on the Plant seniority list for possible recall. In such cases, the Company will hold the Termination Allowance payment for maximum of twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request payment with a complete break in service.
6)	The number of weeks' Termination Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to the employees' normal retirement date.
7)	Termination Allowance is not paid:
a) To an employee with less than three (3) year's plant seniority.
5) To an employee laid off due to the fluctuation of volume of business;
c)	To an employee discharge forjust cause;
d)	To an employee who voluntarily resigns from the Company's employ;
e)	To an employee who retires from the Company's employ;
f)	In the event of closing the Plant or part of the Plant due to Acts of God, or in times of public peril, war, disaster, or any other reason of similar nature.
33
ARTICLE 20 - BENEFITS
20,1	All eligible employees are entitled, subject to conditions therein, to benefit from the various plans such as supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, short term and long term disability and group pension plan established and occasionally amended by the Company.
In the case where Kraft Canada Inc. should modify one or more of these plans for all Canadian employees, whether unionized or non-unionized, such as the supplementary health insurance, dental insurance, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance and long term disability insurance, the Company is committed to offer to the unionized employees at LaSalle plant the same amended plans offered to non-unionized employees of Kraft Canada Inc. and this, for the duration of this collective agreement. Those amended plans would become effective only with the consent of the Union in consultation with their members.
In case of acceptation of these modified plans, they will have to be accepted by the Union and the employees as presented by the Company. In case of refusal, the actual plans will remain the same until the expiry date of toe collective agreement.
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES
A new employee shall be paid the base rate as indicated in Appendix "A" - "Hourly Wage Rates", unless he is assigned to a higher rated job in which case he shall be paid the regular rate of thejob.
The term "Regular Rate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to include the shift premium, if any. The term "Prevailing Rate" wherever used in this Agreement shall be meant to be the applicable rate the employee shall be paid under the provisions of this Agreement.
A successful applicant who has been assigned to a job as a result of job posting shall receive the regular rate of thejob as soon as he starts his trial period.
When an employee is requested by the Company to temporarily transfer to a higher rated job, he shall be paid the regular rate for that job while he is carrying out his assignment.
When an employee is transferred from a higher rated job which he was filling on a temporary basis to a lower rated job because the Company could not find suitable replacement, the employee shall keep the rate for such higher rated job for as long as the situation exists, at which time shall revert back to his regular assignment and be paid accordingly.
(Refer to Article 23, Section 23.6b), for procedure covering temporary assignments).
34
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JCB RATE RULES (confid)
21.4	When an employee is requested by the Company to temporarily transfer to a lower rated job, he shall carry the rate of the job which he would normally be performing while he is carrying out his assignment, but may be transferred back to his regular job if a suitable replacement is obtained. Such temporary transfers will be limited to thirty (30) work days.
(Referto Article 23, Section 23.6b), for procedure covering temporary assignments).
21.5	When an employee requests a transfer to a lower rated job, he shall immediately be paid the rate of the job. Such adjustment in rate does not remove the necessity for fulfilling the trial period requirement.
21.6	When, at the Company’srequest, an employee works eight (8) or more hours during a week on a higher rated job, he shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked by him during that week.
21.7	When an employee is scheduled to work on a higher rated job and his schedule is changed later than 10:00 a.m. Friday preceding the beginning of the week, and such change requires him to work on a lower rated job, he shall be paid the higher rate as set up by the schedule.
21.8	In the event that an employee works four (4)or more hours at a higher rate during his regular work day immediately preceding or following a paid plant holiday within the work week in which the holiday occurs, he is paid the higher rate for the holiday.
21.9	During the development stages of new operations, the Company may assign employees excluded from this Agreement to work on the jobs in these new operations as set forth in Article 2, Section 2.2, but said employees shall not be maintained when thesejobs operate normally. It is understood that the incumbent(s) will be assigned to the job(s) no later than the start of actual production.
Similarly, the foregoing shall apply to newjobs in existing operations.
21.10	The Company, the Union or the incumbent may request a job description revision when modifications have been made to a job description. The revision process to follow is described in Appendix “D”.
Once the final approval has been obtained, in accordance with the process, it is up to the Union President and the Human Resource Manager to determine the pertinence to submit the revised job description to an external evaluation firm for revaluation.
35
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES fconfd)
21.10	Following the reevaluation, if the j ob rate of the position is higher than the rate the incumbent had before the reevaluation, the rate will be paid retroactively from the date of the request of revision submitted to the Human Resource department. If the rate of the
j ob is lower than the rate the incumbent had before the reevaluation, the incumbent will retain that rate for the duration of the job, that existed prior to the reevaluation of the job or util the job rate reaches it's rate.
21.11	In the event of the creation of a new job by the Company, Human Resources, in collaboration with the supervisor, the delegate and the employees concerned, till write-up a new job description.
Once the final approval has been obtained in accordance with the process, the new job description will be submitted for evaluation by an external evaluation film.
When the job class has been determined the job is then submitted for the posting procedure in conformance with the present Collective Agreement,
21.12	In the case of an emergency the Company may post a job with a temporary classification and rate. The process established in paragraph 21.10 and 21.11 will then apply, following the evaluation by the external -Firm, the job class and the hourly rate will be established permanently and will be retroactive to the date the job was filled. If the permanent hourly rate is higher than the temporary established rate, the incumbent will receive retroactive pay to the date of his job assignment. If the rate is lower, the applicant may return to the job he previously occupied.
21.13	Settlement of grievances pertaining to job rates which originate from the application of the Sections 21.10,21.11 and 21.12, shall be retroactive to the date that it was submitted to the Human Resource department. In such cases, the grievances are to be submitted in writing at the third step of the grievance procedure, within thirty (30) days following the obtained final approval, as per the process.
21.14	When a job disappears because of technological improvements or changes, changes of production methods or processes, transfer of process of operations to another plant of Kraft Canada Inc., discontinuance of products, or because of business fluctuations, the regular incumbent of such job will keep the regular rate of the job from which he is transferred for a period of one (1) year unless he is transferred to a higher rated job, subject to the following conditions:
a)	The incumbent of a new permanent job, obtained by bid, will have the opportunity to return to his previous job should it become reinstated. However, the Company will assign an employee who is not an incumbent of a permanent job to his previous job should it become reinstated.
b)	The conditions relative to protection of rates shall not apply on jobs created by the advent of a new product until such product is in national distribution.
36
ARTICLE 21 - WAGES AND JCB RATE RULES (conf d)
21.15	In all situations other than those covered by the above Job Rate Rules, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job to which he is assigned.
21.16	The Company shall give the Union a notice of three (3) weeks prior to the abolition, the transfer of functions within onejob to another and/or the combination of jobs.
The purpose of this notice is to inform the Union and then to develop the best approaches for the implementation of these changes. If there is disagreement between the parties on the approaches for the implementation of these changes, this disagreement will be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 22 - SHIFT PREMIUMS
22.1	Shift premiums shall be paid as follows:
A.	Shifts which start no earlier than 6:30 a.m. nor later than 9:00 a.m. shall be day shifts and shall not carry any shift premium, the whole in accordance with the basic daily shift schedules as established under Article 18, Sections 18.4 and 18.5, or as otherwise mutually agreed upon.
B.	Shifts which start after 9:00 a.m., but no later than 5:00 p.m. shall be afternoon shifts and shall carry a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
C.	Shifts which start after 5:00 p.m. or before 6:30 a.m., shall be night shifts and shall cany a shift premium of fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
D.	Employees who start their shift between 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 a.m., at their request, will be paid the regular rate and are not eligibleto the shiftpremium.
E.	Employees who presently start their shift at 6:30 a.m. at the request of the employer will maintain the shiftpremium for as long as they remain on thatjob.
F.	An employee assigned to continuous operations 3-2-2 (relay worker) is entitled to the shift premium between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am
22.2	An employee who works overtime during the following shifts shall receive the shift premium
only if such overtimehours fall within 22,1 b), ore).
22.3	The shift premium mentioned in Section 22.1 b) and c) shall always form part of the
employee's regular rates for all the time worked during these shifts.
37
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY
23.1	There are two (2) types of seniority, plant seniority and group seniority.
a)	Plant Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's continued service with the Company within the bargaining unit, calculated as the elapsed time from the date he was first employed, unless his seniority was interrupted,, as defined in Article 23, Section 23.3, in which event such calculation shall be from the date he was returned to work followingthe last break in his seniority.
b)	Group seniority is defined as the continued length of service of an employee within a given group.
c)	The three (3) groups of seniority are:
i)	Group A •	All employees with the exception of trades employees, and laboratory technicians
ii)	Group B •	Ail trades employees
Hi)	Group C -	All laboratory technicians
Jobs held by employees of the different groups mentioned above are also identified as jobs of Group A, B, or C.
d)	When the word "Seniority" is used by itself in the Collective Agreement, it signifies both plant seniority and group seniority.
e)	Employees will be 1 aid-off and recalled in group seniority order, subjectto the appropriate rules of the Collective Agreement.
23.2 a) The probationary period for a new employee shall be sixty (60) days worked in any twelve (12) month period. As a part of the Company's normal selection process, the Company will assess the suitability,job performance and general work attitudes of an employee on probation. The Company will discharge such employee, if he fails to meet the above selection criteria. On completion of the above service requirements, he shall then acquire seniority status dating back to the first (1) day of the sixty (60) day period. However, in specific cases the period of sixty (60) days mentioned above can be extended to a maximum of ninety (90) working days by mutual agreement.
b) In order to allow a probationary employee hired in seniority group "A" and "C" to be properly evaluated and adequately trained, the company can temporarily assign him to any job without having to follow the job posting procedure as long as he is accompanied by the employee who holds the job during such an assignment.
38
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23.3	Termination of employment and loss of seniority rights shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge for j ust cause or termination of employment.
2.	Voluntary resignation of the employee.
3.	Retirement in accordance with the Company's retirement policy.
4.	Failure to notify the Company of intention to return to work following a lay-off, within forty-eight (48) hours after receiving notice by registered mail or telegram to return to work.
5.	Failure to return to work within two (2) weeks from the date of original notice to do so, sent to the last address as shown by Company records.
Note1
The Company to mail a form which the employee returns informing the Company as to the date he reports to work.
6.	Continuous absence for three (3) days without permission of the Company or without good and proper reason or reasons beyond his control.
7.	Continuous lay-off for a period exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
Subject to the provisions of the respective benefit plans, participation in such plans terminates at the end of one (1) year from the date of lay-off.
hi the event that the Company recalls an employee from lay-off who has at least three (3) years of group seniority, the employee may decline the recall to our employ. In such cases, the Company is not required to recall him for future openings until the employee informs the Company that he is again available for recall. (Refer to Article 23, Section 23.10 relative to declining recall to his regular job). It is understood that such an employee may not be on such voluntary lay-off for longer than six (6) consecutive months without breaking his seniority.
An employee who possesses less than three (3) years of group seniority and recalled to work from lay-off for a period of four (4) weeks or less can make arrangements with the Company to retain his recall rights even if refusing to return to work for such reasons as illness, accident, other employment for a longer period of time or other serious reasons.
39
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont'dl
23.4	Reduction of personnel is done according to group seniority.
a)	Reduction of Plant Work Force:
The order of lay-off of each group seniority shall be:
Firstly:	Employees on probation as determined by the Company.
Secondly:	Employees by group seniority dates.
The Company is permitted to keep an experienced employee regardless of his seniority on the job for the purpose of training the applicant during the posting period as well as during the job acceptance period as underlined in Appendix ”AM.
b)	Increase in Plant Work Force:
The order of recall of each group seniority shall be:
Firstly:	Employees by group seniority date
Secondly:	Employees on probation as determined by the Company
An employee shall have recall rights up to two (2)years from the date of his last lay-off.
Although employees on probation have not acquired seniority status as defined in Article 23, Section 23.2, consideration shall be given to their length of service at the time of red.
23.5	Seasonal Employee
The seasonal employee is hired on a temporary basis during the summer period between June 1 st and the Sunday preceding Labour Day each year. Any period before June 1 st will serve for training purposes only. However, a new seasonal employee may be trained after June 1st, according to the needs of the operations.
The seasonal employee is hired to replace regular permanent employees during annual vacations, according to article 17. The number of seasonal employees is equivalent to the limber of vacations to replace by job posting. Seasonal employees' assignment shall not contravene thejob posting procedure.
To be eligible for employment, the "seasonal candidate" must possess a Secondary V diploma. The seasonal employees will be hired though a draw which will determine the order of the starting date according to tteir availability. The priority will first be given to the regular employees' children.)
40
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
23.5	The seasonal employee is not eligible to the following conditions:
•	accumulation of seniority;
•	recall privilege;
•	job posting procedures;
•	company benefits; minimum recompense.
Each year in February, the Company will post a note invitingthe regular employees’children to submit their employment application for the following summer period.
23.6	Filling Job Vacancies:
a)	Of more than thirty (30) working days (regularjob)
1.	All regularjob vacancies for a period of thirty (30) working days or more which need to be filled first by the regular incumbents of the same group seniority as the posted job. If no employee in that group applies for the job and thejob cannot be filled as per Article 23.6a),8 thejob may therefore be filled by an employee from another group seniority who had applied for thejob. In the absence of an internal candidate for thejob, thejob then may be filled by hiring a new employee.
2.	Aptitude, ability and group seniority shall be the determining factors. Group seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be sufficient, subject to the Grievance Procedure. When there is no candidate of a group seniority for the opening, plant seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be sufficient, subject to the grievance procedure.
3.	For the purpose of application of Article 23.6 a), a laboratory technician must as well possess the necessary qualifications to be trained to perform the work within a reasonable period of time not exceedingthirty (30) workdays. Management will determine the successful applicants. This decision may be the subject of a grievance.
4.	In all such cases mentioned above, the Company shall post the openings on a plant-wide basis within five (5) working days from date of occurrence, on a notice board. The openings shall be posted for three (3) working days. The Company shall endeavour to fill such openings within five (5) working days following the last day of posting. This paragraph shall not be applied during the period of June 1, to Labour Day of each year. Jobs which become vacant during this period shall be posted as soon as possible in September.
5.	Vacantjobs are posted starting every Thursday morning until the following Tuesday morning. An employee who has bid on a job, may withdraw his bid exclusively during the posting period previously mentioned.
41
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY fcont’d)
6.	The job posting bulletin will show posting date and the closing date of the posting, the pertinent seniority group, the job classification, the rate of pay, whether shift work and, shift work if applicable. An employee who applies for a posted position will submit a written application no later than the last day of posting. The name of the successful applicant will be posted in the Plant promptly but not later than three (3) days after the closing date of the posting.
7.	In the event that no candidates, whose name appeared on the posting, accepts the vacant job, the candidate with the least group seniority at the time the job is to be filled, is then considered as being the regular incumbent of the said vacant job. The employee who becomes the regular incumbent cannot bid on the first posting of his previous job. The trial period as mentioned in Appendix A, during which the employee is free to return to his former job, does not apply in this case.
8.	At the time of ajob posting for a regularljob vacancy, should no employee submit a bid by means of the job posting, the employee vlith the least group seniority in the plant and who does not hold any regularjob, then becomes the regular incumbent of the saidjob.
9.	When an employee becomes the incumbent of a regularjob by means of the job posting, his name is then automatically removed from all other existing job postings unless notified otherwise by the employee.
10.	Furthermore, according to the needs of operations, the Company posts regular jobs of replacement for each department in order to fill the jobs that are vacant temporarily for the said department.
11.	The primary responsibilities for those regular jobs of replacement are to replace the employees that are absent temporarily and must not, in any event, be used in a manner that would infringe the rights of any other employee.
12.	The temporary vacantjobs to be filled will be for the followingreasons:
a)	vacation
b)	accident or illness
c)	leave of absence
d)	during the posting of a vacant regularjob
e)	all other temporary absence
13.	The employee who becomes the incumbent of a regularjob of replacement by means of posting, and who has qualified, cannot bid on another vacant regularjob for a period of twelve (12) months starting from the beginning of the training. However, if the worker has not been assigned in the department in which he bid for ajob, after six (6) consecutive months, he is again entitled to bid on another posting.
42
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’d)
14.	The incumbent of a regular replacement job must receive training for all the jobs he will replace. The said training may be interrupted to allow replacement on a job he is already trained for. The incumbent of a regular replacement job must replace a vacant job until the regular incumbent returns. If, before the return of the regular incumbent, the number of incumbents is reduced, the incumbent of a regular replacement job is moved from his job regardless of his group seniority.
15.	The thirty (30) working days trial period mentioned in Section 23.8 may be extended by mutual agreement.
23.6	b) Of thirty (30) working days of less (temporaiyj ob)
1)	The Company fills all job vacancies of thirty (30) working days or less within seniority group "A" with employees without a regular job or employees whose job will not be in operation the following week, called the Pool Group, providing such employees are qualified.
In making such temporary assignments, the company will take into consideration the group seniority of employees involved. Since such openings are of short duration, and training time is limited, it will be necessary from time to time to assign an employee of lesser group seniority to fi 11 the opening.
2)	All employees whose regular jobs are down may apply for a temporary opening of duration equal or shorter than the period of time during which their regular jobs will be down as long as they are qualified. These employees will be considered along with the employees who are not regular job incumbents and who are part of the Pool Group.
3)	All unfilled temporary openings will be posted each week no later than 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, Postings will remain on the board until 1:00 p.m. Wednesday.
4)	In the event that new temporary openings are created after 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, as a result of Company action, the revised posting will take place no later than 5:00 p.m. Thursday and remain on the board until 1:00 p.m. of the following day.
5)	Employees in the Pool Group and whose regular job is down the following week can apply for such temporary openings and the temporary openings will be allocated by group seniority to qualified employees who apply.
6)	Temporary openings not filled under 5) above will be filled by assignment with employees remaining in the Pool Group or those whose regular job is down the following week.
These assignments are considered equivalent to a request for temporary jobs in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 5).
43
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY (cont’cH
7)	Employees filling temporary openings under 5) and 6) above will fill the opening for as long as the situation exists, i.e. up to thirty (30) work days.
8)	Notwithstanding 7) above, an employee who has been allocated a temporaryjob under 5) above may apply in the following weeks for an available higher rated job.
9)	In the event that temporary jobs are not filled under 5) and 6) above by qualified employees, a qualified employee with less group seniority and on a protected rate may be assigned to such opening.
10)	The above thirty (30) work days may be extended by mutual agreement. In such event, temporary openings filled under 6) above, will be re-posted each week for as long as the situation exists.
23.6	c) Training and/or specific projects (temporaryjob of more than thirty (30) days)
1)	When the Company introduces a special project (technical development, training, continuous improvement, etc.) to be assigned to an employee, the Company creates a temporaryjob to be filled according to the followingprocedures.
2)	Before posting the job, the Company and the Union jointly evaluate the responsibilities of the job in order to define the selection criteria and the objectives.
3)	The Company and the Union jointly agree on the scope of these jobs (department or plant) and on the duration of these assignments. These elements will be indicated on the job posting as a best estimate.
4)	This procedure will be applicable to each group seniority and an employees keeps his permanentjob while assigned to this temporaryjob.
5)	The aptitudes, skills, qualifications and abilities are the determining factors to obtain those jobs, however, the group seniority becomes the governing factor when several candidates meet thejob requirements.
23.7	In the event that a job posting is made in advance of the actual occurrence of a vacancy, applications to such a posting will be valid for six (6) months from the date of the posting.
44
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY fcont’dl
23.8	The successful applicant to ajob vacancy shall be considered to be on trial until he has worked thirty (30) accumulated work days on thejob in the six (6)month period dating from his first day of his trial period. In the event that the Company declares through a written form that he has qualified at any time during the trial, period and he, at the same time, agrees in writing to accept the job, the trial period shall be fulfilled. During the period of acceptation as indicated in Appendix “A”, the employee shall be free to return to his formerjob.
Ajob vacancy resulting while an employee is in the trial period of a permanent opening, is not required to be posted until the employee becomes the regular incumbent.
23.9	An employee who has completed his trial period towards filling ajob vacancy which needs to be filled by a regular incumbent, shall be considered to be a regular incumbent and his seniority shall give him preference overjunior incumbents of the samejob.
23.10	An employee with seniority status who is transferred from hisjob due to areduction in staff, is expected to return to hisjob when it is again open to him. He shall transfer to Pool Group during the period that hisjob is down. In the event that he bids for and qualifies to fill a permanent job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 23, Section 23.6 a) during the time his regularjob is down, he loses his claim to his regular job when it re-opens. In the event that hisjob opens to him while he is on lay-off, and he declines a recall to work, he shall hold no further claim to thejob and the opening shall be posted.
In the event that an employee is on lay-off for more than six (6) consecutive months, and that employee was a regular incumbent of a permanent job at time of lay-off, such job will be posted in accordance with Article 23.6 a).
23.11	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees or by the return to work of employees from sick leave, personal leave of absence of lay-off during any week, are not required to be made until the start of the next scheduled week.
23.12	If an employee’sregularjob starts up during the week, the employee may request a transfer to thejob and such transfer will be made at the start of the next regular daily shift, providing that such transfer does not require a change of shift.
23.13	Employees are expected to rotate on shifts beginning with the first week of any multiple shift schedule. The senior employees among the regularjob incumbents shall have preference of shifts only for the first week of such schedules. By nubuel consent, employees on the same job may stay on the same shift for more than one week providing they previously advise their supervisor.
23.14	In the event of transfer of operations to this Plant from other Kraft Canada Inc. plants, employees possessing particular skills required by the operation shall be allowed to transfer into the bargaining unit with one (l)month's seniority.
45
ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY fcont’d)
23.15	Employees who, prior to this Agreement, were or hereafter are transferred to a position at the LaSalle Plant outside the bargaining unit, and then returned by the Company to jobs within the bargaining unit, shall return with the plant seniority possessed at the time the transfer first took place.
An employee with no past service within the bargaining unit, transferred into the bargaining unit, shall have one (1) month's seniority.
23.16	At the time of signing this Agreement, the Company shall give to the President of the Union a plant seniority list and a list of seniority for each of the groups A,B, and C and shall assist him in keeping his list up-to-date by advising him in writing of any changes not later than one (l)full work day following such changes.
23.17	Seniority prorisions contained in this Agreement shall apply from the date of signing this Agreement only to present employees and to future employees, as defined in Article 2 -Bargaining Unit - of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICE OF LAY-OFF
24.1	a) In cases of lay-off cf more than twenty-six (26) weeks (6 months), employees are entitled to a notice of lay-off in accordance with the following:
Less than 1 year of plant seniority -1 week 1 to 5 years of plant seniority	- 2 weeks
5 to 10 years of plant seniority - 4 weeks 10 years and more of plant seniority - 8 weeks
b)	At the time of a lay-off of a duration of more than four (4) weeks and less than twenty-six (26) weeks (6 months), the employee concerned will receive a notice in conformance with the following table:
0 to S years of plant seniority..........1 week notice
5 to 10 years of plant seniority......... 2 wades notice
10 years and more of plant seniority...4 weeks notice
When a lay-off is prolonged for more than twenty-six (26) weeks, (6 months), paragraph 24.1 a), will apply and the Company will pay the employee concerned a compensation amount equal to the difference of the number of wades of the notice of paragraph a) and the number of weeks of notice already given.
c)	In case of a lay-off of four (4) complete weeks or less, the employee concerned will
receive a notice of at least one (l)week
46
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICE OF LAY-OFF fcont'ch
When a lay-off is prolonged for more than four (4) weeks, paragraph 24.1 b), will apply and the Company will pay the employee concerned a compensation amount covering the difference of the number of weeks of the notice in paragraph b) and the number of weeks of notice already given.
d)	In cases when the Company omits to give sufficient lay-off notice as mentioned above, the Company will pay the employee concerned at the time of his leave
a compensation amount equal to the notice omitted.
e)	The notice mentioned in a), b), and c) will be put in the employee's mailbox and a list of employee's affected by the lay-off will be posted on the bulletin board that is normally used for the manpower working schedule.
24.2	When the notices of lay-off are cancelled, the Company shall issue new notices of lay-off to employees Concerned as provided in Article 24.1.
24.3	The President and Financial Secretary of the Union shall be given, whenever possible, a list of employees to be laid-off or recalled, twenty-four (24) hours before such notices are given, but at the latest prior to the issuance of such notices.
24.4	Notwithstanding Article 24.1 an employee may be recalled during his lay-off to fill a temporary position in the event of a work accident, illness, leave of absence or others. This replacement cannot exceed four (4) weeks and the employee cannot request a new notice of lay-off at the end of this temporary assignment.
245 The Company may proceed with a recall for temporary work as provided by Article 24.4 without taking seniority into account, if it is a replacement requiring a training period of more than one (l)day and that the recalled employee is qualified to do the work. These steps require Union consent prior to taking place.
ARTICLE25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
25.1	Practices with respect to leaves of absence without pay shall be in accordance with the following policy:
a) Upon receipt of a written request, the Company may grant a personal leave of absence to an employee. Such written request will indicate the reason for the leave of absence, and such reason will be considered by the company in arriving at its decision. It is understood that, in addition, the Company will also take into consideration the operating needs of the business. Such leaves, except those granted for personal disability or for service in the Armed Forces, may not exceed twelve (12) calendar months without breaking seniority. In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time off, he may apply for an extension, but his application must be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the termination of his original leave of absence.
47
ARTICLE 25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE fcont'd)
Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position, try out new work or venture into business for himself. If leave of absence is granted, the employee shall be advised in writing with a copy to the Union.
His leave of absence shall be cancelled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activities other than those for which the leave was granted.
A pregnant employee has the right to a leave of absence for maternity of a maximum duration of eighteen (18) consecutive weeks.
However, in the case of a leave of absence for maternity leave, the Company will pay the employee the differential between Employment Insurance payment and Kraft Short term disability payment, for a period of six (6) weeks starting on the delivery date.
The maternity leave may be taken after written notice is given at least three (3) weeks in advance to the employer indicating the date the leave of absence will start and the date of return to work. A medical certificate confirming the pregnancy must accompany this notice and mention the expected delivery date.
The father and the mother of a newly-bom child and the person adopting a child who has not reached the school age have the right to a parental leave of absence without pay for a maximum of thirty-four (34) weeks.
The parental leave cf absence may begin at the earliest on the day of the child's birth. It can be taken after written notice is given of at least three (3) weeks to the employer indicating the first day of leave of absence and the date of return to work. It ends at the latest one (1) year after the adoption of the child.
In accordance to the Labour Standards Act governing the maternity and parental leaves, the employee, who does not present himself/herself to work on the return to work date given in the notice to the employer, is considered having given his resignation.
All other conditions inherent to the maternity leave and parental leave are subject to the Labour Standards Act and are applied in conformity to this Act.
A pregnant worker who fiimishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions may be physically dangerous to her unborn child, or to herself by reason of her pregnancy, may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such danger that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If a requested reassignment is not made immediately, the pregnant worker may stop working until she is reassigned or until the date of delivery.
48
ARTICLE 25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE fconfdl
A worker who furnishes to the Company a certificate attesting that her working conditions involve risks for the child she is breast-feeding may request to be reassigned to other duties involving no such risks that she is reasonably capable of performing.
If the requested reassignment is not made immediately, the worker may stop working until she is reassigned or the child is weaned.
All inherent conditions to a preventive withdrawal for a pregnant employee or breastfeeding employee are subject to the Health and Safety Act and is applied in conformity to this legislation.
c)	In addition to the foregoing, an employee will be granted leave of absence for the purpose of accepting appointment to carry out official Union duties or fill an elected public office outside the Plant. It is agreed that no more than six (^members of the Union be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. In the event of appointment of employee members of the Union as delegates to a Union Convention, no more than twelve (12) members of the Union will be granted a leave of absence concurrently by the Company. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave.
On return from such leave of absence, the employee is entitled to return to his regular job. In the event that his regular job is down, or he declines to return to that job, he shall be placed in the Pool Group.
The Union will furnish the Company with two (2) weeks' notice, if possible, on requests for such types of leave.
d)	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years' seniority who requests such leave for the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognized educational standards, but such leave shall only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave.
The employee shall be eligible for recall in accordance with Article 23, Section 23.4, and such eligibility for recall shall be effective at the beginning of the second full work week following the date of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressed to the Human Resources Manager.
e)	An employee who is adopting a child will be granted a leave of absence for such time as is necessary to fulfil the legal adoption requirement. Such leave of absence will be requested in writing.
49
ARTICLE 26 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
26.1	During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike.
Neither the Union, nor any of its stewards, officers, or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slow-down or walk-out.
The Union will not recognize the rights of employees who participate singly or collectively in such a slow-down or walk-out.
26.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requested or required to cross a picket line established by the Union.
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.1	In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be altered by legislation, such changes shall not affect the remainder of the provisions hereof.
27.2	This Agreement shall be in effect until 23:59 hours on the 18th day of May 2002. Either party can give the other, no less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to renew this Agreement or seek amendments to same, in which case this present Agreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
27.3	After either party gives a written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this Agreement the parties shall meet to exchange listings of the changes desired. Negotiations shall start at least twenty (20) clear days prior to the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
27.4	The notice required in Section 27.2 shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed to the President of the Union, and if to the Company to the Plant Manager, Kraft Canada Inc., LaSalle, Quebec.
50
ARTICLE 27 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT tconLdl
27.5	In the event of difference in interpretation of the printed copies of this Agreement, the parties shall refer to the original signed French and English documents.
Sub-titles of the provisions of this Agreement are for index purposes only and are not intended as a guide to interpretation of the Agreement.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this Agreement on the <2,^tfiiy of 2000. KRAFT CANADA INC.	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 766P
Chantal Chaput Plant Manager

President
Manager, Human Resources
1st Vice-president
Guy Lanfiiljert Manger, Quality Services
ean-Pierre Roussy 2nd Vice-PrssMeDl
Paul Ducharme	Michel Lahaie
Manager, Engineering and Maintenance	Financial-Secretary
Pierre Poitras Recording Secretary
51
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
1.	Priority Order
1.1	Overtime offered to employees is distributed to those who have signified their
availability following a request of the foreman or his designate, in the following priority:
a)	Among employees scheduled on the job on which overtime is required, and who are qualified to perform the work.
b)	Among employees who are scheduled on a job in the department unit to which the overtimejob is related, and who are qualified to perform the work.
c)	Among employees who are scheduled on a job in the department to which the overtime is related, and who are qualified to perform the work.
d)	In the event that the overtime assignment cannot be filled under a), b), and c) above, the Company may then offer the overtime to any employee from any other Department within the same group seniority.
1.2 At each of the above steps a), b), c), overtime is distributed by offering to the employee with the least amount of overtime; in case of equal hours, group seniority takes precedence.
1.3	For the purpose of application of this memorandum of interpretation, jobs, department units, and departments are recorded in a document transmitted to the Union. The Company updates this document if necessary to reflect changes that the Company can make from time to time, while respecting the principal that only jobs held by employees of the same seniority group can be listed within the same department.
2.	Supplementary Provisions
2.1	Relay Workers
A relay worker shall not perform work on a Saturday, Sunday, on a day observed as a paid plant holiday, or on a scheduled day off, which is not part of his job and which would otherwise be performed on overtime by an employee who is not a relay worker.
52
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
2.1	When a relay worker is absent during his normal working hours, the Company will use a relay worker according to the following order of priority:
a)	the regularjob incumbent on his regular day off, qualified to perform the work.
b)	the relay worker in the unit, on his regular day off, qualified to perform the work.
c)	the relay worker in the department, on his regular day cff, qualified to perform the work.
d)	the regularjob incumbent scheduled to work immediately before or after.
e)	any other relay worker in the plant within the same group seniority qualified to perform the work.
If the overtime assignment cannot be filled according to the above order of priority, the Company will offer the overtime to any employee in the plant within the same group seniority, qualifiedto perform the work.
However, if a relay worker does not complete his shift, the Company can ask the worker from the preceding or following shift, depending on the circumstances, for a maximum of four (4)hours.
If a relay worker is relieved from his job for more than four (4)hours and less than twelve (12) hours, to receive training or for other activities, the Company will ask the relay worker on his day off according to the above order of priority for the number of hours required.
When those activities are for less than four (4)hours, the order of priority will be as follows: d), a), b), c) and e).
It is mandatory for relay workers to have a minimum of eight (8) hours rest between two shifts.
2.2	Trade Employees
A trade employee assigned to a job on overtime or on regular time must complete the project even if another employee becomes eligible to that overtime, inasmuch as at the end of the three (3) month period, the overtime is distributed in accordance with article 18.9.
53
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
ISIRBU T OF DVEB
2.3	Laboratory Technicians
When a technician works overtime on a non-scheduled day, he must spend the majority of his time working on the job where the overtime is required. However, he may be required to work on other jobs whose duration does not exceed one hour.
3.	Overtime on Scheduled Days:
Overtime on scheduled days, that is on days which are part of the employee's weekly work schedule, is offered in the order of priority a), b), c), on the basis of hours recorded at the time of the offer. To be entitled to overtime which follows his shift, the employee must be at work at the end of the shift which immediately precedes the overtime. To be entitled to overtime which immediately precedes the beginning of a shift, the employee must be scheduled on this shift in accordance with the weekly work schedule and be available for work.
4.	Overtime on Non-scheduled Days:
4.1	Overtime on non-scheduled days, that is Saturday, Sunday, and if applicable on a plant holiday, is offered on the basis of hours recorded on the overtime register as at 3:00 p.m. on the Tuesday which immediately precedes the execution of the overtime, within the order of priority a), b), and c).
a)	The employee within the priority a) is offered in a single opportunity and based on overtime requirements, the total of non-scheduled days at the rate of one shift of his choice for each non-scheduled days that he accepts to work.
b)	The hours not filled are then offered in the order of priority to b) and, if required c), at the rate of one shift at the employee's choice for each non-scheduled day(s) in the order these days occur. Hours offered and accepted by an employee for a non-scheduled day are taken in to account to establish his overtime entitlement for the next unscheduled day.
c)	An employee cannot work sixteen (16) consecutive hours by choice of shift.
54
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
4.2	In the case that a Monday holiday becomes part of an overtime opportunity of non-scheduled days, the employee must be scheduled on the job the week following the Monday to be eligible for the overtime in accordance with a), b), and c).
4.3	To be entitled to Saturday or Sunday overtime, the employee is not required to be scheduled on a corresponding] ob the following week.
4.4	Two Shift Operation
In the event of sixteen (16) hours of overtime, it will be distributed in two segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in the order of priority, and thereafter in accordance with b) for the hours not filled, and thereafter in accordance with c) for hours still not filled. If an employee in a) accepted a segment of eight (8) hours and the Company does not succeed in filling the second segment in accordance with b), or c), the Company offers the second segment to the employee who accepted the first segment before going into the plant within the same group seniority.
4.5	Three Shift Operation
In the event of twenty-four (24) hours of overtime, it will be distributed in three segments of eight (8) hours to employees in a) in the order of priority. If one segment is not filled, the two employees who accepted are offered twelve (12) hours. If one of the two refuse the twelve (12) hours, we come back to segments of eight (8) hours and the non-filled segment of eight (8) hours is offered to the employees in b) in the order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c). If the segment is still not filled, the employee who accepted twelve (12) hours will be offered sixteen (16) hours.
In the event there is two segments to fill, the non-filled segments are offered to employees in b) in the order of priority, and thereafter to employees in c). If there are still non-filled segments, we offer sixteen (16) hours to the employee in a) who has accepted, before going across the plant within the same group seniority.
The same principle applies for segments of less than eight (8) hours.
55
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
5.	Recording of Overtime Hours:
5.1	Overtime offered and accepted in the order of priority a), b), c), and d) are recorded on the register posted in the department of the employee by the foreman in charge at the beginning of these overtime hours, except if the overtime is cancelled by the Company.
5.2	Hours of overtime declined by an employee shall not be accumulated as having been worked, but shall nevertheless be recorded as having been offered to him.
5.3	When an employee is scheduled on a differentjob or who is absent on leave without pay for more than ten (10) work days, he will be recorded with the highest number of overtime hours already accumulated on that job by the other incumbents. In such cases, the regular incumbent will have preference over the temporary transferee for the first offer only.
5.4	If the displacement for one (1) week or more is required by the Company to meet temporary requirements, or an employee assigned to a project/training or other, the employee will return with the hours on the register when he left, plus any overtime hours worked during his reassignment.
5.5. Hours of overtime recorded is accumulated for periods of three (3)months only.
These periods are:
-	January 1 to March 31
■	April 1 to June 30
-	July 1 to September30
• October 1 to December 31
If an employee believes that he has not been provided with a fair opportunity to share the overtime available within the order of priority a), b) and c), his claim will be processed immediately, up to thirty (30) days following the date of the incident, through the grievance procedure.
56
_______NODI F EEME1
EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PLAN
J This plan applies only to active employees on June 1, 1992 and assures to these employees a minimum number of annual hours of work with the Company or pay in lieu of hours of work which appears in the following table next to the date of employment of the employee.
	
Previous to June 1,1982	2,080
Junel, 1982 to May 31,1983	1,800
June 1,1983 to May 31,1984	1,600
Junel, 1984 to May 31,1985	1,400
June 1,1985 to May 31,1986	1,200 i
Junel, 1986 to May 31,1987	1,000
June 1,1987 to May 31,1988	800
Junel, 1988 to May 31,1989	600
June 1,1989 to May 31,1990	400
a)	For the purpose of this plan, the admissible employee must:
i)	has received not less than thirty-five (35) pay cheques from the Company within any twenty-four (24) consecutive months from his date cf hire but prior to the beginning of the year for which he becomes eligible; and
ii)	performs no less than two hundred (200) hours of work for the Company during the year; and
iii)	is employed by the Company and covered by the Collective Agreement both immediately prior to the beginning of the year and continuing up to and including the last day of the year.
b)	"Year" means the calendar year
57
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
m At the conclusion of the year, the Company shall determine the following:
a)	The total hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu by the
Company, which includes:
1)	all hours worked within an employee's regular schedule of work; and
2)	all hours for which an employee was provided with pay for Vacation, Holiday, Bereavement, appearance in Court, Notice of Layoff, and Minimum Recompense; plus
b)	The total hours that an eligible employee was absent from work for any of the following
reasons:
1)	absence with pay, including absence under Article 25, Leaves of Absence;
2)	sickness or accident;
3)	disciplinary suspension from work;
4)	discharged and reinstated where the terms of reinstatement do not provide for compensation for time lost with respect to the period from discharge to reinstatement.
5)	the employee is unavailable or unable to perform the task assigned to him;
6)	the employee is ineligible for benefits under the provisions of Article 7, Paid Plant Holidays;
7)	a Plant or part of a Plant is closed by circumstances beyond the control of the Company including, but not restricted to, an emergency, a loss of power or water supply, unavailability of raw materials, for all eligible employees so affected; and
8)	in the event of a strike, any situation arising out of a strike, or a lockout, for all eligible employees at the affected Plant. The words "strike" and "lockout" is defined as under the Labour Code.
58
MEMORANDUM OF INTERPRETATION
PIS IRIBUTIUN OF OVERTIME
HI) If, at the conclusion of the year, the total hours which each eligible employee was provided with work or pay in lieu plus the total hours he was absent from work under Section 2) is not equal to or higher than his applicable minimum hours under Section 1) then he shall be eligible for an Employment Security payment on the net difference.
To determine any payments due, the net difference in hours is multiplied by the weighted average base rate for the year. Such payment shall be made by the Company as soon as possible but not later than sixty ('todays after the end of the year.
Any payments made in compliance with the provisions of Labour Standards Legislation, in excess of the terms of the Collective Agreement, is deducted from such payment.
IV)	An employee shall lose his eligibility under the Plan and shall forfeit any payments which may otherwise have been due to him if during the course of the year.
a)	he resigns, retires, or otherwise loses his seniority rights under the provisions of Article 23, Seniority;
b)	he is discharged for just cause or his employment with the Company is otherwise terminated and he is not reinstated through the Grievance or Arbitration Procedures;
c)	he is permanently laid-off within the meaning of the Collective Agreement;
d)	he transfers to a position within the Company not covered by the Collective Agreement;
e)	he is deceased; or
f)	he declines more than four (4) full scheduled weeks of work during the year.
V)	The Employment Security Plan shall terminate and the Company shall not be liable to make any payments under the Plan whatsoever in the event that:
a)	the Company becomes bankrupt or insolvent;
b)	the Company terminates its operations at the location provided for under the Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shall terminate in respect of eligible employees at the affected location; or
c)	the Company terminates part of its operations at the location provided for under the Collective Agreement in which case the Plan shall terminate automatically in respect of any eligible employee who was laid-off as a result.
59
ANNEXEA • TAUX HO RAJ RES	APPENDIX A - HOURLY RATES
No de posts Job nos.	JOBS	POSTES	Gr. d'anc. Senior, gr.	Classe Class	Periods d'acceptation Acceptance period	Taux horaire Hourly rate 1999.05.23	Taux horaire Houriyrate 2000.05.21	Taux horaire Hourly rate 2001.05.20
K20170C3	Muter electrician	Maftre dieebtclen	B	8	15	23.35	23.85	24.30
H2O10OO1	Electrotechnldan	feleetroteehntden	B	7	15	22.68	23.13	23.53
H2K1003	Lift track mechanic	Mdcanlclen chariot dtdvateur	B	6	5	22.10	22.55	22.95
RS3TO2 H2K100S H2031000	Process mechanic	Mdcanleienprocddd	B	6	10	22.10	22.55	22.95
rotmon		 H201004 H2M1006 K20310Q7	Packing mechanic	Mdcanlclen ambaltage	B	6	10	22.10	22.55	22.95
H20WCC1	Statiormaiy engineer (operator/patrol)	Mdcanlclen Machine ftra (opdratauripatrouMaur)	B	6	5	22.10	22.55	22.95
H2O620O1	Plumber	flUaMtiU# nOnwln	B	6	10	22.10	22.55	22.95
K2SQ9001	Machinist	MachbMa	- B	6	5	22.10	22.55	22.95
H205T013	Tachn. quality projects	Technician prdata quatltde	C	S	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
K2097Q14	Tachn. rasourea WB/DW	Reas, technique ehoeolat/DW	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
H2M>0tS H2OS7D10 H2057017	Quality Teehn. production	Technician qualftd an prod.	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
H2067012	Calibration teetm.	Technician de calibration	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
H2O570O0	Tachn. micro lab.	Techntelen de Lab. Micro. ■	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
H20S70M	Tachn. analytical	Technician da Lab. Anatytlqua	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
►0057006	Tachn. raw mat chocjcoffae	Tech. lab. mat premldre cacaofcafd	c	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
H2CJ4017	Pack off attendant/Sduble	Prdpoad empffaaaoe dee baea/Soluble	A	5	15	19.15	19.50	19.80
H2034013	Wat operstor/Sofuble	Opdrateur rrdvaporateur/Sotuble	A	5	15	19.15	19.50	19.80
K202B001	Percolator loader/Soluble	Chargeur pere/Solublo	A	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
N2034011	Dryar operator /Soluble	Opdrateur adcholr/Soluble	A	5	15	19.15	19.50	19.80
RBOTT3	 H20M01A	Parc, operator Soluble & Maxim	Opdrateur perea Soluble & Maxim	A	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
R3933033	 H2O94OO0	Roaster operator coffee	Opdrateur torrdfacteur eafd	A	5	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
K20S4006	Blender-grinder operator coffee	Opdrataur mdlengeur-btoyeur cafd	A	$	10	19.15	19.50	19.80
KRAFT CANADA INC. TtlACJUFCW LOCAL 7*eP
UaJna da USaSs / laSaSe Plant
ANNEXE A-TAUX HORA1RES
APPENDIX A • HOURLY RATES
No de posts Job nos.	JOBS	POSTES	Gr. d’anc. Senior, gr.	Classe Class	P6riode d'acceptation Acceptance period	Taux horaire Hourly rate 1999.05.23	Taux horaire Hourly rate 2000.05.21	Taux horaire Hourly rate 2001.05.20
H20S700S	Techn. sample micro	Teehn. Lab. fichantlHons Micro	C	4	10	18.63	18.98	19.28
H2014001	Coffee bean dumper	Odveraeurde Fives Card	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	19.28
K2044002	Recefver/WB	Prdpoed »la rdcepBon/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	19.28
H3034004	Operator proceaa/DW	Opdrateur precddd/DW	A	4	10	18.63	18.98	19.28
H2034001	Dryer operator/DW	OpdrataufdeadehoWDW	A	4	10	18.63	18.98	19.28
K2OMO0S	MIxar operator/DW	Opdrateur mdlanoeur/DW	A	4	10	18.63	18.98	19.28
H20HQ33	Tampering operator 1 oz/WB	Opdrateur detampdrage 1 oz/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	19.28
H2034034	Tampering operator Chlpe/WB	Opdrateur detampdrage Chlpa/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	19.28
K2QW028	Refiner operator/WB	Opdrateur au rafflnaaa/WB	A	4	S	18.63	18.98	19.28
H20M024	Dry compound operator/WB	Opdrateur mdlangaur/lngr.saca/W8	A	4	S	18.63	18.98	19.28
K2034025	MUt operator/WB	Opdrataur de motillna/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	1928
H2C34032	Roaatar operator/WB	OpdrateurTorrtfaeteur/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	1928
H28M026	Mixer operator/WB	Opdrataur Mdlangeur/WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	1928
H2DM029	Relief operator 1 ozJWB	Opdrateur relive 1oz/WB	A	4 *	10	18.63(18.73*)	18.98	1928
H2034030	Relief operator chlpa/WB	Opdnteur relive chlpa/WB	A	4 *	10	18.63(18.73*)	18.98	1928
K206000e	Proceaa aervtce/WB process	Prdposd au aervloe/ptocidi WB	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	1928
H2044001	Receiving attendant	Prdpoad RdceptlOn	A	4	5	18.63	18.98	1928
H2060001	Warehouse attendant/EXP.	Prdposd/EXP.	A	4	S	18.63	18.98	19.28
H2060002	Checker/EXP.	Vdrifleataur/EXP.	A	4 *	S	18.63(18.73*)	18.98	19.28
K2064001	Storekeeper	Magaamier	A	4 *	5	18.63(18.73*)	18.98	1928
KRAPT CANADA INC. TUACIUPCW LOCAL TMP
Ualne da LaSalle / LaSalle Pint
KRAFT CANADA INC,
ANNEXE A - TAUX H0RAIRE5	tuac/uikw# local Tea*	Ueinsdeus«ae/usa»ePiart	APPENOKA.HOURLYRAr
— No de poste Job nos.	JOBS	— POSTES	Gr. d*anc. Senior, gr.	Classe Class'	Periods d'acceptation Acceptance period ’	Tauxhoraire Hourly rate 1899.0523	Taux horaire Hourly rate 2000.0521	Tauxhoraire Hourly rate 2001.0520
K206T010	Teehn. weight	TechnWen de pastes	C	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
H2087011	Taehn. various assignment	Taehn. assignations dlvereee	C	3 *	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
K20M00S	Taste panel coordinator	Coordonnataur ddgustateurs	C	3 *	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
K20M010	SK3/CAN operator/Regular	Opdrateur SIG/CAN/Rdguller	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
KMMOO*	Fractional operator (FSPDyReg.	Opdrateur fracriomatle (FSPDVRdg.	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
H2044001	Ralier A service SIG/CAN/Reg.	Prdpoed au servtce/relive SIG/CAN/Rdg.	A	3 *	10	18.30 (18.73*1	18.65(18.73*)	18.95
KSOMOM	Operator ICA/TMIa/Ragutar	Opdrateur ICA/nntla/RdguIler	A	3		18.30	18.65	18.95
H2B22006	Dryer Helpsr/Soluble	Aldeauedchoir/Soluble	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
H28S401*	Labeller oparator/Sduble	Opdrateur dtktuetteuse/SduNe	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
K2M401S	Filler operator/Sduble	Opdrateur empt. das pOta/Sduble	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
Hm*m	ReUef packing operator/Sduble	Opdrateur de rettvs emballage/Soluble	A	3 *	10	18.30(18.73*)	18.65(18.73*)	18.95
K2034012	Cloud operator/Sduble	Opdrateur Ctoud/Sduble	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
K2014002	Bean dumper/WB	Ddverseurdefdves/WB	A	3	10	18.30	18.65	18.95
H2034087	Packer operator Chlpe/WB	Opdrateur embatlaur Chlpa/WB	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
H2034035	Wrapper operators 1 ozJWB	Opdrateur embaileurl ozJWB	A	3	5	18.30	18.65	18.95
K2BM001	Taste panettat	Odguetataur	C	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H20S000S	Batteries attandant	Prdpoed auc batteries	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2033001	Oiler	Hutleur .	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H20S0001	Rework attendanVcoffee	Prdpoed au racydaga/cafd	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2JJ5JJ!	 H2BM001	Aut. pelletizer operalor/Sotuble	Opdrateur palstttsatten auL/Sctuble	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H200MM	Process deaner/Ragular	Nettoyeur proeddd/Rdguller	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2000007	Machine deaner/Ragular	Natfoyeur de maehtna/Rdgulier	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
	Depallettzar Canllna/Rdgutler	DdpatotHseur CanSne/RdguBer	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H20W007	IVF/CAN Udders operator/Regular	Opdrateur IVF/CAN couverdes/Rdgutter	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H20U001	Packer unloadar operator/Sduble	Opdrateur vldage&emb. calsses/Soluble	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2M3001	DepalteUzer attendantlSduMe	Prdpoed ddpalettleatlon/Sduble	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2060004	OCE service attendant/Sduble	Prdpoed au service OCE/Sdubte	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H20MO14	OCE tote dumper/Soluble	Odverseur OCE / Soluble	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
K2C09008	Machine deaner/SduMe	Nettoyeur de machlnes/Soluble	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
K2BMOOS	Rdlet packing operator/DW	Opdrateur de rddve emballaga/DW	A	2 *	10	18.13(18.73*)	18.48(18.73*)	18.78
H20S0003	Service pereon/DW	Prdpoed au servloe/DW	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
K2034003	Operator paddng/DW	Opdrateur k remballage Dream-Whip	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
K2000004	Machine deaneclDW	Nettoyeur de machlnes/DW	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H3000009	Process eleaner/WB	Nettoyeur de procddd/WB	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
H2060G02	General aervlea/WB pack.	Prdpoed au eervlee/Emb. WB	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
ueftwvw	Case Padrer operator 1 ozJWB	Opdrateur carton embatlaur 1 ozJWB.	A	2	5	18.13	18.48	18.78
-			.u	J.^aira		A	9	" " K '	*««	t*	
ANNEXE A -TAUX HORAIRES
APPENDIX A - HOURLY RATES
No de poste Job nos.
JOBS
POSTES
Gr. d'anc. Senior.gr.
Classe
Class
Periode
d'acceptation
Acceptance
period
Taux horaire Hourly rate 1999.05.23
Taux horaire Hourly rate
Taux horaire Hourly rate
H2MW0S	Mobile unit attendant	Ptdpoadunltd mobile	A	1	5	17.73	18.08	18.38
H204T001	Refute collector general	Pidpoad au aervlea Sanlvan	A	1	5	17.73	18.08	18.38
H2039003	Packer/DW					Embatleur/DW	A 			.1	_	5	17.73	18.08	18.38
K200B002	Janltor/Soluble	Prdpoed * rentretlenffioluble	A	1	5	17.73	18.08	18.38
H2009002	Janltor/WB	Prdpoed A rentretien/WB	A	1	5	17.73	18.08	18.38
								
						-		
Taw du aalarid ealtonnler S13.00/hre.
Seaeonal employee rite S13.00/hr
Pottet de remplicant permanent tampofilre
15
Leatltulalreerecolventle taw dueoete guile ramplaoent.
Temporary permanent replacement jabs
15
TTia Incumbent receive the rate of the lob they replace
Tauxdutltulalre actual demeurelnchangdluaqu'd ce qua to taw de to claaaerejolgne son taux.
Tawdu portea'appllqua pour un nouveau titulaire
I
I
-t_
Actual Incumbent rateremalna unchanged until job rate reachea incumbent rata
Job rateapplles for a new Incumbent
KRAFT CANADA INC. TUAC/UFCW LOCAL 7fCF
Uaina da LaSalle/LaSalle Plant
APPENDIX "B"
LABORATORY
TASTE PANE!, TECHNICIAN
Concerning the inclusion of Taste-Panel Technician within the scope of the Agreement, it is agreed that:
1)	Notwithstanding Article 18.1, the basic work day will be not less than five (5) hours per day, nor more than eight (8) hours per day. The normal schedule of hours, if less than eight (8) hours per day, will be determined by the Company.
The current schedule of hours will be 8:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. with an unpaid meal period 12:15 to 1:00 p.m.
2)	Notwithstanding Article 7, payment for paid holidays and minimum guarantees will be pro-rated in accordance with the basic work day as determined under 1) above.
In the event that he works more than five (5) hours on the work day before or after the paid holiday, his holiday pay will be based on the number of hours so worked, but not to exceed eight (8) hours.
3)	Notwithstanding Article 9.1, the unpaid meal period will not be less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than sixty (60) minutes.
4)	Notwithstanding Articles 12,16,17 and 19, all guarantees will be pro-rated in accordance with the basic work day and work week as determined under 1) above.
5)	In all other respects, the current Collective Agreement as amended by this appendix, will apply as written to Taste-Panel Technicians.
64
Ax PENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
PREAMBLE
The benefits outlined in this appendix describe the coverage and provisions under which the Kraft Canada Inc. Medical and Dental Plans will be administered. Should the need for additional interpretative or adjudicative language arise, the official plan document will prevail.
1)	MEDICAL	PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Hsfib Canada Inc. Medical Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependents are covered under this plan as soon as you have completed your probationaiy period.
b)	Cost of the Plan and Options
Kraft Canada pays the full cost of the Base Plan coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependants. The details of the base medical plan are explained in the Collective Agreement.
The medical plan also offers different supplementary coverage options:
• The premiums are required for supplemental coverage depending on the option choice. The indicated costs are based on 52 weeks/year.
		Sinele Coverage	Family Coveraee
Q	Option A	0,95$/week	2,00$/week
□	Option B	l,40$/week	2,95$/week
□	Option C	0,70$/week	l,70$/week
□	Option D	l,30$/week	3,25$/week
□	Option B&D	2,00$/week	5,00$/week
The	choice of option of A	or B including unlimited.	reimbursement of eligible
prescription drugs is a mandatory requirement for Quebec employees as a result of Quebec law (Bill 33).
Choices of options are made for a period of three (3)years commencing June 29,1998. The premiums are guaranteed for this three (3) year period commencing June 29, 1998.
65
SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS	CORE
BENEFITS
An'ENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
1)	MEDICAL PLAN front'd)
b) Cost of the Plan and Options (followed) Below is a table of the available options.
BASE PLAN	Possible Additional Coverage	
	OPTION A	OPTION B
Hospital care Max. 10 000 $ / year	UNLIMITED Excess drug coverage	UNLIMITED Excess core benefits coverage (Includes Option A)
Prescribed drugs Max. 1200 $/year		
Out of country care Max. 25 000 $ / vear		
PLUS	OPTION C	OPTION D
Paramedical services up to 500$ / vear	700 $ / year	900 $ / year
Vision care 150$/2 vears	200 $ / 2 years	300 $ / 2 years
Hearing aids 300 $ / 3 vear	500 $ / 3 years	1 000 $ / 3 years
Ambulance/lab costs up to . 1 000$ / vear	1 500 $ / year	2 000 $ / year
Nursing and prosthetic services up to 10 000 $ / vear	15 000$/ year	20 000$/year
c)	Eligible Expraises
Kraft Canada Inc. MrlimL plan reimburses a portion of eligible expenses, providing that the services are medically necessary and prescribed by a physician and that the fee charged is reasonable and customary for die services provided.
The eligible expenses are reimbursed at 100% up to the yearly maximum indicated in the table.
66
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
1)
MEDICAL PLAN (cont’dt
d)	DEFINmON of "EligjbleDependafits'
Eligible dependants include your spou|e and vour dependent childrer
Dependent children are defined as you!- unn arried children who are:
“	less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
'	less than 25 years old if full-timi sti dent attending an accredited educational
facility and chiefly dependent oq you f< r support and maintenance.
incapable of self-sustaining emj loymen by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are ciiefly d< pendent upon you for maintenance and support are residing in Canada and who 1 ecame so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legauy aaopied cl ild and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently residesjin your hot sehold, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support! and care.
Spouse is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is any person who has been living with you for at least one (l)year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
e)	Hospital Expenses
The plan reimburses 100% of hospital care up to a maximum of $10,000 per year.
Hospital benefits provide coverage for private, semi-private and convalescent room care for hospitals subsidized by the government This does not include private hospitals.
If you are hospitalized outside of Canada for a medically necessaiy treatment not available in Canada and for which there is no alternate treatment available in Canada, medical expenses that exceed the allowance paid by any provincial government plan are reimbursed based on reasonable and customary charges.
167
A. PENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
1) MEDICAL PLAN fcont’d)
f)	Drug reimbursement
The plan reimburses 100% of drugs tfeai are not available over the counter. The option including unlimited reimbursement oi eligible prescription drugs is a mandatory legal requirement for Quebec employe* s as a result of Quebec law (Bill 33). The premiums related to the chosen optipns me st be paid to be covered.
i
g)	Expenses for emergency treatment out-of-country.
The plan reimburses 100% of the cost of medical expenses up to a maximum of $25,000 per year.
“ Emergency treatment of an illness or accident occurring while outside Canada is reimbursed on a reasonable and customary basis.
-	Emergency travel assistance expenses as follows:
You can leave with peace of mind, knowing that if you or a member of your family require emergency medical assistance - help is just a phone call away.
Should an emergency occur, the first step is to dial the number of the back of your identification card.
Should you or a member of your family require EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT while travelling, the following services are available to you from World Access:
•	Referral to a physician, dentist or appropriate medical care facility.
*	Payment coverage for emergency medical, pharmaceutical, and surgical hospital bills.
68
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
1) MEDICAL PLAN fcont’d)
World Access will also provide you with the following EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION
services:
■	Emergency medical transportation if necessary (1)
■	In the event of death, necessary arrangements will be made to have the deceased's body returned home to Canada. Expenses of up to $5,000 are covered.
' If you or your spouse require hospitalization while travelling, arrangements will be made for your children, should they be left unattended, to return to their home in Canada. Children must be under 16 years of age. If necessary, arrangements for an escort to accompany the children will be made. (1)
- If a covered traveller should lose his/her return flight due to the hospitalization of a covered family member, arrangements for one way Economy Class transportation to the place of departure will be provided. (1)
" Should a covered traveller be travelling alone and be confined to a hospital for more than seven days, the cost of transportation of an immediate family member to visit the hospitalized person is covered. Return economy fare for one family member will be permitted. A family member is a person who is a blood relative or who normally resides with the hospitalized personal)
(1) Reimbursement is limited to $5,000 per event.
World Access - A Communication Centre
. World Access also functions as a message centre. By dialling World Access' number in Washington, you can leave important messages for up to fiftsEn days.
. World Access will contact family members' and your employerto update them.
. Your regular physician will be consulted if necessary.
. In an emergency, World Access can prpvide telephone interpretation services in most major languages.
Additional Services:
. Assistance in arrangingthe replacement of lost documents or tickets.
.	Expenses of up to $700 are covered for commercial accommodation and meals incurred by
you, or a member of your family while staying with the hospitalized person.
69
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
1) MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
. Your Emergency Travel Assistance benefit will help cover the cost of accommodation if you should require convalescence following hospitalization. Expenses of up to $75 per day will be covered for a maximum of 5 days.
. If an emergency should occur and you are unable to drive your vehicle home, excluding commercial vehicles, arrangements will be made to co-ordinate the return of your vehicle. Expenses of up to $500 are covered.
. Referral for legal services.
NOTE: THE AMOUNTS IN THIS SECTION COVER THE BASE PLAN; FOR THE OPTIONS REFER TO THE TABLE.
h)	Paramedical Services
The plan reimburses 100% of the following medical expenses:
Up to 500$ per civil year per insured person for all eligible paramedical expenses and services combined. Paramedical services include services of professionals such as, physiotherapist, psychologist, chiropractor, podiatrist, osteopath, speech therapist, naturopath and acupuncturist Eligible expenses include X-rays. To be eligible, the services provided must be within the scope of the license held by the practitioner.
i)	Vision Care
The plan reimburses 100% of prescription glasses and frames, contact lenses and/or eye examinations up to a maximum of 150$ per insured perscn per twenty four (24) month period.
j)	Hearing Aids
The plan reimburses 100% of hearing aids up to a maximum of 300$ per insured person per 36 month period.
k)	Ambulance and Laboratory Services
The plan reimburses 100% of combined expenses up to a maximum of 1000$ per year, per insured person.
Charges for the use of a licensed ambulance for local transportation to and firm the nearest hospital. Emergency transportation by airline to and from the nearest hospital within your province of residence and equipped to provide the required medical services are also eligible, subject to a maximum equal to an economy airfare.
Laboratory tests and x-rays for diagnosis not covered by any government plan.
70
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
1)	MEDICAL PLAN (cont'dl
1)	Other Medical Services
The plan reimburses 100% of the following eligible medical expenses:
The following expenses are combined and paid individually or in combination up to a
maximum of10,000$ per year per insured.
■ Rental or purchase of braces and crutches, and purchase or prostheses required for therapeutic use.
~ Rental or purchase of a wheel chair, hospital bed, iron lung of oxygen equipment required for therapeutic purposes.
* Orthopaedic shoes and orthotics prescribed by a physician and required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Once the first expense has been paid for by the plan, the cost of replacement will only be covered if it is required as a result of pathological change. However, children under 16 years of age are ebgible to maximum of three (3) pairs of shoes per civil year.
-	Glycemia control equipmentfor insulin dependent diabetics prescribed by a physician, up to a lifetime maximum of $200.
-	Dental services required to repair natural teeth damaged as a result of an accident up to $5,000, provided the repairs commence within three months of the accident.
-	Nursing services by private nurse. Nursing services must be prescribed by a physician and provided by a nurse not related to the employee and not residing in the employee'shome. Coverage of $10,000 every 36 months.
m)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similar plans. Similar plans refer to those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer, other than Kraft Canada Inc, contributes or deposits employee contributions or state governed plans or plans supported by public contributions.
71
Aai»ENDIX"C"
BENEFITS PLAN
1) MEDICAL PLAN fcont’di
n)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Health Care Plan does not cover:
-	Services and supplies not included in the list of eligible expenses.
■	Charges for general health examinations.
' Services paid for under any federal or provincial government legislation.
■	Cosmetic surgery or treatment, including hospital confinement for such surgery or treatment.
•	Charges related to any disability for which benefits are provided under any workers' compensation legislation.
~ Dental worik where a third party is responsible for payment of such charges.
“	Charges related to inj ury resulting dire ctly or indirectly from war, declared or not,
insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind.
‘ Charges for services or supplies which are furnished without the recommendation and approval of a physician acting within she scope of his or her license.
■	Charges related to intentionally self-iiiflected wounds.
-	Drugs, serum, injectable drugs or supplies that are not approved by Health and Welfare, Canada, and that are experimental or limited in use.
"	Charges which are not medically necessary for the care and treatment of any existing or
suspected injury, disease or pregnancy.
•	Charges made by a physician for travel, broken appointments, communication costs, completion of claim forms or physician's supplies.
■	Charges which would not normally have been incurred but for the presence of this coverage or for which the employee or dependent is not legally required to pay.
)172
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "CM
1) MEDICAL PLAN (cont’d)
o)	In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under the Medical Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependants, for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc disability benefits providing premiums related to the chosen options are paid. The premiums may be deducted from disability benefits or paid by cheque.
p)	In the Event of EBsfli
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. employee, coverage under the Mriical Plan continues for your eligible dependants for three (3) months from your date of death, providing the premiums continue to be paid.
q)	Authorized Short Term Absence
In the event of short term authorized absence, you and your eligible dependants remain covered under Kraft Canada Inc. MsScaL Plan to the exception of the out of the country emergency nodical treatment, providing the premiums related to the chosen option are paid, for an authorized absence of one (1 )ircnth or less.
r)	In the Event of a Lay-off
If you are laid-offfor a period of six f 6^ months or less, you remain covered by Kraft Canada Medical Plan, as well as, your eligible dependants providing premiums related to the chosen option are paid. Out of the country emergency medical treatment coverage ceases on your employment termination date.
s)	Termination of Employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependants at the end of the month in which you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc providing premiums related to the chosen option are paid. Out of the countiy emergency medical treatment coverage ceases on your employment termination date.
73
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
2) DENT AT .PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The Dental Care Plan is offered to all employees who have acquired seniority status. You and your eligible dependants are covered under this plan upon completion of your probationary period.
b)	Cost of the Plan
Raft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for your and your eligible dependants.
c)	DEFINITION of "Eligible Dependants”
Eligible dependants include your spouse and your dependent children.
Dependent children are defined as your unmarried children who are:
'	less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment,
■	less than 25 years old if full-time student attending an accredited educational facility
and chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
' incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support and are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has beat living with you for at least one(l) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
74
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN (cont’d)
d)	Eligible Expenses
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan covers 80% of the eligible expenses for three categories of dental care:
-	Basic services
-	Major restorative work
-	Orthodontic treatment
The maximum amount reimbursed tpr the first two categories combined is $1,200 per person per calendar year for you ancj each of your eligible dependants for the first two categories combined. The lifetime tiiaximum benefit for orthodontic treatment is $2,000 per person.	I
Maximum eligible expenses are established in accordance with the current fee guide of the dental association. When several treatment possibilities exist, reimbursement of eligible expenses may be determined based on an alternate treatment.
e)	Basic Services
Diagnostic
-	Consultations
~ Single diagnostic x-rays
-	Complete series of x-rays: once every 24 months
-	Oral examinations: once every sii months
-	Study casts: once per year Preventative
-	Scaling and polishing (prophy ioaisj untc c vci/ six months
-	Topical fluoride
-	Passive space maintainers (that do not move the teeth) for dependent children only
-	Oral hygiene instruction once every six months
75
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PI .AN (cont’d)
f) Minor restorative work
■	Fillings (silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations)
-	Stainless steel crowns
Oral Surgery
-	Removal of teeth, including impacted teeth and residual roots
-	Anaesthesia
-	Post operative care
Endodontics
■	Emergency endodontic procedures and root canai therapy Periodontics
-	Treatment of diseases of the gun and other supporting tissue of the teeth.
Repair or relining and rebasing of dentures including addition of new teeth.
MAJOR RESTORATIVE WORK
Gold inlays, onlays and crowns Note:
When a tooth can be restored with silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations, benefits will be determined based on the usual costs of such a restoration.
Replacement of dentures and other dental appliances:
The initial purchase of a dental appliance is covered as well as the replacement of an existing appliance which is at least five years old and no longer serviceable.
Orthodontic treatment
'	Correction cf malocclusion of the teeth
-	Full-mouth reconstruction
76
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
2)	DENT AT, PLAN fcont’d’l
g)	In the Event of Disability
F you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Plan is maintained, at no cost to you for you and your eligible dependants. This coverage is maintained for as long as you are receiving Kraft Canada Inc. disability benefits.
h)	In the Event of Death
In the event of your death while an active Kraft Canada Inc. Employee, coverage under the Dental Care Plan continues for your dependants for three months from your date of death.
i)	Authorized Short Term Absence
In the event of short term authorized absence, you remain covered free of charge by the dental plan as well as your eligible dependants during an authorized absence from work of one month or less.
j)	Termination of Employment or Lay-off
1.	Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependants at the end of the month in which you terminate your employment with Kraft Canada Inc.
2.	In the event of a lay-off, you will continue to be covered by the dental plan as well as your eligible dependants for a maximum of six (6) months.
k)	Coordination of Benefits
Benefits payable according to the previous conditions must also take into consideration conditions specified in other similar plans. Similar plans refer to those plans providing for benefits or services, with respect to medical and dental care, for which an employer other than Kraft Canada Inc. contributes or deposits employee contributions, or State governed plans or plans supported by public contributions.
l)	Exclusions
The Kraft Canada Inc. Dental Care Plan does not cover:
• Services or supplies that are primarily for cosmetic dentistry, e.g., bonding, bleaching and facings.
77
Art*ENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
2)	DENTAL PLAN fcont’d)
-	Services covered by any government plan.
-	Services or supplies not furnished by a legally qualified dentist or denturist.
-	Services or supplies necessitated directly or indirectly as the result of committing, attempting to commit or provoking an assault or criminal, or by a war or act of war, declared or not, insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind.
-	Miscellaneous charges such as counselling, travel, broken appointments, communication costs or completion of claim forms.
-	Services or supplies resulting from any intentionally self-inflicted wound.
-	Any hospital charges for board and room and related services and supplies.
-	Any dental examinations required by a third party.
-	Services or supplies not medically necessary.
-	Services or supplies for implantology, including tooth implantation or transplantation and surgical insertion of fabricated implants.
78
BENEFITS PLAN
A. ENDIX"C"
3)	UFEINSURANCE
a)	Eligibility
The basic life insurance coverage becomes effective at the completion date of the probationary period.
You may apply for the optional insurance plans for you and your eligible dependants within 30 days following the completion of your probationary period. Optional Life coverage for you and your spouse becomes effective once accepted by the insurance company. Optional Life coverage for your eligible children becomes effective as soon as you apply.
In order to select optional coverage for your dependants, you must also select optional coverage for yourself. Coverage may be changed any January 1. However, approval by the insurance company is required for increases to Optional Life Coverage.
b)	Summary of Coverage
AMOUNT OF INSURANCE
EMPLOYEE
SPOUSE
CHILDREN
Basic Tafr Insurance
1 x annual base salary
Optional Life Insurance
Units of $10,000"to a maximum $500,000
Units of $10,000 up to 50% employee coverage
$5,000 per child
*Up to 8 times your base salary
79
, ?ENDIX"C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
c)	Basic Life Insumace Amount of Coverage
Under the Basic Life Insurance Plan, you are insured for an amount equal to one time your annual base salary. This amount is paid to your beneficiary if you die from any cause.
Effective May 21, 1995, the Company will assume the full cost of providing Term Insurance coverage of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) decreasing by one thousand dollars ($1,000) each year until a minimum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for an employee effective his normal retirement date, or who retires from the Company while in active employee status on or after age fifty-five (55) with ten (10) years or more of service.
Cost of the Plan
Kraft Canada Inc. pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the Basic Life Insurance Plan.
d)	Optional Life Insurance Amount of Coverage
The Optional Life Insurance Plan provides you with the opportunity to purchase additional amounts of life insurance, if you need it. This extra-coverage is available in units of $10,000 up to 8 times your base salary, maximum $500,000 and is payable to your beneficiary upon your death.
You may also purchase coverage for your spouse and your children. Coverage for your spouse may be obtained in units of $10,000 up to 50% of your own coverage, with evidence of good health. Coverage for children is $5,000 per child.
In the event of the death of one of your insured dependents, the amount of their coverage will be paid to you.
An employee who has purchased Paid-up Insurance under the previous insurance plan will be issued a statement indicating the value of their Paid-up Insurance as of June 1st, 1975, and no further purchases of Paid-up Insurance will be made after such date.
80
A- . ENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE ('cont’d')
This amount of Paid-up Insurance will remain in force until the employee leaves Kraft Canada Inc. or retires. At that time, the Paid-Up Insurance (providing the face amount is one hundred dollars ($100.00 or more) may be kept in force, or surrendered for its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of the contributions the employee had made to the Paid-up Insurance Plan.
e)	General Provisions
Your basic life insurance coverage remains in effect during an authorized leave of absence of one (1) month or less.
The basic life insurance continues free of charge in the case of a lay off from work of 12 months or less. The optional coverage for the employee and its eligible dependents can be maintained in force for the same period as long as the employee pays the premiums in advance to the Company. F termination of coverage occurs and the employee wants reinstatement in the optional plan, the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence in insurability from the employee including eligible dependants.
LTD payments will not reduce the amount of life insurance in force just prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such insurance will remain in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age sixty-five (65).
All term insurance coverage will stop at the end of the month in which you leave Kraft Canada Inc, but if you die within the following thirty-one (31) days, the full amount will be paid. Also during this thirty-one (31) day period you convert all or part of your insurance, without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company's regular rates; it may be wdtisn on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one (1) year of term insurance coverage.
When you die from any cause, the full amount of your Kraft Canada Inc. life insurance then in force will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice, you may change the beneficiary designation at any time in the manner provided by the Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage will be employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at Rrft Canada Inc. and both are enrolled in the Life Insurance Plan, the employee claiming the child (ren) as dependent(s) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
81
BENEFITS PLAN
PENDIX "C"
3) LIFE INSURANCE fcont’d)
f)	Cost of the Plan
The Optional Life Insurance is paid for entirely by you. The cost of coverage for you and your spouse is based on the amount of insurance you select and on your respective ages:
Age
Less than 30 30-34 35-39
40-44
31-54
55-59
60-64
Monthly Premiums per $1.000 of coverage
$0.05
$0.06
$0.08
$0.13
$0.19
$0.31
$0.49
$0.79
Dependent Children
The premium is $0.75 per month for $5,000 of insurance per dependent child. Regardless of number of children insured premium remains $0.75/month.
Note: Quebec employees will have the 9% sales tax added to their premiums as required by law. g) Definitions
Eligible dependants include your spouse and your dependent children.
"Spouse" is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has been living with you for at least one (l)year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
"Dependentchildren" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
. less than 19 years old and not in full-time emp loyment;
. less than M years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance;
.	incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical
handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
82
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
3)	LIFE INSURANCE (cont’d)
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
4)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
The Optional AD&D plan offers a full 24-hr, all year long coverage against accidents occurring anywhere in the world, whether you are on or off the job.
a)	Amount of Coverage
Under this plan, you may purchase accidental death and dismemberment coverage up to $500,000 in units of $ 10,000 for yourself. You may also request coverage for your spouse of up to 50% ofyour own coverage, in units of $10,000. Each child may be insured for$5,000.
The full amount of insurance is payable if death is the result of an accident. In the event of accidental dismemberments and other physical losses, a percentage of the amount of insurance may be payable for example.
Accidental Loss	Percentage of coverage
(Partial list of indemnities)
Loss of life, both hands, both feet, the entire sight in both eyes, or any combination thereof
100%
Loss of use of both arms or both hands
100%
Loss of one arm or leg
75%
Loss of use of one anm or one leg
75%
Loss of one hand, foot or sight in one eye
662/3%
In the event of your accidental death while insured, the amount of insurance will be paid to the beneficiary. All other indemnities are payable to you.
83
ti
PENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
4)	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (cont’d)
cost of Han
Employee - $0,026" per month per $ 1,000 of insurance Spouse - $0,026" per month per $1,000 of insurance
Dependent children - a fixed amount of $0.25" per month per child regardless of number of children covered
* plus applicable taxes
Exclusions
The AD&D plan does not cover losses resulting from the following:
-	suicide or self-destruction, or any attempts by the insured person while sane or insane,
-	flying in any aircraft or other airborne vehicle as a pilot, operator or member of the crew,
-	declared or undeclared war or any act thereof,
-	active full-time service in the armed forces of any country.
Definitions
Eligible dependants include your spouse and your dependent children.
"Spouse” is defined as your legal or common-law spouse. A common-law spouse is a person who has been living with you for at least one (1) year and is publicly presented as your spouse.
"Dependentchildren" are defined as your unmarried children who are:
. less than 19 years old and not in full-time employment;
. less than 25 years old if full-time students in an accredited institution for learning and chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance;
. incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handicap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support, are residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19.
The term "child" includes any legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, or for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
84
,„PENDIX"C"
BENEFITS PLAN
5)	NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS PTgafflT.TW PLAN
This plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding probationary employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
a)	Eligibility for Benefits
An employee eligible for benefits must be deemed incapable of performing normal work assignments required by the Company due to injury, illness, or accident, other than an occupational accident or sickness as per the laws governing Occupation Health and Safety and Professional Diseases.
Benefits will be paid upon presentation of a doctor’s certificate with a medical diagnostic, attesting to the employee’s incapacity to accomplish his performing normal work assignments required by the Company.
In the event of reasonable and serious doubt of the existence of the said capacity the Company at its choice and expense, required that the employee undergo a medical expertise.
The medical expertise must be carried out exclusively for the purpose of a medical certificate brought forward by the employee, for the justification of his absence and the later without cause may not refuse to this examination.
The employee must follow the instructions and treatment prescribed by his attending physician.
The employee suffering from an illness or an accident leading to an absence from work entitling him to benefits must advise his supervisor immediately.
b)	Benefits
Plan benefits are payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefit period of twenty-six (2 6)weeks per disability but not more than twenty-six (26)weeks in a calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
i) Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic Benefits upon attainment of seniority and with ten (10) additional days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment. If employment is continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130) days.
When disabled, an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters (3/4) of his basic rate of pay, after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days, for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75) days per disability, as long as the disability is continued.
85
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNFSS nrfiaRTT.TTV PT AN fcnntMl
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the Basic Benefit period of seventy-five (75) days will be fully reinstated after the employee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
ff he is back at work for at least a four (4) week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of Basic Benefits will apply.	1
ff he is absent again due to the same or associated disabilities that caused the first absence and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since this initial absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
Basic benefits are payable to employees after a waiting period of two (2) working days as per the regular schedule of employees on 5-2 and one working day (of 12 hours) as per the regular schedule of relay workers on 3-2-2. Further, if the first day following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, basic benefits will not begin until the employee's next regularly scheduled working day.
There will be no waiting period if the disability results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for five (5) working days beginning with the first regularly scheduled working day of disability, Basic Benefits are payable retroactively for all regularly scheduled working days in the waiting period, if such benefits havd not been exhausted.
Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lost will count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instances where he has worked one-half or less of his
regular shifts.
ii)	Supplemental Benefits
After all Basic Benefits for which an employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Benefits amounting to 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the twenty-six (26) week benefit period for the disability but not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks in the calendar yeaf.
86
*_,'PENDIX "C”
BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DISABILITY PLAN (cont’d)
c)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee, who after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefits after the day on which such event occurs.
In the event of a lay off, the employee who is already receiving disability benefits at the time the lay off occurs, continues to receive the disability benefits for the duration of his period of disability to a maximum of 15 weeks in total from the beginning of his period of disability.
d)	Employees Not Actively Employed
An employee who becomes disabled while on lay-off, leave of absence or vacation, or while on strike, suspension from work or otherwise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligible for benefits under this Plan on the first regular scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
e)	E£rttine Employment Due to Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount cf daily benefits for which he is eligible. This provision only applies when the Company can provide part-time employment. Otherwise, such employees will receive the full amount of daily benefits.
If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits, after any applicable waiting period, he will receive pay for all hours worked and Basic Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligible for Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked, and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be considered a full day for purposes of determining the maximum benefit period of twenty-six (26)weeks per disability or per calendar year.
87
BENEFITS PLAN
i- PENDIX "C"
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAT, ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DISKRTT,1W PT AN fcont’di I) Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i)	Disability arising from or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee had an employee/employer relationship with the other employer, and received remuneration for his services. Disability from work
■ performed on an employee's own residence or property will not be considered "employment by another employer".
ii)	Disability caused by or resulting from use of alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating in a Kraft Canada Inc. sponsored program toward rehabilitation.
iii)	Disability resulting from acts of immorality or fighting.
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company rule.
v)	Disability resulting from a pregnancy related illness during:
a)	a pregnancy leave of absence
b)	the period commencing with the tenth week prior to the expected week cf confinement and ending with the sixth week of confinement.
g)	Definitions
a) Disability
"Disability" means the inability or incapacity to perform regular work assignments resulting from sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out of or in the course of employment, which is compensable under CSST is not a disability under this Plan.
88
PENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
5) NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS DT.eSBJliTTy PT .AN fcont’dl
b)	Hospitalization
"Hospitalization" occurs when the employee is admitted to and confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident. At the discretion of the Company Doctor, an employee treated in the out-patient or emergency service or facilities of a hospital, without confinement as a bed patient, may be considered hospitalized for purposes of this Plan.
c)	In the case of surgery requiring local anaesthetic, that day of absence will be paid if justified by a nodical certificate.
d)	Hourly Rate of Pay
The employee's basic rate of pay (excluding shift premium).
6) LONG TERM DISABILITY: (LTD) a) Benefits
This plan is fully paid by the Company. Coverage commences upon completion of probationary period and applies to all employees who have completed their probationary periods.
If you are unable to work after 26 weeks of disability, you may be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan.
LTD benefits may be paid up to two years if you are totally disabled and cannot perform the duties of your current job. If you continue to be totally disabled after two years and cannot perform the duties of a job related to your skills and experience, payments will continueto the earliest of recovery, death or age 65.
This plan provides you with a monthly income equal to 67% of the monthly base salaiy you were receiving when you became disabled, up to a maximum benefit of $15,000 per month.
To be eligible for benefits, you must be under the care of a legally qualified physician at all times. 'Medical reports will be required periodically.
Benefits payable under this plan are considered taxable income.
89
BENEFITS PLAN
*_.PENDIX "C"
6)	LONG TERM DISABILITY: (LTD) (cont’d)
b)	Recurrence of Disability
If you become disabled for the same reason within six months of your return to full-time work after a long-term disability, the second disability period will be considered a continuation of the first. You will then immediately begin receiving your long-term disability benefits.
However, if the period exceeds six months or if the new disability is not related to the first, a new claim must be filed under the Short-TermDisability Plan.
c)	Rehabilitative Employment
As an incentive to promote an early return to gainful employment after a total disability, you may perform certain work without forfeiting the benefits payable under the LTD plan.
If you engage in an approved rehabilitative employment program, you will be entitled to receive your long-term disability benefits over and above the employment income payable from the program.
The rehabilitation benefits may be paid for a maxitrun period of 24 months during which your income from all sources must not exceed your gross earnings at the time you became disabled.
Should disability prevent you from continuing with the program, your regular disability benefits will continue to be paid.
d)	Coordination with Other Sources of Income
Long-Term Disability Benefits are reduced by disability benefits payable from CSST, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan (excluding any payments for your dependent children) and by any other income from employment or other government plans.
e)	Continuation of Other Employee Benefits during Disability
While you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, you and your dependents remain covered under all Kraft Canada Inc. plans, except for the Optional AD&D Insurance Plan and the Non-Occupational Accident and Short-TermDisability Plan.
90
BENEFITS PLAN
PENDIX "C"
LONG TERM nTRARTT.TTV:iT .TD'I fcnnf ’fH
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefits are paid.
Effective May 21, 1995, while you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, Kraft Canada Inc. will assume the entire cost of your contributions into the company retirement plan.
f)	Exclusions
No Long-Term Disability benefits are payable for:
A disability for which you are not treated on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician. If you are treated by a chiropractitionner, a medical leave of absence in excess of 2 weeks must be justified by a medical certificate signed by a medical doctor. If the sickness is due to a mental or emotional disorder, you must be receiving continuing treatment by a physician who is certified in psychiatry.
A disability for which you may be entitled to indemnity in accordance wiih the provisions of a CSST compensation plan, the Quebec/Canada Pension Plan, a provincial auto insurance plan or a group benefit plan.
A disability caused by or resulting from a self-inflected injury or illness.
A disability caused by or resulting from alcoholism or drug addiction, unless you are treated for the problem on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician, or are being treated through the Employee Assistance Program.
A disability caused by or resulting from participation in a criminal act or any act of war, declared or not.
A disability resulting from injury sustained while engaged in an employment for wage or profit during any period for which benefits aie claimed under the plans.
91
PENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN
a)	Eligibility
The employee hired before November 1st, 1994 has the right to join this retirement plan on the first day of the month after obtaining one year's seniority, or earlier, as requested by law.
Every employee hired after November 1, 1994, must, as a condition of employment, participate in the retirement plan. He is automatically enrolled to this plan on the first day of the month after obtaining one year's seniority, or sooner if required by law.
Once you become eligible, you may join by completing an enrolment form authorizing Kraft Canada Inc. to make payroll deductions and naming a beneficiary.
b)	Benefit Formula
i)	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement is the first day of the month following attainment of age sixty-five (65).
The monthly pension you will receive subject to section d) will be calculated as follows:
Forty-seven (47) dollars per month for each year of credited service.
ii)	Early Retirement
You may retire on the first of any month after your fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
The monthly pension you will receive subject to section d) will be calculated as follows:
Forty-seven (47) dollars per month for each year of credited service.
Less: 3% for each year of early retirement before age sixty (60).
92
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7) RETIREMENT PLAN fcont’d)
In addition, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) per year of credited service, (maximum thirty-five (35) years) will be payable until age sixty-five (65).
iii)	Deferred Retirement
An employee may elect to continue to work beyond the normal retirement date, but in any event shall retire, or be deemed to have retired for purposes of the Plan, on the first day of any subsequent month not later than the first (1st) day of the month immediately prior to his 71st birthday.
An employee may elect to continue making contributions to the Plan during the deferred period in accordance with c).
An employee who defers his retirement shall be entitled to receive a monthly pension calculated in accordance with the Plan document and Section d) and not less than:
Forty-seven (47) dollars per month for each year of credited service.
Note 1:	Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which you
made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor plans or for which you withdrew contributions. Further, no credit will be given for periods of militaiy service if contributions are not made upon return to active employment.
For a regular employee who is hired on or after January 1, 1988, the service prior to becoming a member of the Plan shall not be included in the computation of credited service.
Note 2:	The Quebec Pension Plan (QPP) and the Old Age Security (OAS) pensions are in addition to
your Kraft Canada Inc. Pension.
93
'PEND IX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
ihed at
spouse
spouse
cording
Also, different options wH be offered to you, such as: guaranteed life annuity and revertible pension income. The reduction of your pension will then be calculated accordingto the option elected.
e) Death Benefit
i)	Should you die before retirement and before the date of your normal retirement, your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum of the following:
1)	The total amount of your contributions to December 31, 1986 plus compound interest to date of payment.
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January 1,1987 together wilh the additional retirement income granted on and after January 1,1988 for service prior to 1987.
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interest over 50% of the commuted value in paragraph 2).
ii)	Should death occur after your normal retirement date but before your deferred retirement date, and the Spouse's Benefit is in effect, you shall be deemed to have retired on the day preceding death for purposes of calculating the amount of the benefit settlement.
94
BENEFITS PLAN
APPENDIX "C"
7) RETIREMENT PLAN (cont’d)
iii)	Should death occur after retirement but before receiving your total contributions plus compound interest, and thfc Spouse's Benefit is not in effect, your beneficiary will receive the difference.
f)	General Provisions
i)	You become entitled to a pension benefit under the plan after ten (10) years' continuous service for benefits earned prior to January 1, 1987 and/or after two (2) years' plan membership for benefits earned after January 1,1987.
Contributions which are made after January 1,1987 are locked-in (not refundable in cash) after two (2) years' plan membership. Contributions made between January 1, 1966 and January 1, 1987 are locked in at age forty-five (45) and ten (10) or more years continuous service.
ii)	If you leave Raft Canada Inc. any plan contributions, which are not vested, as described in i), will be refunded to you with compound interest. Such refunds remain eligible for transfer to an RRSP without locking-in provisions.
If you are vested, you may leave your money in the plan and receive retirement income or transfer the value from the plan as outlined in vii) which describes the portability provisions.
If you do not transfer your money from the plan, as outlined in vii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retirement date equal to the amount calculated at the time you leave. If you elfbct to have your retirement income begin before age sixty (60), the reduction for earl]/ retirement will apply.
Any time after you leave, but before your retirement income starts, you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under the Plan are cancelled.
05
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7) RF.TIRF.MRNT PLAN Ccont’d'i
iii) if you are absent on layoff for more than twenty-six (26) weeks, leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work. In case of absences due to Military Service, Workers's Compensation or Long Term Disability or during the first twenty-six (26) weeks of lay off, missed contributions may be paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees on Workers' Compensation and Long Term Disability. However, a payment made under the Job Security Plan will qualify for employee contributions and credited service under this plan.
iv)	You may change your beneficiary subject to provincial legislation at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
v)	To permit an employee to take advantage of this tax concession and provide greater retirement income, the Plan allows for voluntary contributions. A participant age twenty-one (21) or over and enrolled in the Retirement Plan is thus eligible to contribute additional funds through regular payroll deductions. The minimum contribution is ten dollars ($10.00) per month, and the employee has a choice of three funds (common stock, fixed funds and guaranteed deposits) in which these contributions are invested and administered by the Royal Trust Company.
In addition to regular payroll deductions, two lump sum contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more may be made by payroll deduction on two (2) specified dates each year.
There is no Company contributions to this section of the Plan; however, the Company assumes all administrative and brokerage costs.
vi)	"Surviving spouse" means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the
commencement of your monthly pension meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
1)	The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife: or
2)	If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has been residing with you in a conjugal relationship, whether continuously for not less than three (3) years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child.
96
APPENDIX "C"
BENEFITS PLAN
7)	RETIREMENT PLAN fcont’d)
8)
However, not more than one (1) person can be a surviving spouse. In the event of more than one (1) person claiming to be such Kraft Canada Inc. will determine, based on evidence available that Kraft Canada Inc. considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designate d a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. Kraft Canada Inc. decision in thiil regard shall be final and binding.
vii) If you terminate your employme n to a monthly pension as describe < commuted value of your pensioi i (subjeetto plan provisions) or a
viii) The cost of vested benefits earn additional retirement income gra l 1987 must be at least 50% empl< >; be refunded upon retirement, tei
it on or after January 1, 1988 and you are entitled d in the preceding paragraphs, you may direct the be transferred to another registered pension plan lbckrin registered retirement savings plan.
jd for service commencing January 1, 1987, plus ted on or after January 1,1988 for service prior to yer paid. Any excess employer contributions will ination, or death prior to retirement.
nu;
THE PENSION COMMITTEE
The pension committee for the LaSalle pi int is comprised of two (2) representatives, one (l)an active employee/member of the pei ision plan and one (l)a member of the LaSalle
Kraft Canada Inc, and one (1) independent
The
retirees, and five (5) representatives of
representative that is neither an active en iployee nor a retiree of the LaSalle plant, duration of the mandate of the pension coi lmittee members is three (3)years.
The role of the pension committee is to fat ilitate the exchange of information between the representatives of Kraft Canada Inc. and the LaSaile participants relative to the administration and the financial status of f he pension plant to the extent where it concerns LaSaile participants.
The pension committee meets at least two ( 2) times during a civil calendar year.
The pension committee meets at least one; (1) per year with the Kraft Canada Manager responsible for the administration of the pension plan.
The committee will summon a yearly meeting with all participants in order to convey information on any major modification b 'ought forth on the plan provisions during the
year; management and investment of the the administration and the financial stat concerns LaSalle employees.
Ian; financial statements of the plan relative to of the pension plan to the extent where it
9'
’PENDIX "C"
T
BENEFITS PLAN
9) KRAFT SAVINGS PROGRAM (ESP/RSP1
An employee may contribute to the Kraft Savings Program (ESP/RSP) up to a maximum of 5% of his wages including overtime pay. Kraft (panada Inc contribution are equivalent to 25% of the employee's contribution.
As of January 1,2000 the employees' nau^iiium contribution will be 6%, and the company contribution will be 35 % of the employee contribution.
F1
1)	Request for modifications on a ion aescnij|tion
An employee and/or a supervisor and/or ill union steward with the H.R. coordinator may submit a request for modifications on ajotjl description.
2)	Consultation
The H.R. coordinator will note and evaluate the requested changes in consultation with other incumbents of the identified job ||and with the supervisor or other concerned employees.
3)	_g of the revision
The H.R. coordinator will write the revisit)! of the job description and will submit to the supervisor and union steward for validaticp.
4)	Validation
The H.R. coordinator will validate the ch^fges with the following persons:
-	the person who requested the chanff
-	2 or 3 incumbents of the j ob
-	the supervisor of the job	1
-	the union steward appointed by the tlnion
5)	Final approval
The revisedj ob description is then forwarded for final approval to the following persons:
-	H.R. Manager
-	Department Manager
.	Umon President
NOTE: H.R. Manager and Union President together will evaluate if the revisions made to the job description justify the pertinence of a revaluation by the external expert firm. If yes, the job description will be submitted to the external fim for reevaluation.
6)	Issuance
The revisedj ob description is then issued and replaces the previous n the job description binder.
99
Letter of agreement
between
The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc. for its LaSalle plant, Quebec
SUBJECT:	Medical Plan Premium
If, upon renewal of Kraft Canada Inc, medical plan insurance in June 29,2001, thepremiums should increase, Kraft Canada Inc., LaSalle plant, will pay the difference between the premiums and up to the double amount of the premium presently paid by the employee, urtil May 18,2002.
too
Agreement
between
The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, local 766P
and
Kraft Canada Inc. for its LaSalle plant, Quebec
SUBJECT: Lump Sum
A lump s u m of $300. is payable to all employee included on the plant seniority list according to the following calendar:
Lump am $300 $300 $300
Seniority List May 23,1999 May 21,2000 May 20,2001
Date of Payment February 2000 February 2001
February 2002
This lump s um must be directed to the FSTQ or Kraft Canada Inc ESP/RSP program, at the employee’s choice.
101