COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
January 1st, 2002 to December 31st, 2005
BETWEEN
RONZONI FOODS CANADA
Division of New World Pasta (hereinafter called “THE COMPANY”)
ET
BAKERY CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
LOCAL 227
(hereinafter called “THE UNION”)
NOW THEREFORE THE COMPANY AND THE UNION ACTING BY AND THROUGH THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES. I DO HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS :
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
January 1st, 2002 to December 31st, 2005
BETWEEN
RONZONI FOODS CANADA
Division of New World Pasta (hereinafter called “THE COMPANY”)
ET
BAKERY CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
LOCAL 227
(hereinaftercalled “THE UNION”)
NOW THEREFORE THE COMPANY AND THE UNION ACTING BY AND THROUGH THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES, DO HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS :
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24
Page
Purpose of Agreement.................... 1
Recognition............................. 1
Complete Agreement
and Saving Clause.......................
Management Rights.......................
Union security..........................
Union stewards..........................
Grievance and arbitration procedures....
Seniority...............................
Job position............................
Health and Safety.......................
No strike no lock-out...................
Bulletin Board..........................
Uniforms................................
Authorised leaves.......................
Birth or adoption.......................
Bereavement leave.......................
Benefit plans...........................
General.................................
Hours of work and overtime..............
Paid holidays...........................
Annual leave with pay...................
Job classification and hourly rates.....
Bargaining unit work....................
Duration ct the agreement...............
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
APPENDIX
U> CD CD tOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtO——- —
to to ooyiw ooovwtoto—ooo^ON-ooui-tioJto
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.01	This Agreement is entered into by the parties hereto in order to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and those employees who come within the Bargaining Unit, as certified under the Accreditation Certificate No. AM9007S052
1.02	It is the desire of all parties to co-operate in maintaining a har monious relationship between the Company and its employees, and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievance having to do with the interpretation or violation of this Agreement. Furthermore, it is the essence of this Agreement that there shall be a maximum of co-operation between the Company and its employees to improve efficiency and expand the opera tions of the Company and the parties hereto pledge their full sup port and co-operation in this regard.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive
Bargaining Agent for the purpose of establishing rates of pay, job classifications, hours of work and other conditions of employ ment for all employees of the Company at 6890 Notre-Dame Street East, Montreal, Quebec, save and except assistant fore man, persons occupying a position above the rank of assistant, office employees, watchmen, nurses and all other employees excluded by reason of the Laws of the Province of Qubbec,
-2-
2.02	There will be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, con straint or coercion exercised or practiced by the Company or its representativesagainst any employee as a result of his adhesion to the Union or his relations with the latter.
2.03	There will be no discrimination, intimidation, interference, con straint or coercion exercised by the Union or one of any members whomsoever against any employee of the Company.
ARTICLE 3
COMPLETE AGREEMENT AND SAVING CLAUSE
3.01	It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement will supersede all prior agreements and understandings,oral or written, expressed or implied, between such parties; shall govern their entire relationship and shall be the sole source of any and all rights or claims which either party may assert against the other. All prior agreements and under standings are void and of no force and effect.
The provisions of this Agreement can be amended, supplemented, rescinded or otherwise altered only by mutual agreement in writing hereafter signed by the parties hereto.
3.02	Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or any decree of a court of competentjurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portion hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
-3-
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	Hire, discharge, direct, classify, transfer, promote, demote, suspend, lay-off, recall and otherwise discipline employees, provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance under this Agreement;
(b)	Generally manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged at its sole and absolute discretion and, with out restricting the generality of the foregoing; determine the products to be manufactured;methods of manufacturing; schedules or production and distribution;kinds and locations of machines and tools to be used; processes or manufacturing; the engineering and designing of its products; the control of material and parts to be incorporated in the products produced; the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations; establish and amend as necessary Plant rules and regulations, and all other matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Agreement;
(c)	In the event of a permanent limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations, the Company will endeavour to advise the Union in advance and discuss possible alternatives, which may be acceptable to both parties.
-4-
4.02	Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to employ temporary employees for vacation relief, and that such temporary employees will not be continuously employed for a period in excess of four (4) calendar months or six hundred and forty (640)hours worked. Temporary employees will not be employed to displace permanent employees or when permanent employees are on lay-off. Temporary employees shall not acquire seniority under this Agreement until they are awarded a permanent position covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company agrees to deduct from earned wages of employees regular weekly dues as prescribed by the By-laws of Local 227 and certified to the Company in writing. Dues deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of Local 227 no later than the third week of each month.
5.02 As a condition of employment, all employees, including probationary employees and temporary employees, shall pay regular weekly dues for the duration of the Agreement.
5.03	Upon completion of the probationary period, all new employees shall become members of the Union and shall pay by payroll deduction the initiation fees as prescribed by the By-laws of Local 227 and certified to the Company in writing.
5.04	It is understood that the Union has no involvement in the hiring of new employees and any employee who does not satisfy the requirements of Article 5 will not be discharged unless by mutual agreement.
-5-
5.05	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from all claims, demands, and suits of other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Company under this article.
ARTICLE 6 UNION STEWARD
6.01. The Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate stewards. For the term of this Agreement there will be no more than five (5JUnion stewards plus the President and VicePresident who shall, at the time of their election or appointment, have at least twelve (12) months of continuous service with the Company. The selection of the stewards is the function of the Union and the Union must notify the Company in writing of the names of the stewards before the Company will recognize them.
-6-
6.02	The stewards shall not leave their work stations without prior
permission of their supervisors, such permissions may be delayed based on immediate work requirements and then only for such activities as are specifically provided for in this Agreement.
6.03	For the purposes of negotiations, the Company will recognize the Union’s negotiating committee, composed of the Local President and Vice-president and five (5) stewards. During contract negotiations, the negotiating committee shall be relieved from their normal duties and shall be paid their regular straight time hourly rate for time absent from work attending meetings with representatives of the Company up to and including conciliation meetings.
6.04	The Union representative shall have access to the Company premises at any reasonable time to see that the Agreement is being complied with after first obtaining permission from the Plan Manager, provided such visit does not interfere with plant operations.
6.05
(a)	It is understood and agreed that the Local President and VicePresident shall be assigned to work on the day shift only as general labour and shall maintain their former classified rates and the right to return to their former classified rates and the right to return to their former classification at the conclusion of their term of office.
(b)	The Local President works on his job the first half of his shift schedule for four (4)days and is relieved for a full work day and for the second half of his shift for four (4) days to perform such activities at the plant as are specifically provided in this
-7-
agreement. Moreover, in case of layoffs, the Local President will benefit from preferential seniority as long as the employees remaining are capable of performing the work.
(c)	An office is supplied to the Local President.
6.06	At the beginning of each month, the Company will furnish the President with a list of new hires and terminations, which occurred during the prior month.
6.07	it is understood and agreed that an authorized leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Company to union officials and Department Stewards for the purposes of attending official outside union functions. Such leave will be granted provided:
o The leave does not interfere with the requirements of the Company;
o The request for the leave is submitted to the personnel office, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance of the leave;
o Such leave will be granted to not more than seven (7) employees in any calendar year;
o No more than two (2) employees will be granted leave at the same time;
o Such leave shall not exceed one (1) week in duration per employee.
6.08	It is agreed that there shall be at least one (I) meeting every two (2) months between the Union committee and designated company representatives. The Union committee shall consist of the President and the Vice-President, the International
-8-
Representative, and three (3) of the five (5) stewards set forth in article 6,01,
Attendance at such meetings will be without loss of pay.
The purpose of suchLabour/Management meetings will be to review and discuss problems of mutual interest which may not be appropriate under the grievance procedure. Such meetings will not extend beyond two (2) hours duration and agendas will be exchanged at least one (I) week prior to the date of the meeting. The company will do its best to relieve all five (5) stewards.
6.09	At the time of union membership meetings held for the renewal of the collective agreement, the Company will endeavour to have employees make up the time lost provided there is no additional costs to the operations and provided there are probation or temporary employees present in the plant. Article 19,04 does not apply in these circumstances.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCEAND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
7.01	A grievance may arise only from a dispute concerning the
interpretation, application. administration or alleged violation of this Collection Agreement. Any employee complaint is discussed with his immediate supervisor before grievance is filed A grievance will be submitted in the following manner :
The Steward shall submit the grievance in writing, directly with the foreman, and he may be accompanied by the concerned employee, The foreman shall give his answer in writing to the grievor no later than the fourth (4th) work day following the day when he received the grievance.
7.02
(a)
(b) (0
9
Step 2
If the decision of the foreman is not acceptable to the employee, the grievance shall be submitted to the Department Manager through Human Resources Services within four (4) work days from the receipt of the foreman’s decision in Step 1. The Head of Human Resources shall arrange a meeting with the steward and the grievor if needed by the Union, within five (5) work days and the Department Manager shall give his answer in writing within seven (7) work days following the date of the meeting. The President and the Vice-president of local 227 shall be present at this meeting.
Step 3
In the event that arbitration of a grievance is desired by either party, then the other party shall be notified in writing not later than twenty (20) calendar days after the date of issuance of the answer in Step 2. The Arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement between the parties. If the parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator, the Minister of Labour upon the request of either party shall appoint an impartial Arbitrator. After the Arbitrator has been selected or appointed, he shall meet with the parties, hear evidence and render a decision. The decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
The Arbitrator shall have no jurisdiction or authority to :
Add to, subtract form, modify or in any way change the provisions of this Agreement;
Establish new wage schedules or change existing wage schedules or wages for specific job classification;
Determine standards of production or assume any other responsibility of Management.
10
7.03	Each party shall bear its own costs and the fees and expenses of witnesses called by it and of its own representatives. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties.
7.04	No grievance shall be considered if more than twenty (20) calendar days have elapsed since the facts or knowledge of the facts giving rise to the grievance by the employee. If a grievance is not processed within the time limits as set forth in ail the pro visions of this article, then the grievance will be considered to have been abandoned.
It is understood that the grievor shall have up to twenty (20) calendar days from the date of receipt of the disciplinary notice to submit a grievance under this article. it is further understood that the grievance must be signed by the grievor and shall state the specific article(s) allegedly violated.
7.05	Any time limit required according to the provisions of this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
7.06	Management Grievances - It is understood that the management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union any complaint with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers, or any employee, and that if such complaint by management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the conferring parties, it may be treated as a grievance and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
7.07	It is understood and agreed that the Union may file a group or policy grievance commencing at Step 2,
-11 -
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	Seniority is defined as continuous service with the Company within the bargaining unit in the following departments:
1,	Pasta Department;
2,	Canning Department;
3,	Distribution Department;
4,	Quality Department;
5,	Maintenance Department.
8.02	A seniority list shall be posted in the Plant, and updated at least every three (3) months, end a copy is remitted to the President of the Union. The seniority list shall include the employee’s name, date of employment, department and payroll number.
8.03	Until an employee has completed an accumulated probationary period of fifty (50) days of work or four seniority rights, and shall be subject to transfer, demotion, lay-off or discharge at the sole discretion of the Company and without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement. Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period and employee will then acquire seniority-standing dating from the date he commenced his current period of employment with the Company.
(a)	Whenever it becomes necessary to reduce the number of
employees in a job classification, the employee having the least
- 12-
seniority in the job classification shall be the first removed
provided that the remaining employees have the necessary immediate qualifications and skill to perform the work.
(b)	Whenever it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in any of the departments mentioned above, the employee having the least seniority in the department shall be the first removed provided that the remaining employees have the necessary immediate qualifications and skill to perform the work.
8.05
(a)	When the period of lay-off is for twenty (20) work days or less, the affected employee shall have the right to displace a more junior employee in the bargaining unit, provided the employee possess the immediate qualifications and skill to perform the work. The displacement is done by inverse order of seniority.
(b)	When the period of lay-off is for more than twenty (20) work days, the affected employee shall have the right to displace a more junior employee in the bargaining unit, provided the job requires a training of eighty (80) hours or less and the employee is capable of acquiring the necessary skill and qualifications within a trial period of up to five (5) days, following this training. The displacement is done by inverse order of seniority.
(c)	An employee who is lay off for more than four (4) consecutive months, has the right to displace an employee by inverse order of
(d)
(e)
(9
(g)
B.06
- 13-
seniority within the bargaining unit in a job that is not critical for the proper running operations within the meaning of 22,01 and will be given the required training.
If an employee is laid-off in accordance with article 8.05(a) and the lay-off exceeds twenty (20) work days, the employee may than exercise his rights under article 8.05(b).
Notwithstanding provisions of article 8.04, in the event of a permanent lay-off in the Maintenance Department and Quality, the affected employee shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in the same classification provided he has the immediate qualifications to perform the job. The displaced employee shall have the right to bump out the least senior employee in the department provided he has the immediate skill and qualificationsto perform the job. The second displaced employee can exercise his bumping right in accordance with
8.05	(b), (c), or (f)
In the event of a temporary or permanent reduction of employees in the Maintenance Department or amongst Lab Technicians, those employees can elect to go on lay-off rather than exercise their bumping right in the plant.
In the event of a permanent lay-of following a departmental closure such as specified in article 18.06, the affected employees can exercise their bumping rights in accordance with 8.05 (c).
No new employees shall be hired, as long as there are employees on lay-off who possess the necessary qualifications and the capacity of acquiring the necessary skill to perform the work.
- 14-
8.07	An employee’s seniority shall be cancelled and his employment shall be terminated for any of the following reasons :
(a)	If the employee quits;
(b)	If the employee is discharged and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure;
(c)	If the employee has been laid off and fails to return to work within three (3) working days after he has been notified by the Company to do so by telephone, telegram, or through registered mail addressed to the last address on record with the Company. In the event the employee is notified by either a telegram or a registered letter, a copy of the notification shall be supplied to the President;
(d)	If the employee overstays a leave of absence granted by the Company without securing an extension of such leave;
(e)	If the employee has been laid off for a period in excess of the following schedule without being recalled to work by the Company :
Service	Lay-off period
(1)	Up to 3 years	12 months
(ii)Over 3 years	36 months
(f)	If the employee retires under the terms of any retirement plan to which the Company has contributed;
(g)	Ifthe employee fails to notify the Company of absence for two
(2)	consecutivedays;
(h)	If the employee is absent due to an occupational accident for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) consecutive months.
- 15-
8.08	Temporary assignments may be made to cover needs such as vacancies due to periods of disability, vacations, emergencies, sudden increases or decreases in volume and similar absences or manpower needs without regard to the seniority provisions of this Agreement. When an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher paid classification, he shall be paid the rate of the higher classified job to which he has been assigned, provided he works in the higher classified job for two (2) or more hours. When an employee is temporarily transferred to a lower paid classification, he shall continue to he paid his higher classified rate.
8.09	It is each employee’s responsibility to ensure that the Company is promptly notified of any change of address or telephone number.
8.10	It is agreed that employees who have the same date of employment shall be listed on the seniority list in alphabetical order. A subsequent change of name will not affect this provision.
8.11	In the event of a recall to work, employees will be recalled in reverse order of seniority provided they are able to perform the assigned work pursuant to Articles 8.05(a), (b) or(c), depending on the length of the lay-off.
8.12	The promotion or transfer of employees to or from positions outside of the bargaining unit shall be at management’s sole discretion, subject to the following conditions :
Subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, an employee who is promoted to a position outside of the bargaining unit may elect to return to the bargaining unit, provided such election is
- 16-
exercises within the six (6) month period immediately following the date of promotion. In such instance, the employee will be returned to the General Labour classification with full seniority and shall be required to remit the regular union dues for the period outside of the bargaining unit upon returning to the bar gaining unit.
ARTICLE 9 JOB POSITION
(a) If it becomes necessary for the Company to fill a permanent vacancy, then notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the bulletin board for four (4) calendar days thereby providing an opportunity for employees to apply in writing for the vacancy in question. If the work to be performed in the vacancy requires ten (10) days or less to acquire the necessary skills and qualifications to perform the work, the vacancy will be awarded to the applicant with the most seniority. If the work to be performed in the vacancy requires more than ten (IO) days of training, then where the qualificationsand skills to immediately fill the fob are relatively equal among applicant, the applicant with the greatest seniority shall be given preference, but if no applicant is qualified to perform the work, then the Company may fill the position as it deems fit. Only the original vacancy and the first subsequent vacancy shall be posted. Any vacancies resulting from the first two postings shall be filled at the discretion of the Company.
b The posting of a vacancy in the General Labour classification shall be at the discretion of the company except for the maintenance and distribution departments.
- 17-
9.02	The Company may fill such a vacancy at its discretion until a selection has been made. Once placed in the position, the selected applicant shall be on probation for a period of twenty (20) work days, and if during the said period he is judged unsatisfactory, he shall be removed from the position and returned to his former position. The vacant position is then reposted.
9.03	Any employees who bids and is awarded a vacant position and any employee who refuses to accept an positionjob obtained under 9.01 (a) loses his bidding rights for six (6) months thereafter.
9.04	Any employee who is awarded a vacant position without having followed the training program provided for in article 9.07(a) may return to his old position within a delay of three (3) days for jobs that require ten (10) days or less training, and a within a maximum delay of five (5) days forjobs that require more than ten (10) days of training.
9.05	Lead Hands will be appointed at the sole discretion of the Company, and such appointments shall not be subject to the Job Posting and Seniority provision of this Agreement. In addition to their assigned duties, Lead Hands shall be responsible for assigning and directing the work of employees in their area of jurisdiction, but shall have no authority or responsibility for imposing any form of discipline.
9.06	In the event a new job classification is created during the term of the Collective Agreement, the Company and the Union will evaluate the newjob classification in relation to classified jobs of a similar nature and shall establish the appropriate wage rate. In the event of a dispute regarding the rate, the rate can be
- 18-
negotiated in twelve (12) months following the introduction of the new classification. If a revised rate is subsequently negotiated, the revised rate will be implemented retroactive to the date on which the new classification was created.
9.07
(a)	In the event the Company initiates an employee-training program to prepare a limited number of employees for advancement within a specific department or job classification, the Company will endeavour to equalize the training period among the selected employees in order of seniority. The extent and duration of the training as well as the number of participants shall be at the Company’s sole discretion.
(b)	An employee selected for a training program has the right to withdraw from the program before he has completed fifty (50%) percent of the training program, if not, he must complete his training and will be available for vacation or absence replacements, if required, The replacement shall be offered by order of seniority amongst the selected employees. Failing sufficient response, it will be assigned to the least senior employee depending upon operation needs and article 19,08, the company shall do its best to favor seniority but may assign work according to its needs.
9.08	An employee’s disciplinary file shall be expurged of all minor disciplinary notations (oral and written warnings) after a period of eighteen (18) months provided there are no subsequent notations. Major disciplinary notations shall be expurged after twenty-four (24) months provided there have been no subsequent minor or major notations.
-19-
ARTICLE 10 HEALTH & SAFETY
10.01	The Company continues to take the measures for the health and safety of its employees at the work place. Protection equipment and other pieces of equipmentjudged necessary by the Company so as to adequately protect the employees against accidents are furnished by the Company and must be used. The articles necessary for first aid are at the disposal of the employees at all times in the plant when the employees are at work. These provisions are in conformity with an Act Respecting Health and Safety at Work.
10.02	If an employee is sent home by the Company as a result of an industrial accident, he is paid for the balance of the shift on which he works at the time he is sent home. If an employee as a result of a work accident at the plant, is obliged to leave work to go to the hospital for the purposes of X-rays or to receive treatment for which he does not receive any compensation under an Act Respecting Health and Safety at Work, the Company will then compensate the employee for the loss of time required, upon presentation of a medical certificate.
10.03	A maximum allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) effective January 1st, 2002, one hundred and ten dollars
($110.00) effective January 1, 2003, one hundred and twenty dollars ($ 120.00) effective January 1, 2004 and one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00)effective January I, 2005 per employee shall be paid towards the cost of approved safety footwear which must be worn as required on Company premises. New employees will become eligible for the annual allowance on completion of their probationary period. Proof of purchase must be submitted to the Company.
20
ARTICLE 11
NO STRIKE OR LOCK-OUT
11.01	As long as this Collective Agreement is in effect, the Company will not cause nor direct any lock-out against its employees and the Union does not cause nor direct any work slowdown nor participates in any strike or any other collective action crating a work stoppage or interfering with production.
ARTICLE 12 BULLETIN BOARD
12.01	The bulletin boards of the Company are at the disposal of the Union, permitting the latter to post its notices. Such notices are posted only after having been submitted for approval to the Personnel Manager or to his delegate.
12.02	For the posting of functions, the notices are posted as follows: the bulletin board in the main entrance, the one in the cafeteria and the one in each sector of the plant.
ARTICLE 13
UNIFORMS
13.01	The employees required to wear a uniform are supplied with
three (3) uniforms without cost; these uniforms are maintained at the cost of the Company.
If an employee requires more uniforms, the Company shall, if it judges proper, furnish them.
-21-	"if
13.02	The uniforms are worn by the employees only during the hours of work, with the exception of the lunch periods. The changing of uniforms upon the arrival to work of the employees and upon their departure does not disrupt the established work schedule.
13.03	When an employee is laid-off, he must remit to the Company all that belongs to the Company.
ARTICLE 14 AUTHORIZED LEAVES
14.01	An authorized leave may be granted by the Company to employees having two (2) or more years of service for personal reasons. Such requests must be made in writing and indicate the reason and duration of the requested leave. Every authorized leave granted by the Company is noted in writing by specifying the date on which the employee continues to accumulate seniority. The Company responds within the two (2) work weeks following the request.
14.02	Permanent weak for the Union by an employee for up to a maximum of twelve (12) consecutive months for Union activities is considered as a valid personal reason. During the duration of the leave granted for such purposes, the employee continues to accumulate his seniority and upon his return to the plant, he is reinstated in the department and in the classification he held prior to the leave. During such absence, the employee will not be covered under any of the Company Health and Welfare programs.
-22-
ARTICLE15 BIRTH OR ADOPTION
15.01	In the event of a birth or adoption, an employee who has completed sixty (60) consecutive days of service shall be eligible to five (5) days of leave of absence, two (2) days of which shall be paid to be taken in accordance with the Law. Parental
leave shall also be granted in accordance with the Law.
15.02	An employee has a right to a preventive leave provided that she furnishes a medical certificate attesting her pregnancy, the probable date of delivery and the date of work stoppage
15.03	An employee, who becomes pregnant, shall be eligible for maternity leave in accordance with the Labour Standard Act and Regulations
ARTICLE 16 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
16.01	In the case of death of his spouse or his child, an employee who has acquired seniority shall be granted a paid leave of five (5) normal working days commencing as of the date of death.
16.02	In the case of death in the immediate family, that is, father, mother, brother, sister, mother-in-law and father-in-law, half brother and half sister, and having as a purpose the arrangements and attending the funeral services, an employee shall be granted a paid leave of three (3) normal working days. Such, upon presentation of such proof that the Company may reasonably request.
-23-
16.03	In the case of death of a grandfather, grandmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law and sister-in-law, one (1) paid leave of one (1) normal workday as of the date of death.
16.04	If the death of an immediate member of the family, that is, spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, half brother and half sister occurs, the Company may grant and additional unpaid leave of up to five (5) days in addition to the paid days for proven travelling purposes or delayed burial.
ARTICLE 17 BENEFIT PLANS
17.01	The Company employee Benefit programmes, as set forth below, and as summarized in the Employees Booklet shall be provided to all employees covered by this Collective Agreement. The benefit levels and rates of employee contribution shall continue throughout the term of the Agreement unless otherwise noted below. The administration of the Plans, including the selection of the methods by which benefits are to be provided are vested solely in the Company or such other individual or entity as appointed by the Company, and such changes therein may be made at the Company’s discretion. All terms and conditions shall be governed by the Master Plan document.
The Benefit Plans are :
(a)	The Employee’s Group Weekly Accident and Sickness
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan. The weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two-third percent (66 2/3%) of earnings to a maximum of four hundred and seventy-five dollars ($475) effective January 1st, 2002, four hundred and eighty-five dollars
-24-
($485), effective January 1st, 2003, four hundred and ninety-five dollars ($495) effective January 1st, 2004, and five hundred and ten dollars ($510) effective January 1st, 2005, for twenty-six (26) weeks. The Accidental Death or Dismemberment Benefit will be one (I) time the annual earnings.
(b)	TheEmployeesGroupLifelnsurancePlan.Asof July 1st, 1997. The employee Basic Life Insurance Benefit is one (1) time his annual earnings. The Retiree Life Insurance Benefit for retirees shall be the lesser of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000,00) or Ten Percent (10%)of final earnings, as defined in the Plan, commencing the first year of retirement and thereafter.
(c)	The Employee Group Long Term Disability Insurance Plan. Employee rate of contribution will be as established by the insurer. The company will do its best to notify the Local President before the new rates are applied.
(d)	The Employee Group Major Medical/Dental Plant.
The semi private room allowance is one hundred percent (100%)
The Eye Care Plan is one hundred and seventy dollars ($170), effective January 1st, 2002, one hundred and eighty-five dollars ($185) effective January 1st, 2003, two hundred dollars ($200). effective January 1st, 2004, and two hundred and ten dollars ($210), effective January 1st, 2005 per eligible person.
Reimbursement of dental fees shall be based on the Quebec Dental Association Fee Guide in force the year before the treatments arc received. For example : in force January 1st, 2001, according the 2000 schedule.
-25-
As of January 1 st, 1998, the employee contributions shall be of two ($2) dollars, four ($4) dollars or six ($6) dollars per month depending on the number of dependent person.
(e)	The Employees Retirement Income Plan. Subject to the approval
of the Retirement Committee provided for in the Plan and all Provincial and Federal laws and regulations, the non-contributory future service benefit level shall be Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per month per year of service for service rendered on and after January 1st, 2002.
In the event of a department closure, as provided for in article 18.06, there shall be a special program of 0% penalty for retirement benefits provided for in the present plan for employees of sixty (60) years old or more who choose to retire at the time of the closure. Eligible employees shall have a special periods of three (3) months commencing at the latest with the date of the department closure to exercise their choice.
(9 The pension savings plan. The employee can contribute effective January 1 st, 2002, 200 or 280 per hour and effective January 1 st, 2003, 240 or 300 per hour. The Company will contributes in a proportion of 50% of the base contribution of the employee. The employee may choose to make additional contributions of 160, 360, 560 or 760 an hour.
17.02	Employees who are eligible for and are covered by these Plans
will make contributions as provided in the Plans. In the event and employee does not wish to participate in some of these Plans, he shall sign a waiver form as furnished by the Company.
-26-
17.03	The Union agrees the Company receives 100% of the rebate for plan qualification under Employment Insurance.
ARTICLE 18 GENERAL
18.01	Masculine vs feminine
In this CollectiveAgreement, all the masculine words indicate the masculine and the feminine, or vice versa.
18.02	Parking
The parking lot is available free of charge for the employees; and such,
only for the duration for the CollectiveAgreement.
18.03	Pay
(a)	The pay of the employees is distributed on Thursday morning for the day shift and Wednesday evening for the evening and night shifts. Exception made if a holiday occurs during the course of a week, other provisions will have to be established.
(b)	Employees’ pay is distributed each week and any error greater than forty (40) dollars is reimbursed to the employee immediately and if the error is less than forty (40) dollars it is reimbursed the following Friday at the latest.
(c)	Any error made on vacation pay is reimbursed prior to the employee leaving on vacation, except when the employee has made a change in his vacation schedule in the two (2) proceeding weeks.
-27-
18.04	An employee who has completed his probationary period is entitled to the difference between his regular salary and the salary received as juror or Crown witness by subpoena for the days absent as a juror or as a Crown witness by subpoena.
18.05	An allowance of Two Hundred Dollars ($200,00) is granted annually to the maintenance mechanics, electricians and electrotechnicians for the purchase of tools for purposes of replacement as a result of theft, damage, wear and tear, etc.
Proof of purchase must be submitted to the Company.
18.06	In the event of a permanent department closure, the Company agrees to pay the following severance pay for employees affected by such closure:
Weeks of severance
4 weeks 8 weeks 10 weeks 14 weeks 18 weeks
Year of services
from 0 to <10 >10 to <15 2:15 to <20 220 to <25 225
-28-
ARTICLE19
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
19.01	This article provides the basis for the calculation of hours of work, overtime and shift premiums.
19.02	The normal work week shall commence at 00:01 Monday and end at midnight on the following Sunday. The normal work week shall consist of five (5) work days, eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. However, subject to the provisions of Article 19.13, the normal work week for non continuous operations will be Monday to Friday. This is considered as a guarantee of daily or weekly hours of work.
With respect to continuous shifts, the schedule in effect is the weekly guarantee.
However this guarantee does not apply :
(a)	If the employee must take courses or assist a meeting while on lay-off;
(b)	In cases of fortuitous event:
'	(c) For employees on probation;
(d)	In cases of strike or lock-out (external):
(e)	If causes by the absence of an employee.
Overtime is not considered in the calculation of guaranteed hours.
The guarantee of hours of work set forth in this Article will not apply to employees hired after April 9, 1990 until such time as the employee has
-29-
completed five (5) years of continuous service with the Company. An employee having five (5) or more years of continuous service who is recalled from lay-off at anytime during the work week shall be guaranteed the remaining normal work hours in the work week.
19.03	All work performed over and above eight (8) hours in any one
(I)	day or forty (40)hours in any one (I) week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (l'/2 x) the employees’ classified rate. Double time (2x) shall be paid for all hours worked on the seventh cn consecutive day worked in the workweek. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime-premium payments under this agreement.
In order to qualify for the overtime premiums provided above, the employee must work all scheduled hours in the workweek. In the event and employee is absent during the work week due to authorized Union activities or illness, medical evidence satisfactory to the Company must be submitted to qualify for the overtime premium.
19.04	The starting and stopping times of shift schedules shall be established by the Company and such schedules may be amended or revised from time to time at the Company’s sole discretion in order to maintain efficiency and productivity and to meet operational requirements. The Company must notify affected employees twenty-four (24)hours in advance of any change in shift hours in the same work week, except if this change in shift hours is due to the absence of an employee. The employees have the right to refuse the change in shift hours for the first day if the Company ha not respected its obligation. This does not cover recalls to work.
30
19.05
1(a) Overtime opportunities are offered by rotation by seniority to employees according to Appendix E. It is agreed that an employee shall not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours per week in overtime, and failing sufficient response, overtime shall be assigned to the least senior qualified employees of the classification in accordance to Appendix E.
(b)	If an employee declines an overtime opportunity, it shall be
considered overtime worked insofar as the rotation of overtime opportunities is concerned.
(c)	A record of overtime opportunities will be maintained over the term of this Agreement and available to the President or a Union Steward when requested.
(d)	Notwithstanding Article 19.05 (a) the overtime distribution for employees in the maintenance department is as follows:
(I) For the overtime distribution, it is understood that the employee who has the least number of overtime hours will be offered first.
(2)	When an employee has started some work and has not completed that work during the courses of his regular shift, he can be offered overtime hours to complete the work in over time immediately even if he is not the employee with the least number of overtime hours, without exceeding the difference of hours stipulated in paragraph# 7,
(3)	In the event of unpredictable breakdown and overtime work is required which could not be planned, it will be offered
-31 -
first to the employee on site who has the least number of cumulated overtime hours.
(4)	When all employees have an equal number of cumulated overtime hours, the employee with the most seniority will be offered to work in overtime first.
(5)	When an employee is offered overtime and he declines, it shall be considered overtime worked for purposes of cumulated overtime hours.
(6)	The overtime is offered to employees in their classification and position, for example: welder, plumber, frigorist, lath operator mechanic, electrician, electrotechnician, boiler mechanic, oiler mechanic, storekeeper and lift truck, mechanic.
(7)	There shall not be more than forty (40) hours difference between the employee who has accumulated the most hours of overtime and the employee who has accumulated the least hours of overtime.
(8)	When an employee is absent from work due to sickness, occupational injury, union leave, authorized leave, maternity leave, parental leave or vacation; at his return he will be allocated the number of hours of overtime he could have accomplished if he had been present.
(9)	At the end of his probation period, a new employee will be allocated the average number of overtime hours accumulated by the other employees in the same classification and position.
- 32-
(IO)	The cumulation of overtime hours is for one calendar year, from January 1st, to December 31 st,
(I I) A record of overtime will be maintained every day by the Company and will be posted weekly in the maintenance shops.
It is agreed that an employee will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours overtime per week. Failing sufficient response, the overtime will be assigned to the qualified employee who is most junior in the classification.
19.06	A fifteen (15) minute rest period will be provided during each half of a full shift worked as scheduled by management.
19.07	The Company reserves the right, and will review with the union in advance, the implementation of a continuous shift schedule consisting of seven (7) consecutive days of twenty-four (24) hours per day.
19.08	The company shall do its best to post weekly work schedule before 3:00 p.m. on Thursday and at the latest, by noon each Friday.
19.09	An employee who is recalled to work after having left the Company premises shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay. This provision, however, shall not apply when an employee is required to report earlier than his scheduled starting time.
-33-
19,10	An employee who reports for work without having been previously notified not to do so, and for whom no work is available, shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay. This provision, however, shall not apply where the lack of work is due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control or a fortuitous event.
19. II When an employee is scheduled to work more than two (2) hours of overtime, the employee shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the overtime assignment. If the overtime extends beyond four (4) hours, the employee will be entitled to a lunch period as scheduled by the Company.
19.12. Lunch periods shall be assigned by management.
19.13 Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that the normal scheduled workweek may be varied from department to department and/or classification to classification depending on the requirements of the business. It is further agreed that such variation is based on the principle that the Company will not incur any additional increased labour cost or be required to make any payment greater than those established in this Collective Agreement. Such variation will be discussed with the Union prior to implementation.
ARTICLE 20 PAID HOLIDAYS
20.01	The following holidays will be granted with pay if not worked :
New Year’s Day, the day following New Year’s Day, Easter Monday,
Canada Day, St-Jean Baptiste Day, ConfederationDay, Labour Day,
-34-
Day, the day previous to Christmas Day, Christmas Day, the day following Christmas Day and the day previous tu New Year's Day.
20.02	In order to qualify for holiday pay, an employee absent from work the day immediately prior to the holiday and the scheduled work day immediately following the holiday in case of sickness or accident shall have the right to be paid for the holiday if:
(a)	The employee has worked at least one (I) day during the week of the holiday;
(b)	The employee is not eligible for weekly indemnity benefits, long-term disability,Unemployment Insurance or Workers Compensation benefits for the day on which the holiday is observed;
(c)	Medical proof satisfactory to the Company is submitted when requested.
20.03
(a)	Probationary and temporary employees, employees on authorized leave for any reason, employees on strike or on lock-out will not be eligible for statutory holiday pay under this article.
(b)	A laid-off employee shall receive payment for the statutory holi day if he is recalled to work in the week when the holiday is observed.
20.04	However, should it become necessary to work on anyone of the said paid holidays, the employee will be paid for the numbers of hours worked based on one and one-half time (\'h) his regular daily rate, plus any applicable premium and the remuneration for the holiday mentioned above.
-35-
20.05	Depending on the requirements of the business, the Company may, at its sole discretion, reschedule another day off in substitution of any statutory holiday with prior notice to the employees one (1) week in advance of the statutory holiday listed in article 20.01, It is understood that if an employee is required to work on the substituted day, the employee will be paid at one and one-half (l'/2) times his regular straight time rate for all hours worked.
20.06	Should a holiday occur during an employee’s vacation period, the employee will, at management’s discretion, receive an additional vacation day either immediately prior to or immediately following his vacation period or the pay for the holiday.
20.07	When a holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, the holiday may be observed on either the preceding Friday or the following Monday.
ARTICLE 21
ANNUAL LEAVE WITH PAY
21.01	Beginning December 31,1997, paid annual leave is based on the following schedule :
(a)	Two (2) weeks after one (I) year of continuous service.
(b)	Three (3) weeks after five (5) years of continuous service.
(c)	Four (4) weeks after ten (IO) years of continuous service.
(d)	Five (5) weeks after twenty (20) years of continuous service.
(e)	Six (6) weeks after thirty (30) years of continuous service.
21.02
21.03
-36-
(a)	Vacation entitlement and eligibility shall be based on an employee’s continuous service as of each December 31 st,
(b)	Employees having less than one (I) year of continuous service as of December 31st shall be entitled to one (1) paid day per month of service up to a maximum of ten (10) days calculated at the rate of 4% of earnings.
(a)	An employee who is entitled to more than three (3) weeks of vacation may take all his weeks of vacation consecutively in conjunction with the vacation shutdown on condition that the normal operations of the plant are not affected, or else he takes three (3) consecutive weeks and the remaining weeks must be taken at another period based on seniority but before December 31 of the current year.
(b)	In the event the Company does not schedule a vacation shut down, employees will be entitled to select their vacation periods in order of seniority. Under these circumstances, no employee will be permitted to take any more than three (3) consecutive weeks at any one time. Furthermore, the Company reserves the right to limit the number of employees on vacation at any one time based on operational requirements.
(c)	The fourth, the fifth and/or the sixth weeks of vacation can only be scheduled after all the employees entitled to two (2) or three (3) weeks have scheduled their vacations.
(d)	The employee is entitled to know the date of his annual vacation at least four (4) weeks in advance. Within this period, vacation may only be displaced by agreement of the employee and the company.
-3721,04. Vacation pay for an employee who worked forty (40)or more
weeks in the prior year will be the greater of two percent (2%) of the previous years gross earnings of forty (40) hours pay at the employee’s classified rate for each week of vacation entitlement.
Vacation pay for an employee who worked less than forty (40) weeks in the prior year will be two percent (2%) of the previous years gross earnings for each week of vacation entitlement.
Lay-offs of up to three (3) months due to equipment changes will be considered as time worked for vacation pay calculation.
21,05 The Company reserves the right to schedule a vacation shutdown for all or part of its operations during the period between St-Jean-Baptiste Holiday and the second Monday of September, in order to permit employees to take their annual vacation. In the event the Company schedules a vacation shutdown, it will endeavour to announce the period of vacation shutdown on May I st of each year.
-38-
ARTICLE 22
JOB CLASSIFICATICNSAND HOURLY RATES
22.01	Job dassificaticnsand hourly rates:
Hourly Rates effective:
			Classification	01-01- 2002	01-01- 200.1	01-01- 2004	01-01- 2005
PASTA							
*#		I	Bnhlcr/Braibanti Operator	18.65	19.10	19.60	20.30
**		2	Prcss/Drycr Operator	18.20	18.65	19.15	19.85
*♦		.1	Specialized Operator	17.95	18.40	18.90	19.60
•		4	Relief Operator	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
		5	Ptilelizer/Slorage Silo Operator	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
		6	Specialized Cleaner	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
		7	Lasagna Operator	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
		8	Sanitation Worker	17.35	17.80	18.30	19.00
		9	Operator Class I	17.35	17.80	18.30	19.00
		10	Lasagna Worker	17.15	17.60	18.10	18.80
		II	Operator Class II	17.00	17.45	17.95	18.65
		12	General Help	16.75	17.20	17.70	18.40
-39-
CANNING						
♦	l	Cook	18.65	19.10	19.60	20.30
*	2	Packaging Operate Class Ir	18.20	18.65	19.15	19.85
*	3	Specialized Cleaner	17.95	18.40	18.90	19.60
	4	Production Operator	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
	5	Packaging Operator Class II	17.35	17.80	18.30	19.00
	6	Sanitation Worker	17.35	17.80	18.30	19.00
	7	General Help	16.75	17.20	17.70	18.40
DISTRIBUTION						
*	1	Checker	18.20	18.65	19.15	19.85
*	2	Rcccivcr/Shipper	17.65	18.10	18.60	19.30
	3	Work-bill Operator	17.35	17,80	18.30	19.00
	4	General Help	.16,75	17.20	17.70	18.40
MAINTENANCE						
**	1	Electrotechnician	23.84	24.29	24.79	25.49
M	2	MaintenanccMRO Canning	23.20	23.65	24.15	24.85
♦ ♦	3	Maintenance MRO Pasta	23.20.	23.65	24.15	24.85
**	4	Maintenance A Canning	21.30	21.75	22.25	22.95
♦ ♦	5	Maintenance B Canning	20.05	20.50	21.00	21.70
40
Key Job : Requires an excess c£ ten (10) days training.
** Critical Job :job as mentioned in article 8.05(c)
22.02	Evening and night premiums for all work done at regular time:
Premiums, effective Januaiy 1st, 2002 Evening	$0.50
Night	$0.60
-41 -
Premiums, effective January 1st, 2003 Evening	$0,55
Night	$0,65
Premiums effective January 1st, 2004 Evening:	$55
Night:	$65
Premiums effective January 1st, 2005 Evening:	$60
Night:	$70
These premiums are not increased in cases of overtime.
22.03	Lead Hand premium :
Lead hands appointed by the Company pursuant to article 9,05 shall receive a premium of one dollar ($1,00) per hour while per forming a Lead Hand function in addition to their classified ate. Such premium shall not be included in the calculation of over time premium pay.
22.04	Starting Pate :
Permanent employees hired after the ratification of the present collective agreement shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule :
Service	Rate
0-12 months	85%	of classification rate
13-18 months	95%	of classification rate
Plus de 18 months 100% of classification rate
-4222.05 Rate for temporary employees :
Temporary employees hired pursuant to Article 4.02 shall be paid at the rate of eleven dollars and seventy five cents ($1 1.75) per hour for all hours worked.
ARTICLE 23
BARGAINING UNIT WORK
23.01	Supervisory personnel will not regularly perform work that is normally performed by Bargaining Unit members, except in the following circumstances :
a)	emergencies;
b)	to train or retrain employees;
c)	when no qualified employee is available on the Company premises, or until a recalled employee reports for work;
d)	to perform tests or experimental work.
ARTICLE 24
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
24.01	This Agreement shall be for a term commencing on January 1st, 2002 and expiring on December 31, 2005.
24.02	If either party desires to amend this Collective Agreement, notification of such intention shall be submitted in conformity with the Labour Code.
24.03	If such notification is submitted, the parties will meet within fifteen (15) days to negotiate new collective agreement.
-43-
24.04	It is understood that the terms of this agreement will remain in effect until the right to strike or lockout is acquired by the parties
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Signed this 16 day of decembet1 2001
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
44
Between RONZONI FOODS CANADA
(Hereinafter called ‘The Company’)
And BAKERY CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN MILLER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L. - C.I.O. - C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
LOCAL 227
No 1 - Purpose
The purpose of this Understanding is to cover the operation of a twelve (12) hour rotating shift schedule supplementary to the Collective Agreement between the parties, and applicable only to employees primarily in the pasta production and other employees as assigned by the Company.
No 2 - Duration of Letter of Agreement
The twelve (12) hour work schedule is an integral part of the collective agreement unless rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction and subject to the termination provisions set forth in No 3 (B) below and Appendix ‘A’ attached hereto.
No 3 - General Provisions
(A)	Since it is not possible to anticipate every problem or situation that may arise during the trial period or any continuation thereof, it is understood and agreed that an attempt shall be made to resolve such problems in a manner consistent with the overall intent of this Agreement based on the principle that there will be no financial gain to either party and, that the Company shall not be put to any increased cost or required to make any payments greater than those established in the current CollectiveAgreement.
(B)	It is further understood and agreed that in the event problems or
-45-
differences arise which can not be resolved, the twelve (12) hour work schedule may be terminated by the Company giving thirty (30) days written notice to the union.
(C)	There shall be no premiums paid for change from the eight (8) hour shift to the twelve (12) hour shift, or any change back from the twelve (12) hour shift to the original eight (8) hour shift.
No. 4 Calculation of ‘New Straight Time Rate’
(A)	Based on the principle agreed to in No. 3(A) above, a ‘New Straight Time Rate’ will be established for each classification involved in the twelve (12) hour shift schedule See Appendix ‘B’ attached hereto for calculation formula.
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
IN CONSIDERATION THEREOF, THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE THAT THE COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT SHALL BE AMENDED AS FOLLOWS, APPLICABLE ONLY TO THOSE EMPLOYEES ON THE TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE.
Amendment no. 1 Article 9.01 - Job Posting
Change two (2) wok days to four (4) calendar days.
46
Amendment no. 2
Article 15.01- Paid leave for birth
One (I) day paid leave shall be eight (8) hours at old base rate. Amendment no.3
Article 16.01 - Bereavement Leave
An employee who has acquired seniority shall be paid for five (5) consecutive days mentioned in this article commencing as of the date of the death at the rate of eight (8) hours per day at the Old Base Rate.
Article 16,02
Three (3) days mentioned in this article shall be three (3) consecutive days at the rate of eight (8) hours per day at the Old Base Rate.
Article 16.03
One (I) day mentioned in this article shall be eight (8) day at the Old Base Rate.
Amendment no. 4
Article 18.04 - Jury Duty and Witness Pay ‘Regular salary’ shall mean eight (8) hours pay for each scheduled working day absent at the employees old base rate excluding overtime and shift premium allowances.
Amendment no. 5
Article 19.0?. - Hours of Work and Overtime
(A)	The normal workweek shall commence at 00,01 a.m.
Monday and end at midnight of the following Sunday. Each
-47-
employee will be required to work the assigned shift schedule as set forth in Appendix ‘C’ attached hereto.
(B)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19.02, it is understood and agreed that the forty (40) hour guaranteed work week will not apply in instances where the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule does not provide forty (40) hour or work in the workweek.
The guarantee will apply, however, when a plant shut-down for fumigation purposes results in an employee working less that his normal scheduled work week. Under this circumstance, the employee will be paid the difference between his pay for the week on the reduced schedule and forty (40) hours pay at the employee’s Old Base Rate.
The guarantee will also apply to an employee who is transferred to or from the continuous shift for one (1) full week or less. If such transfer results in the employee being paid less than forty (40) hours at Old Base Rate, the employee will be paid the difference between his weekly pay and forty (40) hours pay at the employees Old Base Rate.
(C)	Payment of wages will be based on the number of hours worked in the workweek at the employee’s new straight time rate.
Article 19.03 - Overtime
A If an employee is required to work overtime in excess of this scheduled shift, such excess hours will be paid at the rate of time and one-half. Such overtime will be paid at the employee’s old base rate excluding overtime and shift premium allowance.
-48-
Required overtime will not exceed four (4) hours per shift.
Time and one-half at Old Base Rate will be paid when an employee is assigned to work on his first scheduled day off.
Double time at Old Base Rate will be paid when an employee is assigned to work on his second consecutive scheduled day off.
Article 19.09 - Call Back
Four (4) hours pay shall be at Old Base Rate, plus the appropriate shift premium.
Article 19.10 - Reporting Pay
Four (4) hours pay shall be at Old Base Rate, plus the appropriate shift premium.
Articles 19.06 et 19.11 - Rest and Meal Periods
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 19,06 and 19,11 it is agreed that employees assigned to the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule will be entitled to two (2) fifteen 15) minute rest periods plus two (2) twenty (20) minute lunch periods as scheduled by management.
Amendment no. 6
Articles 20,01.20.04. 20.05 et 20.06 - Holidays
(A)	When a holiday is observed during an employee’s vacation or on his scheduled day off, the employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay at Old Base Rate.
(B)	If an employee is required to work on a recognized or substituted holiday, he shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (11h)
-49-
times his new straight time rate for all hours so worked in addition to the holiday pay provided in (A) above.
(C)	If a holiday is observed during an employee’s scheduled workday, and the employee is not required to work, he shall be paid for twelve (12) hours at this new straight time rate.
Amendment no. 7
Article 21.01 -Vacations
Two (2) weeks’ vacation shall consist of 7 twelve (12) hour shifts.
Three (3) weeks’ vacation shall consist of 10 or 11 twelve (12) hour shift upon employees’choice;
Four (4) weeks vacation shall consist of 14 twelve (12) hour shifts;
Five (5) weeks vacation shall consist of 17 or 18 twelve (12) hour shifts upon employee’s choice.
Six (6) weeks vacation shall consist of twenty one (21) twelve (12) hour shifts.
Article 21.02 (B) - Vacations One day shall be eight (8) hours.
Amendment no. 8
Article 22.02 - Shift Premiums
Shift premiums for employees on the twelve (12) hour shift schedule shall be the same regardless of the shift worked and shall be the average of the present shift, premium over twenty-four (24) hours. See Appendix “B” for calculation.
50
The Parties hereby agree (hat all other provisions of the Collective Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed this "t6 day of decent bet* 2001
-51 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between RONZONI FOODS CANADA
(Hereinafter called ‘The Company’)
AND:	BAKERY CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO AND GRAIN
MILTER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION A.F.L, - C.J.O. - C.L.C. - Q.F.L.
LOCAL 227
It was understood, during the last negotiations, that the President shall be relieved for forty (40) hours per week if the project to increase the volume of production in the Canning Department materializes during this Collective Agreement (minimum of 75 million pounds in twelve month production).
52
Signed this 16 day of decewbef 2001
-53-
APPENDIX ‘A’
MANAGEMENT BASIS FOR TERMINATION OF TWELVE (12) HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
The following criteria, alone or in combination, are agreed to be adequate reason for terminating the twelve (12) hour shift schedule:
1.	Total operating labour cost of the twelve (12) hour schedule exceeds the total of the eight (8) hour schedule.
2.	New laws or amendments to existing laws which requires the payment of a premium or benefit not now required.
3.	Unfavourable rulings or penalties imposed by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
4.	Problems arising from sick leave replacement.
5.	Increased operator fatigue.
6.	Reduced productivity related to the twelve (12) hour schedule.
7.	Deterioration of job communications between different shifts or between supervision and the operators.
8.	Increased labour turnover attributable to the twelve (12) hour schedule.
9.	Work limitations being placed on an employee thereby preventing him from working the full twelve (12) hour shift.
Notwithstanding the above, it is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to terminate the new system at any time upon thirty (3) days written notice to the Union.
54
APPENDIX ‘B’
WAGE RATE CONVERSION FORMULA
Classified rate = Old Base Rate + Scheduled Overtime Allowance + Average Shift Premium = New Straight Time Rate
Example of New Straight Time Rate calculation (Press/Dryer Operator) as of01-01-2002
Present Old Base Rate	$18,20
Present Shift Premium	$ 0,50 afternoon/$0.60 night
Eight (8) week schedule will provide - 320 hours at straight time
+ 16 hours overtime
Shift premium - (.50 +,60 f3=$, 37 Average Shift Premium Allowance)
= Average Overtime Allowance
hours 
Less Old Rate
Old Base Rate
Average Overtime Allowance Average Shift Allowance
New Straight Time Rage	$ 19.00/per hour
55
APPENDIX ‘C’
12 HOUR SHIFT SCHEDULE
		Ist WEEK		2nd WEEK		3k“ WEEK		4"* WEEK	
	M-	-t-w-t-f-s- s		m-t-w-t-f-s- s		M-T-W-T-F-S- S		m-t-w-t-f-s- s	
A		N N	N N	N	NN	DD	DD	D	DD
B		D D	D D	D	D D	NN	NN	N	NN
c	D	DD		NN	NN	N	NN	1) f)	0 1)
1)	N	INN		I) I)	DD	D	DD	N N	N N
-56-
APPINDIX ‘D
Jobs that can be included injob classificationslisted at article22,01 for maintenance department.
CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	Electrotechnician
-	Electrotechnician Pasta
-	Electrotechnician Canning
2,	Maintenance MRO Canning
3.	Maintenance MRO Pasta
4^|»
4,	Maintenance ‘A’ Canning
-	Boiler mechanic
-	Refrigeration engineer
-	Plumber ‘A’
*5,	Maintenance ‘B’ Canning
-	Mechanic ‘B’ Canning
-	Oiler mechanic
-	Storekeeper's’
-Welder
-	Lathe operator
-	Electrician ‘B’
6,	Maintenance ‘B’ Pasta
-	Mechanic ‘B’ Pasta
-	Oiler mechanic
7,	Lift truck mechanic
* 8,	Maintenance ‘C’ Canning
-	Mechanic ‘C’ Canning
-	Storekeeper *C’
9,	Maintenance ‘C’ Pasta
-	Mechanic ‘C’ Pasta
*10.	Fumigator
*11.	Uniform and Storekeeper
*12,	General help
-57-
APPENDIX “E”
19.05
(a)	Overtime during the week
1.	Overtime opportunities shall be rotated by seniority amongst employees of the Classification where the overtime work is required and who are cn site. Failing sufficient response, the assignment of overtime will be handled according to the following procedures:
2.	Offered by rotation by seniority to other qualified employees on site.
3.	Offered to qualified probationary employees in probation on site.
4.	Offered by rotation by seniority to other employees of the classification who are not on site provided the overtime is to be done before their shift.
5.	Offered by rotation by seniority to employees in the classification assigned to twelve hours shifts who are not scheduled to work provided the overtime is to be done before their shift.
6.	Offered by rotation by seniority to qualified employees who are
not on site.
7.	The most junior employee of the classification who is on site shall be obliged to do overtime.
(b)	Week-end overtime (ex. day shifts) and for 12 hour schedules
1.	Offered by rotation by seniority to employees of the concerned classification on the day shift.
2.	Offered by rotation by seniority to other employees of the classification assigned to other shifts.
3.	Offered by rotation by seniority to other qualified employees of
58
day shift.
4.	Offered by rotation by seniority to qualified employees assigned to other shift.
5.	Offered by rotation by seniority to employees of the classification assigned to the twelve hour schedule that are not scheduled to work and who have not inscribed their name on the non available list.
6.	Offered by rotation by seniority to qualified employees assigned to the twelve hour schedule that are not scheduled to work and that have not inscribed their name on the non availability list.
7.	Offered to qualified probationary employees.
8.	The most junior employee of the classification that is cn site shall be obliged to work overtime.
N.B. Overtime shall be offered by blocks of eight hour for employees assigned to eight (8) hour shifts.