COLLECTIVE AGREEAtEN^^
— Between —
Moirs Division, Hershey Canada Inc.
— And —
The Bakery, Confectionery,
Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Local 446 and
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, Helpers and Miscellaneous Workers Union, Local 927
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
Made this 14th day of May 1999, between Moirs Division, Hershey Canada Inc. of 375 Pleasant Street, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia collectively referred to as the Company”
Of the first part--------------------------------------------------
-AND-
The Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Local 446 and the Teamsters. Chauffeurs, Warehousemen. Helpers and Miscellaneous Workers Union, Local 927 herein after collectively referred to as the “Union”.
Of the Second Part---------------------------------
Witnesseth that the Company and the Union hereby mutually agree as follows:
Article
INDEX
Page
1.	Objects of this Agreement....
2.	Bargaining Unit.....................
3.	Mutual Rights and Benefits ,..,...,.
4.	Union Security ,.........,.,,,..,.,..,.
5.	Union Representation	.
6.	Grievances Procedure
7.	Arbitration
6. Seniority .......................
9.	Promotions, Transfers, Lay-Offs, Re-Hirings
10.	Discipline ....................
11 Paid Holidays ...................
12.	Vacations
13.	Absences
14.	wages
15.	Hours of Work and Overtime......
16.	Bulletin Boards
17.	Medical Examinations............
18.	General
19.	Safety
20.	Mechanization
21.	Duration of Agreement...........
..1 . 1 . 1 . 3
3
4
5 6
..9
. 13 . 15 16 19 22 ..23
23 .. ..24
24 27 26
..29
Appendix “A” Schedule of Wages Rates 30
Appendix "B" Hours of Work and
Overtime Regulations..............33
Appendix "C“ Schedule of Wages Rates •
Maintenance 4	0
Letters of Understanding
. 43
ARTICLE 1.00 - OBJECTS OF THIS AGREEMENT
1 .01 The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the basic relationship between the Company and the Union, to set out the wages and basic working conditions of employees of the Company represented by the Unions and to set forth the means by which complaints, grievances and disputes shall be disposed of promptly and equitably.
1.02	The Union and the Company recognize that productivity improvement is essential to the well being of both the employees and the Company. Accordingly, the Union and the Company will cc-operate in efforts to maintain and improve productivity and efficiencies at all levels throughout the plant.
ARTICLE 2.00 -BARGAINING UNIT
2.01	This agreement shall apply to all employees in the bargaining unit defined by the relevant orders of the Nova Scotia Labour Relations Board and the words “employee” and “employees” used herein refer to such employees. For brevity the pronoun “He” shall be interpreted to mean both male and female employees.
ARTICLE 3.00 - MUTUAL RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
3.01	No employee shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written contract with the Company which may limit, alter, modify or conflict with stipulations of this Agreement without prior agreement between the Union and the Company.
A Union Official or Shop Steward shall be present when a member of management has a meeting with a group of employees dealing with working conditions.
(1)
3.02	There shall be no lockout by the Company and no strike by the Union during the term of this Agreement. The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize nor sanction its members to cause or take part in any sit-down, slay-in, or slow-down, in any department, or any strike stoppage of any of the Company's operations, or any curtailment of work, or restriction of, or interference with production, or any picketing of the Company's premises during the term of this Agreement.
3.03	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency.
(b)	To hire, discharge, transfer, promote, classify, demote or discipline employees provided a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion or transfer, or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without reasonable cause may be the subject of a grievance dealt with es hereinafter provided.
(c)	Generally to manage, control, continue, discontinue, in whole or in pert, the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged.
3.04	The Company shall exercise its rights under this collective agreement fairly end reasonably in good faith and without discrimination end in a manner consistent with the provisions of the collective agreement.
3.05	Management shall not perform bargaining unit work except in cases of emergency or for instructional purposes.
(2)
ARTICLE 4.00 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	Any employee, as a condition of employment, shall sign and deposit with the Company, an approved check-off form authorizing the Company to deduct from his pay an amount equivalent to Union dues, to be deducted weekly. Such check-off form shall, when deposited with the Company, be irrevocable except during the last two (2) months of the agreement.
4.02	If an employee is absent or on vacation at the time any deduction should be made from his pay, such deduction shall be made from the first full pay which he receives following his return to work. However, any employee on sick leave or leave of absence may contact their shop steward and obtain a withdrawal card. Persons receiving a withdrawal card shall not pay back dues missed on their return to work.
4.03	The Company shall remit all amounts so deducted to the Treasurer of the Union on or before the fifteenth (15) day of the following month, together with a list of all persons who have ceased to be or have become employees since the preparation of the preceding list.
ARTICLE 5.00 - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	The Union shall have the right to appoint a shop steward for the employees - if necessary, additional stewards may be appointed. All shop stewards shall be elected by the Union members in the shop concerned and shall be employees in the shops for which they are stewards. There shall be no discrimination against stewards for Union activities. Election of Shop Stewards may be carried out on Company premises after agreement with the Company.
(3)
5.02	The Union shall keep the Company advised in writing of the names of the shop stewards and their usual areas of responsibility.
5.03	The Union representatives shall, with the Company's permission, be permitted to enter the Company premises on Union business so long as he does not unduly interfere with the work in progress.
5.04	All new hired employees that will be working in the bargaining unit will have an information session with the Steward (s) for the department they will be assigned during the orientation day. This information session shall be limited to one (1) hour in duration. All new employees shall receive a copy of the collective agreement at this time.
ARTICLE 6.00 - GRIEVANCES PROCEDURE
6.01	Differences of interpretation or the violation by the Company or any employee of any of the provisions of this Agreement as well as any other complaint relating to working conditions shall be considered a grievance, provided that no complaint by any employee shall be considered a grievance until formal discussions between the individual concerned and his immediate supervisor has taken place. The supervisor must deal with it within one working day. No grievance shall be considered unless it is submitted within SO working days after the happening of the event which gave rise to the grievance, including Safety.
6.02	The procedure for processing the grievance of an employee or group of employees shall be as follows:
(a)	The steward acting on behalf of the employee or group of employees shall first submit the grievance in
(4)
writing to the department supervisor or other immediate supervisor, whose decision shall be rendered within two
(2)	working days.
(b)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement, the chief steward or designated Union representative shall within four (4) working days submit the grievance in writing to the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative. who shall meet with the Union representative and render a decision within another three
(3)	working days.
(c)	Failing an answer or satisfactory settlement. the grievance shall be referred to single arbitration in accordance with Article 7 of this Agreement. It should be noted that the decision to go to arbitration must be made within a period of twenty (20) working days after failure to reach a satisfactory senttlement in the grievance procedure.
6.03	If in case an extension may be required to Article 6 or 7, this will be only acceptable by mutual agreement of both the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 7.00 -ARBITRATION
7.01	No matter shall be submitted to a single arbitrator until after it has been processed under the grievance procedure set out in Article 6 of this Agreement.
7.02	When notice of arbitration is given by the Union or the Company each shall, within the ensuing four (4) days choose an arbitrator and notify the other of its choice.
7.03	The single arbitrator’s fees and expenses shall be paid in equal parts by the Union and the Company.
(5)
7.04	Should either party refuse or neglect to appoint its arbitrator within the time stipulated in Clause 7.02 and 7.03 cl this Article 7, such appointment or appointments may be made by the Minister of Labour for Nova Scotia.
7.05	The decisions of the arbitrator shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the appointment and his view shall be binding on both the Union and the Company. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision, inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or to delete, alter or modify any part thereof.
7.06	The Arbitration hearing shall be scheduled no later than three (3) weeks after the appointment of the Arbitrator unless an extension to this period is mutually agreed by both parties.
ARTICLE 8.00. SENlORITY
8.01	The purpose of seniority is to provide a policy governing promotions, transfers, lay-offs and m-hirings.
8.02	Upon completion of a probationary period of 45 working days within a period of six (6) months. every employee in the bargaining unit shall acquire seniority rights but his seniority shall be calculated from the date of his hiring. However, that probationary period may be extended for a maximum cl 20 additional working days, with the mutual agreement of the Company and the union.
During their probationary period, an employee will be on trial and may be suspended, laid-off recalled or dismissed at the sole discretion of the Company. The Union recognizes that the grievance and arbitration procedures will not apply in those cases.
(6)
8.03	An employee shall forfeit his seniority if he voluntarily resigns, is discharged for just cause or is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company or without reasonable excuse for not notifying.
8.04	Inability to work because of proven illness or injury with medical evidence shalt not result in the loss of seniority rights but the Company shall not be obliged to w-instate the employee in his former job. Time lost from work owing to illness or injury within the limits set cut by this Clause shall be included in the employee's seniority rating. If the employee does not agree with the Company's Doctor, he shall have the right to ask for mutual agreed independent medical opinion.
Where an employee has one year's continuous service, is physically injured at work and is unable to perform the job he had prior to the injury, the rate of the job performed prior to the injury will be maintained on the new job the employee performs and for which the rate is lower. Such protection will be effective for a period not to exceed nine months. Rate increases will not be granted to these persons until such time as their protected rate was equal to or less than the rate of the job.
Injury at work shall not result in the loss of any seniority rights and the employee(s) concerned shall be reinstated to their former position provided the injury has not resulted in a physical handicap to do their former job. If an employee is unable to perform his job as a result of physical injury at work the employee shall be given the opportunity to train for another position providing there is a position available and he is capable of performing the work according to the Company's Doctor.
8.05(a) Any employee who is laid off shall be retained on the seniority list for a period of 12 months. If he is requested to return to work during this period, he shall forfeit his seniority unless, within 3 days after the date of the written request to the address on file with the Company, he notifies the Company of his Intention to return to work and, within 10 days alter the date of the request, reports to work. However, if he is incapacitated from proven illness or injury at the time of such request or becomes so during the ensuing 10 days, Clause 8.04 of this Article will apply.
In the event cl a lay-off for regular employees beyond the 12 month period, it is understood that this period may be extended as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
8.05(b) In cases when the Company has to increase it's working force and the seniority list has been exhausted, it will endeavour to hire the additional new employees it may require from amongst those whose names have been deleted from the seniority list, according to their prior length of service with the Company.
8.06	In the case of a demotion, voluntary return to the bargaining unit or abolishment of the position an employee may return to the bargaining unit within six (6) months without losing seniority rights.
8.07	After April 1 st, 1996, all employees hired shall be regular employees.
(8)
ARTICLE 9.00 -PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS LAY-OFFS, RE-HIRINGS
9.01	Provided there is the ability to perform the work required, seniority shall be the governing factor in promotions. transfers, layoffs and re-hirings.
9.02(a) When the Company finds it necessary to increase its regular working force or to fill a vacancy in its regular working force, all such job openings will be posted on the plant bulletin boards for three (3) working days and a copy of the posting sent to the Union Office. Such notice will briefly outline the job to be performed, the qualifications required for the job. classification and wage rate. All employees may bid for these openings except employees working in the following classifications: Candy Maker, Mogul Operator, Enrober Operator, Chocolate Room Operator, Panning Operator, Jensen Operator, Sollich Line Operator and Robotic Coordinator who are only permitted to bid on a higher rated job. The job will be fitted on the basis provided in Article 9.01.
Those employees who have accepted postings in the lob categories listed above must complete five continuous years in that job before being permitted to bid on a lower or equally rated job. All other employees shall be permitted to bid to lower or equally rated jobs and will receive the rate of the new job at the time of the transfer.
(b)	Where the job is in operation. the chosen applicant shall be assigned to his new job within fifteen (15) working days after the date he has been notified of his successful application. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement in order to avoid affecting me normal operations of the plant.
(9)
If employees are no, placed on training following the fifteen (15) working day notice, the employee will be placed on the new rate, if the rate is a higher rate of pay.
(c)	Upon request, the unsuccessful applicant(s) will be informed of the reason(s) why they have not been chosen.
(d)	Job vacancies due to illness of short duration, leaves of absents, or vacation need not be posted. However, senior employees able to perform the work will be given first choice of a higher paid classification in their department, provided no employee on an equal or higher rated job is available. Short duration means a period of 30 days or less.
(e)	No posting shall be required for any job opening which the Company expects to remain in effect for less than thirty (30) days. If such temporary job openings should subsequently become permanent, or exceed thirty (30) days, the job posting procedure shall apply, but such application shall be without retroactive effects.
(f)	Where openings occur in a job within forty-five (45) days after that particular job has been first posted, the job opening need not be reposted but shall be filled from the qualified employees who have bid on the posting or reposted.
(g)	The Company may fill job openings temporarily before or after posting until all applications have been considered.
(h)	“An employee who bids for a job vacancy and is accepted shall be disqualified from bidding for six (6) months from the date they accepted the job posting, except for higher paying jobs. This clause does not
(10)
disqualify an employee if they have rejected the new position within the first ten (10) continuous working days after being placed on the job for all positions with the exception of those listed in article 9.02 (a). The positions listed in article 9.02 (a) will have forty five (45) continuous working days to reject the position. If extenuating circumstances arise, this period may be extended with mutual agreement. The position of “warehouse person” will also have forty five (45) continuous working days to reject the position, however will not be restricted from bidding down for five (5) years like those positions listed in 9.02 (a).
9.03	Any employee who feels that he has been unjustly dealt with in any promotion, transfer, lay-off or m-hiring may have recourse to the grievance procedure set out in Article 6.00 of this Agreement. In no event shall there be discrimination.
9.04	Whenever a reduction of the working force is necessary. employees shall be laid off in accordance with seniority. Union officials and Shop Stewards will be notified prior to the layoff. with a list of those employees to be laid off.
All Shop Stewards will be advised in writing of the name of all new hires prior to the orientation day. Shop Stewards will be advised in writing of the names of all employees to be laid off and/or recalled prior to the occurrence of the recall or layoff Shop Stewards will be present when employees are informed of their lay off.
9.05	For seniority purposes. a lay-off shall be considered to be more than one (1) shifts duration.
9.06	When employees are transferred to another department and are informed on the previous day, they
(11)
will work the hours of the new department. However. if employees are transferred without notice on the previous day, they will work their normal hours for that day.
9.07	Employees on shift work will be given the opportunity to choose the shift they prefer on the basis of seniority. Once the choice has been made, this choice will be irrevocable for the duration of the shift period unless openings occur due to illness or injury.
9.08	The Company will provide employees with a week's notice of a change in their shift schedule. However, in circumstances where unscheduled changes must occur, employees will receive a minimum of 24 hours notice. Scheduled days off will not be included in the 24 hours notice.
9.09	Employees are permitted to hold only one (1) spare position at a time. If a regular vacancy opens up in a posted job, it will be filled by moving the senior spare using overall plant seniority, into the position. If no spare currently exists in that posted job, the regular vacancy will be posted.
Employees who are currently a spars in a posted job, and will be needed for six (6) months or more in the job during a rolling 12 month period, will be moved to regular status and will be paid the regular rats of pay whether in the position or not. Spares in the job class will be moved to regular statue in order of plant seniority. The department Shop Steward and Supervisor will meet to discuss and agree prior to moving anyone from a spars to a regular status using the current years production plan as a guideline.
If a job posting is needed for a regular position as there are no sparse currently in the job, and it is known that
(12)
the person will be required in the job for six (6) months or more of the year, the job will be posted as a regular, not a spars. Spars positions will be posted for afterwards if required.
Once a trigger point of six months has been reached for an employee working in a spars position, the employee will be paid the regular rats of the job for all time worked from the first day they worked in the spars position in a rolling 12 month period and be changed to regular status.
An employee must give the department Supervisor adequate notice of his intention to give up a spars position to allow for the vacancy to be filled.
ARTICLE 10.00. DISCIPLINE
10.01	The right to discharge, or otherwise discipline employees shall remain at the discretion of the Company, except that there shall be no discharge or disciplinary action without just cause and such action subject to the grievance procedure.
10.02	The normal procedure in disciplining employees shall be first to verbally warn the employee and to record this warning on the employee's record card. Secondly, to issue a written warning and to furnish a copy to the Department Steward and a copy to the Chief Steward. A repetition of the offence or another offence by the same employee automatically involves suspension. The length of such suspension is to be at the discretion of the Plant Manager or his delegated Manager, but it is not to exceed one week. A further repetition may automatically involve discharge or suspension on the first offence. This of course is subject to the grievance procedure. Where a discharge or suspension is involved, a Shop Steward shall be called in to be present at the interview between
(13)
the employee and the management representative. The Shop Steward shall be informed of the suspension or discharge prior to the interview.
10.03	Three (3) months alter the issuing of a formal verbal warning the warning so given for the purpose of this section shall be automatically cancelled. Six (6) months after the issuing of a first written warning, the warning likely will be automatically cancelled if no further disciplinary action has been committed. In cases where the Company has given a third disciplinary warning which involves suspension, such third disciplinary notice shall be automatically cancelled after twelve (12) months.
10.04	Whenever an employee is discharged, the Company shall immediately notify the discharged employee in writing of his discharge and the reason thereof.
10.05	The Company shall pay any discharged employee all his wages in full as soon as possible alter his discharge and after any liability owed by him to the Company has been paid or satisfied.
10.06	A complaint by an employee that he had been unjustly discharged shall be considered a grievance. In processing such a grievance the first step of the grievance procedure shall be dispensed with and the grievance shall be submitted in writing directly to the Company's Plant Manager or his designated representative within three (3) working days after the discharge.
10.07	Any employee found through the grievance procedure or arbitration to have been unjustly discharged shall, within three (3) working days after the date of
(14)
settlement or the decision of the arbitration, be reinstated in his former position with full compensation for time lost and all seniority rights.
ARTICLE 11.00 - PAID HOLIDAYS
11.01	New Year's Day. Heritage Day. Good Friday, Easter Monday, Queen’s Birthday, Dominion Day, Dartmouth Natal Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day. Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be considered paid holidays during the term of this Agreement.
11.02	To be eligible to receive payment for a holiday designated in lieu thereof-
(=) A probationary employee shall have worked et least five (5) working days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday, and
(b)	All employees shall have worked the working day immediately preceding end immediately following the holiday. Exceptions to the letter requirement will be made when an employee is absent on either or both of the said shifts only because of verified personal illness, death in his immediate family or if he has been given permission by his Supervisor or hisdesignated superior to be absent.
11.03	Pay for holidays will be at the employee’s regular hourly rate multiplied by one-fifth of the number of hours in the employee’s regular work week.
11.04	Except in emergencies employees shell only be requested and not compelled to work on paid holidays.
11.05	When an employee is required to work on a paid holiday, or any part thereof, the Company shall (in
(15)
addition to any pay to which the employee is entitled) pay the employee et the rate of double time for the time worked on such holiday.
Overtime et the rate of triple (3) his hourly rate will be paid to an employee for any hours worked beyond eight (8) hours on a paid holiday.
11.06	When a paid holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the Friday or Monday by agreement between the Company and the Union.
11.07	Employees who are laid off from December 17th to 25th, shall be paid for Christmas end Boxing Day.
ARTICLE 12.00 - VACATIONS
12.01	Vacation with pay will be granted in accordance with the following scale:
(a)	1 year's service
(b)	5 year's service
(c)	10 year's service
(d)	18 year's service
(e)	25 year's service
2	weeks vacation
3	weeks vacation
4	weeks vacation
5	weeks vacation
6	weeks vacation
(f) 30 or more years of service. $300 payable annually
last pay in November.
Employees service with the Company et December 31st of the year in which vacation is taken shall be the measure of employee vacation entitlement.
12.02	Pay for vacation referred to above will be at 2 percent per week of vacation, of the employee's gross wages in the previous calendar year. Vacation pay will be paid on a separate cheque.
(16)
In the case of sickness duly recognized by the Group Insurance Plan or in the case of accident by the Worker's Compensation, the Company shall calculate a regular week of 40 hours, for each week lost due to the above reasons, in order to calculate the vacation pay entitlement.
When an employee who has three (3) or more weeks vacation entitlement, and is absent due to extenuating circumstances, then the employee may be allowed to use an excess vacation day to be paid for the absence. and it will not be recorded on his card as an absent day. The employee will endeavour to give as much advance warning as possible under the circumstances.
Employees who are currently on vacation shall not have their vacation cancelled. If circumstances dictate that an employee is needed while on vacation, the steward will be notified and the employee will be asked to come off vacation. If the employee agrees, they will be paid time and a half and be allowed to reschedule their vacation in accordance with Article 12.
When employees have vacation scheduled but it has not started and circumstances dictate that the employee is now needed, they will be asked if they can reschedule their vacation. Should the employee agree. they will be paid their regular rate of pay.
12.03	Where the Company does not close the plant for vacation purposes or a vacation period. vacations will be granted on the basis of seniority by department, and seniority within the job classification, (including spares), with the senior employees being given the first choice of vacation dates.
The vacation year will begin April 15' of the current year (17)
and end March 31 st of the following year.
In the prime vacation period, which is June 15 to September 15, Management will schedule two weeks vacation time off for all employees who request it. The Company shall maintain sufficient employees by Department who are qualified to do the work.
Scheduling for vacations will begin January 1st of the current year and a final approval list will be posted in each department by April 1. An employee who does not exercise their seniority rights to schedule vacation for the prime vacation period prior to April 1 will forfeit the right to select using their seniority and must take whatever is available as mutually agreed with their supervisor. Employees are required to schedule and use all vacation time earned for the year.
Employees who have been laid off and request and receive vacation earnings upon lay off, will not be required to take vacation time off for which they have no vacation earnings.
Employees are permitted to schedule single days vacation. Management may use a call in pool consisting of employees on lay off to cover the resulting vacancies.
12.04	Should any employee's service terminate he shall receive at the termination of his services with the Company compensation to be calculated on the basis of 4% 6%, 8%, 10% or 12% depending on the employee’s entitlement under Sections 12.01 and 12.02.
12.05	All deductions normally made from an employee’s regular pay shall be made from his vacation pay.
12.06	Employees of the Service Department and any other scheduled to remain on duty during the period the
(18)
plant is shut down may be allowed their vacation at some time convenient to the Company. All such employees entitled to three or more weeks vacation may have three of their vacation weeks consecutively.
12.07	Employees shall not be allowed to carry over vacation allowance from one year to the next except in extenuating circumstances.
12.08	When the plant is shut down for vacation purposes, any employee not entitled to vacation pay under Rule 12.02 of this Article shall be required to take time off without pay unless the Company is able to provide work for him during that period.
ARTICLE 13.00 -ABSENCES
13.01	The Company shall grant leave of absence to an employee where the Company is satisfied that the employee is unable to work because he is sick or otherwise disabled. The Company may grant leave of absence in any case when it deems leave appropriate.
13.02	Leave of absence shall be granted by the Company to Union Delegates and Officers to attend Union Conventions provided that notice in writing of two weeks in advance of such Union Conventions is given by the Union to the Company. Such leave shall be without pay and without loss of seniority.
13.03	The provisions of the Labour Standard Code of Nova Scotia with respect to leave of absence for maternity and upon adoption of a child, shall apply hereto. A further leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee. Total accumulated leave shall not exceed six (6) months.
(19)
13.04	When the partner, child, father, mother, grandchild or guardian of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, loss any pay during four (4) consecutive working days following the death.
When the brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, half-brother or half sister of any employee dies and such employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, such employee shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during three (3) consecutive working days following the death.
When the Grandparents, Brother in Law, Sister in Law of any employee dies and the employee has completed his probationary period with the Company, he shall not, because of absence from work, lose any pay during two (2) consecutive working days following the death. The employee shall notify the Company of any such death. Extenuating circumstances shall be considered by the Company.
The days referred to above shall be the employees scheduled working days.
13.05	Effective April 1, 1991, the weekly indemnity coverage will be 66 2/3% of your regular weekly earnings, subject to the current maximum established by the Unemployment Insurance Commission for the first twenty-six (26) weeks of disability.
Where an employee who had at least one (1) year's seniority with the Employer, is off work and has satisfactorily demonstrated that he is entitled to benefits under the Sickness or Accident Plan or the Workers' Compensation Act, the Employer shall advance to such
(20)
employee the weekly benefit for which the employee has demonstrated entitlement end the employee shell assign the employee's right to equivalent payment under the Sickness end Accident Plan or Workers' Compensation Ad. The employee shell further endorse over to the Employer end deliver the cheque for such amount immediately upon receipt by the employee.
13.06	An employee who loses time from his regularly scheduled work as a result of Jury Service or witness shell have the difference between the pay received for such Service end his straight time earnings (8) hours in a day, (40 hours in a week) he would have received if it were not for the Service, made up by the Company, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Advance notice in writing to his supervisor of 46 hours.
(b)	Proof of Service satisfactory to the Company.
(c)	After release from serving, the employee shall report to work the following day.
(d)	An employee on the night shift shell not be required to report for work on the night of the same day on which he serves or on the night before where he has a reasonable expectation of so serving.
13.07	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan to a limit of 60% of Base Wages to age 65.
The Company shell pay $150.00 once every two (2) years towards the cost of an employee’s end en employee’s eligible dependent’s glasses. For the employees these glasses must have safety lenses.
(21)
Prescription Plan:
All employees will be Issued a prescription drug card. This card will provide the following benefit:
•	Plan pays 75% reimbursement for Brand name drugs end 95% Generic drugs.
•	Dispensing fee. Plan pays up to $7.00
•	No deductible
•	Positivedependent enrolment/coordination of benefits
•	$1,000.00 per person out of pocket maximum
ARTICLE 14.00 -WAGES
14.01	Subject to the provisions of this Article 14.00 end the provisions of article 16.00, the wages set out in Appendix. “A&C” of this Agreement shell be paid during the term of this Agreement.
14.02	The Union end the Company recognize that there are instances where certain employees are receiving a rate in excess of the job rate. end this higher rate shell be considered a red circle rate. In no case will this special red circle rate establish a higher rate for the job, but employees presently receiving them shell continue to receive these red circle rates so tong as they continue to perform their present jobs. When en employee is transferred or demoted he shall retain the red circle rate differential but when he is promoted he shall retain only the excess. if any. over the higher rate. Employees with red circle rates shall receive all the general wage adjustments.
14.03	All new employees shell be paid ten (10 cents) en hour less than the hourly rate for their jobs during their probationary working period. No employee will be paid en hourly rate that is less then the current Nova Scotia Minimum Wage.
(22)
If it is found that a former employee who returns to the company as a probationary employee, and performs satisfactorily the same job classification, such employee will be paid the rate of the job prior to the completion of their probationary period et the discretion of their supervisor.
14.04	When shift work is performed a shift differential shall be paid as follows for all hours worked on such shifts:
3. 11 P.M. Afternoon Shift .60 11 7 A.M. Night Shift .70
14.05	Employees shall be paid on a weekly basis by cheque and all deductions be plainly marked thereon. If errors occur, all monies in excess of $10.00 per pay cheque will be paid in that pay week. Amounts less than $10.00 will be corrected in the following week.
ARTICLE 15.00 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
15.01	Hours of work. overtime and miscellaneous other matters shall be governed by the regulations set out in Appendix “B” of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16.00 - BULLETIN BOARDS
16.01	The Union may post notices of Union meetings and other activities on a bulletin board provided for that purpose and conspicuously placed. Such notices shall have the prior approval of the Company's Personnel Manager or a designated representative. The Collective Agreement shall be placed in a case, under glass, for the viewing of the employees.
(23)
ARTICLE 17.00 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
17.01	Every applicant for employment shall, et Company expense, furnish the Company with a medical certificate. Every employee shall, et the Company's request end expense, submit to further medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Company, but the Union may, if it thinks that an injustice may have been done, request any employee to submit, et the Union's expense, to medical examinations by medical examiners selected by the Union.
ARTICLE 16.00 - GENERAL
16.01	Any employee presently receiving more than the hourly rate provided for his job by this Agreement shell suffer no decrease through the signing of this Agreement and any employee enjoying working conditions more favourable than those stipulated in the Agreement shall continue to enjoy them.
16.02	Any employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job to another job with a higher rate shall be paid the higher rate for all the time worked on such job, but an employee who is temporarily transferred from his regular job to another job with a lower rate shall continue to receive his regular rate for all time worked on such other job.
16.03	The Union shall have the privilege of negotiating with the Company; rates for new types of work not established by this Agreement and such rates, when agreed upon, shall be effective from the date such new type of work is commenced.
16.04	The Company shell classify all employees and furnish a copy of the classification to the Union. Before making any amendments to the classifications the
(24)
Company shall discuss such amendments with the Union.
18.05	In addition to the number of Mogul Operators required for the Moguls being operated, one spare operator shall be carried.
16.06	Each regular employee who ceases to be a regular employee of the Company by reason of the permanent closing of a department, or the introduction of labour saving equipment. will be entitled to a severance allowance. The size of this allowance will be related to years of service as shown in the schedule below or the Labour Standards Code which ever is greater.
Years of Service	Weeks of Pay
Less than 5 years	0 weeks
5 - years	3 weeks
7 - years	4 weeks
9- 10 years	5 weeks
11-12 years	6 weeks
13 14 years	7 weeks
15-16 years	8 weeks
17-18 year	9 weeks
19-20 years	10 weeks
21-22 years	11 weeks
23-24 years	12 weeks
25 -26 years	13 weeks
27 + years	18 weeks
18.07	Any employee who is transferred because of displacement by reason of the permanent closing of a department. or by the introduction of labour saving equipment will have his original pay rate maintained for a period of 18 months on any new job which is accepted, and for which the rate is lower. Only employees who
(25)
have 5 years or more of continuous service would be eligible for this wage security. The rate maintained would be an out of line rate on the new job.
18.08	Any employee who feels that work assigned to them involves physical effort beyond their capacity, may bring the matter immediately to the attention of their supervisor. If their supervisor is unable to resolve the matter satisfactorily within 2 working days, the supervisor shall refer the matter immediately thereafter to the Production Manager.
18.09	The Company and Union agree that they will not threaten, or unlawfully discriminate against an employee for reasons of that employee's pregnancy, age, marital status, disability sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, colour, national origin, political affiliation with a legitimate political party or for exercising any right under this collective agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subject to harassment.
18.10	When an employee is scheduled to work or is transferred to another department. the employee will only be permitted to overtime in their home department.
18.11	When an employee is first hired, they will be placed on the seniority list. in alphabetical order for those group of individuals, in order of start date and be assigned a number.
Their position on the seniority list shall not change for the employee regardless if the employee has a change of last name in the future.
18.12	Hershey Pension Plan/ORSP as presented.
18.13	Employees in QA, Warehouse, and Plant
(26)
Cleaners are permitted to hold a spare position in another department and maintain their regular position in their home department. Employees in other departments who take a spare position in QA, Warehouse. or as Plant Cleaners are permitted to retain their regular job in their home department.
19.14	Job Evaluation
In an effort to ensure the accurate objective grading of any new position, Union and Management agree to select a job evaluation system within ninety (90) days of the signing of this agreement.
An evaluation committee consisting of Union and Management representatives will be trained in the process and jointly perform the evaluations. Evaluations will be bench marked against mutually agreed upon job (s).
ARTICLE 19.00 - SAFETY
19.01	The Company and the Union agree to make all reasonable and proper provisions for the continued high standards for the health and safety of all employees. This will be done through adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act of the Province of Nova Scotia.
19.02	All employees will be given an allowance of 5100.00 for safety shows or $150.00 for safety boots each year. Plant cleaners will receive an additional $100.00 for safety shoes or $150.00 for safety boots due to abnormal wear caused by the nature of their job. This allowance will be paid by separate cheque with the last pay in July. Employees who make a safety shoe purchase exceeding $100.00 will be reimbursed the additional cost up to a yearly maximum of $150.00 with proper receipts.
(27)
Employees in other positions which cause abnormal wear may request an additional pair of shoes throughout the year. Upon approval, the employees will be reimbursed for purchase price up to $150.00 with proper receipts.
19.03	A safety committee of Union and Employer representatives shall be established on each shift and be known as the Plant Safety Committee. This committee shall discuss and investigate only matters pertaining to on-the job safety. It shall record minutes of its meeting to be posted in a place for all employees to view. All employees are requested to bring concerns of safety to the attention of a committee member. This will be done through adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act of the Province of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 20.00 - MECHANIZATION
20.01	The Company shall have the right to modify production methods or introduce mechanization changes. As soon as feasible after any such decision is made prior to implementation of such decision, the Company shall notify the Union officials. It will always be the Company's intention to notify and involve the Union officials of forthcoming changes.
20.02	Both parties undertake to use every reasonable effort to prevent, limit, or minimize any hardships resulting from such changes upon the employees to avoid any reduction in earnings.

ARTICLE 21.00 - DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
21.01	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the 14th Day of May, 1999 to the 31st Day of March 2003, both inclusive and shall remain in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless one of the parties hereto notifies the other, in writing, within the period of not more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the automatic renewal date of its intention to revise or amend this Agreement or conclude a new Collective Agreement.
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a new collective agreement is signed.
FOR THE UNION	WITNESS
Lynette Boutilier	James Russell
Marie Eddy_____________Sandra Whitehead
Gail C. Bezanson
Jerry Harris_____________________________
Shelly LaPierre____________________________
Mona Thompson______________________________
FOR THE COMPANY	WITNESS
Dave Fraser	Yvonns Arsenault
Loris Jarvis_____________________
Donald Larson _____________________
(29)
APPENDIX 'A
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES
	April 1 1999	April 1 2000	April 1 2001	April 1 ] 2002
Group 1 Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate Room Operator Sollich Operator Jensen Operator Panning Operator Robotic Coordinator Warehouse Person Packaging Stockperson	14.05	14.40	14.75	15.10
Group 1A Woodman Operator	13.59	13.84	14.09	14.34
Group 2 Mogul Feeder	13.15	13.50	13.78	14.10
Group 3 Candy Maker Mogul Operator Enrober Operator Chocolate Room Operator Sollich Operator Jensen Operator Panning Operator Robotic Coordinator Mogul Receiver Cherry Spinner/ Sander Operator Racine Utility Person Machine Cleaner Enrober Trucker Mogul Trucker Bridge Mix Trucker/ Sugar Hopper	13.29	13.54	13.79	14.04
(30)
	April 1 1999	April 1 2000	April 1 2001	April 1 2002
Group 5 Card Wash Trucker	13.09	13.34	13.59	13.84
Group 6 General Helper Circle Machine Operator Packaging Charge Hands Q.A. Inspector/ Flavour Room Attendant	12.95	13.20	13.45	13.70
Group 7 Packaging Inspector Quality Control Inspector Cartoner Operator (Langen) Racine Operator Wrapper Operator-Auto Wrap	12.73	12.90	13.23	13.48
Group 8	12.61	12.86	13.11	13.36
Enrober & Stock Card Person Enrober Feeder Enrober Packer Packaging Belt Attendant Box Machine Operator Cello Operator Wrapper Feeder Card Wash Operator				
Grouo 9	12.47	12.72	12.97	13.22
Mogul Trayer				
(31)

	April 1 1999	April 1 2000	April 1 2001	April 1 2002
Group 10	12.39	12.64	12.89	13.14
Enrober Pre Feeder Racine Feeder & Receiver Enrober Packer Packaging Packer Packaging Cartoner Packaging Belt Worker Wrapper Machine Packer ■JBeneral Helper				
The above rates will include the following: Across the board increase
Year 1 -	$ 0.25/hr
Year 2 -	$ 0.25/hr
Year 3 -	$ 0.25/hr
Year 4 -	$ 0.25/hr
APPENDIX “B”
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME REGULATIONS
No Guarantee Of Work
1.	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee during regularly assigned or any other hours, but will continue to endeavour to provide a full work week.
Normal Work Week
2.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the normal hours of work shall be 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. The Company may at any time determine that any employee shall work regularly assigned hours that are fess than the normal work week. For definition purposes, the pay week shall be from 11 P.M. Saturday to 11 P.M. the following Saturday.
When a situation arises that it becomes necessary to send employees home. the Company will provide employees with a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
Employees who have already begun to work will receive pay for the hours they have worked, plus an additional four (4) hours, to the maximum of eight (8) hours total.
Employees who have been contacted prior to the beginning of their shift will not be entitled to this four (4) hours as outlined above.
3.	Because of the nature of the industry certain preparatory work must be completed before the production lines can be operated and thus. the starting hours of employees engaged In such preparatory work must vary.
(33)
Overtime
4A. When scheduled overtime is required, the Company shall notify employees on the previous day. This shall not apply for replacement for shift workers who do not report for work, nor in the case of emergency overtime.
4B. Except in cases of emergency an employee shall not be required to work overtime in excess of 2 nights per week during the period Monday to Friday inclusive or 6 hours within the above period. Preparatory work shall be Included in these provisions. Any employee may volunteer to work beyond these limits.
Overtime Pay
5. Overtime pay at one and one-half his normal hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works in excess of his regular 8 hours in a day, or on his regularly scheduled day off.
5. Overtime at one and half times his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 6th day of his work week. Overtime at twice his hourly rate shall be paid to any employee who works on the 7th day of his work week.
Employees who are required to work beyond eight (8) hours of their 6th day shall receive twice their hourly rate for those hours.
Employees who are absent during part of their normal work day throughout the week, will not be affected in their rate of pay for the 6th and 7th Day of Overtime.
6B. When an employee is called back to work after he has left the Company property, he shall be paid a
(34)
minimum of four (4) hours pay, at time and one hall his regular rate of pay, or pay for the hours worked at the appropriate rate, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply where the employee is called in to work prior to his regular shift and continues to Work his regular shift.
6C. All hours worked after 16 continuous hours shall be at double time. After 16 hours work all overtime shall be voluntary.
5D. All regular spare employees will be included in the overtime within the job classification they hold as a spare.
Unauthorized Working
7.	No employee shall be paid, either straight time or on overtime basis, for any work done or any time shown on the electronic time keeping system before his regularly assigned starting time or after his regularly assigned finishing time unless authorized by the immediate supervisor.
Lunch
8.	Employees shall be allowed a paid lunch period of twenty (20) minutes daily. The Company may vary or stagger this period to suit production requirements. Employees shall not be required to take their lunch periods before three (3) hours after the start of their shift and commence the same before the completion of five (5) hours. Except in the event of a breakdown lasting more than one (1) hour, the Company may request the Service Department employees to work until the repair has been effected.
(35)
9.	To any employee required to work two (2) hours or more of overtime following completion of his regular shift, the Company shall pay a lunch allowance of $7.00. The allowance shall be paid during their overtime shift, where possible, or their next following shift.
Swiping your Card
10.	All employees will be required to swipe in and out when reporting to and leaving work including overtime and leaving work early.
11.	An employee who swipes in once a week up to 3 minutes late will not incur any penalty subject to Clause 7 of this Appendix. However, an employee shall only be paid thereafter for the time indicated by his swipe.
12.	Repeated early or late swiping shall cause an employee to be subject to discipline as sot forth in Article 10.00 of this Agreement.
13.	Any employee who is unable to report for work must notify the company one (1) hour prior to the start of their shift
14.	The shift work hours for continuous operation jobs shall be:
Day Shift	7:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M.
Afternoon Shift	3:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M,
Night Shift	11:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
or any 8 hour shift mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
The Company and the Union have come to an understanding at the bargaining table in that the
(36)
Company will endeavour to provide employees with a week's notice of a change in their shift schedule.
15.	No employee shall swipe other than his own time card. Failure to comply with this Clause may be cause for dismissal.
15. In recognition of the difficulty imposed upon Management and members of the Union through failure of some employees to comply with working schedules. employees shall give prior notice to the Company whenever he expects to be absent from work. When an employee is absent from his regularly scheduled work he must report to his Supervisor at the beginning of the shift upon his return. It is not the intention of this absenteeism Clause to impose any additional hardship on employees for absence due to circumstances beyond their control. Repeated violation of this Clause may result in a formal warning, followed by a suspension and finally discharge for additional violations.
Rest Period
All departments shall be entitled to two (2) twelve (12) minute rest periods per day in addition to the lunch break. Such rest periods to be arranged so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production. Rest periods in Packing Departments are to be eight (6) minutes and four (4) minutes respectively in the morning and eight (8) minutes and four (4) minutes respectively in the afternoon. All employees are required to be in work position and ready to start work at the end of the break period. The Company agrees to allow time for travel to and from the rest area.
18.	When any shift work employee or an employee connected with shift work operation is required to work overtime, he shall be allowed a twelve (12) minute break
(37)
prior to working overtime plus a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break for overtime of four (4) or more hours duration. Such periods to be at the discretion of the Department Supervisor so as not to interfere with the efficiency of production.
Training
19.	The Company and the Union recognize the need to train employees in work responsibilities, when they have received a job posting.
The Company shall provide the initial training of five (5) consecutive days.
All such employees will serve an initial training period of twenty (20) working days for groups 5-10 inclusive, where the rate of pay will be .10 per hour less than the rate of the job. Employees in groups 1-4 will serve a period where the .10 per hour less than the rate of the job will occur for the forty five (45) working day probationary period.
It is also understood that these employees: Candy Makers, Mogul Operators, Enrober Operators, Chocolate Room Operators. Panning Operators, Jensen Operators, Sollich Line Operators, and Robotic Coordinators will have a training period of eighteen (18) months. The employee being trained may request an evaluation prior to the completion of the eighteen (18) month period and if the requirements for the job have been successfully demonstrated, the normal rate of the job will be paid. The employee being trained will in any case be subject to review at nine (9) months and will receive 50% of the differential between the training rate and the normal rate for the lob at that time.
(38)
A training manual shall be set for all postings. Employees will be trained in all aspects of the position. The person training the employee for the position will have input to any additional training the employee may require. This will take place between the trainer, trainee, and the department supervisor.
The trainer shall receive a premium of .50 cents per hour for all hours training. The senior employee will be given the opportunity to provide the training.
Uniforms
20.	Employees will be given five (5) uniforms. Worn and torn uniforms will be turned in for replacement when required. Maintenance will be provided with cotton uniforms.
(39)
APPENDIX 'C'
SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES - MAINTENANCE
	April 1 1999	April 1 2000	April 1 2001	April 1 2002
Group 3 Planl.Cleaners	13.29	13.54	13.79	14.04
Group 13 Machinist Mechanic 1st Class Pipe Fitter Boiler Operator Welder	16.65	16.90	17.15	17.40
Group 14 Mechanic 2nd Class Storeperson-Maintenance	15.43	15.68	15.93	16.18
_GrQMP_15 Packaging Specialist	20.63	20.88	21.13	21.38
Group 16 Mechanical Specialist	18.95	19.20	19.45	19.70
Group 17 Building Service Specialist	18.95	19.20	19.45	19.70
The above will include the following:
Across the board increase of .25 cents per hour in each year of the collective agreement.
(40)
Apprenticeship Program - Schedule of Wage Rates
To get to the next step of full rate, the employee must have completed 8000 hours and have their journeymen ticket, or, have a minimum of ten (10) years equivalent mechanical specialist qualifications.
(41)
Appendix C
1.	Tool Allowance
An allowance of $300.00 for replacement of broken and worn tools purchased by the Company will be provided.
2.	Travel Allowance
Meetings, training programs. equipment inspections or any other job related assignments which keep an employee away from home overnight will be compensated for travel time, meals, plus any time spent on site but will not exceed eight (8) hours per day. Saturdays and Sundays are treated the same as weekdays.
An employee travelling on Saturday or Sunday for assignment scheduled to begin on Monday will be compensated for the days spent away from home.
The Company agrees to provide a $25.00 per day incidental allowance.
3.	A washer and dryer will be placed in the Maintenance Department for the cleaning of heavily soiled uniforms and will be available to all employees to use for that purpose.
(42)
Hershey Canada Inc.
A Hershey Foods Company l Compagnie d.e produits alimentaires Hershey
April 1, 1999
Sandra Whitehead BCTGM, Local 446 14 McQuade Lake Crescent, Suite 201
Halifax, Nova Scotia
B3S IB6
Jim Russell
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen, Helpers & Misc. Workers Local 927 19 Alma Crescent Halifax, Nova Scotia B3N 2C4
Subject: Banked Hours
As an alternative to banking overtime hours. employees can receive their overtime pay in a direct deposit account while continuing to receive their pay in the separate cheque. With Supervisory approval, employees will be granted time off without pay which will not be recorded as an absence.
Employees choosing to opt out of this program will not be eligible to re-enroll until after January 1 of the following year.
Loris Jarvis Plant Manager
LJ/va
375 Pleasant Street, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia 32Y 4N4 Telephone [902] 4G9-2470 Fax [902] 469-7169
(43)
OVERTIME PROCEDURE:
FOLLOWING RULES WILL APPLY:
1.	Employees are not permitted to trade overtime shifts with another employee under any circumstances.
2.	Employees may agree to split an overtime shift any day of the week, including weekends, however the following will apply:
1.	Must have the Supervisor's approval
2.	They must be the next person on the overtime list in the proper order.
3.	If the next person on the list doss not want to split the shift but prefers to work the full hours available, they will have the right to do so. The person ahead of them who wanted to split the shift will now have to decide if they will now work the lull overtime shift available or refuse the overtime. Under no circumstances will anyone be skipped on the list to see if the next person down would prefer to split the shift.
4.	For those who split a shift this will count as their turn for the purpose of the overtime list.
3.	All departments except centre making collect overtime by asking those who are on the prior shift first then go to the opposite shift. The Enrobing, Packaging, and Centre Making departments will collect weekend overtime in advance using sign up lists with shift preference indicated. Employees will get their choice of shift where possible providing they indicate this choice on the sign up sheet.
(44)
4.	Employees that are off sick or on vacation are deemed to be unavailable. Employees in either category will not be eligible until they return to work and begun their next regularly scheduled shift
6. Total maximum number of hours worked in any twenty four hour period will be eighteen hours.
6. From Monday to Friday no one in the department wants to work overtime including spares. Assuming the job does not require specific skills that require the junior person to be forced. the following is the list in order of the next department from which to select:
Bridge Choc. Rm. Whse C. Making Enrobing Pack.
Q.A.
Cleaners
Pack. Enrobing Bridge C. Making Choc. Rm. Whse.
Q.A.
Cleaners
Enrobing C. Making Pack. Bridge Choc. Rm. Whse.
Q.A.
Cleaners
C.Making
Bridge
Choc. Rm.
Enrobing
Pack.
Whse.
Q.A.
Cleaners
Choc. Rm.
Bridge
C. Making
Pack.
Enrobing
Whse.
QA.
Cleaners
C. Making
Bridge
Choc. Rm.
Enrobing
Pack
Whse
QA
Cleaners
7. Overtime will be scheduled by classification then the general list.
6. Employees will be permitted to refuse overtime in their posted position and work as general help provided
(45)
the posted position can be filled without forcing overtime from Monday to Friday.
9.	Overtime will be by strict seniority.
10.	Employees will not be called at home and forced to work overtime.
11.	Any employee being accommodated for a restriction of any kind will not be permitted to work overtime either on weekends or weekdays.
12.	The next person to work overtime will be governed by the last worked, for all departments.
13.	Employees will be informed of the anticipated overtime hours to be worked.
14.	Employees who do not want to be asked for overtime shall sign a form to confirm they do not want to be asked. They can change their mind and reverse this form at a later date.
15.	Packaging and Enrobing departments will have two lists. One for weekdays the other for weekends. All other departments will have only one list for overtime for both the weekend and weekday overtime. If not enough employees sign up for the weekend overtime, the Company will ask those employees who have not signed up, in order of seniority.
(46)
FIXED SHIFTS - PHASED IN TRANSITION
April 6, 1999
Management has outlined where the plant ultimately has to be with fixed shifts. To assure a smooth transition to fixed shifts, we will proceed using the following approach:
■	As soon as possible go to a fixed shift for all positions. Employees can select this shift using overall seniority within the job class.
■	The 7-3 and 3-11 shift will rotate every 2 weeks.
Management will work with the Union in moving towards a full implementation of fixed shifts over the life of this agreement.
In the life of this agreement the following process will be used to assist in moving the plant to fixed shifts:
. All new hires will be hired to a fixed shift assignment.
. All postings after the signing of this agreement will be shift specific.
. Employees will be permitted to volunteer to go to a fixed 3 - 11 shift on a permanent basis
. Recalls, with prior notification, are subject to fixed shift assignments effective the year 2000.
(47)