so itect j			
m, ^		dii.	oi
TERM. Q 7			#3
No. Of EMPLOYEES	Ib1[		
NOAVJRE □ 'EMPLOYES			
OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD. FRCM: MAY 1, 1995 TO: APRIL 30, 1997
NOV 2 8 1995

INDEX
OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.
	ARTICLE	PAGE
Absence because of Illness or Injury/Seniority	9.05	11
Allowance, Clothing	17.03	17
Allowance, Tool	17.06	17
Arbitration	21	21
Benefit Plans	15	14
Bulletin Board	17.01	16
Change in Job Categories and drifts	22.03	23
Change in Starting Time Notice	5.12	5
Change in Starting Time by Seniority	5.11	5
Classifications	Sch."A"	25
Clothing Allowance	17.03	17
Committee, Haliti and Safety	18.03	18
Daily Hours of Work	5.01	3
Deduction of Union Dues	2.02	2
Definition of Seniority	9.01	9
Dental Plan • MFCW	15.02	15
Discrimination Consistent Wfcth. HRA	4	3
Discrimination for Union Activity	2.01	2
Doctor or Dentist Appointments	5.03	4
Duration of Agreement	25	24
Earplugs Provided	18.17	20
Exhibit One		28
Funeral Leave	11	13
General	17	16
General Holidays	6	5
General Holiday during Vacation	7.05	8
General Leave	13	14
Grievance Procedure	20	21
Group Life Insurance	15.01	14
Hairnets Supplied	17.04	17
Harassment	4.03	3
Halfti and Safety	18	17
Hours of Work and Overtime	5	3
Illness or Injury while on Vacation	7.08	8
Injury Pay Provisions	18.13	20
-2-
	ARTICLE	EASE
Job Grades	Sch."A"	25
Job Vacancies Posted	9.04	10
Jury Diy	14	14
Layoff by Seniority	9.03	10
Lead Hand Premium	Sch."A"	27
Leave, Funeral	11	13
Leave, General	13	14
Leave, Maternity	10	11
Leave, Negotiations	12.02	14
Leave, Parental	10	11
Length of Agreement	25	24
List of Employees' Seniority	9.02	10
List of Terminated Employees Provided	2.01	2
Lunch Period	5.08	4
Management's Rights	3	2
Maternity Leave	10	11
Meal Period	5.08	4
MFCW Dental Plan	15.02	15
Microwave Oven and Fridge Provided	17.08	17
Minimum Pay for Reporting for Work	5.06	4
Monitoring Equipment	18.06	18
Negotiations Leave	12.02	14
New Classification Created	22.05	23
No Discrimination Consistent With HRA	4	3
No Discrimination for Union Activity	2.01	2
No Harassment	4.03	3
Notice of Change in Starting Time	5.12	5
Notification of Current Address/Phone Number	5.06	4
Orientation	8.06	9
Overtime by Department	5.10	5
Overtime Rate of Pay	5.02	4
Parental Leave	10	11
Parkas and Rubber Boots Supplied	17.02	16
Pay for Reporting for Work	5.06	4
Posting Job Vacancies	9.04	10
Posting Union Notices	17.01	16
Premium, Lead Hand	Sch. "A"	27
Premium, Shift	23	23
Probationary Period	8	8
-3-
	ARTICLE	E4GE
Proper Ttedrring	18.12	20
Protective Clothing and Equipment	18.05	18
Rate of Pay for Overtime Worked	5.02	4
Rate of Pay for Sunday Worked	5.05	4
Rate of Pay for Saturday Worked	5.04	4
Rate of Pay for Temporary Help	Sch."A"	26
Rate of Pay for Work on General Holiday	6.02	6
Rates for New Classification Created	22.05	23
Rates for Change in Job Categories and Shifts	22.03	23
Recall to Work after Shift Ends	5.07	4
Reporting Pay	5.06	4
Rest Period	5.09	4
Retirement Plan	15.03	15
Retirement Savings Plan	15.05	16
Retroactive Pay	Sch."A"	27
Right to Refuse Hazardous Work	18.11	19
Rubber Boots and parkas Supplied	17.02	16
Safety Equipment	18.05	18
Saturday Worked Rate of Pay	5.04	4
Saturday Worked/Time Missed during Week	5.03	4
Seniority	9	9
Seniority List Posted	9.02	10
Shift Premiums	23	23
Strikes or Lockouts	19	20
Sunday Worked Rate of Pay	5.05	4
Tedrological Change	17.07	17
Temporary Assignment to Higher Rated Job	22.02	23
Temporary Employees' Seniority	9.01	9
Temporary Help Rate of Pay	Sch."A"	26
Term of Agreement	25	24
Termination	16	16
Time Off for Hafth and Safety Training	18.10	19
Time off for Union Business	12	13
Tool Allowance	17.06	17
Training, Proper	18.12	20
Training, Time Off for Health and Safety	18.10	19
Transportation of Accident Victims	18.14	20
UFCW Retirement Savings Plan	15.05	16
-4-
	ARTICLE	PAGE
Union Business Time Off	12	13
Union Dues Deduction	2.02	2
Union Recognition	1	1
Union Representative's Visits	17.05	17
Union Security	2	1
Vacancies Posted and Awarded	9.04	10
Vacations	7	6
Wage Rates	Sch."A"	25
Wages	22	23
Wearing Apparel Sifplied	17.02	16
Weekly Indemnity Benefits	15.01	14
Work Week	5.01	3
EXPIRY DATE: APRIL 30/97
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.,
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, hereinafter called "the Company*,
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 832,
chartered by the tinted Ebod &
Commercial Workers International Uncn, hereinafter called "thellricn".
In oensideratien of the covenants and agreements of the parties hereto hereinafter contained, and by them to be respectively observed, hq>t and performed; the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 UNION RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the ILdcn as the sole agency for the
purposes of collective bargaining for all employees of Old Dutch Ebods Ltd,, in its plant in Winnipeg, Manitoba, except Tmck Drivers, Cffke Staff, Forepersons and those above the rank cf Forepersons, Laboratory Technicians and those excluded by the Act
ARTICLE 2	UNION SECURITY/DEDUCTION OF DUES
2.01	Union Security
Any employee who at the date of this Agreement is a member of the linen, or one who becomes a member of the Union after the date shall, as a cmditkn of employment, maintain such membership during a tern, of this Agreement
The Ccrrpany shall be free to hire car rehire new employees who are not members of the Uhicn, provided said non-members shall be eligible for> membership in the tliicn.
Employee vtio are Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay uniform union dues, initiation fees and special assessments required of all members.
The Company agrees to provide each new employee and each rehired employee, at the time of employment, vdlh a form letter supplied by the Union (Exhibit One). The Company agrees to forward Exhibit One (postcard) duly completed as attached to this Agreement, to the Union within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire cr rehire of an employee. The Union shall bear the expense of printing and mailing the letter, the contents to be such that it is acceptable to the Company.
The Company agrees to continue to provide the Union once a ircnth with a list containing the names and Social Insurance Numbers of all employees who have terminated their employment during the previous month.
No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for lawful Union activity, or performing services on a Union committee outside working hours or reporting to the Union any violation of any provision of this Agreement.
2.02	Deduction of Dues
The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee in each pay period, such uniform union dues, initiation fees and assessments as directed by the Union. The Company further agrees to deduct the union dues automatically from the wages of new or rehired employees’ first pay period. Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within twenty (20) calendar days following the end of the Company’s four (4) or five (5) week accounting period and accompanied by a four (4) wade or monthly written statement of the names, addresses and Social insurance Numbers of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. The Company shall also provide the Union, when remitting the monthly cheques, with the names of employees and name changes of employees.
Each year the Company will calculate the amounts of union dues deducted from the employee’s pay and shall indicate same on the T-4 slip for each employee no later than E&zuary 28th.
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
3.01	In consideration of the recognition granted to the Union herein, the
Union agrees for itself and on behalf of the members, not to hinder, or interfere with the Company in the management of its business in all of its several departments,
including, but without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the rights of the
Company to tssijn work, to direct the work force, to hire, suspend, discharge for proper cause, transfer employees to jobs within or between different departments, to lay off employees for lack <£ work howsoever arising or for other legitimate reasons, In the exercising of the above management responsibilities and prerogative the Company agrees that its employees will not be discriminated against, and that same will rrfc be exercised to bring about a condition contrary to any of the terms or provisions of this Agrement.
3.02	In administering this Agrement, the Company shall act reasonably,
fairly, in good faith and in a manner Consistent with the Agreement as a whole.
ARTICLE 4 NO DISCRIMINATION
4.01	Ohe Company and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee, or prospective employee because of membership or activity in the Union, or on the grounds of anoestry including colour and perceived race, nationality cr national origin, ethnic background or origin, religion or creed, or religious belief, religious association, or religious activity, age, sex (including pregnancy, the possibility of pregnancy cr circumstances related to pregnancy), gender determined characteristics, sexual orientation, marital or family status, source of income, political belief, association or activity, physical or mental disability, all cf vbridi is consistent vdth the Hmen Rights Act in the province of Manitoba. EUrther, there shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or to obey a lawful union order.
4.02	An employee alleging discrimination may place his or her allegation before the Union, and if the Uriai considers that the allegation has merit it shall be treated as a grievance and be subject to the provisions of grievance procedure as established in this Agrement.
4.03	The Company agrees that there will be no harassment in the workplace. If any complaints of harassment arise the Company and the Uricn will meet to resolve the issue. Any grievance arising out of this section will commence at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The Company will continue to post its current "No Harassment Policy *.
ARTICLE S HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
5.01	The basic normal work week shall be eight (8) hours daily and
forty (40) hours weekly, but nothing herein contained shall be deemed to be a guarantee of forty (40) hours work week.
5.02	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half (lVi) shall be paid for all hours worked over eight (8) hours daily or forty (40) hours weeldy, whichever is the
greater.
5.03	Any employees who are scheduled to work on Saturday and miss time during the week due to a doctor or dentist appointment or any other bona fii reason acceptable to the Company, shall receive time and ooe-half (1V4) for hours worked on Saturday. Article 5, Section 5.04 of this Agreement will apply to any employee who misses time on their own volition. AU time cfiB for doctor or dentist appointments must be pre-arranged with the Supervisor. Employees will provide the Company with proof of reasons for absence if proof is requested.
5.04	and one-half (lVi) shall be paid for Saturday hours worked;
provided, however, that time and one-half (1%) shall only be paid to any employee who has worked forty (40) hours during the immediate preceding	to Friday, and if
any employee has not worked in the said period because s/he was scheduled off by the Company or because cf a general holiday, s/he shall be paid the time and one-half (1V4) rate.
5.05	Double (2X) time shall be paid for Sunday hours worked, provided it is not part of a regular drift.
5.06	Each employee reporting for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay for that time if there is no work available.
It is the responsibility of the employa to keep the Company informed at ail times of his/her current telephone number and residence address. If an employee foils to do so s/he shall not be entitled to the pay in lieu of notice referred to
in this article.
5.07	Any employee who is recalled to work after completing his shift for the day and has left the plant shall be paid time and cne-half (1%) for the actual hours worked or four (4) hours at straighttime pay, whichever is the greater,
5.08	Employees who are scheduled on all shifts shall have a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period. Employees shall not be required to work more than five (5) hours without a meal period, nor an additional five (5) hours without a second meal period. The second meal period shall be cne-half (1/2) hour on Company time.
5.09	Adi employees shall have a ten (10) minute paid rest period during each half of a diift, and the time for each rest period shall be computed as time in the lunch room.
5.10	In the cy«U overtime is necessary, the overtime shall be assigned on a departmental basis <j provided for in tie wage schedule. When overtime work requires less employees than normally employed on such work, then overtime will be offered to the most senior employees wherever practical. Senior employees will have the right to refuse provided there are sufficient junior employees Qualified and available for work.
5.11	When the Company finds it necessary to change the starting time for one or more of the employees in a given classification, the most junior employees shall be the first affected; provided, however, that if the junior employees are not qualified for the job then a more senior employee may be required to work.
5.12	The Company shall advise the employees of any changes in the starting work schedule prior to Friday noon of each work week If no changes have been ocmnunicated prior to Friday noon, then the schedule in affect shall apply for the following Monday. However, the schedule of any employee may be changed without notice in the event of unscheduled absence of fellow employees, the event of emergencies such as breakdowns or Acts of God, or other Acts over which the Company has no control. In all other cases, at least twelve (12) hours notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours pay granted in lieu of notice.
Exceptions to this general d e will apply in the case of the night clean-up crew. When tha plant is forced to work overtime and this crew is unable to start at its regular time because the machinery is still operating, they may have their starting hours altered provided reasonable notice is given. Reasonable notice is defined as being a telephone call at least four (4) hours prior to the change.
ARTICLE 6
G]

*AL HOLIDAYS
6.01	The following days shall be paid as General Holidays:
New fee's Day	Canada Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Remembrance Day	Good Friday
Civic Holiday (lit Mon. in Aug.)	Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
National Heritage Day (3rd MoDday in February or whenever proclaimed by Provincial or Federal governments)
In the event that any of the above holidays fall on a weekend, the employee shall be paid for the holiday or declared holiday. If any of these days falls on a Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed. Employees shall also
receive pay for general holiday or holidays, provided they worked their full scheduled work day before and after the holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness or accident.
6.02	Any employee, if required to work on a general holiday, shall receive in addition to their regular pay for the holiday, straight time and one half (VA) for each hour worked on said holiday.
6.03	lb qualify for general holiday pay as set forth, an employee nust satisfy the requirements for entitlement as set forth in the Employment Standards Act.
An employee who fails to work a minimum of fifteen (15) days during the thirty (30) calendar days preceding the Holiday, shall not be disqualified frem receiving holiday pay providing he works the last full scheduled shift before the holiday and the fist scheduled drift following, unless the Union and the Company otherwise agree.
ARTICLE 7_______YACAHONS
7.01	The anniversary date c£ all employees for earned vacation with pay shall be December 31st of each year.
7.02	An employee who commences employment with the Gcnpany after January 1st of a year and before December 31st of that year shall be entitled to an earned vacation p r a t e d on the basis of the following schedule:
Calendar Years Following the Year in Which the Employee was Hired
MONTH HIRED	1st	2nd & 3rd	4th	5th- 9th	10th	11th -18th	19th	20th & over
I Jan. to Feb.	10 days	10 days	15 days	15 days	20 days	20 days	25 days	25 days
| March to April	8 days	10 days	14 days	15 days	19 days	20 days	24 days	25 dpys
j May to June	6 days	10 days	13 days	15 days	18 days	20 days	23 days	25 djays
July to August	4 days	10 days	12 days	15 days	17 days	20 days	22 days	25 djays
sept to Oct.	2 days	10 days	11 days	15 days	16 days	20 days	21 days	25 days
J Nov. to Dec.	1 day	10 days	10 days	15 days	15 days	20 days	20 days	25 days
Aii employee who ha-3 earned three (3) days but lees than five (5) days under this section will be allowed, upon request, one (1) week's vacation including days earned - it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay, An employee who has earned seven (7) days but less than ten (10) days under this section will be allowed, upon request, two (2) weeks’ vacation including days earned - it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay.
7.03	Earned vacation shall be scheduled between January 1st to December 31st of each year, both inclusive, unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee. Insofar as practical, earned vacation shall be granted on the basis of seniority. The vacation schedule shall be posted no later than Edaruary 1st of each year, to be completed by employees by no later than April 1st. The finalized vacation schedule will be posted no later than April 30th of each year. In the event that vacation schedules have not been selected by employees by April 1st, vacations may be assigned by the Company. It is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to limit the number of employees who may be away on their earned vacation at any one time providing such right is not unreasonably exercised. Employees shall only be entitled to use two (2) weeks of their earned vacation entitlement during the months of June, July or August of any year, unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing between the employee and the Company.
Senior employees who are entitied to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation during the year, may claim additional wades during June, July and August if, after all employees’ vacation schedules are finalized there are any additional wades left over. These weeks will be allotted to employees by seniority, providing it does not interfere with the operation of the plant.
7.04	The amount of vacation pay shall be computed by applying a percentage to the prior calendar year’s earnings as set forth in the following schedules:
Calendar Yean Following the Year in Which the Employee was Hired
MONTH I HIRED	1st	2nd & 3rd	4th	5th- 9tfi	10th	11th- 18th	19th	20th k over
| Jan. to Feb.	4.0%	4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%	10.0%	10.0%,
| March to April	4.0%	4.0%	5.6%	6.0%	7.6%	8.0%	9.6%	10.0%
| May to June	4.0%	4.0%	5.2%	6.0%	7.2%	8.0%	9.2%	10.0%
July to August	4.0%	4.0%	4.8%	6.0%	6.8%	8.0%	8.8%	10.0%
Sept, to Oct.	4.0%	4.0%	4.4%	6.0%	6.4%	8.0%	8.4%	10.0%
Nov. to Dec.	4.0%	4.0%	4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%	10.0%
Employee* will earn the above percentages cr corresponding hours paid to days off, whichever is the greater amount.
The employee shall receive vacation pay immediately prior to going
on vacation.
7.05	When a general holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation and the Company’s place of business is closed by reason of such holiday, die employee will be allowed one (1) day of pay in lieu cr another day of with pay mutually agreed between the Company and the employee for each statutory holiday.
7.06	An employee vd-o is eligible for earned vacation entitlement, and vho terminates his cr her service with the Company before receiving such earned vacation entitlements, shall receive upon termination, the appropriate percent of his or her total wages or earnings as referred to in the above articles.
7.07	In the event an employee is on a leave of absence for any reason and his cr her absence exceeds six (6) calendar months they shall be paid on the basis of their appropriate percentage of total wages or earnings of such employees for the previous calendar year.
7.08	Employees who become confined to home or in the hospital due to serious illness or injury while on vacation, may file a claim for weekly indemnity benefits and the balance of the employee’s vacation may be rescheduled upon approval of the claim by Great West Life providing there is a mimmun of one (1) wedc left on the employee’s vacation. If this is a reoccurring illness or injury the employee will not be entitled to reschedule his cr her vacation. Rescheduling of vacation shall not interfere with other employees who have already scheduled their vacation (no bumping).
ARTICLE 8 PROBATIONARY PERIOD
8.01	It is understood and agreed that employees who are hired into the classification of Packer, Dnrpers, Weight Takers, Sweepers, Inspectors, Trimmers, General Labourers and Production Grade 1, shall serve a probationary period of employment cf thirty (30) days worked.
8.02	Employees hired into all other classification of the Company shall serve a probationary period up to forty-five (45) days worked
No employee will be requested to serve a second or subsequent
probationary period.
- 8 -
8.03	An employes may be subject to termination of employment by the Company during the probationary period and the exercise of this right by the Company shall not be open to cc the subject of a grievance by the Union or the employee.
8.04	Termination of an employes during his cr her probationary period as outlined in this Agreement may be deferred for an extended period mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company for purposes of further evaluating employes performance.
8.05	Employees who have completed their probationary period, and who are transferred into classifications other than packer, dumpers, weight takers, swagaras, inspectors, trimmers, general labourers and production grade 1, and whose services in such classifications are unsatisfactory shall have the right to return to the classification held immediately prior to such transfer.
8.06	Orientation
The Company agrees to provide a Union Representative cr his/her designate, not less than ten (10) minutes at a time mutually agreed upon, during the employee’s first week of employment as an orientation period for tbs familiarization of the employees in the bargaining unit wife the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to this Collective Agreement and to UFCW Local No. 832. Such time <±E will be wife pay for the employee and for the thiol Representative’s designate should such designate be a member of the bargaining unit
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority shall be defined as length of continuous service wife the
Employer within the bargaining unit from the most recent date of hire.
Temporary employees who are employees hired to work during the summer will not exercise seniority against other employees.
Seniority shall take effect after an employee has served his/her probationary period as referred to in Article 8.01, 8.02 and 8.04, Upon completion of the said probationary period an employee’s seniority shall date back to his/her original date of employment.
Seniority for employees hired the same day will be determined by
date of application.
9.02	The Company agrees to post in a conspicuous place in the plant, within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Agreement, t li± of employees covered by this Agreement arranged in order of their length of service.
Ary employee who believes that his/her record of service has been incorrectly stated on such list may request that his/her standing be corrected providing she makes such request within ten (10) days of posting of the list and failing such request said list shall be deemed to be correct and not open to challenge by the employee. In the event the Company contemplates changing the posted list, for any reason, the Union shall be notified prior to any such change, and given reasons for same. The Company agrees to make an up-to-date sanctity list available to the Uricn every six (6) months thereafter.
9.03	In cases of layoff and reductions of the work force, the probationary employees will be laid off first. In .all other cases of layoff, reduction of the work force, re-employment, filling of new positions and filling of job vacancies, seniority shall be the governing factor providing the employee has the ability to do the normal requirements of the job. The Company will consider the individual qualifications of the employee and the efficient operation of its plant and business.
9.04	The Company will post a notice on the bulletin board within five (5) calendar days of the vacancy occurring for a period of seven (7) calendar days advising of a job vacancy. During this time, application for vacancy may be made by erplqyees. The Ccnpany will post the classification and shift for file job in question. Temporary appointments may be made by the Company pending receipt of application.
The job will be awarded within five (5) calendar days after the posting whenever possible. An employee receiving the posted job will be on trial for up to forty-five (45) working days. If the employee cannot perform the job satisfactorily, or if the employee chooses to do so, the employee will return to his/her prior job. It is understood that the Company has the sole right to decide whether an applicant can perform the job satisfactorily. Only the original vacancy and the job from which the promotion was made shall be posted.
Employees who my be on vacation, sick leave or authorized leave of absence may apply, in writing, for a job prior to any vacancy being posted. Said employee’s application will then be considered by the Employer along with all other applications.
If an employee is found unsatisfactory, or chooses to return to his/her previous job s/he will not be able to reapply for the same vacancy within the nod six (6) months.
9.05	U any employee is absent from work because of illness certified by
a duly qualified medical practitioner or an injury arising out of an employee’s normal course of duties, then the employee shall not lose seniority rights and shall return to the position held immediately prior to the employee’s absence.
Prior to returning to work, an ill or injured employee must provide medical proof of ability to return to work. If an employee is not able to return to work to perform his or her complete duties, the Employer will make every effect to find alternate work within the plant
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the employer one (1) week’s notice of his/her intention to return to work.
ARTICLE IQ________MATERNITY LEAVE/PARENTAL LEAVE
10.01	An employee may request a leave of absence without pay because
of pregnancy. Such leave will be granted providing the employee submits to her Employer a request in writing for such leave at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave (or such shorter period of time as her doctor may determine), together wtih a certificate fern a qualified medical practitioner indicating the estimated dabe of delivery. Said employee shall be re-employed by the Company after the birth and must do so within seventeen (17) weeks following the actual delivery date unless she wishes to take parental leave immediately following her maternity leave.
In cases of physical complications, the employee may request an extension of her leave of absence provided such request is accompanied by a doctor's certificate setting out the nature of the complications and the length of the extension. Seniority shall accrue during maternity leave of absence and benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained,
Eligible employees will be entitled to collect U.I.C. benefits in amounts and for a time period as provided under the U.I.C. Act.
Group insurance benefits (or other similar benefits) required because of a medical condition directly attributable to pregnancy, will be granted to employees under the same aerditims as these benefits are granted to other employees.
10.02
PARENTAL LEA.YE Entitlements
Every employee,
(a)	who,
(i)	in the case of a female employee, becomes the natural mother of a child,
(ii)	in the case of a male employee, becomes the natural father of a child or assumes actual care and custody of his newborn child, or
(iii)	adopts a child under the law of the province; and
(b)	who submits to the Employer an application in writing for parental leave where possible at least four (4) weeks before the day specified in the application as the day on which the employee intends to commence the leave;
is end tied to, and shall be granted, parental leave consisting of a continuous period of up to seventeen (17) weeks.
10.03	Commencement ofLeavc
Parental leave rrust commence no later than the first anniversary date of the birth or adoption of the child or of the &te on which the child comes into the actual care and custody of the employee. The employee will decide when his or her parental leave is to commence.
10.04	Late Application for Parental	Leave
Where an application for parental leave under subsection 10.02 is not made in accordance with section 10.02(b), the employee is nonetheless entitled to, and upon application to the Employer shall be granted, parental leave under this section for the full seventeen (17) week leave period.
10.05	Reinstatement of Employee
An employee who wishes to resume employment on the expiration of leave granted with this section shall be reinstated in the position occupied at the time such leave commenced.
10.06	U.I.C. Benefits
Eligible employees will be entitled to collect U.I.C. benefits in amounts and for a time period as provided for under the U.I.C. Act.
- 12
10.07	Seniority shall accrue during a parental leave of absence and
benefits accumulated prior to said leave shall be maintained.
10.08	Benefits provided for in this section are in addition to any and all
maternity leave benefits that are available to an employee.
ARTICLE 11 FUNERAL LEAVE
11.01	Where an employee is absent from work to attend the funeral of a spouse (including common law qpouse), parent, or de facto parent, child, brother or sister, s/he shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate on three (3) scheduled days ending with the second day after the funeral.
11.02	When an employee is absent from work to attend the funeral of a stepbrother, stepsister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, daughter-in-law, sn-irria*, or grandchild, he/she shall receive pay at his/her regular hourly rate on two (2) scheduled days ending with the first day after the funeral.
11.03	No payment shall be made for any part of the three (3) or two (2) days which fall on Saturday, Sunday, paid holiday or part of the employee's vacation.
11.04	When an employee is unable to attend the funeral of a family member as per Section 11.01 due to geographical IknitatiaTS he shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate for the day of the funeral. Such payment will be made only in respect to the absence from work on one of his regularly scheduled work days.
11.05	It is understood that, to be eligible as a common law spouse under
11.01	above, such employee must have been living common law for a minimum of twelve (12) months price to the death.
11.06	Any extended leave of absence beyond those mentioned in Article
11.01	and 11.02 will be at the discretion of the Company.
ARTICLE 12
liJT
OFF MIR UNION BUSINESS
12.01	The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees, who are chosen
for such purposes, shall be granted time off without pay in order to attend Union business, provided, that suitable replacements are available to perform such absent employee's jebs.
12.02
Negotiations Leave
The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees will be granted time off, without pay, in order to participate in contract negotiations of the employer.
12.03	When an employee is chosen to attend a Union convention or
participate in contract negotiations, the Employer agrees to pay the employee in full for time lost, and then to bill the Union for such time.
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
13.01	Unless stated elsewhere in this Agreement, all leaves of absence or
time off will be without pay. Requests for leave of absence or time off exceeding one (1) week (excluding matemity/parental or bereavement leaves) shall be submitted to the Company in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the anticipated time of absence. The Company may in its discretion refuse any request for leave of absence or time off. Failure to report for duty immediately following the expiry of such leave of absence or time off, shall be deemed to be voluntary separation from the employee from his/her employment, unless an explanation by way of a telegram, telephone call or fax to the Company provides an explanation satisfactory to the Company.
ARTICLE 14 JURY DUTY
14.01	An employee summoned for jury duty, or subpoenaed as a witness
in Court, shall be paid the difference between the amount paid to him for such jury duty or witness fees and the amount of basic wages he would have earned normally had he been scheduled to work on the day(s) of such attendance.
The employee shall report for work when not required by the Court if at the time he is not required there is not less than two hours remaining in this normal shift.
ARTICLE 15 BENEFIT PLANS
15,01	The Company agrees to provide the following benefits:
1.	Group Life Insurance coverage in the amount of $20,000 plus $20,000 Accidental Death coverage.
2.	Weekly Indemnity Benefits of seventy (70%) percent of earnings to the maximum established by UIC; first (1st) day for accident, surgery and hospitalization and fourth (4th) day for sickness benefits to cover twenty-six (26) weeks.
An employes receiving sick pay will be deducted twenty (20%) percent for incane tax purposes.
Rmpioyee-s shall be eligible to join in the Health Welfare Plan following three (3) months of service.
The employees will have the option of having Weekly Indamity Benefits cheques mailed directly to the employee’s home (if so requested in writing by the employee) or to be picked up at the Company’s premises.
PentaLPfan
The Company agrees to make a diiacfc contribution to the Manitoba Rood & Commercial Workers Dental Eiai of twenty-seven (270) cents per hour (effective May 12th, 1996, twenty-eight (280) cents per hour/effective May 7, 1997, twenty-nine (290) cents per hour) for each hour of actual work in respect to all employees in the bargaining unit Contributions shall include sick pay (excluding Weekly Indemnity Benefits), vacations and general holidays, to a maximum of the basic work week.
3.
4.
5.
15,02
Such contributions shall be forwarded to the trust within twenty-one (21) days following the Company’s four (4) or five (5) wedc accounting period.
The Company agrees to comply with all requests of the Board of Trustees in regards to the entry into the Eiai and to abide by all the rules and decisions of the Board of Trustees as decided from time to time.
15.03	The Company will provide a Retirement Hal vith. the following
provisions:
(a)	The Company will contribute three (3%)percent of gross earnings of covered employees.
(b)	Employees will contribute three (3%)percent of gross earnings.
(c)	The plan will be compulsory for a 11 Union members.
(d)	EhpLcyees will be eligible to join the Plan after one (1) year or more of continuous service.
(e)	One hundred (100%) percent vesting after five (5) years’ service (two (2) years after January 1, 1990) in accordance with Manritrha Pension Legislation.
15.05
Retirement Saying Plan
The Company will administer through payroll deductions, a voluntary group retirement savings pian known as the United Food and Commercial Workers Retirement Savings Han. On a calendar year basis, the employee will determine the amount to be deducted weekly firm regular earning and this shall remain unchanged during the year except where no paycheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted to the group retirement savings plan by the Company on a monthly basis,
The Company will make payroll deductions from and contributions
to one Retirement Savings Sai per employee at any one time.
ARTICLE. 16_______TERMINATION
16.01	It is understood and agreed that the Company shall not be obligated to give any notice or pay in lieu of notice to any employee terminated for proper cause if the employee is found guilty cf:
(1)	dishonesty
(2)	willfully damaging property of the Company
(3)	willfully contaminating products of the Company
(4)	drunkenness at work
(5)	consuming or being under the influence of alcohol
(6)	insubordiraticn.
ARTICLE 17	GENERAL
17.01	The Company agrees to continue to allow the liiim to supply and install a UFCW bulletin board for posting Union notices providing said notices are approved first by the Company.
17.02	The Company agrees to furnish all special wearing apparel either approved as necessary by the Company or required by the Workers Compensation Board.
The Company will supply a maximum of four (4) parkas for those employees in the Shipping Department as designated by the Company (winter time). These parkas must remain on Company premises.
In addition, where the Company determines rubber boots are required by an employee for the performance of his duties, the Company will pay the cost of one (1) pair per year.
17.03
Clothing Allowance
Uniforms shall be worn by employees as directed by the Ccnpany, and shall be provided by the employee. The Company agrees to pay two hundred and forty-seven ($247.00) dollars yearly to be paid out at four dollars and seventy-five ($4.75) cents weekly towards the purchase and laundering of these articles of clothing. The Company reserves the right to supply d o m s in lieu of a clothing allowance. The above article also includes the Maintenance employees and Night Clean-up cm the packaging line.
17.04	The Company agrees	to	supply hairnets to the employees.
Employees must return used hairnets. If unable to return used hairnets, the employee will be charged a fee for the new one.
17.05	UnionitepasentatiYe’s	Visits
Any authorized Union Representative, upon notifying the Plant Manager or his designate, will be permitted to enter the plant to ensure that tee terms of the Collective Agreement are being implemented While in tee plant, tee Union Representative will take proper precautions with regards to health and safety.
17.06	Tool Allowance
The Company agrees to pay eighty ($80.00) dollars per contract year towards the purchase of tools for maintenance employees in the classification of Grade I to Grach V (excluding labourers).
17.07	Technological Change
In the event of technological change as described in the Labour Relations Act, all provisions of the said Act regarding tedralogical change shall apply.
17.08	The Company agrees to provide a microwave oven and a fridge for the use of all employees.
ARTICLE 18	HEALTH AND SAFETY
18.01	Occupational Halth and Safety shall be as required by the la*s of the Province of*fe±b±a.
18.02	Cooperation on Safety
The Union and the employer shall cooperate in establishing rules and practices vhhdh promote an occupational environment which will enhance the
physiological and psychological conditions of employees and which will provide protection from factors adverse to employee health and safety.
18.03	Union - Employer Health and Safety Committee
A Health and safety Committee shall be established which is composed of not less than two (2) and not more than three (3) Union and an equal number of Employer representatives, The Health and Safety Committee shall hold meetings as requested by the Ihim cr by the employer for jointly considering, monitoring, inspecting, investigating and reviewing health and safety conditions and practices and to improve existing health and safety conditions and practices. Minutes shall be taken of all meetings and copies shall be sent to the employer and the Union. A Union Health and Safety Representative shall have the right to participate in the monitoring of the work place and to accompany government safety inspectors on inspection tours.
18.04	Health and Safety Committee Pav Pro——
Time spent by members of the Committee in the course of their duties shall be considered as time worked and shall be paid for in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
18.05	iT»ai#h an j Safety Clothing. Tools and Equipment
The employer shall provide all employees working in any unsanitary or potentially hazardous jobs with all the necessary tools, protective equipment and protective clothing required, These shall be maintained and replaced, where necessary through normal wear and tear at the employer’s expense. It is recognized that such protective equipment and clothing are temporary measures. The conditions necessitating their use shall be subjected to further corrective measures through engineering changes or the elimination of the hazard. The employee8 shall use and assume responsibility for the reasonable care of all safety equipment supplied to them. In the event that such safety equipment is lost or is not returned on demand, the Company shall be entitled to deduct the cost of same from the employee’s wages. It is understood that the said safety equipment shall not be deemed to include such personal necessities as overalls or any other Article which becomes the property of the employee.
18.06	Monitoring equipment
The employer shall provide and maintain work place monitoring equipment for detecting and recording potential and actual health and safety hazards.
18.07
Compliance with Health and Safety Legislation
The employer shall comply vafh all applicable Efedsaal, Provincial and Municipal Health and Safety legislation and Regulations. AU standards established under the Legislation and regulations shall constitute minimum acceptable practice to be improved upon by agreement of the Union-Employer tfeJih and Safety Ctionitbee or negotiations with the tiikn.
18.08	Disclosure of Information
The employer shall provide the Uikn written inffamaticn which identifies all the biological agents, compounds, substances, by-products and physical hazards associated with the work environment. Where applicable, this infamaticn shall include, but ret restricted to, the chemical breakdown cf trade name descriptions, information on known and suspected potential hazards, the maximum concentration exposure levels, precautions to be taken, symptoms, medical treatment and antidotes.
18.09	Safety and Health Records. Reports and Data
The employer shall provide the Health and Safety Committee upon request all accident reports and other Health and Safety records in the possession of the employer, including records, reports and data provided to and by the Workers's Compensation Board and other government departments and agencies.
18.10	Time Off for Health and Safety Training
Uikn members of the Halih and Safety Committee shall be entitled to time off from work provided that such time off shall not unreasonably affect the operation of the Company with no loss of seniority or earnings to attend seminars sponsored by the Ifenitbba Worker’s Compensation Board for instruction and upgrading on TfeiHh and Safety matters provided that the content of such seminars is reasonably appropriate to circumstances of this dnebstry.
18.11	Right to Refuse and no Disciplinary Action
No employee shall be discharged, penalized or disciplined for refusing to work on a job or any workplace or to operate any equipment where he/she in conjunction with the KaTfh and Safety Committee, ascertains that it would be unsafe or unhealthy to himself/herself, an unborn child, a workmate or the public, or where it would be contrary to the applicable Efedaal, Provincial or Municipal tfealifa. and Safety Legislation or Regulations, There shall be no loss of pay or seniority during the period of refusal provided that such refusai was reasonable. No employee shall be ordered or
- 19 -
permitted to work on a job which another worker has refused until the matter is investigated by the Health and Safety Committee and satisfactorily settled.
18.12	Kroger Training
No employee shall be required to work on any job or operate any pdooe of equipment until he/she has received proper training and instructions,
18.13	Injury Pay,Provisions
An employee who is injured during working hours, and is requited to leave for treatment cr is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay, without deduction from sick leave, unless a doctor or nurse states that the employee is fit for further work an that
Shift.
18.14
lea

ation of Accident Victims
Transportation to the nearest physician or hospital for employees requiring iredkal care as a result of an accident shall be at the expense of the employer.
18.15	Health and Safety Grievance
Where a dispute involving a question of general application or interpretation of this Article occurs, it shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
18.16	After absence due to illness or injury, an employee will be returned to his job if capable of performing the work If required by the Company, the employee will provide confirmation firm a duly gwiifiart independent medical doctor of his ability to return to work and perform the duties required by the job, and the Company shall pay for the costs of such medical examination.
18.17	The Employer will provide in a convenient location earplugs which may be changed as needed.
ARTICLE 19 STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS DURING LIFE OF AGREEMENT
19.01	It is agreed that the Union will not, during the life of this
agreement, authorize, promote, direct, condone, or encourage a strike of employees affected by this Agreement nor will employees take part in such action. It is agreed, that the Company will not, during the life of this Agreement, lockout employees.
ARTICLE 2Q---GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01	In the cywU of any controversy concerning the meaning or
application cr alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement, there shall be no suspension of wok but such controversy shall be treated as a grievance and shall be settled, if possible, by the employees and the Company in the following manner:
STEP 1 The employee or employees concerned and/or their Chief Steward shall endeavour to address the matter with their supervisor. Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, then:
STEP 2 The matter shall be presented to the Plant Manager at a meeting held within, seven (7) calendar days or such longer period as mutually agreed. Baling satisfactory settlement at Step 2, then:
STEP3 The Union Representative together with the Plant Manager and employee and/or Shop Steward shall take the grievance up at a meeting held within seven (7) calendar days cr such longer period by mutual agreement.
20.02	All grievances shall be presented to the Company in writing within
fifteen (15) working days of the event giving rise to such grievance. If notice in writing is not received by the Company within the time limits above set forth, then such grievance shall be considered as having been waived and abandoned by the Union and the employee involved, and it shall not thereafter form a basis of a grievance, or arbitration proceedings between the Union or an employee and the Company.
20.03	Nothing in this section will prohibit a full-time Union
Representative from being present at any step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 21________ARBITRATION
21.01	Any grievance arising under this Agreement which is not settled to
the satisfaction of the parties, may be submitted to Arbitration by either party upon that party giving notice in writing to that effect within fifteen (15) calendar days of the final written decision of either party, and if notice is not given within the time limit specified, then the grievance and the right to refer same to arbitration shall be considered as having been waived and abandoned by the Union and the employee involved, and it shall rot thereafter form the basis of a grievance, or arbitration proceedings between the Union or an employee and the Company.
21,02	tjpcn the matter being referred to arbitration, an
Arbitrator/Arbitration Board shall be constituted in one (1) of the following manners:
(a)	The reference to Arbitration shall mean reference to a single Arbitrator;
(b)	If by mutual consent, and in writing, the reference shall be to an
Matratim Board composed of three (3) persons. The parties requesting Arbitration snail nominate a member to the Board at the time of making the request for Arbitration. The other party shall ncminate ita member to the Board within fifteen (15) calendar days of the receipt of the request for Arbitration,
(c)	If the parties, or either of them, shall fail to nominate a member to the Board witimn the time lints set forth, then the Manitoba Labour Board may make such nomination at the request of the party who is not default;
(d)	VMthri ten (10) calendar days of the matter being referred to Arbitration or in the event an Arbitration Board being determined within ten (10) calendar days of the naninaticn of the last nominee to the Board, the parties shill select the person to be the third (3rd) member and/or Chairperson of the Board. If the parties or the said nominees are unable to agree on a Chairperson then either party and/or nominee may request the Mandicfca. Labour Board to make such selection.
21.03	The Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration when duly constituted shall
meet and hear evidence and/or submissions firm both parties and give a decision as soon as possible as completion of the hearings of evidence and/or submissions. The decision of a majority of the Board or in the absence of a majority decision, the decision of the Chairperson of the Board shall be the decision of the Board and it shall be firaland binding on all parties involved in such grievance and Arbitration.
21.04	The Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall not have any authority
or jurisdiction to alter or change any terms or provision(s) as this Agreement or to give any decision contrary to the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
21.05	If an Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration should determine that an
employee has been terminated without cause, it may award that such employee be reinstated and that the employee shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, or such portion of such pay which the Board feels is just under all the circumstances less any monies received by him or her by other employment during said period.
21.06	Ihe Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall convene a hearing within. twenty-eight (23) days of the Chairperson being appointed and a decision will fc-j handed down with. twenty-eight (28) days of the conclusion of the hearing.
21.07	The Company and the Union agree they will pay the fees and expenses of their nominees to the Board, and the fees and expenses of the Chairperson and/or Arbitrator shall be borne and paid in equal shares by the Company and th$ Union.
ARTICLE 22 WAGES
22.01	The parties agree that there shall be attached to this Agreement, Schedule "A" which shall set forth in detail the classification and wages of all employees, The Company agrees to pay all persons covered by the terms of thi* Agreement not less than the schedule of wages listed in Schedule" A' during such time as this Agreement is in force. If an employee is receiving a wage rate in excess of the rate herein contained as a result of a previously existing length of sendee rate, such wage rate shall continue and not be affected by reason of this Agreement.
22.02	When an employee is assigned temporarily to a higher rated job for six (6) hours or more, the higher rate shall be paid for all hours worked at the position.
22.03	hi the event that a change in production methods will lead to a change in job categories and shifts, the Company and the Union agree to negotiate new rates applicable to those new categories and shifts created by the change.
22.04	Classification and wages • SEE SCHEDULE A
22.05	If a new classification is created within the bargaining unit the Company agrees to meet vriih the Union and to negotiate a rate of pay for this new classification. If the parties cannot reach an agreement then at the request of either party, the matter shall be submitted to arbitration procedure of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 23 SHIFT PREMIUMS
23.01	A shift premium shall be paid for all hours worked on the second (2nd) shift of fifty (500) cents per hour and on the third (3rd) shift of sixty (60C) cents per hour.
23.02	The second shift is defined as any shift which starts after twelve (12:00) noon and a third shift is defined as any shift which starts after the second shift, but does not include the day shift.
- 23
ARTICLE 24
wwawijw
SSANP-L

RS OF UNDERSTANDING
24.01	All appendices and Lettersof Understanding attached to this
Agreement will form an integral part of this Agreement
ARTICLE 25________DURATION OF A-----------------
25.01	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from May 1st,
1995, and shall continue in full force and effect until the 50th day of April» 1997, and
shall continue thereafter--year to year, until terminated by either party giving notice
to the other party of such termination not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement a* on the anniversary of such expiry date. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in an ensuing Agreement, the parties proposing such amendment shall give notice in writing thereof to the other party not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of this Agreement Upon notice being given for revision of this Agreement as aforesaid, this Agreement and all their terms and provisions hereof shall remain in force and effect during any period of negotiations between the parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT,
SIGNED THIS //* DAY OF &*f>T	, 1995,
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
- 24 -
SCHEDULE "A"_ EASES
Classifications Packers, Dumpers, etc.
Effective Current May 1193.
Effective Effective Effective Noy....6/95 Mav 6196 -Mre 4/96
tidy/.
To Stat After 2 months After 4 months
9.52	9.82	9.92	10.22	10.32
9.92	10.22	10.32	10.62	10.72
10.28	10.58	10.68	10.98	11.08
General Labour, Maintenance or Production
GRAPE-I Labour, Shipping, Receiving - Warehouse
To Start	10.53	10.83	10.93	11.23	11.33
After 2 norths	10.97	11.27	11.37	11.67	11.77
After 4 norths	11.41	11.71	11.81	12.11	12.21
Maintenance or Production
GRADE n To Start	11.57	11.87	11.97	12.27	12.37
After 2 months	11.84	12.14	12.24	12.54	12.64
After 4 months	12.19	12.49	12.59	12.89	12.99
tfeintenanoe or Production					
GBABE.HI 2b Start	12.12	12.42	12.52	12.82	12.92
After 2 months	12.57	12.87	12.97	13.27	13.37
After 4 months	12.95	13.25	13.35	13.65	13.75
Maintenance or Production
(b)	Where the Company appoints a Lead Hand, the person so appointed shall be paid a premium of forty (404) cents per hour in addition to his or her regular wages. The said premium shall only be paid while the employee is assigned to lead hand duties.
(c)	Employee who has completed one (1) year or more of service with the Company shall receive tm (104) cents over the above rates.
Retroactive .Pay
Retroactive pay to be paid retroactive to May 1, 1995, for all hours worked and/or paid, to ail employees on the payroll on September 7, 1995, by regular cheque with separate deductions, within two (2) weeks of ratification.
- 27 -
EXHIBIT one
NOTICE OF HIRE
Hiployee's Name ________________________________________________
Address ________________________________________________________
City________________________________________ Rstal Code_________
Phone__________________ Date of Hire_________________ Birthdate _
Social Insurance Number_________________________________________
Employer_______________________________ Job classification _____
FUll-time___ Part-time___________	Casual
Dues Authorization
I, hereby, request and authorize the Employer to deduct firm my wages, and pay to the thioi, such Urkxi dues requested by the Uritari Food and Commercial Workers, Local No. 832.
Date:_____________________ Signature:_______________________________________
(To be mailed to the Union office within 10 calendar days firm date of hire or rehire.)
TO THE EMPLOYEE:
1,	You are hereby informed that payment of Union dues is a condition of employment.
2.	The Union will be notified that you have received this statement and may approach you to make an application for membership with the full-time Union Representative, Shop Steward, or the Union office.
Union offices
1412 Portage Avenue, Vgmipsg^N&Tiirfia^ R3G 0V5f Hxne 786-5055 527 Princess Avenue, Brandon, Maniirfca, R7A 0P1, Phone 727-7131 200 - 74 Ctee Road, Thompson, Maii_U±a, R8N 0B8, Phone 778-7108
- 28'