Collective Agreement
Between
Red path Sugars
A Division of Redpath Industries LTD
and
Chemical Energy and Allied Workers
Division of the Canadian Conference of Teamsters Local 1688
Begins:
11/01/1988
Terminates:
10/31/1990
00613 (03)
WEEKDAY,
WEEKEND AND HOLIDAY
TELEPHONE NUMBER 366-3561
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
' REDPATH SUGARS *
A DIVISION OF REDPATH INDUSTRIES LTD. AND
CHEMICAL ENERGY AND ALLIED WORKERS DIVISION OF THE CANADIAN CONFERENCE OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL 1688
NOV. 1, 1988 - OCT. 31, 1990
INDEX
SUBJECT.........................................PAGE
Arbitration....................................9, 10
BereavementLeave .................................27
Bulletin Board....................................14
Check-off..........................................5
Dischargeor Suspension ...........................14
Duration of Agreement.............................32
Employee Benefits..........................29, 30, 31
Grievance Procedures...........................7,8,9
Holidays...................................15, 16, 17
Hours of Work...............................21,22,23
Leave of Absence..................................27
Management Rights..................................4
Meal Allowance....................................26
Medical Examinations..............................14
No Strikes & No Lock-outs.........................14
Overtime....................................24,25,26
Wage Rates & Classifications...........20,34,35,36
Recognition .......................................3
Relationship.......................................4
Safety & Health...................................28
Seniority..............................10, 11, 12, 13
Shift Premium..................................20,21
Stewards- Union Committee..........................6
Students..........................................23
Vacations with Pay..........................17,18,19
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This agreement is made effective the 1st day of November 1988 BETWEEN REDPATH SUGARS,
A Division of Redpath Industries Limited (herein called “the Company”)
and
CHEMICAL, ENERGY AND ALLIED WORKERS Division of The Canadian Conference of Teamsters, Local 1688
(herein called “the Union”)
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.01	— The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collectivebargaining agent for all employees of Redpath Sugars, A Division of Redpath Industries Limited, at its Toronto Refinery, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, sugar boilers, office and sales staff, assistantchemists, laboratory statisticians, packaging technicians, instrument technicians, laboratory analysts and stationary engineers employed in the Boiler and Power House.
1.02	— No employee of the Company who is excluded from the bargaining unit shall perform work normally performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except for instructing, or relieving during emergencies, and/or staff training where such staff employee does not displace an employee in the bargaining unit.
However, this provision will not apply to employees of the Instrument Department with the understanding that the present practice will not be expanded so as to displace an employee in the bargaining unit.
3
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
2.01	— The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusivefunction
of the Company:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, retire, classify, direct, assign, promote, demote, transfer, discipline, suspend or discharge employees, and to increase and decrease the work force. A claim by an employee, who has completed his probationary period, that he has been dischargedor disciplined withoutjust cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restrictingthe generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of establishments; the products to be manufactured, processed or handled; the methods and processes to be used; schedules of production and work; kinds and locations of machines; tools and equipment to be used; engineering required, the selection, installation and requirements in the operationof any equipment or materials it decidesto use or handle.
(d)	make, alter and enforce rules and regulations to be observed by employees, not inconsistent with the terms of this agreement.
(e)	The only restriction to the execution of the foregoing functions are those restricted by the expresslanguageof the following provision of this agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - RELATIONSHIP
3.01	— All employees shall, as a condition of employment, become and remain members of the Union within sixty (60)
4
working days following their first day of employment. The Union agrees that no employee will be refused membership in the Union.
The Company will inform the Union within five (UJ working days of hire, the name of a new employee.
3.02	— The Company will furnish to the Union copies of all notices posted by the Company that affect its members.
3.03	— The Union agrees that except with the consent of the Company no officiai of the Union and no person authorized by the Union shall enter the Company’s premises and/or engage in Union activitieson the Company’s premises or during working hours of any employee, except as otherwise provided in this agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF
4.01	— All employees shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the Company, on a form provided by the Union arid approved by the Company, to deduct the Union’s monthly dues and remit such amount to the Secretary-Treasurer, Union Local 1688, together with a list of names of those from whom such deductions have been made not later than the tenth day of the month following the month in which such deductions are made. Such authorization shall continue in effect for the life of this agreement. A duplicate copy of the check-off authorization form shall be forwarded by the Company to the Union Steward concerned within one (1) week of hiring. The Company will show the amount collected for Union Dues on the employee’s T-4 Slip each year.
4.02	— The required union initiation fee will be deducted by the Company from the employee’s pay, from which the first dues deduction is made, following completion of the probationary period. Such initiation fee will be remitted to the Union in the same manner as provided in Clause 4.01.
5
ARTICLES - STEWARDS AND UNION COMMITTEE
5.01	— The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to elect or appoint eight (8) stewards, and if the Toronto Refinery Operations are such that a change in number is warranted, then such adjustment may be made by mutual consent of the parties. Such stewards must acquire seniority standing under this agreement before being so appointed.
5.02	— It shall be the steward’s function to process grievances as provided for herein. A steward may also obtain permission from the Company for the purpose of interviewing a new employee about Union membership for a period not exceeding fifteen (15) minutesduringthe newemployee’sfirstthirty (30) calendar days of employment. A steward’s functions shall in no way conflict with his duties to his employer,and he shall be held responsible for the same quantity and quality of work as other employees.
5.03	— The Unionwill informthe Company, in writing, ofthe name of the stewards and of any subsequentchange in the name of the stewards. The Company shall not be asked to recognizeany steward until such notificationfromthe Union has been received.
5.04	— The Union Negotiating'Committee consisting of not more than four (4)employees shall be compensated for a maximum of forty (40) hours each at his basic straighttime hourly rate of pay for time spent meeting with the Company for the purpose of negotiating a renewal of the collectiveagrement.
5.05	— The Company will set up a programme for regular meetings, between the Union and Management involving not more than two (2) representativesof either party. Such meetings to be held not more frequently than every two (2) months, to discuss matters of common interest.
6
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	— It is agreed that a steward, when required to take up the grievance of an employee whohas completed his probationary period, shall not leave his assigned duties without first obtaining permission from his immediate supervisor to do so and will report back to his immediate supervisor upon resuming his assiqned duties. In accordance with this understanding, such steward will be paid for such time when the time so spent is during scheduled working hours and when on the premises of the Company. The Company reserves the right to withhold payment if more than a reasonable amount of time is so taken.
6.02	— Notwithstanding any other provisions of the grievance procedure and arbitration provisions contained herein, an employee who has completed his probationary period, if he so desires, may take up a complaint as an individual direct with the Company without recourse to the grievance procedure.
6.03	— In the event the Company finds it necessary to call an employee into the office for the purpose of disciplining the employee, and if more than one member of management is present, then the employee must be accompanied by his steward.
The Union will be furnished with a copy of a written warning given to an employee. An employee who is suspended or discharged while on the premises shall have the right to inform his steward of same before leaving the premises.
It is agreed that the Company will remove any disciplinarynotation against an employee’s record after an elapsed time of nine (9) months.
6.04	— A grievance of the Union, which cannot be made the grievance of an individual employee, or a grievance of the Company, shall be subject to the same general procedure as provided for the grievance of an employee, except that it shall commence at Step No. 2.
7
6.05	— A grievancemay ariseonly from a dispute concerning the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of this agreement. The grievanceshall be submitted in writtenform and be signed by the employee directly involved. An earnest effort will be made on the part of both parties to settle such a grievance promptly through the following steps.
STEPNO. 1:
An employee who has completed his probationary period shall present his grievance to his immediate supervisorwith his steward, within ten (10) working days of the event complained of, or within ten (10) working days from the date that the employee could reasonably be expected to become aware of the event which gave rise to the grievance,and the Supervisorshallreply to the grievance in writing. In the event the employee’s steward is not available the company will arrange with the Union to name a substitute employee to act in the place of the absent steward. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concernedis not reached within five (5) consecuti vework day s or within any longer time which may be mutually arranged for, then Step No. 2 may be invoked provided such latter action is commencedwithin five (5) consecutive days after StepNo. 1 has been completed.
STEP NO. 2:
Unless agreed to by both parties, no grievanceshall be presented at StepNo. 2, the alleged circumstancesof which originatedor occurred more than four (4) calendar days prior to its original presentationat StepNo. 1, or where more than five (5) consecutive days have elapsed since the completion of Step No. 1. At the request of the employee, the steward shall take up the employee’s grievance with the Refinery Manager or his designate of the Company, at a meeting arranged for that purpose. At this step, the Union President shall attend the meeting.
A Union Official designated by the Union as its representative and/orthegrievor may be present at such a meeting if his presence
8
is requested by either party. If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within five (5) working days following the day upon which deliberations commenced, or such additional time as may be mutually agreed upon, then the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitration as herein provided.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7.01	— When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided it shall make such request within two (2) weeks of the date the answer to Step No. 2 was received by the party initiating the grievance at Step 2. Each of the parties will prepare a list of seven (7) possible arbitrators and will exchange such list within five (5) working days of the request for arbitration. The first corresponding name appearing on the lists will be selected as a single arbitrator. Should none of the names on the lists correspond, a further list of five (5) names will be exchanged within twenty-four (24) hours and the first corresponding name appearing on the second lists will be selected as a single arbitrator. Should none of the names on the second lists correspond, the party initiating the grievance will, within twenty-four (24) hours of exchanging the second lists, request the Ministry of Labour for the Province of Ontario to select an impartial arbitrator.
7.02	— The arbitrator shall not have the power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with; the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.03	— The decision of the arbitrator shall be accepted by the parties hereto if made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
7.04	— Each of the parties shall bear equally the expense of the arbitrator.
9
7.05	— No grievanceshall be consideredby the arbitrator unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure, or unless the party which is opposing the grievance has refused to participate in the earlier stages of the grievance procedure.
7.06	— If eitherthe Company or the Union alleges violation of this collective agreement through the action of officials of either, the complaint may be dealt with through the grievance procedure established by this article, commencing at a stage equivalent to step 2.
7.07	— Failure to pursue a grievance within the time limits prescribed or failure to pursue the grievance through each step as prescribed shall constituteabandonment of the grievanceand acceptance of the decision at the previous stepand the matter will be deemed to have been settled.
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY
8.01 — The purpose of seniority provisions herein is to provide a policy of governing ajob posting, lay-offs and rehiring. In the event of a reduction of the working force the Company shall apply the principle of “last on, firstoff’ provided the retained employees
ing work, consistent with the Company’s obligation to maintain an efficientworking force. Following a lay-off,rehiring shall be executed conversely to the outlined lay-off procedure subject to the same conditions.
8.02	— Seniority shall be recognized on a plant-wide basis for employees covered by this agreement.
8.03	— In lay-offs the Company shall apply:
(i) seniority of the employee;
10
(ii) employees declared surplus will be given the opportunity to take the position held by the junior employee in the plant and will be offered up to thirty (30) work days to demonstrate they can perform thejob.
Employees who fail to demonstrate performance ability will be laid off without recourse to await recall.
This provision does not apply where positions named in 8.13 are concerned. An employee who seeks to take such a position must first establish that they have the necessary job qualifications.
8.04	— In the event of a lay-off, before laying offemployees out of seniority order (after acquired) the Company will notify the Union.
8.05	— In the event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks’duration, the employee shall be given five (5 jworking days’ notice of such action. If an employee does not receive full notice, he shall be given pay for the period not covered by notice.
8.06	— Intheeventofalay-offoftwo(2)weeks’durationorless, but more than two (2) working days, the employee shall be given two (2) working day’s notice of such action. If an employee does not receive full notice, he shall be given pay for the period not covered by notice.
8.07	— A seniority list shall be prepared and posted by the Company once every six (6) months.
8.08	— Employees shall be probationary employees until they have worked sixty (60)working days with the Company, within a period of six (6)consecutivemonths. Seniority would then be dated nine (9) weeks prior to date the probationary period ended, and the employee’s name placed on the seniority list as of that date. Seniority shall accumulate during a permitted leave of absence from work on account of sickness or accident. This provision shall not pertain to part-time employees as defined in this agreement.
11
8.09	— Those promoted to supervisory positions or those positions not subjectto this agreement will retain their seniority after promotion and if demoted for any reason or if they voluntarily request reinstatement in the bargaining unit withina twelve-month period, the time served in the supervisory position shall be included in their seniority rating. If an employee is promoted to a supervisory position and such supervisory position is subsequently abolished, such employee will revert to his former position without loss of seniority.
8.10	— An employee’s name shall be removed from the seniority records and his employment terminated for the following reasons :
(a)	If the employee voluntarily quits the employ.
(b)	If the employee is discharged for anyj ust cause, and is not reinstated through grievance and/or arbitrationprocedure.
(c)	If the employee is absent from his duties for more than two (2) days (or two (2) shifts as the case may be) and is unable to furnish a reason satisfactory to the Company for such absence.
(d)	If the employee fails to report for duty after a lay-offunless he furnishes a reason satisfactory to the Company. When calling an employee back from lay-off, he shall be notified by registered mail at his last address on record with the Company, and shall be allowed three (3) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Plant Holidays) from the date of notice in which to notify the Company of his intentions, and a further period of four (4) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Plant Holidays) to report to work.
(e)	Employees with under five (5) years’ seniority will have one (l)year recall rightsbeforethe employee’sname is removed from the seniority records. Employees with over five (5) years’ seniority will have two (2) years’ recall rights before the employee’s name is removed from the seniorityrecords.
12
8.11	— Employees temporarily assigned to higher rated jobs for two (2) hours or more in any one day shall receive the higher rate for that day. Employees temporarily assigned to lower rated jobs formore thanone(l) day atatime, shall not have their rates reduced unless transferred by the Company to avoid layoff or because of demotion. Qualifications gained by way of temporary transfer shall not count for the purpose of job postings.
8.12	— When there is an original, first and second subsequent vacancy, and the Company intends to fill such vacancies, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancies for a period of forty-eight (48) hours to enable interested employees to apply for the job.
8.13	— Generally the Company will choose from among those employees responding to aj ob posting, the most senior employee. Selectedj ob applicants to a vacant position will be placed on the job within thirty (30) working days. Notwithstanding the above, in the event of openings in the classificationsof Fork Lift Operator, Instrument Mechanic, all levels of the Transport Department except Cleaner Serviceman, EngineeringDepartmentand Apprentices, job qualifications must first be established by the applicant and where one or more employees have established the required qualifications, seniority shall govern in the selection.
No accepted employee to an original, first and second subsequent vacancy can apply for any other vacancy until six (6)months have elapsed, unless such vacancy is to a higher rated job.
13
ARTICLE 9- DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
9.01	— An employeewho claims he has been unjustly discharged or suspended may submit his grievance in writing, and such action must be taken within forty-eight (48) hours (Saturdays, Sundays and StatutoryHolidays excluded) of his dischargeor suspension. He shall, if subsequently reinstated through the grievanceproce-dure, and if necessary, arbitration, be compensated for his lost time at his normal rate of pay, or receive such lesser compensation, if any, or according to any agreement reached by the parties in the grievance procedure or as decided upon by a single arbitrator.
ARTICLE 10 - NO STRIKES AND NO LOCK-OUTS
10.01	— During the term of this agreement, the Company agrees there shall be no lock-out,and the Union agrees there shall be no strike, sit-down, slow-down, work stoppage or suspension of work, either complete or partial, for any reason by the employees.
ARTICLE 11 - BULLETIN BOARD
11.01	— The Company agrees to permit posting of any notice, first approved by the Company, of Union meetings or functions on a Union bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
'ARTICLE12 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
12.01	— Any medical examinations requested by the Company shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Company shall pay for all such examinations. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician and the Union may, if in their opinion they think an injustice has been done to an employee, have said employee re-examined at the Union's expense.
14
12,02	— When a medical examination is required by the Company, the following conditions shall apply:
(a)	The employee shall take such medical examination during his normal working hours, and he shall be paid for the time involved.
(b)	Employees shall be supplied with a copy of such medical report provided a report is made available to the Company.
If the employee is required to travel for such an examination, public transportation will also be paid by the Company.
ARTICLE 13 - HOLIDAYS
13.01	— The following holidays will be recognized:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Last work day before Christmas Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Last work day before New Year’s Day Floater Day
(to be declared by the Company)
13.02	— The Company will pay for such holidays provided an employee has worked the normal shift immediately preceding and the normal shift immediatelyfollowing the holiday for the number of regular hours ordinarily worked at the employee’s basic straight
15
time hourly rate of pay. In the event of a lay-off, and subject to other qualifying conditions, an employee will be paid for the holiday if he has not been laid off for more than two (2) weeks immediatelyprior to the holiday or is laid off commencingon the day immediately followingthe holiday. An employee shall not be disqualifiedfrom receiving holiday pay if he is unable to complete a qualifying shift due to bona fide illness or injury.
When the holiday falls on Saturday, the Company may elect one of the following:
(a)	Pay an extra day’s pay.
(b)	Close on Friday before and observe as a holiday in lieu.
(c)	Close on the Monday following and observe as a holiday in lieu.
13.03	— If an employee is required to work on a day that is recognized by the Company as a holiday, he shall be paid at the rate of double time for all of the hours worked on such a holiday in addition to any holiday pay which he may otherwise be entitled to receive, subject to section 19,04 of this agreement.
13.04	— Should an employeebe temporarily transferred to ajob which carries a higher rate of pay for both the work day before and the work day after a statutory holiday, then statutoryholiday pay, payable as provided in 13.02 will be based upon the higher rate of pay.
13.05	— Where as provided in Article 14.09 an employee has elected to take another day in lieu of the holiday which occurred during his vacation period, and where such day has been agreed to by the Company, if later, at the request of the Company, the employee is required to work, and does work, the employee shall be entitled to double time (2) his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such day.
13.06	— An employee who reports for work at the start of his normal shift, unless otherwise previously notified by the Company
16
not to do so, will be entitled to receive four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu thereof at the employee’s basic straight time hourly rate of pay unless the circumstances are beyond the control of the Company, including such circumstances as fire or power failure.
ARTICLE 14 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
14.01	— Employees shall receive a vacation with pay in accord-dance with the regulations and requirements covered by the EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ACT, 1968, and as amended.
14.02	— Employees who havecompleted one (1) or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of two (2)weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be four percent (4%)of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 31st.
14.03	— Employees who have completed five (5)or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be six percent (6%)of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 31st.
14.04	— Employees who have completed ten (10) or more years of continuous employment on May 31 st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be eight percent (8%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 3 1st.
14.05	— Employees who have completed twenty (20)or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year shall be entitled to a vacation of five (5)weeks. Pay for such vacation will be ten percent (10%)of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 3 1st.
14.06	— Employees who have completed thirty (30) or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any
17
year, shall be entitled toavacation of six (6)weeks. Payforsuch vacation will be twelve percent (12%) of his gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 31st.
14.07	— Employees who at may 31 st in any year, havecompleted five (5)or more years of continuous employment, and have completed six (6) months of continuous employment in that vacation year, and who are unable to work the remaining six (6) months due to sickness for which they are receiving weekly indemnity benefits or where they are receiving Worker’s Compensation Board benefits, will be guaranteed a vacation payment equivalent to eighty (80) hours of work, multiplied by their rate at the time the sickness or Worker’s Compensation Board benefit commenced.
14.08	— An employee who terminates his service, or is terminated, with the Company shall receivevacation pay equivalent to that which he has earned up to the date of his departure.
14.09	-
(a)	Any of the holidays listed herein which fall within an employee’s annual vacation shall be paid for as provided herein subjectto qualifying requirements, and provided the employee has worked on his normal shift immediately preceding and following his annual vacation.
(b)	If the employee requests no lieu day then his vacation pay shall include his holiday pay.
(c)	If the employee requests a lieu day, such request shall not be unreasonably withheld, it shall be determined by:
(i)	mutual agreement; or if no agreement
(ii)	the Company will determine the day.
If later should the employee be required to work on the agreedordeterminedday, ((i) and(ii) above refers) and does work, he shall get paid double time (2) for each hour so worked plus holiday pay.
18
14.10	— The choice of vacation period shall be according to seniority, provided it does not conflict with the Company’s obligation to maintain an efficient working force.
An employee entitled to six(6), eight (8), ten (10)or twelve (12) percent (%) vacation credits must arrange for the third, fourth, fifth or sixth weeks to be taken at atime suitable to the Company, if so requested by the Company.
On or before March 15th of each year the Company will post a vacation schedulerequesting employeesto identify when they wish to take their vacations. Employees are required to make their declaration before April 1st and will have their period confirmed by April 15th.
Should any employee be required to work during the vacation period, the employeewill be notified as soon as reasonablypossible thereafter.
The Company will advise employees of the winter shut-down period by October 15th.
The Company agrees to provide at least four (4) weeks’ notice of vacation during the winter months.
Once the Company has officially scheduled an employee for his vacation period, such vacation period will not be changed without the employee’s consent.
While the special request of an employee for unusual vacation arrangements and/or a leave of absence may be lodged in writing by such employee with the Personnel Department, the outcome of such request must depend on the Company’s decision. Such specialvacationrequestmustbemadeby March 15th, orforwinteir vacations by October 25th of the particular year.
The Company shall reply to such special requests within fifteen (15) week-days from the dates mentioned above.
19
14.11	— The Company will provide an employee with his vacation pay prior to the commencement of the employee’s vacation.
ARTICLE 15 - WAGE RATES
15.01	— Wage scale as set out in Schedule “A” hereto shall apply to all employees during the term of this agreement.
Probationers, as defined in Section8.08 of this agreement, shall receive five cents (50) per hour lessthan rates setout in Schedule “A” during their probationary period.
15.02	-
( a) If, after meeting to discussthe rate assigned by the Company to a position not included in Schedule'A’ ’, the Union does not agree with the rate they may, within ten (10) days of the meeting, file a grievance outlining why they consider the Company position to be incorrect and stating what it considers to be the correct rate and the reasons therefore.
(b)	Such grievance shall be dealt with at Sbq? 2 of the Grievance procedure, and may thereafter, if unresolved, be processed to arbitration.
Should the matter reach arbitration, thejurisdiction of the Board
shall be confinedto confirming the pay rate attached by the Company or to establishingsome other rate which would be based upon
and within the existing pay range in Schedule “A”.
ARTICLE 16 - SHIFT PREMIUM
16.01	-
(a)	A separately calculated premium of thirty-twocents (32C) per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on a second shift.
(b)	A separately calculatedpremium of forty-seven cents (470) per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on a third shift.
20
16.02	— Shiftpremiumswillnotbepaid to Truck Drivers, except in the case of one driver only, during the period he is scheduled to act as the yard jockey.
16.03	— A second shift is any shift starting at 2:00 p.m. or at any later time up to 10:00 p.m. A third shift is any shift starting at 10:00 p.m. or at any later time up to 6:00 a.m.
16.04	— A second shift premium will be paid to an employee when the majority of his regular scheduled hours worked falls between2:00 p.m. and 10:00p.m., and thirdshiftpremiumwill be paid to an employee when the majority of his regular scheduled hours worked falls between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
16.05	— Shift workemployees who are required to work additional hours prior to the start and/or following the finish of the particular shift on which they are scheduled to work, shall receive the shift premium that would ordinarily apply to other shift work employees working at the time such additional hours are being worked.
ARTICLE 17- HOURS OF WORK
17.01	—
(a)	The normal regular hours of work, exceptthe drivers of the Transport Division and the Warehouse Division, shall be forty (40)hours per week, consisting of eight (8) hours per day Sunday 2300 hours to Friday 2300 hours, inclusive.
(b)	The normal regular hours of work for the drivers of the Transportation Division, excluding motor mechanics and cleaner/serviceman, shall be forty-four (4.4)hours per week consisting of nine (9) hours per day, Sunday 2300 hours to
21
Thursday 2300 hours, inclusive, and eight (8) hours on a Friday. There shall be no scheduled lunch period for truck drivers.
(c)	The normal regular hours of work for the Warehouse Division shall be forty-two and one-half (42-1/2) hours per week consisting of eight and one-half (8-1/2) hours per day, Sunday 2300 hours to Friday 2300 hours, inclusive.
17.02	— The Company does not guarantee to provide employment or work for normal hours or for any other hours.
17.03	-
(a)	For the purpose ofpay computation the work week, except for the drivers of the Transport Division, shallbe considered as starting 2300 hours Sunday and ending 2300 hours the following Sunday. All regular shift belong to the calendar day in which they start. However, pay for hours worked prior to 2300 hours Sunday but belonging to the shift of a Monday shall be included in the pay week starting at 2300 hours on that day.
(b)	The drivers of the T ransport Division will work in accordance with their delivery schedule 2300 hours Sunday to Friday as determined by the Company.
(c)	When a driver of the Transport Division is advised by the Company on a Friday that he is required to work on a Saturday, Sunday or recognized holiday at week-ends, and is advised by the Company after leaving the premises on the Friday that the requirement has been cancelled, he shall then be compensated for standing by with three (3) hours of pay at time and one-half (1 Vi).
17.04	— A part-time employee shall be an employee working twenty-four (24)hours or less per week. Part-timeemployees shall receive the same minimum scale applicable to employees under this agreement but not otherwise covered by this agreement.
22
17.05	— If an employee has left the Refinery following completion of his regular daily or weekly employment and is called back to work after so leaving, he shall receive minimum pay for each such call back equivalent to three (3) hours at time and one-half
(U4).
17.06	— Where an employee is required to change shifts during his regular scheduled shift period, Monday to Friday, he shall be entitled to at least twelve (12) hours off work from the completion of his regular shift to the commencement of his reassigned shift. This does not apply to the Sunday night shift change.
ARTICLE18 - STUDENTS
18.01 -
(a) For all students the rate of pay will be 70 % of the pay of the job classification being worked, as in Schedule “A” — Wage Rates and Classifications.
(b)	Students will be hired for vacation relief during the period May 1 to September 15. All other vacation periods, the students hired should relate to the number of regular employees taking vacation.
(c)	Students will from time to time undertake assignments as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
(d)	Students will primarily be assigned to lower wage classifications.
(e)	Scheduling of students will be referred to the Labour Management Committee.
(f)	Students will have only the following articles in the collective agreement apply to their employment:
Articles 4, 10, 13, 14.01 (only), 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 - 22, and 24, Schedule “A”.
23
(g)	Article4.02 is also an exception and will not be repeated with each hire.
(h)	In no circumstances shall the time spent in employment by a studentbe considered as counting toward seniority.
ARTICLE 19- OVERTIME
19.01	— All overtime required to be worked in a classification named in Schedule “A” of this agreement shall first be offered to the employees in the classification startingwith the employee with the least accrued overtime hours.
If employees in the classification where the overtime is required decline to work the overtime, it will be offered to a qualified available employ ee(s) with the least accrued overtime hours within the department before the offer is made to employees outside the department.
The following principles shallbe adopted with respect to overtime:
(a)	An employee who declines overtimeopportunity will be charged with the amount of the scheduled overtime as if he had worked.
(b)	An employee who works overtime in either his classification or another classification will be charged with the overtime.
(c)	An employee who transfers from one classification to another through the job posting procedure or a new employee will assume the lowest accumulation of overtime in the new classification in place of his accumulation prior to transfer.
(d)	An employee who is absent for whatever reason, except vacation (not including leave of absence extensions) and Union business will be charged with offered overtime as if he had been at work and declined.
24
Notwithstanding the above principles, the parties understand and agree that local arrangements exist with respect to overtime allocation. Further, overtime hours shall be posted and at January 1st each year all overtime records shall be considered at zero “O”.
19.02	-
(a)	(i) Payment of overtime will be provided on a daily basis
2300 hours Sunday to 2300 hours Friday, inclusive, calculated after eight (8) hours worked in the case of the refinery, motor mechanics and cleaner-serviceman of the Transport Division in any one (1) day.
(ii)	After nine (9) hours2300 hours Sunday to 2300 hours Thursday have been worked in the case of all drivers in the Transport Division and eight (8) hours on Friday.
(iii)	After eight and one-half (8%o)hours have been worked in any one (1) day in the case of Warehouse employees 2300 hours Sunday to 2330 hours Friday.
(b)	Payment of double time will be provided on a daily basis Monday to Friday, inclusive, calculated after twelve (12) hours worked in any one (1) day.
(c)	All continuous hours worked, in any twenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid in accordance with Article 19.02 (a).
(d)	Regular full-time employees will be given the first opportunity to work overtime within their department, provided they can perform the work required, before such work is offered to student employees.
19.03	-
(a) All scheduled overtime work on Saturday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 /) for the first eight (8) hours and double time thereafter. Effective November 1, 1986 all time and one half (1'/) hours worked on a Saturday will
25
be paid $2.00 per hour extra. Double time shall be paid for ail scheduled overtime worked on Sunday. In either event such premium rate shall not apply to work performed during normal regular hours of work.
(b)	A Saturday or a Sunday for the purpose of this clause shall be defined as 2300 hours to 2300 hours on the following day for all employees.
(c)	Where an employeeis scheduled to work a twelve (12)hour shift on any day and such overtime is cancelledby the Company afterthe sixth (6th) hour of his regular workday, provided the employee is at work during his regular eight (8) hour period, he shall receive the supper allowance as provided hereinafter.
19.04	— There shall be no pyramiding of overtime payment.
19.05	— The Company will endeavour to give notice of overtime requirements for a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, three (3) days in advance.
ARTICLE 20 - MEAL ALLOWANCE
20.01	— If an employee works two (2) hours or more of overtime, Monday to Friday, or in excessof ten (10) hours on a (Saturday, Sunday or Statutory Holiday), such employee shall be entitled to a meal allowance of $5.00.
NOTE: Truck Drivers after eleven (1 l)hours,MondaytoFriday.
26
ARTICLE 21 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
21.01	— In the event of a death in an employee’s immediate family (employee’s parents, sister or brother, spouse, children, grandchildren, mother-in-law or father-in-law) the employee shall be entitled to be absent from work for a period of three (3) regular working days, when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for and attend the funeral. During such absence the employee shall be compensated at his straight time hourly rate for such regular working time lost.
21.02	— An employee who will not be able to attend the funeral of a member of his immediate family, or in the event the employee attends the funeral of a grandparent, shall, if he requires time off during his scheduled working hours, be granted a maximum of one (1) day’s leave with pay for such purpose provided the Company is supplied with proper proof of such death.
ARTICLE 22 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
22.01	— Leave ofabsence shall be granted to elected representatives of the Union for the conduct of Union business without pay and without loss of seniority provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the Company’s obligation to maintain an efficient working force and provided the request for leave is requested in writing by the Secretary of the Local Union not less than forty-eight (48)hours from the date thereof.
22.02	— Maternity leave shall be granted without pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
22.03	— In the event that an employee is called for Jury Duty, the Company will compensate him for loss of earnings by an amount equal to the difference between his jury pay and his standard pay, provided the employee:
(a) notifies the Company immediately of the jury call;
27
(b)	returns to work during thejury serviceat every reasonable opportunity;
(c)	provides evidence to the Company of the jury pay.
ARTICLE 23 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	— In the event that an employee is sent home by the managementbecause of industrial injury, he or she shall be paid for the balance of the shiftduring which he or she was sent home. The Company will provide transportation for an injured employee. In the event that an employee,due to an accident in the plant, has to leave to go to the hospital for X-ray or treatment for which he does not receive compensation under the Worker’s Compensation Act, then the Company shall compensate such employee for the time lost upon presentation of a certificatefrom the hospital.
23.02	— The Company agrees to the institutionof a Safety Committee which will be representative of both parties and such Committee will report directly to the Refinery Manager. Also, the Committee will agree to its own terms of reference and be responsible for ensuring an adequate follow-up procedure.
23.03	— It is agreed that the provisions of safety prescription glasses where the Company requires such safety glasses to be worn, will be provided for by the Company. It is agreed, too, that the employees will provide the necessary prescription for the glasses.
23.04	— It shall be mandatory to wear safety footwear and the protective equipment provided by the Company while at work. The Company shall contribute,effectivefromNovemberl, 1988, sixty dollars ($60.00) maximum toward the purchase of safety footwear once each twelve-monthperiod, commencing from the date of an employee’s last purchase as recorded by the Personnel Department.
28
Also, work gloves will be provided by the Company and will be replaced when required. The employee, however, will be responsible for ensuring he retains his work gloves for replacement purposes.
23.05	— An employee who is requested to take the St. John ambulance Course on his own time will be reimbursed to the extent oftwo f2)hours of regular basic wages foreach attendance that is sixteen (16) hours maximum per course, provided he shows proof of attendanceand passes required tests for certificate. No travelling expenses will be paid.
23.06	— The Company will make reasonable provision for the safety of its employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that the Union may request a meeting with the Company for the purpose of raising a question of safety.
ARTICLE 24 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
24.01	— The Company will provide the following benefits for each employed employee who has completed three (3) months of continuous service with the Company and will contribute toward each premium as provided herein:
(a)	O.H.I.P. —100% of premium cost.
(b)	Equivalent to Canada Life (semi-private)—100% of the premium cost.
(c)	Major Medical Expenses—The Company will provide, at no cost to an employee, benefits at least similar to those of the Canada Life Extended Health Care (Drug Plan) as outlined in the employee booklet. This plan will have a ten dollar/twenty dollar ($10.00/$20.00) single and family deductible feature.
29
(d)	Dental Plan:
(i)	Effective November 1,1988 orassoon aspossible,the
1988	scheduleof fees shall apply.
(ii)	EffectiveNovemberl, 1989 or as soonas possible, the
1989	Scheduleof Fees shall apply.
(e)	Group Life Insurance:
The Company will pay 100% of premium cost to provide $25,000.00 of insurance from November 27,1988. Effective November 1, 1989 the amount shall not change.
(f)	Weekly Indemnity:
The Company will pay 100% of premium cost to provide eligible employ eeswith benefitsof sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 / %) of their regular weekly earnings based upon their normal regular hours (Article 16 refers) multiplied by their basic hourly wage rate, excluding premiums, to the following maximums:
(i)	New claims afterNovember27,1988 — $375.00 per week.
(ii)	New claims after November 1, 1989 — $400.00 per week.
These benefits come into effect on the first (1st) day of absencedue to accident or being hospitalized or on the fourth (4 th) day of absence due to sickness (meaning payment on the 4th day) as the case may be, for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks.
Notwithstanding any of the above statements or those contained in the employee. booklet, the liability of the Company shall be limited to the specificbenefits and eligibility requirements as outlined in the carriers’ contracts, which shall govern in the event of a dispute of any kind.
30
The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to select any insurance carrier to provide these benefits and the right of the Company to change any carrier at any time provided only that the benefits shall not be less than those being provided.
The Company agrees to provide the Union copies of the: Insurance agreementscovering privately purchased benefits
(g)	Long Term Disability:
The Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, Long Term Disability Insurance equivalent to:
(i)	New claims after November 27,1988 — $700.00pei month.
(ii)	New Claims after November 1,1989 — $725.00per month.
To qualify for the above benefit an employee must have completed full five (5)years of active employment with the Company, and otherwise be eligible in accordance with the terms set out in the Employee Booklet.
(h)	Vision Care:
The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan for registered (TDI) dependants only. The Plan will contribute one-hundred dollars ($100.00) each twenty four (24) month period toward the cost of required prescription glasses.
31
RTICLE 25 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01	— This agreement shallcomeintoeffect from th^gJ^of_ k^jignlngjty the parties, except that wages shall have retroactivity in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement.
This agreement shall come into effectupon signing by both parties and shall^xpir^Novembei^^990^and shall renew year to year thereaftemnlesseltne^iart^^smoticeto the other party hereto of an intent to terminate or amend this agreement. Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than sixty (60) days and at least thirty (30) days before the expiry date of this agreement or the anniversary date of any subsequent period in which this agreement remains in force. The parties agree to meet within ten (10) days after the giving of such notice.
32
INWITNESSWHEREOFtheparties hereto, have executed this agreement on the 15th day of December, 1988, at Toronto, Ontario.
FOR THE COMPANY:
Dean Bergmane Tom Chandler Frank MacLachlan
FOR THE UNION;
G. Woidte D. Morin J. Phillips R. Laing D. Phillips
33
SCHEDULE “A
WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
The followingminimum wage rates for the respective classification shall be effective from the date indicated:
HOURLY RATES EFFECTIVE
JOB CLASSIFICATION	Nov. l/88Nov. 1/89
RAW SUGAR DEPARTMENT
Raw Sugar Operator	$13.91	$14.54
PROCESS DEPARTMENT Cleaner
Pan Helper/Mixer Floor Utility Operator Payloader Tunnel Operator Brown Sugar Centrifugal Operator Cisterns
Bulk/Liquid Loaders Pump Operator Melter
Press Operator Granulator Operator Screen Floor Attendant White Sugar Centrifugal Operator Control Room Operator
Kiln Operator Liquor Room Operator Liquid Sugar Operator
13.60	14.21
13.75	14.37
13.75	14.37
13.91	14.54
14.04	14.67
14.04	14.67
14.13	14.77
14.48	15.13
14.48	15.13
14.48	15.13
14.53	15.18
14.53	15.18
14.53	15.18
14.61	15.27
14.61	15.27
14.61	15.27
14.88	15.55
LABORATORY DEPARTMENT
Benchman Senior	14.77	15.43
34
Nov. 1/88Nov. 1/89
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT Stock Room Attendant	13.91
Oiler/Maintenance	14.42
General Maintenance Helper	14.42
Stock Room Assistant	14.61
General Maintenance	14.87
PACKAGING DEPARTMENT Cleaners
1 -2-4 Kilo Operator Ropak Operator Scale Operator
1	Kg/500 Gram Icing Operator 40 Kg Brown Operator
40 Kg Icing Operator I.S.E. Line
Valve Packer Operator I.B.C. Filler Palletizer Operator Blender Operator Empty Container Handler
2	Kg Sig Operator Transwrap/Grisswold
WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
Warehouseman
Lift-Truck Operator
High Lift-Truck Operator
Melter Operator
Checker
13.60
13.67
13.81
13.81
13.81
13.91
13.91
13.91
13.94
13.94 14.04 14.06 14.35
14.57
14.57
13.91
14.23
14.46
14.48
14.61
TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT Cleaner/Serviceman General Truck Driver Package Trailer Driver Bulk Sugar Driver Motor Mechanic
14.13 14.57 14.87
15.14 15.90
35
14.54
15.07
15.07 15.27
15.54
14.21
14.29
14.43
14.43
14.43
14.54
14.54
14.54
14.57
14.57 14.67 14.69 15.00
15.23
15.23
14.54
14.87
15.11
15.13
15.27
14.77
15.23
15.54
15.82
16.62
TRIP RATE MULTIPLES
Nov. 1, 1988 — 34.5c per mile Nov. 1, 1989 — 36C per mile
STUDENTRATE
70% of wage classification student i s assigned.
NOTE:
Driverswill retain the wage rate for (heir own job dassifkatim so long as they are so classified except that when drivers ate required to perform work in a higher rated category than their own, dies shall be paid at the higher rate forthe actual time involved.
Trips and overtime respecting all drivercategories will be assitypri as equitably aspossi hie,having regard toavailability of equipment and men at the time of dispatching.
36