AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS
CANADA INC. COBOURG, ONTARIO
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL LOCAL 1230 AFL - CIO - CLC
1994-1996
^ 1995
INDEX OF ARTICLES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. 9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20. 21. 22.
23.
24.
25.
26. 27.
ARTICLE	PAGE
Recognition............................. 6
Bargaining Unit......................... 6
Management.............................. 7
Union Security.......................... 8
Grievance Procedure.................... 10
Arbitration............................ 15
Representation......................... 17
PlantHolidays.......................... 18
Restand Meal Periods................... 20
TooIsforTradesmen...................... 21
Licenses............................... 22
Working Clothes........................ 22
Appearance in Court..................... 22
Safety, Health and Sanitation........... 22
Co-operation............................ 24
Bereavement Pay......................... 25
Vacations............................... 25
Benefits................................ 29
Hours of Work and Overtime.............. 29
Wages and Job Rate Rules............... 31
Off-Shift Premiums...................... 34
SeveranceAllowance/ClosureAgreement.... 34
Seniority............................... 37
Postingand Filling of Positions......... 38
Reductionand Recall of Plant Work Force.... 41
Leave of Absence........................ 44
Term of Agreement....................... 47
Appendix “ A - Hourly Wage Rates........ 49
Appendix “B” - SpecialAppendices
Respecting Maintenance.... 53 RecognizedTradesand Skills 53 Maintenance Departments-Classifications........... 54
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE	PAGE
Appendix"B” Filling of Vacancies............... 55
Shift Rotation................... 56
Temporary Assignment from
Classification to Classification. 57
MaintenanceOvertime.............. 57
ApprenticeshipTraining Program.... 57 Powerhouse Employees Twelve (12)
HourShiftSchedule.............. 59
Appendix“C”	Temporary Employeesand Students 60
Appendix“D”	Definitions...................... 62
Appendix" E	Overtime Distribution............ 65
Appendix “F"	Benefits......................... 68
Provincial Health Insurance Plan
OHIP........................... 69
Extended Health Plan............. 69
Dental Plan...................... 74
Life Insurance Plan.............. 78
Accidental Death and DismembermentlnsurancePlan. 80 Non-OccupationalAccidentand
Short-Term Disability Plan..... 81
Long-Term Disability............. 87
RetirementPlan................... 90
Summary of Pension Plan Provisions- Hourly Employees... 97 Medical and Dental Benefits Planfor Regular Full-Time Employees.... 101 Appendix“G” SpecialAppendices Respecting
Laboratory Employees.......... 102
Appendix“H"	Alternate Work Schedules.........105
Memorandums
Powerhouse Employees Premium
Time.......................... 106
Workers’Compensation Board.....107
Joint Pension Committee for Hourly Employees Mandate andActivities
Schedule.......................108
Posting and Filling of Positions.110
Pre-testing of Applicants........113
FlexibleWork Schedules...........115
INDEX OF ARTICLES
ARTICLE
PAGE
Appearance in Court.......................... 22
Appendix " A Hourly Wage Rates............... 49
Appendix“B” SpecialAppendicesre Maintenance 53 Appendix“C” Temporary Employeesand Students 60
Appendix “D” Definitions..................... 62
Appendix" E Overtime Distribution............ 65
Appendix11F" Benefits........................ 68
Appendix “G” SpecialAppendices Respecting
Laboratory Employees........ 102
Appendix“H" Alternate Work Schedules.........105
Arbitration.................................. 15
Bargaining Unit............................... 6
Benefits..................................... 29
BereavementPay............................... 25
Co-operation................................. 24
Grievance Procedure.......................... 10
Hoursof Work and Overtime.................... 29
Leave of Absence............................. 44
Licenses..................................... 22
Management.................................... 7
Memorandumsof Agreement..................... 106
Off-Shift Premiums........................... 34
PlantHolidays................................ 18
Posting and Filling of Positions............. 38
Recognition................................... 6
Reduction and Recall of Plant Work Force..... 41
Representation............................... 17
Restand Meal Periods......................... 20
Safety, Health and Sanitation................ 22
Seniority.................................... 37
SeveranceAllowance/ClosureAgreement......... 34
Term of Agreement............................ 47
ToolsofTradesmen............................. 21
Union Security................................ 8
Vacations.................................... 25
Wages and Job Rate Rules..................... 31
Working Clothes.............................. 22
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS CANADA, INC. COBOURG, ONTARIO
and/or its successor
Herein called “the Company”
AND
UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL,
affiliated with the AF. of L-C.I.O.,
of the Canadian Labour congress (C.L.C.)
on behalf of Local 1230.
Herein called “the Union”.
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties of this contract join together in the following Agreement.
Article 1 -Recognition
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargainingagentwith respectto ratesof pay, hours of work, and suchotherworkingcondi: tions and provisionsasare included in thisAgree-mentfor all classes of employees, as defined in Article 2- Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will not bargain collectivelywith any other labour organization on matters affecting these employees during the term of thisAgreement.
Article 2 - Bargaining Unit
2.1	The Bargaining Unitiscomposedof all employees at the Cobourg Plant, save and except Supervisors, personsabovethe rankof Supervisors, office staff, salariedtechnicians, watchmen and guards, and employees in the research centre.
2.2	Work customarily performed by the employees in the Bargaining Unit shall not be done on the plant premises by persons excluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purposes of experimentaldevelopment, audit, on-the-job training or instruction of employees, in cases of emergency or by sub-contracting.
2.3	Notwithstanding^rticle 2.2 andAppendix "A", some duties/tests may be re-allocated between Plantand Laboratory and/or Plant and Maintenance Classifications to enhance production and quality efficiencies. The new and/or changed classifications will be subjectto Article 20.9.
Laboratoryand MaintenancePersonnel will not be displaced because of any transfer of duties.
However, if the needs of the business warrant a reduction of the number of jobs in the Laboratory and Maintenance groups, these employees will have the opportunity to move into Plant positions accordingto seniority.
6
2.3	In the event of an opening in the Laboratory, Maintenance, or Production, qualified personnel from Maintenance, Laboratory Groups or Production, will have the first opportunity to apply according to their seniority.
2.4	The Union agrees the Company has the right to hire personnel on a temporary basis when necessary to meet production requirements or replace full time employeesfor such reasons as vacation, sick leave, or leave of absence. Terms and conditions covering temporary employees will be in accordance with Appendix "C”, which forms part of this CollectiveAgreement.
2.5	It is understood that the Company may need to sub-contract work, but the Company agrees to restrict the hiring of sub-contractors to perform such work on the plant premisesto those instances where:
1.	The work cannot be performed by Bargaining Unit employeesdue to inappropriate skills and unavailability of qualifiedpersonnel.
2.	Necessary equipment or tools to perform the work are not available to the plant.
3.	Such work cannot be performedby Bargaining Unit employees within required time limits.
4.	The Company will advise the Union President prior to any subcontracting work.
5.	The Company will dialogue with the Union President priorto any co-packing work.
Where regular employees who are laid-off have the skills and the equipment to do the work being subcontracted, the Company will not subcontract the work.
2.6	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
Article3 - Management
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management and operation of the business; and
7
the employment, direction, promotion, transfer, layoff, termination, retirement; and reprimand, suspension, or discharge of employees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company. The exercise of such functions shall not be subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of theAgreement.
Article 4 ■ Union Security
4.1	All employees as of the signing of the Collective Agreement who are members of the Union (in accordance with its constitutionand by-laws) and all employeeswho become membersafter such date shall, as a condition of employment, maintaintheir membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Collective Agreement or its renewal shall continue inforce.
In the event that an employee has been expelled from the Union in accordance with its constitution and by-laws, the employment of said employee shall automatically be terminated.
4.2	a) The Company agrees to deduct each week from wages due and payable to each employee (excluding a probationary employee) coming within the scope of the Bargaining Unit as defined in Article 2.1 of this CollectiveAgreement.the regularweekly uniondues. Suchdueswill be remitted to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Foodand Commercial Workers International,during the week which follows the deduction, together with a list of changes in the Bargaining Unit, and the names of employeesfor whom deductions have not been made.
b) Any union dues payable and not processed through payroll deductions becausethe employee has no earnings at the time the deductions are made, is claimed and collected by the Union directly from the employee.
4.3	The Company agreesthat upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union Mem-
8
bership Card, it will deduct from the wages of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement, the initiation fee due from him to the Local Union and shall remitthe same to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Food and Commercial Workers International, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the following calendar month. Special assessments, if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union, will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notificationfrom the Union.
4.4	The Company shall not be responsible financially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee, for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittances. However, in any instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from an employee's wages, the Company shall adjust it directly with the employee. In the event of any mistake by the Company inthe amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjustthe amount in a subsequent remittance. The Company's liability for any and all amounts deducted pursuant to the provisions in thisArticle shall terminate at the time it remits the amounts payable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
4.5	In the event of any action at law against the parties hereto or either of them resulting from any deductionor deductionsfrom payrolls made or to be made by the Company pursuant to Article 4.2 both parties shall cooperate fully in the defense of such action. Each party shall bear its own cost of such defense except that if at the request of the Union counsel fees are incurred, these shall be borne by the Union. Save as aforesaidthe Union shall indemnifyand save harmless the Company from any losses, damages, costs, liability or expenses suffered or sustained by it as a result of any such deduction or deductions from payrolls.
9
4.6	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company, shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influence, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union or against any present and prospective member of the Union.
4.7	It shall continue to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against or intimidate employees because of sex, religious, political or Union beliefs, race, colour, creed or nationality.
Article 5 - Grievance Procedure
5.1	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirabilityof a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances promptly. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements, dissatisfactions, differences, or alleged grievances arising out of the provisions of this Agreement. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
5.2	To ensure prompt handlingof grievances,the matter concerned should be submitted as soon as possible, but neither the Company nor the Union shall be required to recognizea grievance submitted by an employee after fifteen (15) work days have elapsed from the date of the incident.
The above time limit shall not apply in those instances where the grievance involves an error in employee's pay.
5.3	The employee will discuss his grievance with his Supervisor, accompanied by his Steward if he so desires. If such grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, it may be submitted in writing, signed by the employee and the Chief Steward, and will be submitted to the Supervisor.
10
5.4	Grievancesshall be dealt with progressively inthe following manner:
Stepl
Within five (5Jwork days of the Company receiving the written grievance, the employee, with the Chief Steward, may present the grievance to the Manager of the Department, the Superintendent and/or the Supervisor.
The Company is expected to render its decision within two (2) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
Step 2
Within fifteen (15) work days of the Union receiving the decision under Step 1, the Union President, and the Chief Steward, with or without the Steward, may present the grievance to the Manager, Human Resources or a designate, and the Manager of the Department, the Superintendent and/or the Supervisor.
The Company is expected to render its decision within two (2) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
Step 3
Withintwenty (20) work days of the Union receiving the decision underStep 2, the Grievance Committee may present the grievance to the Plant Manager, the Manager, Human Resources or a designate, and the Manager of the Department, or his designate. A representativeof the Union may be called in if desired by either party.
The Company is expected to render its decision within five (5) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submitthe grievance to Arbitration. Notel: Forthe purposes of this Article, the term “work days” is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays, paid plant holidays, vacations and sickness.
11
Note 2: In the absence of the Chief Steward, his designated representative (who will be another Officer of the Union) will process the grievance.
5.5	Any grievance not appealed from the decision in any step of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) full work days, shall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision.
5.6	The decisions arrived at by agreement between both parties under any of the above steps, shall be recorded in writing at the time of settlement, signed by both parties, and shall be valid and binding upon the Company and the Union and the employees.
5.7	Should the Company representative fail to meet the time limits at any step of the Grievance Procedure the Union may submit the grievance to the next step of the Grievance Procedure or to Arbitration after Step 3. Should the Union fail to process the grievance in accordance with any of the above grievance steps, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision, and shall not be subject to further proceeding.
5.8	The aggrieved employee may be present at any step if requested by either party. Except in the cases of discipline, a grievance initiated by more than one employee, or where a number of grievances dealing with a common issue are presented, the grievors will be represented by not more than two of their number, excluding the Union Steward and Grievance Committee, at any step of the grievance procedure.
5.9	If an employee so desires, he may be accompanied by his Steward when being interviewed by a management representative in an office. If the employee is a Steward, he may be accompanied by an officer of the Union.
5.10	The Company shall notify the Union President in writing within one (1) work day from the date the employee is notified in writing of hissuspensionor discharge. If the employee (excluding a Proba-
12
tionary Employee) believes that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a ■member of the Grievance Committee, within ten (10) work days from the date that the official written notice was given to the Union President.
Such grievance shall be presentedat the Second Step of the Grievance Procedure, after which it can be submitted to the subsequent steps of the Grievance Procedure andArbitration.
5.11	Itis understoodthat all meetings between Officers, Stewards of the Union and members of the Grievance Committee and members of Managementfor handlingmatters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement but excluding negotiations for the renewal of a new Agreement, shall be scheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. The Union Officers, Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee affected shall be paid at their prevailing rate for such time. The above shall also apply to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspensionor who has been discharged), and to any employee who is required to attend such meeting as a witness with respect to the grievance.
5.12	Notwithstanding Article 5.11, an employee, who would normally be scheduled to work, but is absent for negotiations with the Company for the renewal of the CollectiveAgreement or an authorized Union Convention, will receive a regular pay cheque from the Company subjectto the following conditions:
(1)	The weekly pay cheque will be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours per week at the employee's applicable rate and will not include any form of overtime or shift differential.
(2)	The pay cheque will be subject to all normal pay deductions.
13
(3)	The Union will supply a list of employees involved a week prior to the meeting date.
(4)	The Company will invoice the Union on a_ monthly basis for all gross pay computed per Section (1).
(5)	The Union will remit the full amount owing by the 15th day of the following calendar month, payable to Kraft General Foods Inc., Cobourg, Ontario, attention: GeneralAccounting.
(6)	The arrangement applies to the Union Officers, representatives of Local 1230, as defined inAppendix "D” of the CollectiveAgreement.
5.13	Any grievance arising directly between the Union and the Company may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at Step 2. Discussions between the Company and the Union apart from the Grievance Procedure shall not preclude resort to the Grievance Procedure.
5.14	A Union Steward may discuss with his Supervisor matters which may directly affect the welfare of the department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance. In the absence of the Steward the Union President may have such discussions with the Supervisor. The Union Steward may be accompaniedby the Union President in the event that either the Steward or the Supervisor request his presence. Similar discussions may take place between a representative of the Union or an Officer of the Union Local and a representative of Management.
5.15	Pending investigation and settlement of a grievance, the employee(s) involved will perform the duties assigned to him by his Supervisor.
5.16	The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months by the chief Steward and the Associate Manager of Human Resources. Any Management decision arising out of such review may be subject of a grievance.
14
5.17	It i s mutually agreed that subsection (6) of Section 44 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act does not apply to this Collective Agreement.
5.18	It is understoodthat any of the time limits referred to in Article 5, “Grievance Procedure”, andArticle 6, “Arbitration”,includingthe initiatingof a grievance and/or the invoking of Arbitration, may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union President and the Manager, Human Resources, or their designate.
Article 6 -Arbitration
6.1	Any grievancewhich has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled, and which involves the interpretationor applicationof any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referredby either partytoArbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) calendar days, following the meeting referred to in the Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the other party in writing and by registered mail. For the purpose of this clause, the dateappearingon this registeredmail shall be considered to be the date that the grievance has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration.
At the request of officials of either the Company or the Union a grievancewhich has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purposeofArtitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting betweenthe respective representatives of the parties.The object of this clause is to give the parties an opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance priorto arbitration.
6.2	Within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date that the grievance was filed forthe purpose of Arbitration as set forth in Section 6.1, the Union shall designateone person and the Company shall designate one person as members of the Arbitration
15
Board. In the event that either of the parties fails to appoint its member within this period, the other party shall within fifteen (15) calendar days ask that the member be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province.
6.3	The representativesof the partiesshall agree upon the selection, as soon as possible from the date of the last appointment, of a third arbitrator who shall be impartial and who shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. In the event that the parties fail to agree upon a Chairman, the representatives of the parties will jointly request the Minister of Labour for the Province to appoint such Chairman. The Chairman will be expected to convene this Board as soon as possible.
6.4	The decision of a majority of the said arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union and all employees involved.
6.5	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement or to alter, modify, or amend any part of it.
6.6	In the case referred to in Article 5, Section 5.10, the decision of the Board shall be governed by the following rules as agreed between the Union and the Company.
a)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and with full compensation for all time lost from the date that the employee was suspended, or discharged.
b)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board, with partial compensation for time lost as determined by the Arbitration Board, but with all rightsaccrued to him under this Agreement.
c)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board with nocom-
16
pensation whatsoeverfor time lost, but with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
d)	The decision of Management related to said suspension or dismissal of the employee to be upheld by the Arbitration Board.
It is understoodthat time lost will be computed on the basis of a normal work week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, includingthose of its representatives.
Article 7 - Representation
7.1	The Union agrees to appoint or elect, and the Company to recognize, Stewards (a maximum of one Steward for every Supervisor) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments in the Company's plant.
A list of these Stewards shall be supplied to the Company. The Union will advise the Company as soon as possible of any change in this list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Supervisors and the departmentto which they are attached. The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with grievances which may not be settled in Steps 1 or 2. The Grievance Committee will becomposedof three (3) members one of whom will be the Union President. The names of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any
17
changes in this list within five (5) work days of such changes.
7.3	It i s understoodthat a Steward is expected to assist in the adjustment of grievancesas provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union businessfalling underthe scopeoftheAgreement. Inorderto preventdisruptionsto the regularwork schedule, the Steward will request his Supervisor, or in his absence his designate, to make the necessary arrangements so that he can be relievedfrom his job (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but within one (1) hour. Such requests and the time taken away from the job will be kept to a minimum. Union representativesshall not contact another employee on company time without prior permissionof that employee's Supervisor.
Note 1: In the absence of the Steward, his designated representative (who will be another Steward or Officerof the Union) may act underthe provisionsof Article 7.3.
Article 8 - Plant Holidays
8.1	The following paid plant holidays shall be observed:
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Day After New Year's Day Labour Day Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Should Heritage Day be designated by the Government of Canada during the life of this Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to recognize the day as an additionalholiday entitlement.
There shall be three (3) additional paid plant holidays, the observance of which shall be determined from year to year.
8.2	NotwithstandingArticle 19.1, the work days immediately precedingChristmas Day and NewYear's Day, that is the eve of Christmas and New Year's Day, the regular schedule of hours for these days
18
shall not exceedfour (4) hours, except for the night shift and powerhouse employees.
8.3	If a paid plant holiday(s) falls on a day on which work is not normally scheduled, the work day before or after such holiday(s) shall be observed as a substitute holiday(s). e.g. - In situations where back-to-back paid plant holidays occur on Friday and Saturday the substitute holiday for Saturday will be either Thursday or Monday.
8.4	An employee is entitled to holiday pay for each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 8.1, whetheror not he workson such holidays, providing that:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which such paid plant holiday(s) occur, or
ii)	in the special case of the Christmas and New Year's period, an employee has not less than six (8) months seniority and who has earnings to hiscreditintheweek immediatelyfollowing such paid plantholiday(s), or
iii)	he has receiveda minimumof26 paycheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occur, and
iv)	such paid plantholiday(s) is observed during his periodof employment.
Notel: An employeewho qualifiesfor holiday pay under Article 8.4 (iii) will receive holiday pay in accordance with his regular rate of pay atthe time the holiday(s) is observed.
8.5	However, an employee shall forfeit his holiday pay specified in Article 8.4 above, if:
i)	he is scheduled to work on such paid plant holiday(s) and fails to do so, or
ii)	he is absent on the scheduled work day immediately preceding or immediatelyfollowing such paid plantholiday(s), unless such absence is excused by the Company.
19
8.6	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan will receive holiday pay in lieu of sick benefit payments in the event that paid plantholiday(s) fallsduring hisabsence:
8.7	An employee receiving LTD payments will receive the difference between holiday pay and that received through LTD paymentfor paid holidays occurringduring his absence and within the initial eighteen monthLTD period.
8.8	An employee who works on a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in addition, he will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1.5) his regular rate for all hours worked.
8.9	An employee who is employed in the powerhouse, and is required to work on one of his scheduled days off and such day is also a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in addition, he will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1.5) times his regular rate for all hours worked. If required to work both of his scheduled days off and the second scheduled day off is also a paid plant holiday he will receive his holiday pay and in addition he will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1.5) times his regular rate for all hours worked.
8.10	The Company will advise the Union President of those cases where holiday pay has been forfeited.
8.11	When a paid plant holiday falls on Friday pay cheques will be distributedto the employees work-ingtheThursday 11 - 7 shift priortothe end of their shift.
Article9 - Restand Meal Periods
9.1	Two paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes duration each and one paid twenty (20) minute meal period in any eight (8) hour shift will be scheduled in a manner so as not to interfere with production or cost of operations.
9.2	An employee who works overtime after his scheduled eight (8) hour day is entitled to a fifteen (15)
20
minute rest period prior to the start of such overtime. An employee is entitled to a paid meal period of twenty (20) minutes, at his overtime rate, if he is required to work more than two (2) hours after his scheduled quitting time.
Subsequent entitlement for rest and meal periods will be fifteen (15) minute rest period at his overtime rate if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyondthe start of the previous rest period and a subsequent twenty (20) minute meal period at his overtime rate if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the start of the previous meal period. Such rest and meal periods will be scheduled by the Company.
9.3	An employee who works overtime immediately before or after his scheduled eight (8) hour day will be entitled to a meal allowance of $5.00 per meal period providinghe is required to work overtime more than two (2) hours.
9.4	An employee called in to work under the provisions of Article 20.17 will be entitled to a meal allowance of $5.00 for one meal, in the eventthe emergency call-in is continuous with his regular shift or, in the event the emergency call-in is not continuous with his regular shift but exceeds four (4) hours duration.
Article 10 - Tools for Tradesmen
10.1	A regular Maintenance Department employee (excluding a powerhouseemployee)with at least one year's seniority and completingthe trial period, shall receive during the first week of January each year, a cheque in the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars ($1 50.00). Employees who have completed their trial period and have not completed one (1) year of service will receive the pro-rated tool allowance based on the number of full months of completed service as of January 1 each year. This tool allowance is to be used for the replacementof worn or lost tools or the purchase of new tools. It
21
is understood such employees must maintain an adequatecomplement of tools for the performance of their duties.
Tools requiredinthe powerhousewill be provided in accordancewith past practice.
Article 11 - Licenses
11.1	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses required in the performanceof their duties.
Article 12 -Working Clothes
12.1	The Companyshallfumish and launderall uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which may be required for work in cold or wet areas.
12.2	All such working clothes issued by the Company to employees will remain the property of the Company.
12.3	The Company will pay up to a maximum of seventy dollars ($70.00) per calendar year towards the cost of safety shoes purchased by an employee. Annual credits in whole or in part, may be accumulated to a maximum of one hundred and forty dollars
'	($140.00).
Article 13 -Appearance In Court
13.1	Employees called for jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in court will be paid the difference between their regular rate and the amount paid by the court for hours of work missed up to eight (8) hours per day. To be eligible for payment, the employee must notify his Supervisor as soon as such notice is received and furnish evidence of the amount of pay received.
Article 14 -Safety, Health and Sanitation
14.1	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provisionsforthe safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment, includ-
22
ing safety installations, personal protective equipment, and such other safety devices required to maintain safe working conditions. Disagreements pertaining to the provisions of this Article as to whether or not the Company is making reasonable provisions to maintain safe working conditions may be referred to the Grievance Procedure beginning at Step 2.
14.2	An employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he required medicaltreatment if as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attentionon instructionfrom the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative, provided this is not reimbursed by Worker's Compensation.
14.3	An employee is required to meet the standards of physical fitness established by the Company and will be subject to physical examinations given by the Company Physician at Company expense, when and as required by the Company. An employee shall be paid applicable rate for the purposeof such examinations.
An employee who is working on a shift other than day shift by his own choice shall be paid his regular rate when he is required to have such examinations before his regular starting time or after his regular quittingtime.
14.4	The Company may transfer, require a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employee who in its belief, does not meet the physical conditions required by the Company, as interpretedby the Company Physician. Any disagreement with such interpretation can be submitted to a recognized medical authority. This action will be taken by the Company only after reasonable effort has been made to provide suitable employment.
23
14.5	In consideration of the nature of the Company's business,the Union recognizesthe needfor main-, taining highstandardsof sanitation and employee health in accordance with Federal and Provincial" laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and procedures pertainingto the foregoing. The Company agrees to communicateto the Union any changes to policies and procedures as they affect employees before implementing such changes.
14.6	The Company and the Unionagree to establisha Plant Health and Safety Committee comprised of four Union representatives appointed by the Union and four Management representatives. This committee will meet at least once per month or more often as required. Minutes of these meetings will be preparedand distributed to this Committee, the Union President, Stewards, Officers and Plant Management Staff. The Company and the Union agree that the Safety Program established by the parties is given principal i mportance.
Article 15 - Cooperation
15.1	Duringthe terms of this Agreement the Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out of employees and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike.
Neither the Union, nor any of its stewards, officers or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slow-down or walk-out. The Union will not recognize the rights of employeeswho participate singly or collectively in such a slow-downor walkout.
15.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requested or requiredto cross a picket line established by the Union.
15.3	The Union President shall have the right to post on notice boards, bulletinspertainingto meetings of the Union, election of officers, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such
24
notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
15.4	No employee shall conduct Union activities during working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
Article 16 - Bereavement Pay
16.1	An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and availablefor work shall receive the following entitlement for time lost during the period between death and three (3) calendar days following the funeral:”
a) five (5) days' pay for spouse, dependent children or unmarried children.
b) three (3) days' pay for non-dependent children, parents, brothers, sisters, grandparents or grandchildren.
one (1) day’s pay for parents-in-law, grandparent-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, sori-in-law, daughter-in-law, and any relative residing permanently with the employee.
16.2
Article 16.1 (a) (b) (c) shall apply to recogni Dependent Children, Common-Law and Relationshipsas defined inAppendix “D”.
St
ized
:ep-
Article 17 -Vacations
17.1	An employee who has completed the service requirementslisted below shall be granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
Service
Requirement
(as of date Length of Computation of of hiring) Vacation Vacation Pay 1 year	2 weeks 4% of wages earned
for the year ending December31st of previous year
25
3 years	3 weeks	6% of wages earned for the year ending December31st of previous year
10 years	4 weeks	8% of wages earned for the year ending December31st of previous year
20 years	5 weeks	10% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previousyear
25 years	6 weeks	12% of wages earned for the year ending December 31st of previousyear
17.2	For each week of vacation, an employee will receive a minimum of forty (40) hours' pay at his hourly rate, providing that the employee has fulfilled the following active employmentrequirements:
a)	the employee has worked during the calendar year in which the vacation is taken;
b)	the employee has receivedtwenty-six (26) pay cheques during a consecutive fifty-two (52) week period measured from any point in the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
17.3	Receipt of sick benefits, LTD benefits within the initial eighteen (18) months LTD period, and Workers' Compensation payments shall be considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques in fulfillingthe active employment requirements.
17.4	On terminationof employmentwith the Company, an employee shall be entitled to vacation pay as follows:
1)	If the employee has received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year:
a) for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977; no further entitlement
26
b) for an employee hiredsubsequentto January 1,1977;the applicable percentageunder Article 17.1 of wages earned inthe current year up to the date of termination.
2)	If the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year, but has fulfilled the active employment requirements underArticles 17.1 and 17.2:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977;full entitlementunder Articles 17.1 or
17.2
b)	for an employee hired subsequentto January 1,1977;entitlementunder Articles 17.1 or 17.2 plusthe applicable percentageunder Article 17.1 of wages earned inthe current year up to the date of termination.
3)	If the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year nor fulfilled the active employment requirementsunder Articles 17.1 and 17.2:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January 1, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned inthe current year up to the date of termination.
b)	for an employee hired subsequentto January 1,1977;the applicable percentageunder Article 17.1 of wages earned inthe previous calendar year, plus the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
17.5	Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another and made cumulative. However, an employee entitled to three, four, or five weeks vacation, who does not receive his entitlement during the scheduled vacation period(s),may postpone one week to be taken at any time, in the succeedingyearsubjecttoArticle 17.7. Six weeks of vacation in a calendaryear is the maxi-
27
mum entitlement and therefore any postponed week must be taken before the calendar year in which the employee becomes entitled to six weeks of vacation.
Every effort will be made to provide employees the opportunity to take three weeks of vacation entitlement in July andAugust.
17.6	The occurrence of a paid holiday during the employee's vacation will either be paid as a holiday during that period or another day will be substituted for such holiday. If a substitute day is granted, it will be considered for all purposes as a holiday, and such time off may be granted at the beginningor the end of the vacation period, or at any time following the vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
17.7	Except in the case of the scheduled vacation period(s), employees who are entitled to additional vacation will be notified of their vacation period(s) as far in advance as possible, due regard being paid to employee's seniority and personal wishes.
Inthe case of the scheduled vacation period(s), the Union will be notified as soon as possible, but not later than April 1st, of the vacation year. Should subsequent changes in the scheduled vacation period(s), be necessary,e.g. the need to run certain linesdue to customerrequirements, the Union will co-operate with the Company in arranging staffing by qualified personnel. No allowance will be made for periods of disability occurringduring vacations.
17.8	An employee who becomes hospitalized or is confined to his home with an illness or injury priorto his scheduledvacation, may request that his vacation be re-scheduledto a later date.
Requests must be submitted to the Medical Department and accompanied by a Physician's Certificateof Illness.
28
The request and the Physician’s Certificate of Illness will be forwarded to the Company Physician. Each request will be reviewed on its merit, and if approved by the Company Physician, the vacation will be re-scheduled.
Article 18 - Benefits
18.1	All eligible employees (excluding employees on probation and layoff) shall, subject to the conditions therein, have the benefit of the various plans outlined in Appendix “F”. Throughoutthe life of this Agreement, the Company will not change any of the participating benefit provisions without prior consent of the Union. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union and its members any change of benefit carrier thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date.
Article 19 - Hours of Work and Overtime
19.1	Eight (8)hoursperday shall be the basic work day, and five (5) consecutive work days. (Mondays- Friday inclusive) shall be the basic work week of forty (40) hours, except for the Powerhouse operation, Appendix “B” and Alternative Work Schedules as perAppendix,lH”. The normal work schedules will be 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.; 3:00p.m.to11:00p.m.; and 11:00p.m.to 7:00 a.m.
Additional work schedules 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m, to 10:30 p.m. apply only to Laboratory employees. Hoursof work for Powerhouse employees are covered in Appendix “B” of this Agreement.
19.2	All time worked in excess of the basic work day of eight (8) hours, before or after, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paidatthe rate of time and one-half (114) the regularrate. Time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 %)the regular rate. Except in an emer-
29
gency, employees will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours.
19.3	All hoursworked on Saturday and Sunday shall be paidatthe rate of one and one-half (lVz) times the regular rate. However, any hour(s) worked on Saturday or Sunday which are a part of the basic work week (Article 19. l)will be paidatthe regular rate. Example being as follows: 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. - regularlyscheduledshiftstarts at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday and ends at 7:00 a.m. Monday. The overtime rate of one and one-half times is not paid between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnighton the Sunday night.
19.4	Any change in the normal work schedules referred to in Article 19.1 (unless made as a result of an emergency) will be made by the Plant Manager and notice of such change will be given in writing to the Union President and stewards at least ten (1 0) days prior to the change, or failing such notice affected employeeswill be paid time and one-half (lVz) their regular rate for the next ten (10) regular work days. Copies of such notice will also be posted at the time clocks.
19.5	Subject to production requirements, every effort will be made to schedule employees, working on a multiple shift schedule, in such a way as to rotatesuch employees in an equitable manner.
19.6	An employee assigned to shift work shall not leave his work place unless relieved by the employee assigned to the same operation on the succeeding shift, or a substitute instructed to do so by the supervisor.
19.7	An employee shall not change shifts with another employee without permissionof his Supervisor.
19.8	Every effort will be made to avoid the necessity for overtime; however, when conditions necessitate, an employee will perform overtime work. The response of the employee requested to work
30
overtime will be on a voluntary basis. The Union agreesthat when overtime is necessary it will do its utmostto cooperatewith the Company to make sure that employees are availableto do the work particularly when such overtime is due to the unexpectedabsence of any employee. Distribution of overtime will be in accordance with Appendix “E, which forms a part of this Collec-tiveAgreement.
19.9	Whenever an employee's regular scheduled working hours are changed by the Company, that is, both starting and finishing times changed, except in an emergency, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half(11/2) the regular rate for work performed during hisfirst working day following such change unless the employee was informedof the change at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the commencement of the new shift.
19.10	Unless specifically provided for in this Agreement, there shall be no duplicationor pyramiding of overtime payment nor shall the same hours worked be counted as part of the normal work week and also as hours for which an overtime premium is payable.
Article 20 -Wages and Job Rate Rules
20.1	Basic rates of pay during the term of thisAgree-ment shall be in accordance with Appendix “A.
20.2	The successful applicant to a job posting shall receive the regular rate of the job as soon as he starts his trial period.
20.3	An employee, if qualified and available, may be assigned by the Companyto a job other than his regular job for a temporary period up to thirty (30) days of work:
1)	In an emergency to fill a vacancy or to perform obviously temporary work:
2)	To replace an employee injured or absent for medical reasons;
31
3)	To replace an employee who is on vacation; and shall, during the periodof such assignment, receive his regular rate or the rate of the job to which he is assigned, whichever is higher. Assignments will be done in such a manner as to displace as few people as possible, once the needs of the operation have been met.
20.4	An employee assigned temporarily to a higher rated job than his regular job will receive the higher rate for the entire work week, provided that eight (8) or more of the hours worked during that week are performedon the higher ratedjob.
20.5	When it becomes apparent that the assignment is no longer temporary, then the job will be deemed vacant and the opening will be posted.
20.6	When an employee is scheduled to work on a higher rated job and his schedule is changed after he starts his week, requiring him to work on a lower ratedjob, he shall be paid the higher rate as set up by the schedule.
20.7	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees, by the return to work of employees from sick leave or personal leave of absence, or layoff, during any week, are not required to be made until the start of the next scheduled week.
20.8	During the developmentstages of a newjob, the Company may assign employees excluded from this Agreement to work on the new operation but these employees shall not be retained when the job has reachednormal operation. For the purposes of administration of this Agreement, the development of a new job will be considered to be completed when the job reaches normal operation.
20.9	When a job is or is to be established, or an existing job is changed, which cannot be properly placed in an existing classification by mutual agreement, management will establish a classification and rate on a temporary basis.
32
20.10	Written notification of the temporary rate and classificationwill be furnished to the Union President.
20.11	The new rate and classificationshall be considered temporary for a period of thirty (30) calendar days following the date of notificationto the Union President.
20.12	During this period (but not thereafter) the Union President may request the Company to negotiate the rate for the classification. The negotiated rate, if higher than the temporary rate, shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary classificationand rate. If no request has been made by the Union President to negotiate the rate within the thirty (30) calendar day period the temporary rate and clas-sificationshall become a part of the wage scale.
20.13	Ifthe Company and the Union are unable to agree on a rate and classificationfor a new job, or an existingjob that has been changed, the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated as a grievance and either referred to a single arbitrator selected by the parties or referredto the Pay Equity Commission. Inthe event that the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator, the parties will jointly requestthe Minister of Labourfor the Province to appoint such arbitrator. The arbitrator will be expected to convene a hearing as soon as possible.
20.14	It is specifically agreed that the arbitrator will have no authority to alter or modify the existing rates and classifications but he shall have the authority, subject to the provisions of this agreement, to determine the new rate and/or classification.
20.15	If the arbitrator sets the new rate higher than the temporary rate it shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary rate and classification.
33
20.16	When the rate of a job is lowered as a result of changed job content and re-evaluation, then the incumbent shall continue to receive the former rate, that which existed at the time the rate was lowered, while he continued on that job. Continuance on the job shall be broken by bidding off or requestsfor transfer by the employee. A new incumbent on that job shall receive the established lower rate for the job.
20.17	An employee, called in to work from off the premises for an emergency, shall be paid the applicable rate for all hours worked with a minimum of four (4) hours' pay at such rate, for time spent on the emergency outside of his regular schedule of hours. His work shall be through when the emergency is over, but in the event the emergency is not over at the time the employee's regularshift begins, then the employee shall be paid at his regular rate. Hours paid or refused for an emergency call in will be recorded as overtime.
20.18	An employee, who works on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holiday, not continuous with, before or after his regular scheduled shift, shall not be paid less than four (4) hours' pay at the applicable rate.
Article 21 - Off-Shift Premiums
21.1	A shift premium of fifty-five cents (554) perhour will be paid to employees scheduled and working on the 2:30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shifts.
Article 22 - Severance Allowance/
ClosureAgreement
22.1	The ClosureAgreement referredto in this article was negotiated in good faith between the Company and the Union to provide as much protection and help as possible to employees in the event of a full or partial closure.
34
In the event of a full or partial closure of all or part of the business, the Company will notify the Union as far in advance as possible. Such notice shall be in writing and indicatethe reasonfor the action.
This article will at least comply with the Employment StandardsAct.
22.2	In the case of partial or full plant closure, the Company shall supply the Union with a current seniority list immediately.
22.3	The Company agrees to meet with the Union to discussthe contemplated shutdown with a view to providing a solution to the problem, or jobs for the employees involved. To this end, the Company and the Unionwill put into place a Human ResourcesAdjustment Committee, comprised of two Management and two Union Executive representatives, to provideout-placement services for employees. Such services would include, but are not limitedto, resume writing, counselling and job searchassistance.The full scope of the Committee's responsibilities will be defined by the Committee members.This Committee will befundedbythe Companyand remaininplace for 12 months after the closure/partial closure date.
22.4	An employee, excluding an employee on probation, who is permanently laid-off or terminated due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the plant or part of the plant, or other causes which, insofar as the company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, shall be entitled to benefits underthe SeveranceAllowance/ Closure Agreement in accordance with the following provisions:
NOTE: Forthe purposesofthisArticle, a permanent layoff of the workforce is understood to be
35
a layoff that equals or exceeds thirty-five weeks in any period of fifty-two consecutive weeks.
1)	The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a permanent layoff or termination with SeveranceAllowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2)	An employee who is eligible for Severance Allowance shall be paid an amount equal to the employee's regular wages for eight days (8) of non-overtimework multiplied by the sum of:
I a) the number of the employee's completed years of employment; and
b)	the numberof the employee’s completed monthsof employmentdivided by 12,
but shall not exceed thirty-six (36) weeks regular wages for a regular non-overtime work week.
3)	An employee who is permanently laid-off or terminated may elect to remain on the plant seniority list for possible recall. In such cases, the Company will pay the Severance Allowance payment to the Director of the Employment Standards Branch in trust for a maximumof twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request paymentwith a complete break in service.
4)	SeveranceAllowance shall not be paid
a) to an employee with less than three (3) years seniority;
b) to an employee who is temporarily laid-off due to the fluctuation of volume of business;
c)	to an employee who is discharged for just cause;
d)	to an employee who voluntarily resigns from the Company's employ;
36
e)	to an employee who retiresfrom the Company's employ;
f)	In the eventof closingthe plantorpart of the plantduetoActs of nature or in times of public peril, war, disaster or any other reason of similar nature;
g)	The number of weeks of Severance Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to an employee's normal retirement date.
Article 23 -Seniority
23.1	An employee will be considered on probation until he has completed fifty (50) days of actual work within a twelve (12) month period, in the service of the Company. If found unsuitable during such period, such employee will not be retained inthe service of the Company. If found suitable and on completion of the probationary period the name of the employee will be placed on the seniority list dating back to the first day of the fifty (50) day probationary period.
23.2	The Company shall give a seniority list to the Union President and shall assist him in keeping his list up to date by advising him, in writing, of any changes.
23.3	When an employee is transferred by the Company to a position outside the bargaining unit, and within twelve (12) months inclusive from such date is returned to the bargaining unit, he shall return to the general labour classification with the seniority he held at the time the transfer first took place.
23.4	Inthe event of transfer of operations to this plant from other Kraft General Foods Inc. plants, employees possessing particularskills required by the operationshall be allowed to transfer intothe bargainingunit with one (1) month's seniority or otherwise as a result of discussion and mutual agreement betweenthe Companyand the Union.
37
23.5	Terminationof employment and loss of seniority shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge for just cause by the Company.
2.	Resignation.
3.	Retirement.
4.	Continuous absence for three (3) days without any contact being made with the employee's immediate supervisor or his representative unless information isfumished showing itwas impossible to provide such contact.
5.	Failure to report for work in accordance with a notice of recall or within ten (10) working days after registered mailing date of such notice, whichever is later.
6.	Continuous layoff for a periodof35 weeks in any period of 52 consecutive weeks.
7.	Employee is employed elsewhere while on leave of absence.
The Company will be entitled to rely upon the last address and telephone number of an employee as shown in the Company records. Employees shall notify the Company promptly of any change of address or telephone number.
Article 24 - Posting and Filling of Positions
24.1	Alljob vacancies, which needto befilledfor more than thirty (30) work days shatl be posted for three (3) work days. Exception will be made for those jobs listed inAppendix “C”, General Labour inAppendix “A”, and those jobs associated with special production runs with specific starting and ending dates covering a period of up to sixty-five (65) work days. The sixty-five (65) work day limitation may be extended by mutual consent.
24.2	Seniority, aptitude and ability shall be the deter-miningfactors in selecting applicants. Seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
38
24.3	The successful applicant on a bid job shall be considered to be on trial for a period not exceeding thirty (30)work days. An employee, who fails to qualify for the job, shall be returnedto his former classification/posltion.
24.4	An employee must decide during the first five (5) work days (ten (10) work daysfor jobs in groups
4,5	and Laboratory Technician II) of his trial period if he wishes tocontinue on the job or return to his former classification.
24.5	An employee may bid on any job opening, but be the successful applicant only three (3)ti mes during any twelve (12) month period, commencing with the date of his first successfuljob bid. However, a successful applicant of a job in groups four (4)orfive (5) and LaboratoryTechnician II may not bid again for a period of nine months from the date of his successful bid. Only exception to this section will be for an employee who has lost his bid job in groups four (4) or five (5) and LaboratoryTechnician II due to a lay-off per Article 24.9. On his return to work he will be allowed the opportunity to bid again from the date of his return from lay-off.
24.6	(a) Where the job opening pertains to a new
processand/or new equipment, and training is required, the applicants may be pre-tested and/or evaluated upon completion of the training, in order to determine the employee's ability to satisfactorily perform the duties of the job. Work days spent in training will be counted as work days of the employee's job acceptance period.
(b) Ina department where new processesand/ or new equipment is installedwhich will parallel and/orduplicate existing processesand/ or equipment operatingpersonnel who perform similar jobs in the Unit will be given the first opportunity, by seniority, to meet the qualificationsrequiredofthejob. Theseem-
39
ployees will be pre-tested and/or evaluated upon completionof the training. Forjob openings pertainingto groups 1,2 and 3 the employee job acceptance period will be five (5) work days. Forjob openings pertainingto groups 4 and 5 the employee job acceptance period will be ten (10) work days.
The trial period for jobs pertainingto groups 1, 2 and 3 will not exceed thirty (30) work days and the trial periodfor jobs pertaining to groups4 and 5 will not exceed thirty (30) work days. If there is a successful applicant from within the Unit, the job will not be posted plant-wide.
24.7	In the event there are not sufficient applicants for postedjobopening(s), availableemployee(s) will be assigned to such vacant job(s), due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications. The employee(s) will continue on suchjob(s) until he is a successful applicant to a job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article
24.1	or reassignedbythe Companyor displaced by successfulapplicant(s) on subsequent bid(s).
24.8	An employee unable to performprevious duties due to injury received while in the employ of the Company, or an employee of long service who has become unable to handle his job, may be reclassified and will be given such other work as is available and which he is capable of performing in the opinion of the Company Physician.
24.9	Inthe event of a lay-off, an employee on a bidjob will continue to hold his rights to return to such job when it is again open to him, providing that his lay-off is not more than thirty (30) continuous work days.
24.10	Any employee absent for six (6) consecutive months due to illness or injury will have the status of his absence reviewed with the Medical Department by his Department Manager. If the results of this review indicate that the employee
40
will not be returning to his job within a reasonable period of time, then thejob, if requiredto be filled, would be posted as per Article 24.1
Upon return to work, the employee will be re-classifiedas General Labouror Central Maintenance. Any rightstothe Bid or Advice Noticejob will be lost, however he will receive rate protection for twelve (I2) months from the date of his first absence.
Article 25 - Reduction and Recall of Plant Work Force
25,1	In the event of a reduction in the regular work force, the first remedy will be as follows: i) Regularincumbentsofjobsaffectedwill receive rate protection and shall receive not less than the hourly rate of his bid job, until he can be returned to his bid job or until he bids out of his current position, subject to the following conditions:
a)	An employee, whose rate is protected, may be assigned by the Company to any available job opening, due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications.
b)	Inthe event an employee, on a protected rate, is assigned to a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while peformingsuch job.
c)	An employee, on a protected rate, will be assigned to any available job opening first, irrespectiveof seniority.
d)	If an employee, whose rate is protected,fails to accept an assignment in accordance with Section (a) and (c) above, he shall forfeit his rate protectionand shall be paid the rate of the job he is assigned.
e)	An employee will be scheduled back on his bid job when it is again available providing the job is not down for more than twelve (12)
41
consecutive months, or providing he has not bid out of his current bid position. An employee whose bid job is down for more than twelve (12) consecutive months will lose his rights to such job.
f)	An employee scheduled back on his job under Section (e) above will renew his rights to rate protectionshould hisjob go down again as a result of a business fluctuation.
g)	In the event that an employee, whose rate is protected, bids for and is the successful applies ntto a job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 24.1 he forfeits his claimto hisformer bidjob underthe terms of either Article 24.3 or24.4 above.
h)	In the special case where an existing job(s) is changed creating a new job, displaced incumbent(s) will begiventhe opportunity to fill the newjob in accordance with Article 24.2 prior to posting the newjob.
i)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a departments proportions the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employeesof one departments another with reasonable consideration given to extreme changes in the physical requirements of the work to be done.
j)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If any employee declines to perform the task assigned to him, the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such hours so lost by him.
25.2	If, following the reassignmentof regularemploy-
ees as in Article 25.1, there is a further need to
reduce the workforce, the following remedy will
42
apply to regular employees, other than those employeesdescribedinArticle 25.3.
(i)	In the event of a layoff, providingthe employee is able to do the job, the order of layoff will be:
(a)	All Students first and then Temporary Employees.
(b)	Probationary Employees -according to most recent date of hire.
(c)	Employeewith the lowest plant seniority, providing the remaining employees with more seniority are able to do the work available.
Where necessary, training will be provided for the senior employee whose position has been cut back, in order for the employee to assume a junior position. The only exception would be those positions where training must be done outside the normal plant environment, such as maintenance trades, stationary engineers and laboratory technicians.
The Company may keep the most senior qualified employee on the job for the purpose of training more senior employees only until training is completed.
(ii)	All employees (excludingemployeeson probation) shall be given a minimum of five (5) work days' notice of layoff or five (5) days' pay in lieu of notice, except in an emergency, as defined in Appendix “D”.
(iii)	The Company will provide the Union President with a list of employeesto be laid off or recalled, or any cancellation of such notices.
25.3	If, as described in Article 25.2, it becomes necessary to further reduce the workforce, employees hired priorto January 01,1988 will have the option of selecting termination and severance allowance underthe provisionsof Article 22, or lay-off by seniority.
43
If termination and severance allowance are selected, the employee will have no recall rights.
If lay-off is selected the provisions of Articles 18.1,20.7,23.5,24.10, 25.2 (ii) and (iii) and 25.4-will then apply, and the employee will have recall rights.
Employees covered under Article 25.3 will be given a minimumof five (5) work days' notice of lay-off or (five) 5 days’ pay in lieu of notice. Employees with more than five (5) years' seniority, shall be given notice, or pay in lieu of notice, as follows:
Service	Notice
More than 5 yrs. less than 10 yrs. 7 days 10 yrs. less than 15 yrs.	10 days
15 yrs. or more	15 days
The only exception will be inthe case of an emergency, as defined in Appendix “D”.
25.4	i) Employeeswho have been laid off in accordance with Article 25.2, will be returned to work in the reverse order in which they were laid off, provided they are able to do the work available, giventhe training outlined inArticle 25.2.
ii) Employeeswho have been laid off in accordance with Article 25.3 will be returnedto work in the reverse order in which they were laid
Off.
Article 26 - Leave of Absence
26.1	Requestsfor leaves of absence without pay must be made in writing with the reasons shown and be received by the Company at least sixty (60) calendar days prior to the commencementdate of the leave. The employee shall be advised of the Company's decision in writing with a copy to the Union at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to such commencementdate.
44
26.2	Leaves of absence may be granted by the Company for good and sufficient personal reasons, except when the efficient operation of the business would be adversely affected.
It is agreed that the discretionary powers vested in the Company to consider such request for leave of absence will be exercised only in respect to the operating needs of the business, subject to the grievance procedure.
26.3	Leaves of absence, exceptthose granted for personal disabilityorforservice intheArmed Forces, may not exceed four (4) calendar weeks without breaking seniority.
In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time off, he may apply for an extension, but his application must be made at least two (2)weeks prior to the termination of his original leave of absence.
26.4	Any employee member of the Union elected or appointed to a Union Office will, upon request in writing received by the Company at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the commencement date of the leave, if possible, be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceedtwelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuityof Company service. It is agreed that no more than five (5) members of the Union be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
26.5	Any employee member of the Union appointed as a delegate for specific Union activities will, upon request in writing received by the Company at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement date of the leave, if possible, be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. It is agreed that no more than twelve (12) members
45
of the Union need be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and the Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
26.6	Any employee elected to Public Officewill, upon request in writing, be granted a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union prior to terminationof the original leave.
26.7	Employees will be entitled to Pregnancy Leave and Parental Leave as outlined in the Employment Standards Act.
26.8	Employees will be entitled to Adoptive Leave as outlined in the Employment StandardsAct.
26.9	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years' seniority who requests such leavefor the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognizededucational standards, but such leave shall only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave.
Effective on the date of the start of such leave of absence, the employee forfeits all rights to their currentjob classification and upon their return to work will be classifiedas General Labour as per Appendix "A".
The employee shall be eligible for recall effective at the beginningof the second full work week following the date of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressedto the Manager, Human Resources.
26.10	Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another
46
position Jrv ou.t new work or-venture into business for’himselT. Hisleaveof absencesnairoe
cancelled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activitiesother than those for which the leave was granted.
Article27 -Term of Agreement
27.1
unless either party gives the other, not less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days priorto such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to terminate this Agreement orseekamendments to same, in which case this presentAgreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
27.2	After either party has given written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to thisAgreementthe partiesshall meetto exchange listings of the changes desired. Negotiations shall start at least thirty (30) calendar days priorto the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
27.3	The notices providedfor in Article 27.2 shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed to the Union President, and if to the Company, to Kraft General Foods Canada, Inc., Cobourg, Ontario.
47
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Agreement on the 19th day of June, 1994.
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS CANADA, INC.
UNITED FOODAND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION LOCAL1230
48
Appendix “ A
Hourly Wage Rates
Classifications
June 19, 1994 May 15, 1995 GROUP 1	$15.55	$15.80
General Labour
Janitor ■ Cereals Services Cereals/Rice Janitor- PackagingCereals/Rice Janitor- Processing Cereals/Rice Machine Cleaner- Cereals/Rice Utility Packer - Cereals/Rice Case Piler - Desserts/Beverages Janitor- Packaging Desserts/Beverages Janitor- Sanitizer Desserts/Beverages Machine Cleaner- Desserts/Beverages Packer- Desserts/Beverages Packer- Jell-0 Desserts/Beverages Sanitation Person- Desserts/Beverages Utility Packer- Displays Desserts/Beverages Utility Packer- Volpaks Desserts/Beverages Janitor - Waste Handler Plant Services Utility Attendant - Plant Services
Utility Warehouse Custodian- DistributionDepartment Utility Warehouse Custodian- Receiving Department Case Piler - Certo/Satellite Packer- Certo/Satellite Utility Person - Bldg. #7 Satellite
49
Appendix “A”
Hourly Wage Rates
June 19,1994
GROUP2	$15.75
Fruit& Fibre Blender- Cereals/Rice Product Bin Operator - Cereals/Rice Sanitizer- Cereals/Rice
Tote Operator/Janitor - Desserts Tote Operator- Desserts/Beverages
Utility Operator - Plant Services Utility Person - Plant Services
June 19,1994
GROUP 3	$16.05

May15, 1995 $16.00
May 15, 1995 $16.30
LineAttendant Beverages- Desserts/Beverages MateriaIC.S.P. - Cereals/Rice
LineAttendant - Certo/Satellite LineAttendant Desserts- Desserts/Beverages Machine Operator Bartelts - Desserts/Beverages MateriaIC.S.P. - Desserts/Beverages Minor IngredientCenter Flavor Blender-Desserts/Beverages Mixer#29 & #30 Desserts/Beverages Mixer#31 & #32 Desserts/Beverages Mixer#34 & #35 Desserts/Beverages Mixer/Operator - #21 - 24, #25 - 26 - 27 -Desserts/Beverages PackagingMachineOperator-
Hayssen/Rovema Desserts/Beverages Palletizer Operator- Desserts/Beverages Premix Mixer #28 - Desserts/Beverages Raw Material Control Service Person -Desserts/Beverages UtilityOperator- Cereals/Rice Line Operator Bldg. #7 Satellite Mixer- Certo/Satellite
50
GROUP4
Appendix “A” HourlyWage Rates
Juri' Ma 
Bulk Material Feed Handling Operator- Cereals/Rice
Packaging Machine Operator- Cereals/Rice
Packaging MachineOperator/Adjuster - Line #4 -
Desserts/Beverages
PackagingMachine Operator- Volpaks -
Desserts/Beverages
MachineOperator/Adjustor Line#1 -
Desserts/Beverages
Machine Operator/Adjustor Line #2 & 3 -
Desserts/Beverages
MachineOperator/Adjustor/Relief - Desserts/Beverages Materials ManagementSupport Person-
Warehouse Utility Person- Distribution
Warehouse Material Handling- Receiving Warehouse Warehouse Receiver- ReceivingWarehouse Buhler Operator - Cereals/Rice Machine Operator- Certo/Satellite
Process Operator - Cereals/Rice Utility Operator- RTD Can Lines#10/14 Operator/Adjustors -Desserts/Beverages
LaboratoryTechnician Classifications
Lab Tech I	$15.75	$16.00
LabTech II	$16.85	$17.10
OTHER CLASSIFICATIONS
Temporary) rate - as per scheduledAppendix " A Student ) Classifications Oiler	$16.25	$16.50
BatteryAttendant	$16.25	$16.50
GROUP 5
51
Appendix “A”
HourlyWage Rates
MAINTENANCEGROUPS
June 19,1994
Group I	$19.70
Group II	$20.10
Group III	$20.60
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE CLASSIFICATIONS
May 15,1995 $19.95 $20.35 $20.85
June 19,1994 May 15,1995
Apprentice	$15.76	$15.96
Maintenance Services -Electrical	$20.80	$21.05
Maintenance Services-Mechanical	$20.80	$21.05
Stationary Engineer 2nd Class	$20.60	$20.85
52
Appendix “B”
SpecialAppendices Respecting Maintenance *Oiler - bid will be on a plant-wide basis
Where more than one applicant meets the basic requirement of aptitude and ability of the position, then the successful applicant will be determined by seniority Group I - must have one (1) recognized trade Group II - must have one (1) recognized trade and two (2) recognized skills
Group 111 - must have two (2) recognized trades or
one (1) recognized trade and four (4) rec-ognizedskills
Recognized Trades and Skills Trades	Skills
Packaging Mechanical Packaging Electrical Welding Pipefitting Refrigeration
Material Handling Equipment Gas Fired Equipment High PressureWelding Machining PLC I PLC II
Instrumentation! Instrumentation!!
Electronic I Electronic!!
The trades and skills recognized will be those that pertain to the job content as establishedby the Company. Skill test pertaining to the job will be administered by the Company.
IndustrialMechanic Millwright Sheet Metal Plumber Steamfitter Refrigeration Electrician Machinist Scales
53
Maintenance Departments
Department	Classifications
Central	-	Apprentice -	Maintenance Services- Mechanical -	Maintenance Mechanic- Material Handling -	Maintenance Mechanic- Central -	Machinist -	Maintenance Utilities -	Trainees
Cereals/Rice	-	Maintenance Mechanic- Packaging -	Maintenance Mechanic- Process -	MaintenanceAuditor -	Oiler
Desserts/Beverages	-	Maintenance Mechanic -	Oiler -	MaintenanceAuditor
Electrical	-	Maintenance Electrician -	Refrigeration Mechanic -	Maintenance Services- Electrical -	Maintenance Electrician - Scales
Satellite	- Maintenance Mechanic -Associate
Site Facilities	- Stationary Engineer-2nd Class
	54
Filling of Vacancies
I.	Types of Vacancies
a)	Replacements vacancy in present department
b)	Increase beyond the present work force
c)	Permanent increasewithin a group
II.	Methodfor Filling Vacancies
a)	After a vacancy of a type described above has been identified, the trade and skill needs of the area where the vacancy exists are assessed by the area Maintenance Supervisor and the Maintenance Manager. Specific plant area experience requirements will vary depending on the backgroundof individualsin the remainder of the crew at the time when a vacancy occurs.
b)	AnAdvice Notice will be posted in all appropriate areas. All applications must be deposited in the Bid Boxes located throughout the plant for vacancies inthe following Maintenance Departments:
-	Central-(exceptApprentices)
-	Cereals/Rice - (except Oiler)
-	Dessertsand Beverages- (exceptOiler)
-	Electrical
-	Satellite
-	Site Facilities (exceptStationary Engineer 2nd class).
The successful applicantwill be the person possessing the Trade and Skills requested. He must also be willing to train and be able to successfully complete the requirements and evaluation of department training programs. Seniority will be the determining factor if the above criteria is equal amongst applicants.
For vacancies in the following classifications-MaintenanceServices- Electrical, Maintenance Services- Mechanicaland MaintenanceAuditor, aptitude and ability will also be considerations. Where more than one applicant meets the basic
55
requirements of aptitude and ability for that position, then the successful applicant will be determined by seniority.
c)	If no response is received to an Advice Notice, the Company will:
1)	Adjust the skill requirements: or
2)	Assign a maintenance person from the Central Department, or
3)	Hire someone from outside the plant.
All individuals hired from outside the plant will enter the Maintenance Department work force through the Central Department. Applicants will be selected on the basis of trade qualifications and aptitude and ability. Skills will be confirmed by tests and/or observations before the end of the 50 day probationary period. Assignments will then be made depending on crew vacancies.
d)	A vacancy which occurs following the transfer of a maintenance person from one department to another as a result of a response to an Advice Notice will be filled as per II a) b).
e)	Vacanciesfilled bytheAdvice Notice procedures are not subject to the Plant job posting trial periods of 5, 10, 30 or 50 Days.
f)	Any individual wishing to respond to an Advice Notice has the right to discuss the posted job with the potential Supervisor.
Shift Rotation
a)	Productionor maintenance requirementswill dictate shift rotation.
-	Individual skills
b)	Rotation within unit only - except Manufacturing Department.
c)	In Manufacturing Departments- rotate within similar jobs, e.g.:
-	Processing
-	Packaging
56
Temporary Assignment from Classification to Classification
a)	Low seniority with qualificationsto do the assigned work.
b)	Return to own classificationby high seniority.
c)	Assignments of thirty (30)work days or more will be filled by the advice notice system, unless assignments are extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
d)	When assignment is over, returnto classification.
Maintenance Overtime
When overtime is required to complete a specific job, work assignment, or project, where knowledge or direction of process is required, the employee already assigned, will be given the first opportunity to work such overtime.
This only applies in situations where continuity is required. Routine tasks will be filled as per Appendix “ E.
Apprenticeship Training Program The following are terms and conditionsfor theAppren-ticeshipTraining Program:
(i)	The Company will make every effort to maintain apprentices in theApprenticeship Program. They will determine what trades are required and how many apprentices are inthe Program.
(ii)	The Programwill meet the Provincial Government requirements for creditation.
(iii)	Employees who apply for entry into the Apprenticeship Programshall be pre-selected by education and seniority. Written and practicalqualifying tests will then be administered to determine aptitude and ability. Seniority will be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
If none of the employees meet the educational requirements and/or qualifying tests, the Company
57
will select applicants from outside the plant. Successful applicants will be chosen based on the required educational qualifications and on the basis of aptitude and ability. This will be determined by both written and practicalqualifyingtests.
Successful applicants from within or outside the plant will enter the apprenticeship programthrough the Central Maintenance Department as apprentices.
(iv)	Employees who enter the Programwillcontinueto accumulate seniority. An apprentice unableto meet the continued requirements of the Programwill be reclassifiedto General Labour.
(v)	Apprentices hired from outside the plant will be subjectto the conditionsof Article 23 on seniority. If they become unable to meet the continued requirementsof the Program, they will be reclassified to General Labour.
(vi)	Apprentices will receive the apprentice wage rate provided on Appendix "A". In addition, an incremental wage adjustment on a pro-rated basisfor each successfully completed 1,040 hours is provided. On successful completion of examsfor the Apprentices ProvincialTrade License, the apprentice will be reclassified to one of the Provincial Trades listed inAppendix "A"a nd be paid the rate for the trade required.
(vii)	Includedas partofthel,040 hoursunderthe Program, will be those regular hoursspentunderthe auspices of the Ministry of Collegesand Universities (to a maximum of 8 hours per day).
(viii)	Assignment from classificationto classification,fill-ing of vacancies and shift rotation outlined in Appendix “B” above does notapply to apprentices.
58
Powerhouse Employees Twelve (12) Hour Shift Schedule
The following are the terms and conditions for the Powerhouse Employees scheduled to work twelve (1 2) hour shifts.
NotwithstandingArticle 13.1 a Powerhouse employee will receive the difference between his regular rate and the amount paid by the court for hours missed up to twelve (12) hours per day.
With respect to Article 16.1, pay for time lost due to bereavement will be based on twelve (12) hours per day.
NotwithstandingArticle 17.1, vacations will be scheduled in blocks from the yearly shift schedule for each powerhouse employee, includingthe relief powerhouse employee.
NotwithstandingArticle 19.1, a Powerhouse employee will follow the posted yearly work schedule. Hours of work are 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
NotwithstandingArticle 19.2, all hours worked in excess of the basic work day of twelve (12) hours before or after, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%) the regular rate.
An employee who is employed in the powerhouse, and who works on hisscheduledday(s) off, will be paid one and one-half (1% ) times his regular rate for all hours worked on suchday(s). If he works in excess of twelve (12)consecutivehourshewill be paidatthe rate of one and one half (1 Vi) times his regular rate. If he works on Sunday and itishisscheduledday off he will be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 Vi) times the regularrate for all hours worked.
NotwithstandingArticle 21.1, a shift premium of sev-enty-fourcents($0.74) perhourwill be paidforthe shift that commences at 7:00 p.m. only. The formula for shift premium is as follows- Article 21.1 contract cents per hourtimes 16 hoursdivided by 12 hourshifts.
59
A relief Powerhouseemployee who works a twelve (12J hourshiftonce a week, and also fills in for absent Powerhouse employees, will be paid as defined in Article 19.2 of this Agreement until informed by the Company that he is now working the posted yearly work schedule for Powerhouse employees.
Appendix “F” Benefit Plans.
Non-OccupationalAccident and Short-Term DisabilityPlan.
The benefits under this plan will be calculated on the basis of a twelve (12) hour day. For example:
Basic benefits': 75% x hourly rate x 12 = per diem rate Supplemental benefits- 60% x hourly ratex 12 = per diem rate.
Appendix “C”
Temporary Employees and Students
The followingterms and conditions of employmentapply
to Temporary Employees.
ATemporary Employee;
(i)	occupies ajob limited by the amount of work or by time with no prospect of continuing employment. The employment period will include the start date and end date of the job.
(ii)	does not participate in benefitplansnorobtainsen-iority under the provisions of Article 23.1 of this Agreement.
(iii)	is subject to a deduction from wages due and payable in each calendar week, the regular weekly union dues.
(iv)	is eligible lo work overtime as per Appendix “E.
(v)	ratesof pay will be as per Appendix “ A dependent on the classification scheduled on or performing. Temporary and Student employees will be trained on any jobs within Appendix “ A that are required to be filled for vacations, sicknessand/or skill short-
60
ages, notwithstandingArticle 24.1 and the Temporary Bid Posting memorandum.
(vi)	Uponcompletionof700 hours in the previous cal-endaryear, Temporary employeesbecome eligible to participate in the “KGFC Medical and Dental Benefits Plan for Temporary employees”, as described in Appendix “F". This is a Corporate Benefits Plan for Temporaries which will be revised as determined by the Company. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union and its members any change of Benefit carrier thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date.
Kraft General Foods Canada Medical and Dental Benefits Plan for Temporary Employees
Medical and Dental Benefitsare availableto Temporary Employees on the Company payroll who qualify for eligibility.
The eligibility requirements are as follows:
1)	A Temporary Employee must have worked 700 regular hours in the previous calendar year to claim expenses in the current year.
2)	The Employee must also work a minimum of 32 regular hours in each calendar month to have expenses incurred in the month payable. This means, that in order to have expenses incurred in June paidbyeitherthe Medicalor Dental Plan, the Employee must have worked 32 regularhours in June and so on for each month throughoutthe year.
If an Employee does not work the required 32 regular hours in a particular calendar month, then expenses incurredin that month only will not be paid.
Eligible dependents may claim expenses as well, providing that the employee has met the requirementsout-linedabove. Eligible dependentsare defined as spouse, and dependentchildrenupto age 19 if nota student, or up to age 25 if a full-time student.
61
Itis importantto note that because we must wait until the end of the month to determine if the 32 hours have been worked by each employee, and advise the Benefits Carrier accordingly, that expenses not be submitted until the month following. In other words, eligible expenses for June should be submitted in July; July's expenses submitted inAugust, and so on.
To obtain reimbursement for Dental or Prescription claims, employees will complete claim forms available from the Human Resources Department.
Appendix “D”
Definitions
EmployeeProfile Update
Employees will be encouraged by the Company to update files once each year, including dependent children, spouses and step relationships.
Applicable Rate - The rate an employee would have been paid had he been at work.
Basic Work Week - Mondaythrough Friday, inclusive. Calendar Week - Mondaythrough Sunday inclusive.
Common-Law- Employeewho hasco-habitated with an individual for a period of not less than three (3) years, and who has publicly represented the person as their spouse during this period.
Dependent Children - (including Common-Law and Step Children Relationships)
-	a child who is unmarriedand unemployed, up to the age of 19 years, or until the age of 25 years, as long as dependent and attendingschool; or
-	a child born of a Common-Law union; or
-	a child brought to a relationship and for whom the employee has taken legal guardianship, or legally adopted, or is totally financially responsible and the child resides in the home.
-	a child incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental retardation or physical handi-
62
cap, who are chiefly dependent upon you for maintenance and support and residing in Canada and who became so incapable before attaining age 19,
A term “child” includesany legally adopted child and any stepchild who is supported solely by you and permanently resides in your household, and any other child for whom you are legally responsible for support and care.
Plant Manager- Refers to the actual Cobourg Plant Manageror hisdesignated representative.
Emergency-AnAct of nature, catastrophe, disaster or any reason of a similar nature and unanticipatedcondi-tions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to persons or property. With respecttoArticle 20.17 only, itisunder-stood an emergency will also include those instances where action is required to undertakeequipment repair.
Employee-A person holding seniority underthis Agreement.
Holiday Pay - Eight (8) hours’ pay at the employee’s regular rate.
PayCheque- (applicableonly to Article 8) -the following will be counted: a Regular pay cheque a Sick Benefit cheque
an LTD cheque within the initial 18 month LTD period refers to paid holidays a Vacation cheque
a Workers’ Compensationpaymentwithinthe initial 18 month period refers to paid holidays.
Probationary Employee- A person who does not hold seniority in accordance with Article 23.1 of this Agreement. A probationary employee is covered by all the provisionsof this CollectiveAgreementunlessoth-erwise specifically excluded under any article of this Agreement.
Regular Rate - Basic rate of pay (Appendix “A) plus shift premium when applicable.
63
Spouse 1. The person who is your lawfully wedded, husband or wife or
2.	If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has resided with you in a conjugal relationship, either continuouslyfor not less than three (3) years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
Step Relationship- See DependentChildren These relationshipswill be considered immediatefam-ily if declared as such by employees on their Employee File with the Company.
Employees are required to update their files in the Human Resources as any changes occur to their status.
Successful Applicant - An employee who has exercised his bidding rights underthis Agreement, has been awarded the bidjob and hasactuallycommencedwork-ing on such job.
Union Officers -The following representativesof Local 1230
Union President
SecretaryTreasurer
Recorder
1st Vice-president
2nd Vice-president
3rd Vice-president
4th Vice-president
Union President - Refers to the actual Presidentof Local 1230 or his designated representative.
64
Appendix “E”
Overtime Distribution
The parties shall co-operate and make every effort to distribute overtime as evenly as possible. However, the number of overtime hours offered to an employee within any twenty-four (24) hour period remains within the discretion of the Company.
Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee shall be recorded weekly and postedthe following week. Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee will be accumulated over a period of six (6) months commencing with the first work week of the calendar year.
For the purpose of the administration of Appendix “ E Temporary Employees and Studentsare consideredas “employees.”
Overtime shall be offered to the employee with the lowest number of recorded hours in each of the categories in the following priority:
(i)	Bid and Currently Performing or Temporarily Assigned in Unit
Among employees, qualified, available and currently performing and holding the bid in the job in which overtime is required; or,
Among employees temporarily assigned off their bid job within the unit, underArticle 20.3, in which overtime is required.
(ii)	Currently Performingthe Job
Among employees, qualified, available, and currently performing the job in which overtime is required.
(Hi) Currently Working in the Unit
a)	Among employees available and working in the Unit, who have been cutback from their bidjob, within this Unit where overtime is required.
b)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the Unit in which overtime is required.
65
(iv)	Currently Working in the Department Among employees, qualified, available, and currently working in the Departmentin which overtime is required.
(v)	Mandatory Protection of the Work
Inthe eventthatall employeesreferredto in (i), (ii),
(iii)	and (iv) above refuse the overtime, itisagreed such overtime will be worked by the employee first offered the overtime, providing such overtime does not exceed four (4) hours in a day, or eight (8) hours in a calendar week.
Overtime Shift Scheduling
During the basic work week, overtime offered will be assigned where possible to run consecutive to an em-ployee’sscheduled shift. Forweekend overtime, available shifts will be filled in sequence (11-7,7-3,3-11) by employeesin priority order, providingthe shiftassigned would not result in an employee working sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
Selection Error
Should a selection error occur, the missed employee will be accorded the next available overtime opportunity. A grievance respecting a selection error may be submitted at Step Two, the Department Manager and Manager of Human Resources level of the grievance procedure.
Overtime Refusal Letter
Employeeswho do not wish to work overtime must notify the Company, in writing, of their intent. These employees will not be asked or scheduled to work overtime (unless it is necessary to protect the job) until the employee notifies the Company, in writing, that he wishes to work overtime. Such employee will assume one hour more than the highest hours of overtime in his bid classification or his accumulated hours of overtime whichever is greater.
66
Should it become necessaryto ask these employees to workovertime to protectthejob, employeeswill be asked to work in the following order if there are more than one employee eligible with an Overtime Refusal Letter on file:
a)	employee with the lowest recorded hours of overtime
b)	if employees do not have any recorded hours, then the most senior employee.
Note: Overtime hours worked and refused will be re-cordedas per paragraph 2 of Appendix" E Page 68 for employees in this category who become eligible for overtime to protect the job.
Team/Committee/Project Overtime Distribution
When an employee volunteers to be a member of a Team/Committee and overtime is required to participate in such Team/Committee Meetingand/or specific project, where knowledge of the process/activity is required, the Team/Committee employee will begiventhe opportunity to work such overtime, notwithstandingthe other provisionsof Appendix “ E and Appendix "G”.
Paid Plant Holidays
Paid Plant Holidays will be treated and recorded as overtime.
Department& Unitsareasfollowsforthe Manufacturing, Distribution Warehouse,
Receiving Warehouse, Plant Services and Maintenance Departments.
Department	Units
Central Maintenance - Apprentice
-	Maintenance Services -Mechanical
-	Maintenance Mechanic-Material Handling
-	Maintenance Mechanic-Central
-	Trainees
-	Machinist
-	Maintenance Utilities
67
Cereals/Rice
Desserts/Beverage
DistributionWarehouse
Electrical
Plant Services
ReceivingWarehouse
Satellite
Site Facilities
Packaging
Maintenance Packaging Processing
Maintenance Processing
Packaging
Processing
Maintenance
Distribution
Maintenance Electrician RefrigerationMechanic MaintenanceServices Electrical
Maintenance Electrician-Scales
Plant Services
Receiving
RTD
Associate Mechanic Stationary Engineer-2nd Class
APPENDIX “F” BENEFITS
PREAMBLE
An overview of the benefit plans available are given in this Appendix as an indicationof the coverage provided. Booklets on all plans provided by the Company for its employees give full details of their purpose, coverage and the limits applicable. These booklets should be referred to for clarification of eligibility, coverage and limits.
The definition of eligible dependents for the KGFC Benefit Plans is covered i n Appendix “D”.
68
Appendix “F”
Benefit Plans
1) Provincial Health Insurance Plan ■ (OHIP)
This Plan provides coverage in two areas:
1)	Hospital Expenses
-	Standard ward-level accommodation in a hospital
-	All normal hospitalservices while confined, plus
-	certain required out-patient services.
2)	Physicians’ Services
-	Doctors’ visits at home, in the office, or in the hospital.
-	Surgical procedures,
-	Diagnostictests, and
-	Specialists’fees.
The Physician is paid a fee for his services which is based on a Province-wide schedule of fees.
The Company will pay the full premium cost of this Plan for employees (excluding probationary employees)providing such Company payment is not prohibitedby law.
2. Extended Health Plan Eligibility
The Kraft General Foods Canada Health Care Plan is offered to all Regular Full-Time employees. You and your eligible dependentsare covered under this plan upon completion of your probationary period. Cost of the Plan
Kraft General Foods Canada pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependents.
Deductible
A deductible of $25 per person, maximum $50 per family, is applied every year to all eligible medical and dental expenses combined.
69
The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses which you must pay in full each calendar year before you can receive a reimbursement of covered expenses. If the eligible expenses you incurred during the first nine months of the year are less than the deductible amount, additional expenses up to the deductible amount incurred in the last three months of the year may be carried over as a credit towards satisfying the deductible amount of the following year.
The Kraft General Foods Canada Health Care Plan reimburses a percentage of the eligible expenses, provided these expenses are reasonable and customary, and that they are medically necessary and prescribed by a physician. Reimbursementis subject to a lifetime maximum of $250,000.
In addition, up to $1,000 of this maximum will be reinstated each January 1. The actual amount will be based on the amount of benefits you had received from the plan in the previous calendar year.
Hospital Expenses
For licensed hospitalsand convalescent care facilities, the plan covers:
Hospital 100% of the difference in cost between ward and semi-private or private room up to $55 per day and 80% ofchargesinexcessof$55 per day. Convalescent 100% of the cost of semi-private Care	accommodation up to $55 per day
and 80% of the excess over$55.
Hospitalization outside Canada is reimbursed at 100% for emergencytreatmentof an illnessor accident.
If you are hospitalized outside Canada for a medically necessary treatment not available in Canada and for which there is no alternate treatment available in Canada, medical expenses that exceed the
70
allowance paid by any provincial government plan are reimbursed based on reasonable and customary charges.
No deductibleappliesto hospitalexpenses. Medical Expenses
The plan reimburses 100% of the following eligible medicalexpenses:
Drugs and medicines which require a prescription by law to be obtained.
Emergency treatment of an illness or accident occurring while outside Canada is reimbursed on a reasonable and customary basis.
Emergency travel assistance expenses (see leaflet entitled “Emergency Travel Assistance” for full details).
The plan also reimburses80% of the following: Private-duty nursing. Services must be recommended by a physician and rendered by a registered nurse who is not a relative and does not ordinarily reside in your home. There isa maximum reimbursementof $10,000 every 36 months. Charges for room and board in a licensed chronic care facility up to a maximum reimbursementof $I0 per day for a period of 120 days per calendar year. Charges for the use of a licensed ambulance for localtransportationto and from the nearest hospital. Emergencytransportation by airline to and from the nearest hospital within your province of residence and equipped to provide the required medical services are also eligible, subject to a maximum equal to an economy airfare.
Paramedicalservices by a licensedphysiotherapist, psychologist, osteopath, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath or speech therapist, up to a maximum reimbursementof $300 for each practitioner each calendaryear. In addition, covered expensesinclude the cost of one x-ray per practitioner per calendar
71
year. To be considered eligible expenses, the services provided must be within the scope of the license held by the practitioner.
Laboratory tests and x-rays for diagnosis not covered by any government plan.
Prescription contact lenses or eyeglasses up to a maximum reimbursementof $125 per person every 24 months. This reimbursement applies for either contact lenses or eyeglasses, but not both. Dentalservicesrequiredto repair naturalteeth damaged as a result of an accident up to $5,000, provided the repairs commence within three monthsof the accident.
Hearing aids up to a maximum reimbursementof $300 per person every 36 months.
Charges for:
Rentalor purchase of braces and crutches, and purchase or prostheses required for therapeutic use.
Rental or purchase of a wheelchair, hospital bed, or oxygen equipment required for therapeutic purposes.
Orthopedic shoes and orthotics prescribed by a licensed physician and required to correct a diagnosed physical i mpairment. Once the first expense has been paid for by the plan, the cost of replacement will only be covered if it is required as a result of pathological change.
Blood sugar monitoringdevices for insulindepend-ent diabetics, when prescribed by a physician, upto a lifetime maximum reimbursementof $200. Coordination of Benefits
If you or your dependents are covered by more than one plan providing similar benefits, benefits under this plan will be coordinatedso that claims can be made under both plans but in no event could you receive benefits in excess of expenses incurred.
72
Exclusions
The Kraft General Foods Canada Health Care Plan does not cover:
Services and supplies not included in the list of eligible expenses.
Charges for general health examinations.
Charges for eye examinations, except in provinces where Medicare does not cover this expense. Services paid for under any federal or provincial governmentlegislation.
Cosmetic surgery or treatment, including hospital confinement for such surgery or treatment.
Charges related to any disability for which benefits are provided under any workers' compensation l eg-islation.
Dental work where a third party is responsible for payment of such charges.
Charges related to injury resulting directly or indi-rectlyfrom war, declaredor not, insurrectionor riot, or hostilities of any kind.
Charges for services or supplieswhich are furnished without the recommendationand approval of a physician acting within the scope of his or her license.
Charges relatedto intentionally self-inflictedwounds. Drugs, sera, injectable drugs or supplies that are not approved by Health and Welfare, Canada, and that are experimental or limited in use.
Charges which are not medically necessary for the care and treatment of any existing or suspected injury, disease or pregnancy.
Charges made by a physician for travel, broken appointments, communication costs, completion of claim forms or physician's supplies.
Charges which would not normally have been incurredbut for the presence of this coverage or for which the employee or dependent is not legally requiredto pay.
73
In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under the Kraft General Foods Canada Health Care Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependents, at no cost to you, for as long as you are receivingKraft General Foods Canada disability benefits.
In the Event of Death
Inthe event of yourdeath while an active Kraft General Foods Canada employee, coverageunderthe Health Care Plan continuesfor your eligible dependents for three months from your date of death. Terminationof Employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents atthe end ofthe month in which you terminate your employmentwith KraftGeneral FoodsCanada. Out-of-Canada coverage ceases on the date of termination of employment. For the status of benefits on retirement,see the Pension Plan Provisions of this document.
3,	Dental Plan Eligibility
The Dental Care Plan is offered to all Regular FullTime employees. You and your eligible dependents are covered under this plan upon completionof your probationary period.
Cost of the Plan
Kraft General Foods Canada pays the full cost of the coverage provided by the plan for you and your eligible dependents.
Deductible
A deductible of $25 per person, maximum $50 per family, is applied every year to all eligible dental and medical expenses combined.
The deductible is the amount of eligible expenses which you must pay in full each calendar year before you can receive a reimbursement of covered
74
expenses. If the eligible expenses you incurred during the first nine months of the year are less than the deductible amount, additional expenses up to the deductible amount incurred in the last three months of the year may be carried over as a credit towards satisfying the deductible amount of the following year.
Eligible Expenses
The Kraft General Foods Canada Dental Plan covers 80% of the eligible expensesfor three categories of dental care:
Basic services Major restorative work Orthodontic treatment
The maximum amount reimbursed for the first two categories combined is $1,200 per person per calendar year for you and each of your eligible dependents. The lifetime maximum benefit for orthodontic treatment is$2,000 per person. Maximum eligible expenses are established in accordance with the current fee guide of the dental association. When several treatment possibilities exist, reimbursement of eligible expenses may be determined based on an alternate benefit.
Basic Services Diagnostic
Consultations Single diagnostic x-rays Completeseriesof x-rays: once every 24 months Oral examinations: once every six months Study casts: once per year Preventive
Scaling and polishing (prophylaxis) once every
six months
Topicalfluoride
Passive space maintainers (that do not move
the teeth) for dependent childrenonly
Oral hygiene instruction once every six months
V
75
Minor restorativework
Fillings (silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations)
Stainless steel crowns Oral surgery
Removal of teeth, includingimpactedteeth and residual roots Anesthesia Post operative care Endodontics
Emergency endodontic procedures and root canal therapy Periodontics
Treatment of diseases of the gum and other supporting tissue of the teeth
Repair or relining and rebasing of dentures including addition of new teeth.
Major RestorativeWork
Gold inlays, onlays and crowns Note: when a tooth can be restored with silver amalgam, silicate or synthetic restorations, benefits will be determined based on the usual costs of such a restoration.
Dentures and other dental appliances Note: After initial purchase of a dental appliance, replacement expenses are eligible if the existing appliance is at least five years old and no longer serviceable.
Orthodontic treatment
Correctionof malocclusionof the teeth Full-mouth reconstruction
In the Event of Disability
If you are absent from work due to injury or illness, coverage under Kraft General Foods Canada Dental Plan is maintained for you and your eligible dependents, at no cost to you, for as long as you are receiving Kraft General Foods Canada disability benefits.
76
In the Event of Death
Inthe event of your death while an active Kraft General Foods Employee, coverage under the Dental Care Plan continues for your dependents for three months from your date of death.
Termination of Employment
Coverage ceases for you and your eligible dependents at the end of the month in which you terminate your employmentwith Kraft General Foods Canada.
Coordination of Benefits
If you or your dependentsare covered by more than one plan providing similar benefits, benefits under this plan will be coordinated so that claims can be made under both plans but in no event could you receive benefits in excess of the expenses incurred.
Exclusions
The Kraft General Foods Canada Dental Care Plan does not cover:
Services or supplies that are primarily for cosmetic dentistry, e.g., bonding, bleachingand facings. Services covered by any government plan. Servicesor suppliesnotfurnishedby a legally qualified dentistordenturist.
Services or supplies necessitated directly or indirectly as the result of committing,attemptingto commit or provoking an assault or criminal offence, or by a war or act of war, declared or not, insurrection or riot, or hostilities of any kind.
Miscellaneous charges such as counseling, travel, broken appointments, communication costs or completion of claim forms.
Services or supplies resulting from any intentionally self-inflictedwound.
Any hospital charges for board and room and related services and supplies.
Any dental examinations required by a third party. Services or supplies not medically necessary.
77
Services or suppliesforimplantology, includingtooth implantation or transplantation and surgical insertion of fabricated implants.
4.	Life Insurance Plan
An employee must sign an application form to be eligible for this Plan and coverage will commence on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period. Should application not be made within three (3) months of this initial commencement date, the insurance company will require satisfactory evidence of insurability from the employee and hiseligibledependentsfi.e., spouse and unmarried, unemployed children between the ages of 14 days and twenty-five years).
a)	Amount of Term Insurance
-	Employee - $45,000
-	Spouse	- $ 5,000
-	DependentChild - $ 5,000
-	Employee Cost: Single or Family $4,75 per
month.
Note 1: The amount of Paid-up Insurance purchased by an employee under the former Insurance Plan will remain in force until the employee leaves Kraft General Foods Canada or retires. At that time, the Paid-up insurance (providing the face amount is $100 or more) may be kept in force, orsur-renderedfor its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of the contributions the employee had made to the Paid-up Insurance Plan.
b)	Retirement Insurance
The Company will assume the full cost of providing Term Insurancecoverage in the amount of $2,000 foran employee who retires from the Company while in active employee status on or after age 55 with 10 years or more of service.
78
c)	Optional Insurant
Employees have the opportunity to purchase
$15,000 additionalemployee Life Insurance coverage at a cost of $4.88 per month, from the current
$10,000 at a current cost$3.25 per month.
d)	General Provisions
i)	If you are on leave of absence for up to one year you may keep this Plan inforce by continuingto make your contributions. Otherwise your coverage will terminate at the end of the month in which your contributions stop. For reinstatements the Plan, the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence of insurabilityfrom the employee and hiseligibledependents.
ii)	LTD paymentswill not reduce the amountof life insurance in force just prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such insurance will remain in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age 65.
Hi) All term insurancecoverage will stop at the end of the month in which you leave Kraft General FoodsCanada, but if you die within the following 31 days, the full amount will be paid. Also during this 31 -day periodyou may convertall or part of your term insurance without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company's regular rates; it may be written on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one year of term insurancecoverage.
iv) When you die from any cause, the full amount of your Kraft General Foods Canada life insurance then in force will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice. You may change the beneficiary designation at any time in the manner provided by the
79
Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage will be the employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at Kraft General Foods Canada and both are enrolled in the Life Insurance Plan, the employee claiming the child(ren) as dependent(s) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
5.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment InsurancePlan
The optional AD&D plan offers a full 24 hour, 365 day a year, coverage against accidents occurring anywhere in the world, whether you are on or off the job.
Amount of Coverage:
Coverage is purchased in units of $10,000 and insures you and your family for death caused by accident. In addition, the Plan covers you for dismemberment in the following manner:
Loss of thumb & index finger of one hand	33%
In the event of your accidentaldeath while insured, the amount of insurance will be paid to the beneficiary. All other indemnitiesare payable to you.
%SL
Loss of Life
Loss of two limbs
Loss of sight of both eyes
Loss of one limb & sight of one eye
Loss of speech & hearing
Loss of one limb
Loss of sight of one eye
Loss of speech or hearing
80
Employee Coverage Can purchase up to maximum of $500,000 each (in units of $10,000)
Spouse Coverage Can purchase up to maximum of 50% of employee’s coverage (in units of $10,000)
Dependent Coverage Can purchase $5,000 of coverage for dependent child
Amount of Premiums:
Employee - $0,026 per$1,000 per month Spouse - $0,026 per$1,000 per month Children - Aflat .25® per monthfor$5,000 per child, regardless of how many children are insured.
Exclusions:
The AD&D plari does not cover losses resulting from the following:
Suicide or self-destruction, or any attempt by the insured person while sane or insane;
Flying in any aircraft or other airborne vehicle as a pilot, operator or member of the crew;
Declaredor undeclared war or any act thereof; Active full-time service in the armed forces of any country.
6.	Non-Occupational Accident and Short-Term Disability Plan
This Plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding Probationary and laid-off Regular Full-Time employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
a)	Eligibility for Benefits
To establisheligibility for benefits, an employee must show disability due to non-occupationalac-cident or sickness by reasonably satisfactory evidence, which in the Company's judgment, prevents him from performing normal work assignments.
81
No Supplemental Benefitsare payable until an Attending Physician’s Statement has beensub-' mitted attestingto the nature and severity of disability and certifyingthat the disability precludes the employee from performing regular work assignments.
Further, the Company, at its expense and discretion, may have a physician or nurse of its own choice examine any employee who seeks benefit payments; if in the physician or nurse's opinion the employee was able to perform regular work assignments, he will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any employee who fails or refuses to submit to such an examination will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any disagreement with the Company's decision may be processed through the grievance procedure commencing at the second step.
An employee has responsibility for informing his supervisor immediately with respectto a disability. Further, to qualify for benefits he has the responsibility for taking all proper steps to insure early recovery. Such steps may include the attendance of a qualified physician and the purchase of drugs, medicines, medical suppliesand hospitalizationservices as necessary.
b)	Benefits
Plan Benefitsare payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefit period of 26 weeks per disability but not more that twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
i)	Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic Benefits upon attainment of seniority and with ten additional days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment. If employmentis continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be
82
accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130) days.
When disabled, an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters of his basic rate of pay, after a waiting period of two
(2)	scheduled work days, for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75) days per disability, as long as the disability is continued.
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the basic benefit period of seventy-five (75) days will be fully reinstated after the employee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
If he is back at work for at least a four-week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of basic benefits will apply.
If he is absent again due to the same or associated disability that caused the first absence, and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since the initial absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
Basic Benefitsare payable to employees after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days. Further, if the first day following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, Basic Benefits will not begin until the employee's next regularly scheduled working day.
There will be no waiting period if the disability results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for fourteen (14) calendar days
83
beginning with the first regularly scheduled working day of disability, Basic Benefits are payable retroactivelyfor all regularly sched-uledworking days in the waiting period, if such benefits have not been exhausted.
Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lost will count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instances where he has worked one-half or less of his regular shift.
ii)	Supplemental Benefits
After all Basic Benefits for which an employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Benefits amounting to 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the 26-week benefit period for the disability but notto exceed26 weeks ina calendar year.
c)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee who, after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefitsafter the day on which such event occurs.
Where layoff provisions exist, if you are disabled when a layoff begins, your benefitswill continue for the duration of the disability, but not longer than 15 weeks from the date the disability began.
d)	Employees NotActivelv Employed
An employee who becomes disabled while on leave of absence or vacation or on lay-off, or while on strike, suspension from work or otherwise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligible for benefits underthis Plan on the first regularly scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed
84
the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
e)	Part-TimeFmnlnvmflnt Duatn Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount of daily benefits for which he is eligible. This provision only applies when the Company can provide part-time employment. Otherwise, such employees will receive the full amount of daily benefits.
If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits, after any applicable waiting period, he will receive pay for all hours worked and Basic Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligiblefor Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked, and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be considered a full day for purposes of deter-miningthe maximum benefitsperiodof 26 weeks per disability or per calendar year.
f)	Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i)	Disability arising from or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee hadanemployee/employer relationship with the other employer and received remuneration for his services. Disabilityfrom work performedon an employee's own residence or land will not be considered “employment by another employer”.
ii)	Disability caused by or resultingfrom use of alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating
85
in a Kraft General Foods Canada sponsored programtoward rehabilitation.
iii)	Disabilityresultingfrom acts of immorality or fighting.
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company rule.
v)	Disabilityresultingfrom a pregnancy related illness during:
a)	a pregnancy leave of absence,
b)	the periodcommencingwith the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth week after the week of confinement.
g) Definitions:
Licensed Practitioners
In order for expenses of a practitioner to be considered eligible for reimbursement, the practitioner must be licensedand the services rendered must be within the scope of that license.
Reasonableand Customary Reasonable and customary charges are the amounts measured and determined by comparing them with charges customarily made for similar services and supplies to individuals of similar medical condition in the locality concerned.
Disability
“Disability” means the inability or incapacity to perform regular work assignmentsresultingfrom sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out of or in the course of employment, which is compensable under the Workers' Compensation Law of the province is not a disability under this Plan.
86
Hospitalization
“Hospitalization” occurs when the employee a) is admitted to and confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident b) is admitted to a duly constituted hospital or medical facility for surgery and released as an outpatient.
Hourly Rate of Pay
The employee's basic rate of pay (excluding off-shift premium).
7.	Long-Term Disability
a)	Benefits
This plan is fully paid by the Company. Coverage commences upon completionof probationary period and applies to all Regular Full-Timeemployees who meet the eligibilityconditions.
If you are unable to work after26 weeks of disability, you may be eligible for benefits under the LongTerm DisabilityPlan.
LTD benefits may be paid up to two years if you are totally disabled and cannot perform the duties of your current job. If you continue to be totally disabled after two years and cannot perform the duties of a job related to your skills and experience, pay-mentswill continueto the earliest of recovery, death or age 65.
This plan providesyou with a monthly income equal to 67% of the monthly base salary you were receiving when you became disabled, up to a maximum benefitof $15,000 per month.
To be eligible for benefits, you must be under the care of a legally qualified physician at all times. Medical reports will be required periodically. Benefitspayable under this plan are consideredtax-able income.
87
b)	Recurrence of Disability
If you become disabled for the same reason within six months of your return to full-time work after a long-termdisability, the second disability period will be considered a continuation of the first. You will then immediately begin receiving your long-term disability benefits.
However, if the period exceeds six months or if the new disability is not related to the first, a new claim must be filed under the Short-Term DisabilityPlan.
c)	Rehabilitative Employment
As an incentive to promote an early return to gainful employment after a total disability,you may perform certain work without forfeiting the benefits payable underthe LTD plan.
If you engage in an approved rehabilitative employment program, you will be entitled to receive your long-term disability benefits over and above the employment income payable from the program.
The rehabilitationbenefitsmay be paidfora maximum periodof 24 monthsduring which your income from all sources must not exceed your gross earnings at the time you became disabled.
Should disability prevent you from continuing with the program,your regulardisability benefitswill continue to be paid.
d)	Coordination with Other Sources of Income
Long-Term Disability Benefits are reduced by disability benefits payable from Workers' Compensation, the Canada Pension Plan (excluding any paymentsfor your dependent children) and by any other income from employment or other government plans.
e)	Continuation of Other Employee Benefitsduring Disability
While you are receiving Long-Term Disability benefits, you and your dependents remain covered under all Kraft General Foods, Canada plans, and
88
you may continue to purchase Optional AD&D Insurance for up to two (2) years from the date of initial Long-Term Disability acceptance, if you are totally disabled and can not perform the duties of your currentjob. Benefitsthat can not be continued during disabilityare the Non-OccupationalAccident coverageand Short-Term Disability Plan.
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefitsare paid.
If an employee wishes to continue contributionsto the retirementplan, retirementbenefitswill accrue duringthe LTD period,
f)	Exclusions
No Long-Term Disabilitybenefitsare payable for:
A disability for which you are not treated on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician. If the sickness is due to a mental or emotional disorder, you must be receiving continuing treatment by a physician who is certified in psychiatry.
A disability for which you may be entitled to indemnity in accordance with the provisions of a Workers' Compensation Plan, the Canada Pension Plan, a provincial auto insurance plan or a group benefit plan.
A disability caused by or resulting from a self-inflicted injury or illness.
A disability caused by or resulting from alcoholism or drug addiction, unless you are treated for the problem on a continuous basis by a duly qualified physician, or are being treated through the Employee Assistance Program.
A disability caused by or resulting from participation in a criminal act or any act of war, declared or not. A disability resulting from injury sustained while engaged in an employmentfor wage or profit during any period for which benefitsare claimed under the plans.
89
8.	Retirement Plan
a)	Eligibility
You are eligible to join the Retirement Plan on the first of the month after obtainingone year's seniority. You may join any time after you become eligible by completing an enrollmentform authorizing Kraft General Foods Canada to make payroll deductions and naminga beneficiary.
A temporary employee who has completedtwo years of service becomeseligibleto join the pensionplan provided earningsare equal to orexceed35% of the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE) underthe Canada Pension Plan in each year or if they have worked at least 700 hours in each year. Contributionsand benefitswill be proratedbased on hours worked.
b)	Benefits Formula NormalRetirement
Normal retirement is the first day of the month fol-lowingattainmentof age 65.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$40.00 per month for each year of credited service effective May 18,1994.
Early Retirement
You may retire on the first of the month after your 55th birthday.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$40.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective May 18,1994.
Iess3% for each year of early retirement before age 60.
In addition, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of $12.00 per month per year of credited service (maximum30 years) will be payable until age 65.
90
Note I:
Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which you made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor Plans or for which you withdrew contributions. Further, no credit will be given for periods of military service if contributionsare not made upon returnto active employment.
Fora regularemployeewho ishiredonorafterJanu-ary1,1988, and a temporary employee who becomes a memberon or after January 1, 1988, the service priorto becominga memberofthe Planshall not be included inthe computation of credited service. Note 2:
The Canada Pension Plan(CPP) and the Old Age Security(OAS) pensionsare in additionto your Kraft General FoodsCanada Pension Plan.
c)	Employee Contributions
Effective May 18,1994, the monthly contributionwill be $77.00 per month.
Effective May 15,1995, the monthlycontributionwill be $85.00 per month.
d)	Spouse’s Benefit
This benefit providesthe surviving spouse with 60% of the monthly pension paid to the retired employee for as long asthe spouse remainsalive. The monthly pension will be automatically reducedby I0% unless prior to retirement the employee and the spouse choose to opt out of this normal form of pension by submitting a Spouse Pension Waiver which requires the witnessed signature of the employee's spouse.
In the case of early retirement, this reduction or resultant pension benefit will not include the early retirementsupplementreferredto in Section (b). Should your spouse pre-decease you, the Spouse’s Benefit reductionshall notapply afterhis/her death.
91
e)	Retirement Income Options
You may wish to provide other provisions for your dependents after your death, and for this reason a numberof other retirementoptions are available. Such options are:
Joint and Survivor Option Term-Certain Retirement Income Level Income
and these options will be fully explained to you prior to retirement as they must be selected one year before retirement commences. Also, each specific option will cause a particular adjustment to your normal retirement income payment.
f)	Death Benefit
Should you die before retirement, your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum of the following:
1)	The total amountof your contributions
to December31, 1986 plus compound interest to date of payment.
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January 1,1987 together with the additional retirement income grantedon and after January 1,1988 for service priorto I987.
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interestover50% of the commuted value in paragraphs.
Should death occur after retirement, but before receiving your total contributionsplus compound interest and the spouse benefit is not in effect your beneficiary will receive the difference.
General Provisions
i)	Regardless of whether or not an employee participates inthe Plan, retirement from the service of Kraft General Foods Canada must be not later
92
than the first day of the month following attainment of age 65.
ii)	You become entitledto a pension benefit under the Plan after 10 years’ continuous service for benefitsearnedpriorto January 1, 1987 and/or after 2 years’ Plan membership for benefits earned after January 1,1987.
Contributionswhich are made after January 1, 1987 are locked in (not refundable in cash) after 2 years’ Plan membership. Contributions made between January 1, 1965 and January 1, 1987 are locked in at age 45 and 10 or more years continuous service.
iii)	If you leave Kraft General Foods Canada, any Plan contributionswhich are not vested, as described in (ii) will be refunded to you with compound interest. Such refunds remaineligiblefor transferto an RRSP without locking-in provisions. If you are vested, you may leave your money in the Planand receive retirementincomeortrans-fer the value from the Plan as outlined in (viii) which describesthe portability provisions.
Ifyou do nottransfer your money from the Plan, as outlined in (viii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retire me ntdate equal to the amount calculatedat the time you leave. If you elect to have your retirementincome begin before age 60, the reductionfor early retirement will apply.
Anytime after you leave, but before your retirement income starts, you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the Portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under the Plan are cancelled.
iv)	If you are absent on leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work.
93
Except for absences due to Military Service, Workers’ CompensationorLongTerm Disability, missedcontributionscannotbe paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees on Workers' Compensationand LongTerm Disability.
While an employee is on pregnancy or parental leave contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees unless the employee advises the Company in writing that he or she does not want to continue to make contributionsto the Pension Plan.
v)	If you have a spouse, Provincial legislation requires that your pensionbeneficiarymust be your spouse. You may change your beneficiary, subject to Provincial legislation,at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
To permit an employee to take advantage of tax concessions and provide greater retirement income, the Planallowsfor voluntary contributions. A participantage 21 or over and enrolled in the Retirement Plan is thus eligible to contribute ad-ditionalfunds through regularpayroll deductions. The minimum contribution is $10.00 per month, and the employee has a choice of two mutual funds (stock or bond) in which these contributions are invested and administeredby the Royal Trust Company.
I n additionto regular payroll deductions, two lump sum contributions of $50.00 or more may be made by payroll deduction on two specifieddates each year.
There are no Company contributions to this section of the Plan; however,the Company assumes all administrativeand brokerage costs.
94
vi)	Surviving Spouse means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the commencement of your retirement income meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
.	1) The person who is your lawfully wedded
husbandor wife: or
2) If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has resided with you in conjugal relationship, eithercontinuouslyfor not less than 3 years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
However, no morethan one person can be a survivingspouse. In the event of more than one person claiming to be such, Kraft General Foods Canadawill determine, based on evidence availablethat Kraft General Foods Canada considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designated a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. Kraft General Foods Canada's decision in this regard shall be final and binding.
vii)	Ifyou terminate your employment on or after January 1,1988 and you are entitled to a retire-mentincomeasdescribedinthe preceding paragraphs, you may direct the commuted value cf your retirement income be transferred to another registered pension plan (subject to Plan provisions) or a locked-in registered retirement savings plan.
viii)	The cost of vested benefits earned fa-service commencing January 1, 1987 plus additional retirement income granted on or after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987 must be at Ieast50% employerpaid. Any excess employee contributionswill be refunded upon retirement, terminationor death prior to retirement.
95
ix)	Marriage Breakdown- Pension benefits may be included as part of net family assets under the Ontario Family Law ReformAct. Any credit splitting with respect to your benefits under the Plan upon marriage breakdown can be requested in accordancewith the Ontario Family Law Reform and Pension BenefitsActs. h) Status of Benefitson Retirement
i)	OHIP will be fully paid by the Company until age 65, at which time no further premiums are payable.
ii)	Extended Health Plan will be fully paid by the Company and coverage amended to reflectthe changes made for active employees.
iii)	Dental Plan coverage terminates at the end of the month prior to retirement.
iv)	Life Insurance coverage as provided under the Life Insurance Plan.
v)	AD&D coverage terminates at the end of the month prior to retirement.
96
1
2.
3,
4.
5.
6,
Summary of Pension Plan Provisions Hourly Employees KraftGeneral Foods Canada Inc.
Cobourg Plant
Plan Effective Date: January 1, 1986
Date of most recent amendment May 18,1994
Definitions:
a)	Credited Service: Period of service during which a member is actively employed, less any period during which the member was eligible to make contributionsand elected not to do so.
b)	Interest: Previouscalendaryearaverageoffive-year personalfixedterm chartered bankdeposit rates(CANSIM 814045).
Eligibility for Membership:
Any person employed on a regular full-time or parttime basis is eligible to become a member on the first day of any month following completion of one year of service. Temporary employeesmayjoin after 2 years of service if they meetthe standard imposed by the applicable legislation.
MemberContributions:
Contributions are $77 for each month on or after
May 18, 1994.
Effective May 15,1995 contributionsare $85.00 each
month.
Normal Retirement Benefit:
a)	Eligibility: First day of the month following attainment of age 65.
b)	Monthly Pension: $40 per month per year of credited service if employmentceases on or after May 18, 1994.
Eariv Retirement Benefit:
a)	Eligibility: The first day of any month following attainmentof age 55 and prior to normal retirement date.
97
b)	Annual Pension: Accrued pension, calculated as in 5, above, reduced by 3% for each year by which retirementprecedesage 60.
c)	Supplementary Pension: Annual benefit equal to$144 multipliedbythe member’screditedservice, to a maximumof 30 years, payable until the earlier of the member’s death or attainment of age 65.
7.	Postponed Retirement Benefits:
a)	Eligibility: With consentof the company, the first day of any month duringthe 5 year periodfollowing normal retirement date.
b)	Annual Pension: A member may elect either to:
(i)	commence receiving pension payments on his normal retirement date, in which event his pensionwill be calculated based on earnings and service to his normal retirement date, or
(ii)	commence receiving pension payments on his actual retirementdate, in which event his pensionwill be calculated based on earnings and service to his normal retirement date increased by 1/3% for each month by which retirementis postponed.
Where the benefit is prescribed by provincial regulations, the benefitwill not be less than that prescribed.
8.	Forms of Pension:
a)	Normal Pension: Pension payable for life with the provision that, upon death, the beneficiary will receive the excess, if any, of the accumulated member contributionswith interest over the sum of the pension payments made.
b)	Optional Forms: Amount determined on an actuarially equivalent basis and payable in one of the followingforms:
98
-	life annuity with guaranteed form
-	life annuity with continuation to a joint annuitant
-	level income with Canada/Quebec Pension Plan and Old Age Security benefits
9.	Termination of Employment:
a)	Eligibility: 10 years of service or attainment of age 55 for Retirement Income earned before January 1, 1987, 2 years of service or attainment of age 55 for retirementincome earnedon or after January 1, 1987.
b)	Annual Pension: Accrued pensiondeferred until the member elects to retire on an early retirement date, reducedfor early retirementas in 6, above, or his normal retire me ntdate.
c)	If Not Eligible: Refund of member contributions with interest.
Where the benefit is prescribed by provincial regulations,the benefit will not be less than that prescribed.
10.	Disability Benefit:
a)	Eligibility: Member qualifies as disabled under company long-termdisability i ncome plan.
b)	Benefit: If the member elects to continue making contributionswhile disabled, he will continue to accrue credited service.
11.	Death Benefits:
a)	Before Retirement: For retirement income earned before January 1,1987, refund of member contributionswith interest; for retirement income earned on or after January 1,1987, the actuarial equivalent of the accrued pension.
b)	After Retirement: Based on the form of pension elected by the member. Where the member has an eligible spouse and did not elect an optional form of payment, the following spouse benefit will be payable:
99
ysO
(i)	Eligibility: Memberwas incontinuousserv-ice after attainment of age 55 or had terminated employment after 2 years of continuous service while a Member of the Plan.
(ii)	Annual Benefit: 60% of the pension, exclusive of the supplementary pension, being received by the member immediately prior to his death, payable for the remaininglife-time of the spouse. Member's pension, exclusive of the supplementary pension, will be reduced by 10% if this benefit is payable. If spouse predeceases the member, the pension will revert to its normal level. Where the benefit is prescribedby provincial regulations, the benefitwill not be less than that prescribed.
12.	Post-Retirement PensionAdiusiments:
No automatic adjustments are provided for in the plan. Ad hoc adjustments have periodically been provided in the past with the most recent adjustmentbeing provided as at April 1,1991.
13.	Excess Contributions:
At retirement, death or termination, a Member of his Estate is entitled to receives refundof hiscon-tributionswhich exceed 50% of the actuarial equivalent of his retirement income earned on or after January 1,1987.
100
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS CANADA MEDICAL AND DENTAL BENEFITS PLAN FOR REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES AT THE TIME OF LAYOFF
Medical and Dental Benefits are available to Regular Full-Time Employees who qualify for eligibility at the time they are laid off.
The eligibility requirements are as follows:
The Employee must work a minimumof32 regular hours in each calendar month to have expenses incurred in the month payable. This means, that in order to have expenses incurred in June, paid by either the Medical or Dental Plan, the Employee must have worked 32 regular hours in June and so on for each month throughout the year.
Ifan Employeedoesnotworkthe required32 regular hours in a particular calendar month, then expenses incurredin that month only will not be paid. Eligible dependents may claim expenses as well, pro-vidingthat the employee has met the requirements out-linedabove. Eligibledependentsaredefinedas spouse, and dependent children upto age 19 if nota student, or up to age 25 if a full-time student.
It is importantto note that because we must wait until the end of the month to determine if the 32 hours have been worked by each Employee, and advise the Benefits Carrier accordingly, that expenses not be submitted until the month following. In other words, eligible expensesfor June should be submitted in July; July’s expenses submitted inAugust, and so on.
To obtain reimbursement for Dental or Prescription claims, employees will complete claim forms available from the Human Resources Department.
101
Appendix G
SpecialAppendices Respecting Laboratory Employees
Reclassification
An employee fulfilling the qualification requirements of Technician II will be reclassified and receive the applicable rate from the date of such reclassification. Overtime Distribution
The parties shall co-operate and make every effort to distribute overtime as evenly as possible. However, the number of overtime hours offered to an employee within any twenty-four (24) hour period remains within the discretion of the Company.
Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee shall be recorded weekly and postedthe following week. Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee will be accumulated over a period of six (6) months commencing with the first work week of the calendar year.
Overtime shall be offered to the employee with the lowest number of recorded hours in each of the categories in the following priority:
a)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently performing the specific duties in a task grouping in which overtime is required.
b)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the task grouping inwhich overtime is required.
c)	Among employees, qualified, available and currently working in the department in which overtime is required.
d)	Among employees, qualifiedand available to perform the job in which overtime is required.
In the event that all employees referred to in (a)lb), (c), and (d) above refuse the overtime, itisagreed such overtime will be worked by the employee first offered
102
the overtime, providing such overtime does not exceed four (4) hours in a day, or eight (8) hours in a calendar week.
During the basic work week, overtime offered will be assigned where possible to run consecutive to an employee’s scheduled shift. Forweekend overtime, available shiftswill be filled in sequence (11-7,7-3,3-11) by employeesin priority order, providingtheshiftassigned would not result in an employee working sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
Should a selection error occur, the missed employee will be accorded the next available overtime opportunity. A grievance respecting a selection error may be submitted at the Second Step of the grievance procedure.
Employeeswho do not wish to work overtime must notify the Company, in writing, of their intent. These employees will not be asked or scheduled to work overtime (unless it is necessary to protect the job) until the employee notifies the Company, in writing, that he wishes to work overtime.
OvertimeRefusal Letter
Should it become necessary to ask these employeesto work overtime to protect the job, employeeswill be asked to work in the following order if there are more than one employee eligible with an Overtime Refusal Letter on file:
a)	employee with the lowest recordedhours of overtime
b)	if employees do not have any recorded hours, then the most senior employee.
Note: Overtime hours worked and refused will be recordedas per paragraph2 of Appendix “G” page 107 for employees in this category who becomeeligiblefor overtime to protectthe job.
103
Team/Committee/Project Overtime Distribution '
When an employee volunteers to be a member of a Team/Committee and overtime is requiredto participate insuchTeam/Committee Meeting and/or specific project,' where knowledge of the process/activity is required, the Team/Committee employee will be given the opportunity to work such overtime, notwithstandingthe other provisionsof Appendix "E'&ndAppendix"G".
Paid Plant Holidays
Paid Plant Holidays will be treated and recorded as overtime.
104
Appendix‘H’
Alternate Work Schedules
Notwithstandingthe Basic Work Week as described in Articles 19.1, 19.2, 19.4, 19,5, and Appendix ‘D’, the implementation of alternate work schedules may be necessary to reduce costs, meetcustomer needs, and acquire new business for the Cobourg site.
The alternate work schedules described in this Appendix are Flexible Work Week and Continuous Operations. These work schedules may be implemented in departments, units, or specific operations, as needed by the business.
FlexibleWork Week and Continuous Operations.
All hours worked on Saturday and Sunday when they are part of the employee's regularly scheduled work week will be paid at their regular rate of pay.
Overtime will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (11/2x) for all hoursworked beyondthe regularlysched-uledwork day and workweek.
FlexibleWork Week-The FlexibleWork Week will consist of any regularly scheduled forty (40) hours within the work permit cycle.
ContinuousOnerations -Whenevernecessary, inorder to meet the needs of the business, a Continuous Operations schedule may be implemented. Prior to implementation, the Company will discuss with the Union, the business reasonsfor implementingContinu-ous Operations, taking into consideration, whenever practical, the needs of employees.
Applicable to the alternate work schedules above: Except in an emergency, employees will not be requested to work more than twelve (12) hours.
Referto the Letter of Understandingfor the initialimple-mentationof the Flexible Work Week for the life of this Agreement.
105
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PowerhouseEmployees Premium Time
Notwithstanding Article 19.4 of the Collective Agreement, both the Company and the Union agree to the following phase out process for Premium Time paidon Saturdays and Sundays, when these days are par! of the PowerhouseEmployees'regularly scheduledwork days.
Phase I
1. Effective July 4,1994 removalof PremiumTime of one and one-half (1%times) paidfor hoursworked on Saturday when Saturday is part of the employee's regularly scheduled work week.
A lump sum payment of 75 percent of the amount lostfrom July 4,1994 to December31,1994 will be paidout inthe month of January 1995 to the five (5) 2nd Class Stationary Engineers. Calculations will be based on the actual schedule of Saturdays for them during this period.
Phase II
1. Effective January 1st. 1995. removalof Premium Time of double (2) times paidfor hoursworked on Sunday, when Sunday is par! of the employee's regularly scheduled work week.
A lump sum payment of 75 percent of the amount lostfrom January 1 st, 1995 to January 1 st, 1996 will be paid out in the month of January 1996 to the five (5) 2nd Class Stationary Engineers. Calculations will be based on the actual schedule of Sundays for them during this period.
Signed at Cobourg, Ontario, this 13thday of June 1994,
For the Company

Manager of Human Resources
For the Union
Union President, UFCW Local 1230
106
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KRAFT GENERAL FOODS CANADA INC.
COBOURG, ONTARIO
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL1230 RE: WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BOARD
(1)	The Company recognizes the difficulty experienced by employees awaiting claims submitted to the Workers' Compensation Board.
(2)	The Company will set up the mechanisms required to allow relief payment, due regard to Workers' Compensation Policy and appropriate waivers.
(3)	Such payment will be entertained by the Company on the request of the employee to the Manager of Human Resources and will be limited to cases where legitimate hardships are encountered.
Signed at Cobourg Ontario, this 18th day of May 1994,
For the Company
:—J.
Manager of Human Resources
For the Union
Union President, UFCW Local 1230
107
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
Kraft General Foods Canada Inc.
Cobourg, Ontario
and
United Food and Commercial Workers InternationalUnion Local1230
Re: Joint Pension Committee for Hourly Employees
Mandate andActivities Schedule Committee Make-Up
The Pension Committee for the Cobourg hourly em-ployeesisajoint committee made up of three (3) Union andthree (3)Managementrepresentatives. The committee will meeton a quarterly and/or (asrequired)basis. Meetings will be co-chaired by a Union and Management representativewith a prepared agenda for each meeting.
Mandate
The mandate for the Committee is as follows:
-	to jointly become educated in the understanding of the Pension Plan as it pertains to the site hourly employees. This will enable the members of the Committee to provide basic information to hourly employees and consistently respondto questions and concerns expressed by hourly employees.
-	participatejointly in information/education sessions and Pre-retirement Seminars for hourly employees.
-	as a Committee, to surface issues and concerns to gainjoint understanding on results.
-	jointly participate in the review of the annual pension report by June 30 each calendar year.
108
-	meetjointly-with a representativefrom Towers-Perrins to submit questions and get answers on any pre-paredquestions of the report and/or plan administration.
-	attend an annual meeting with Corporate Finance representativesto review:
-	how funds are structured
-	where funds are invested
-	performance of funds invested
-	where Investment Managers are planning to invest funds over the next 12 months.
This meeting will take place by November 1st of each calendar year.
Signed at Cobourg/Ontario this 31 st day of May 1994.
For the Company
Manager of Human Resources
For the Union
Union President, UFCW Local 1230
109
Memorandumof Agreement Posting and Fillingof Positions Temporary Job Postings
Notwithstanding Article 24.1 and Appendix "B" of the CollectiveAgreement, boththe Company and the Union recognizethatthere is a need to fill jobs for a temporary period of time beyond Article 24.1 and Appendix “B”. Examples of these needs are:
-	Longterm sickness as per Article 24,10.
-	Pregnancy leave and parental leave as per Article 26.7
-	Union delegate or office -Article 26,4 and 26.5
-	Projects and assignments that requiretemporary staffing beyondArticle 24.1 andAppendix “B”
Requests for Temporary Job Postings A Department requiringthe filling of a job vacancy based on the above needs for a temporary period of time will submit a request in writing to the Associate Manager Human Resources.
The request will identify
-	the specificjob vacancy required to be filled
-	the temporary period dates - beginning and end
-	reason for posting temporary
Each request will be reviewed with the union President before posting.
Proceduresand Posting
All job vacancies, which need to be filled on a temporary posting shall be postedfor three (3)work days. As per Article 24.2 seniority, aptitude and ability shall be the determining factor in selecting applicants. Seniority shall be the governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Companyto be equal. Successful applicants will receive the rate of pay of the temporary job postedfor the specifiedtime the temporary job exists. The successful applicant will also retain the rights to their current bid job, when the temporary job period is completed.
110
In the event there are not sufficient applicants for the temporaryjob posted, a qualified and available employee will be assigned to the vacant temporary job, with due regard being paidto availability, qualifications and seniority for the temporary period specified in the posting. Such employee will receive their current bid job rate of pay if the temporary job rate is the same or a lower rate of pay. If the temporaryjob rate is higher the employee will receive the higher rate of pay.
To prevent a cascade affect, the successful applicants' current bidjob created by the temporary bid posting will be filled by a qualified and available cutback employee, or if no employees are cutback, an employee from the General Labour classificationfor the specified temporaryjob period.
Reductionand Recall
Inthe event that there is a needto reduce the workforce from the temporary job posted, the following procedures for reduction in staff would apply in this order:
■ temporarily assigned
-	temporary bid employee
-	regular bid employee
The reverse order will apply to recall staff to the job bid, The temporary bid employee, if cutback, would retain their seniority rights to the regular bid job they hold.
A request for extensionof the original time period specified in the temporary bid posting will be given in writing to the Associate Manager Human Resources at least 10 work days priorto the extended date. This request will be reviewedwith the Union President and may be extended by mutual agreement. If the decision is to make the temporaryjob a regular bid position, then the job will be posted plantwide as perArticle 24.
111
vertime Distribution
As perAppendix “ E temporary bid and any employees holdingthe bid will follow under Section (a). Employees holding a temporary bid will go one hour more than the highestemployee in their regular bid classification when their temporary bidj ob is completed.
This memorandum only applies to a Temporary Job Posting providing it does not exceed 12 calendar months.
Signed atCobourg, Ontariothis31st day of May1994.
For the Company
—“Si J,
Manager of Human Resources
For the Union
Union President,UFCW Local 1230
112
Letter of Agreement Pre-Testing of Applicants
This letter will confirm the Company's willingness to modify our interpretationof Articles 24.6'(a) and (b), on a without prejudice basis, for the remainderofthe life of the current collective agreement. The procedure for pre-testing will be as follows:
i)	All bid job applicantsand/or current employees who will be temporarily assigned to a job where the qualifications have been determined to include a specific skill or ability which can be pre-determinedthroughthe testing procedurewill be pre-tested by seniority.
ii)	Outside applicants who do not meet the standards for that skill or ability, as indicated on the tests, will not be hired.
iii)	An employee who does not meetthe standards for that skill or ability, as determined by the tests, will be given the opportunity to proceedthrough the on-the-jobtraining and evaluation of performance on the job, following training. However, prior to beginningthe training, this employee will be advised of the test results, and will be clearly counselled with regard to the expectations of performance in the areas during training, and in the evaluationfollowing training.
iv)	As per Article 24.3, an employee who fails to qualify forthe job shall be returnedto hisformer classification/position.
v)	Skills and abilities that may be assessed by pretesting may include, but are not limited to: mechanicalaptitude, team work, problemsolving, english reading, writing and comprehension.
vi)	Skilled trades positions are excluded from this Letter of Agreement.
113
vii)	Pre-testing will notberequiredforanemployee(s) temporarily assigned to one specific task of a multi-task job providing that the employee is scheduledfor30 work days or less to meetim-mediate business needs, in times of short term absences, personal leaves, vacations and shutdown coverage. The temporarily assigned empioyee(s) will receive their rate protectionfrom their cutback bid job. If they do not qualify to carry rate protection, they will be paid the General Labour rate during their assignment.
Applicable as per date of signing this agreement June 13,1994.
For the Company
For the Union

Manager of Human Resources
4M
Union President, UFCW Local 1230
114
Letter of Understanding FlexibleWork Schedules Processfor Developingand Implementation
Both the Company and the Union agree to the imple-mentationof FlexibleWork Schedules for the list of job classificationscontained below. One job classification from this listwill be selectedfor implementationin January 1995. Other classifications from the list below can be implementedeffectiveApril 1995.
To ensure that development plans, communications and implementation is done within the parameters of Ap-pendix“H” of the CollectiveAgreement, boththe Company and Unionagree to the following procedures: Development
DepartmentManager determines which of the classifications from the list below that he chooses to apply to a FlexibleWork Schedule.
Department Manager proposes a plan to the Department Steward and bid employees in the classification affected, basedonthe parametersofAppendix “H”. The Department Managerwill solicitinputfromthe employees in the classificationto try and develop a workable Flexible Work Schedule to satisfy business needs.
A detailed plan will be put together by the Department Manager and submittedto the Flexible Work Schedule Committee fifteen (15) work days prior to implementation. This Committee is made up of the President and Vice President of the Union Executive plus one Human Resources Representative and the Department Manager from the area involved. Other members from the membership and Company will be added to the Committee as resources,as needed.
115
FlexibleWork Schedules Committee
The role of the FlexibleWork Schedule Committee will be as follows:
Within fifteen (15) work days from the receipt of the implementationschedule from the DepartmentManager, the Committee will -
Review and assess the details of the submitted plan for impacts on the Collective Agreement Articles and the procedures for filling vacancies.
It will be the responsibilityof this Committeeto develop a Letter of Understanding outlining the Articles of the Collective Agreement impacted if the proposed schedules are unique and have not been previously developed.
Assists the Department Manager in filling the required vacancies.
Assists the Department Manager in developinga communication plan so that employees affected and support areas such as Payroll, Scheduling and Security are aware of the plan and implementationdate.
Assist the DepartmentManagerto evaluatethe learnings from the 3 month staged area and implement these changes for institutionalization.
Intent- FlexibleWork Schedules will not be designed a) to have employees work on both a Saturday and Sunday in a one week work schedule b) to have employees lose compensationas a result of goingto a flexible work schedule.
Both parties agree that by mutual agreementthis Letter of Understanding will be reviewed by both parties to adapt to successful learnings on the principle of continuous improvement.
116
The following classifications as perAppendix “ A will be eligible to be implemented in the Flexible Work Week as perAppendix “H”:
Cereals/Rice Department Janitor - Cereals Services Janitor- Packaging Janitor- Processing Machine Cleaners Sanitizer - Cereals/Rice
Desserts/Beveraaes Department Janitor- Packaging Janitor- Sanitizers Machine Cleaners Sanitation Person
Plant Services Department Janitor- Waste Handler DistributionDepartment UtilityWarehouse Custodian Receiving Department Utility Warehouse Custodian
During the life <f this Agreement, other classifications, which provide opportunities to the Company may be added to this list on the basis of mutual agreement with the Union.
Signedat Cobourg, Ontariothis 14thday of June 1994, For the Company	For the Union
117