COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
REDPATH SUGARS
A Division of
Tate 8 Iyle North American Sugars Ltd. (herein called "the Company")
AND
TEAMSTERS, CHEMICAL, ENERGY AND ALLIED WORKERS LOCAL 1688
A Division of Teamsters Canada (herein called 'the Union")
May l 2003 - April 30, 2005
WEEKDAY,
WEEKENDS AND HOLIDAYS
^ 416-366-3561
DIRECT LINE TO MAIN CONTROL ROOM
416-866-4171
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
REDPATH SUGARS
A Division of Tate & Lyle North American Sugars Ltd. (herein called “the Company”)
and
TEAMSTERS, CHEMICAL, ENERGY AND ALLIED WORKERS LOCAL 1688
A Division of Teamsters Canada (herein called “the Union”)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - INDEX
SUBJECT	PAGE
Arbitration...........................................9,10
Bereavement Leave......................................27
Bulletin Board.........................................14
Check-off..................................................5
Discharge or Suspension................................14
Duration of Agreement.............................31,32
Employee Benefits...............................29,30,31
Grievance Procedures.................................6,7, 8
Holidays........................................15,16,17
Hours of Work.....................................22,23
Leave of Absence.......................................27
Management Rights..........................................4
Meal Allowance.........................................26
Medical Examinations...................................15
No Strikes and No Lock-outs............................14
Overtime........................................23,24,25
Recognition................................................3
Relationship...........................................4,5
Safety and Health....................................28, 29
Seniority..................................10,11,12,13,14
Severance Pay..........................................31
Shift Premium..........................................21
Stewards and Union Committee...............................6
Students...............................................26
Vacation With Pay..............................17,18,19,20
Wage Rates and Classifications............. 20,21,33, 34,35
Appendix “B" • Memorandum of Understanding.............36
RECOGNITION
1.01	- The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all employees of Redpath Sugars, a Divisionof Tate & Lyle North American Sugars Ltd., at its Toronto Refinery, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, sugar boilers, office and sales staff, assistant chemists, laboratory statisticians, packaging technicians, instrument technicians, laboratory analysts and stationary engineers employed in the Boiler and Power House.
1.02	- Persons not included in the bargaining unitshall not performany work normally performed by those employees in the bargaining unit. In determining the work “normally” performed, the past practice and custom shall prevail at the Redpath Sugar Refinery at Queen's Quay, Toronto. The exception to the above is where employees of the Company are instructing, or relieving during emergencies, and/or staff training affecting the recognized work within the classifications found in Schedule “A“ herein, where such work performed does not displace an employee in the bargaining unit, or cause the loss of any potential hours of work under Articles 17 and 18 herein as currently practiced.
In the event of additionalexceptions incapable,at this time, of agreed definition, the parties, by agreement, may add such exceptions as are hereby not recognized provided the Company has not sent out any work normally performed by bargaining unit employees where it has sufficient work force, includingemployees on recall, to performthe work.
If and when an emergency situation is perceived by managementto arise, and causes the need for relief of a bargaining unit employee, a Union Officer, Steward, or senior member within the affected departmentwill be informed of the situationas will the employee being relieved. The Union will also be advised in advance of instruction.
However, this provision will not apply to employees of the Instrument Department with the understanding that the present practice will not be expanded so as to displace an employee in the bargaining unit.
B
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	- The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company:
(a)	To maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	To hire, retire, classify, direct, assign, promote, demote, transfer, discipline, suspend or discharge employees, and to increase and decrease the work force. A claim by an employee, who has completed his/her probationary period, that he/she has been discharged or disciplined without just cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as herein-after provided;
(c)	Generally, to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and locationof establishments;the productsto be manufactured, processed or handled; the methods and processes to be used; schedules of productionand work; kinds and locations of machines; tools and equipment to be used; engineering required; the selection, installation and requirements in the operation of any equipment or materials it decides to use or handle;
(d)	To make, alter and enforce rules and regulations to be observed by employees, not inconsistentwith the terms of this agreement; and
(e)	The only restrictionsto the execution of the foregoing functions are those restricted by the express language of the following provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 3
3.01	- All employees shall, as a conditionof employment, becomeand remain members of the Union within sixty (60) working days following their first day of employment. The Union agrees that no employee will be refused membership in the Union.
4
The Company will inform the Union within five (5) working days of hire, the name of a new employee.
3.02	- The Company will furnish to the Union copies of ail notices posted by the Company that affect its members.
3.03	- The Union agrees that except with the consent of the Company, no official of the Union and no person authorized by the Union shall enter the Company's premises and/or engage in Union activities on the Company's premises or during working hours of any employee, except as otherwise provided in this agreement.
ARTICLE 4
CHECK-OFF
4.01	- All employees shall, as a condition of employment, authorize the Company, on a form provided by the Union and approved by the Company, to deduct the Union’s monthly dues. A duplicate copy of the check-off authorization form shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer Local Union 1688 within one (1) week of hiring. Such authorization shall continue in effect for the life of this agreement. Union dues shall be deducted from employee pay inthe first pay period of the month. The Company will in turn remit such amount to the Secretary-Treasurer Local Union 1688, together with a list of names of those from whom such deductions have been made within seven days of the date of the deduction. The Company will show the amount collectedfor Union Dues on the employee’s T-4 Slip each year.
4.02	- The required union initiationfee will be deducted by the Company from the employee’s pay, from which the first dues deduction is made, following completion of the probationary period. Such initiationfee will be remittedto the Union in the same manneras provided in Clause4.01.
5
ARTICLE 5
STEWARDS AND UNION COMMITTEE
5.01	- The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to elect or appoint eight (8) stewards, and if the Toronto Refinery Operations are such that a change in number is warranted, then such adjustment may be made by mutual consent of the parties. Such stewards must acquire seniority standing under this agreement before being so appointed.
5.02	- It shall be the stewards function to process grievances as providedfor herein. A steward may also obtain permissionfrom the Company to discuss Union membership with a new probationary employee, the time not to exceed a reasonable period. A stewards functions shall in noway conflict with his/her duties to his/her employer, and he/she shall be held responsible for the same quantity and quality of work as other employees.
5.03	- The Union will inform the Company, in writing, of the name of the Stewards and of any subsequent change in the name of the stewards. The Company shall not be asked to recognize any steward until such notification from the Union has been received.
5,04	- The Union NegotiatingCommittee consistingof not more than four (4) employees shall be compensated for a maximum of forty (40) hours each at his/her basic straight time hourly rate of pay for time spent meeting with the Company for the purpose of negotiatinga renewal of the CollectiveAgreement.
5,05	- The Company will set up a programmefor regular meetings, between the Union and Management involving not more than two (2) representatives of either party. Such meetingsto be held not more frequently than every two (2) months, to discuss matters of common interest.
ARTICLE 6
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6.01	- It is agreed that a steward, when requiredto take up the grievance of an employee who has completed his/her probationary period, shall not leave
6
his/her assigned duties without first obtaining permission from his/her immediate supervisor to do so and will report back to his/her immediate supervisor upon resuming his/her assigned duties. In accordance with this understanding, such steward will be paid for such time when the time so spent is during scheduled working hours and when on the premises of the Company. The Company reserves the right to withhold payment if more than a reasonable amount of time is so taken.
6.02	- Notwithstanding any other provisions of the grievance procedure and arbitration provisions contained herein, an employee who has completed his/her probationary period, if he/she so desires, may take upacomplaintasan individual direct with the Company without recourse to the grievance procedure.
6.03	- Where a meeting is held between the Company and an employee which could reasonably lead to discipline, or where a meeting is held with an employee for the purpose of issuingdiscipline, a Union Steward shall be present, unless the employee chooses notto be represented by a UnionSteward. Such meeting shall not be unreasonablydelayed due to the unavailability of a Union Steward.
The Union will be furnished with a copy of all discipline given to an employee. An employee who is suspendedor dischargedwhile on the premises shall have the right to inform his/her steward of same before leaving the premises.
It is agreed that the Company will remove any disciplinary notationagainstan employee’s record after an elapsed time of nine (9) months.
6.04	- A grievance of the Union, which cannot be made the grievance of an individual employee, shall be subject to the same general procedure as provided for the grievance of an employee, except that it shall commence at Step No. 2.
6.05	- A grievance may arise only from a dispute concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this agreement. The grievance shall be submitted in written form and be signed by the employee directly involved. For the purposes of the grievance and
7
arbitration procedure, working days are deemed to mean Monday to Friday, exclusive of plant holidays. An earnest effort will be made on the part of both parties to settle such a grievance through the following steps:
STEP NO. 1:
An employee who has completed his/her probationary period shall present his/her grievance to his/her immediate supervisor with his/her steward, within ten (10) working days of the event complained of or within ten (10) working days from the date that the employee could reasonably be expected to become aware of the event which gave rise to the grievance, and the Supervisor Shill reply to the grievance in writing. In the event the employee's steward is not available the Company will arrange with the Union to name a substitute employee to act in the place of the absent steward. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within five (5) consecutive work days or within any longer time which may be mutually arranged for, then Step No. 2 may be invoked provided such latter action is commenced within five (5) consecutive days after Step No. 1 has been completed.
STEP NO. 2:
Unless agreed to by both parties, no grievance shall be presented at Step Mo, 2 the alleged circumstancesof which originated or occurred more than four (4) calendar days prior to its original presentationat Step No. 1 or where more than five (5)consecutive days have elapsed since the completion of Step No. 1. At the request of the employee, the steward shall take upthe empbyee’s grievance with the Refinery Manager or his/her designate of the Company, at a meeting arranged for that purpose, At this step, the Union President shall attend t:he meeting.
A Union Official designatedby the Unionas its representative and/or the griever may be present at such a meeting if their presence is requested by either parly. Iffinal settlementof the grievance is not completed within five (5) working days following the day upon which deliberation commenced, or such additional time as may be mutually agreed upon, then the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitrationas herein provided.
a
ARTICLE 7
ARBITRATION
7.01	- When the Union requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as here-inafter provided it shall make such requestwithin two (2) weeks of the date the answer to Step No. 2 was received by the party initiating the grievance at Step No. 2. Each of the parties will prepare a list of seven (7) possible arbitratorsand will exchange such lists within five (5J working days of the request for arbitration. The first corresponding name appearing on the lists will be selected as a single arbitrator. Should none of the names on the lists correspond,a further list of five (5) names will be exchanged within twenty-four (24) hours and the first corresponding name appearing on the second lists will be selected as a single arbitrator. Should none of the names on the second lists correspond, the party initiatingthe grievancewill, within twenty-four (24) hours of exchanging the second lists, requestthe Ministry of Labourforthe Province of Ontario to select an impartialarbitrator.
7,02	- The arbitrator shall not have the power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistentwith the terms and provisions of this agreement.
7.03	- The decision of the arbitrator shall be accepted by the parties hereto if made pursuant to the provisionsof the precedingparagraph.
7.04	- Each of the parties shall bear equally the expense of the arbitrator.
7.05	- No grievance shall be considered by the arbitrator unless it has been properly carried through all previous steps of the grievance procedure, or unless the party which is opposing the grievance has refused to participate in the earlier stages of the Grievance Procedure.
7.06	- Shouldthe Union allege violation of this Collective Agreementthrough the action of its officials, the complaint may be dealt with through the grievance procedureestablishedby this article, commencingat a stage equivalent to Step No. 2.
9
7.07	- Failure to pursue a grievance within the time limits prescribed or failure to pursue the grievance through each step as prescribed shall constitute abandonment of the grievance and acceptance of the decision at the previous step and the matterwili be deemed to have been settled.
ARTICLE 8
8.01 - The purpose of seniority provisions herein is to provide a policy of governinga job posting, lay-offs and rehiring. Inthe event of a reduction of the working force, the Company shall apply the principle of “last on, first off provided the retained employees have the necessary qualifications and ability to perform the remaining work, consistent with the Company’s obligation © maintain an efficient working force. Followinga lay-off, rehiring shall be executed conversely to the outlined lay-off procedure subject to the Same conditions.
8.02	- Seniority shall be recognized on a plant-wide basis for employees covered by this agreement.
8.03	- In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the work force for whatever reason, the reduction shall proceed as follows:
(i)	Employees will be declared surplus in the classification where the reduction is required commencing from the employee with the least seniority in that classification;
(ii)	Employees thus declared surplus may either use their seniority as hereinafter provided ((ill) refers] or be laid off to await recall; and
(lii) (a) Any employee declared surplus who does not wish to take a lay-off will be given the opportunityto take the position held by the employee with the least seniority in the department of his or her choice. Employee’s subsequently displaced from the department will be given the opportunity to take the position held by the employee with the least seniority in the plant.
10
(b)	Employees replacing other employees as provided in (a) above, will be offered up to thirty (30) work days to demonstrate they can perform the job. Those who fail to demonstrate performanceability will be laid off without recourseto await recall.
Note: The provision set out in (iii) above does not apply to classifications named in 8.14.
A surplus employee who seeks to take such a position must first establish that they have the necessary job qualifications.
(iv) Employees displaced by use of the opportunity provided in (iii) above shall be laid off to await recall.
8.04	- In the event of a lay-off, before laying cff employees out of seniority order (after acquired) the Company will notifythe Union.
8.05	- In the event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks' duration, the employee shall be given five (5) working days’ notice of such action. If an employee does not receive full notice, he/she shall be given pay for the period not covered by notice.
8.06	- In the event of a lay-off of two (2) weeks' duration or less but more than two (2) working days’, the employee shall be given two (2) working days’ notice of such action. If an employee does not receive full notice, he/she shall be given pay for the period not covered by notice.
8.07	- Recall:
In the event of vacancies existing in the classifications from which employees had previously been declared surplus those employees will be returned to their original classification and the vacancies thus created will be filled in order of seniority from those employees awaiting recall.
All other vacancies, Including new positions, which the Company intends to fill, shall be posted as provided herein.
11
8.08	- A seniority list shall be prepared and posted by the Company once every six (6) months.
8.09	- Employees shall be on probation until they have worked sixty (60) days, Monday to Fridaywithin a period of six (6) months. Seniority would then date from the date the employee commenced work for the Company. Seniority shall accumulate during a permitted leave of absence from work on account of sickness or accident. This provisionshall not pertain to part-time employeesas defined in this agreement.
8.10	-
(i)	Employees who accept transfer to a position outside the bargaining unit will retaintheir seniority for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the first day of transfer outside of the bargaining unit.
(ii)	After completing the six (6) month period, an employee shall be deemedto have been removed from the seniority records in accordance with Article 8.11.
(Ill) An employee who, within the six (6) month period, is transferred back into the bargaining unitwill take the position of the employee with the least seniority provided the employee is qualifiedto performthe job.
8,11	- An employee’s name shall be removedfrom the seniority records and his/her employment terminatedfor the following reasons:
(a)	If the employee voluntarily quits the employ.
(b)	If the employee is discharged for any just cause, and is not reinstated through grievance and/or arbitration procedure.
(c)	If the employee is absent from his/her duties for more than fwo (2) days (or two [2] shifts as the case may be) and is unable to furnish a reason satisfactory to the Company for such absence.
12
(d)	If the employee fails to report for duty after a lay-off unless he/she furnishes a reason satisfactoryto the Company. When calling an employee back from lay-off, he/she shall be notified by registered mail at his/her last address on record with the Company, and shall be allowed three (3) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Plant Holidays)from the date of notice in which to notify the Company of their intentions, and a further period of four (4) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Plant Holidays)to report to work.
(e)	Employees with under five (5) years' seniority will have two (2) years' recall rights before the employee's name is removed from the seniority records. Employees with over five (5) years' seniority will have three (3) years' recall rights before the employee's name is removed from the seniority records.
8.12	- Employees temporarily assigned to higher rated jobs for two (2) hours or more in any one day shall receive the higher rate for that day. Employees temporarily assigned to lower rated jobs for more than one (1) day at a time, shall not have their rates reduced unless transferred by the Company to avoid lay-off or because of demotion. Qualificationsgained by way of temporary transfer shall not countfor the purpose of job postings.
8.13	- When there is an original or subsequent vacancy, and the Company intends to fill such vacancies, the Company agrees to post a notice of such vacancies for a period of forty-eight (48) hours to enable interested employees to apply for the job.
8.14	- Generally the Company will choose from among those employees responding to a job posting, the most senior employee.
Selected job applicants to a vacant positionwill be placed on the job within thirty (30) working days. Notwithstandingthe above, in the event of openings in the classifications of Fork Lift Operator, Engineering Department and Apprentices, job qualifications must first be established by the applicant and where one or
13
more empbyees have established tie required qualifications, seniority shall govern in the selection.
No accepted employee to an original, first and second subsequent vacancy can apply for another vacancy until six (6) months have elapsed, unless such vacancy is to a higher rated job.
ARTICLE 9
9.01	- An employee who claims he/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended may submit their grievance in writing, and such action must be taken within forty-eight (48)hours (Saturdays, Sundays, and Statutory Holidays excluded) of their discharge or suspension. He/She shall, if subsequently reinstated through the grievance procedure, and if necessary arbitration, be compensated for their lost time at their normal rate of pay or receive such lesser compensation, if any or according to any agreement reached by the parties in the grievance procedure or as decided upon by a single arbitrator.
ARTICLE 10
NO STRIKES AND NO LOCK-OUTS
10.01	- Duringthe term of this agreement, the Company agrees there shall be no lock-out, and the Union agrees there shall be no strike, sit-down, slowdown, work stoppage or suspensionof work, either completeor partial, for any reason by the employees.
ARTICLE I I
BULLETIN BOARD
11.01	- The Company agreesto permit posting of any notice, first approved by the Company, of Union meetings or functions on a Union bulletin board conspicuously placed and provided for that purpose.
14
ARTICLE 12
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
12.01	- Any medical examinations or medical documents requested by the Company shall be promptlycomplied with by all employees, provided, however, that the Company shall pay for all such examinations or medical documents. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician and the Union may, if intheir opinion, they think an injustice has been done to an employee, have said employee re-examinedat the Union's expense.
12.02	- When a medical examination is required by the Company, the following conditions shall apply:
(a)	The employee shall take such medical examination during his/her normal working hours, and he/she shall be paid for the time involved.
(b)	Employees shall be supplied with a copy of such medical report provided a report is made available to the Company.
(c)	If the employee is required to travel for such an examination, public transportation will also be paid by the Company.
ARTICLE 13
HOLIDAYS
13.01	- The following holidays will be recognized:
New Year's Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Last work day before Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Last work day before New Year's Day
Labour Day	Floater Day (to be declared by the Company)
15
13.02	-
(a)	The Company will pay for such holidays providedan employee has worked the normal shift immediately preceding and the normal shift immediately following the holiday for the number of regular hours ordinarily worked at the employee's basic straight time hourly rate of pay.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off, and subject to other qualifying conditions, an employee will be paid for the holiday if he/she has not been laid off for more than two (2)weeks immediately prior to the holiday or is laid off commencing on the day immediatelyfollowing the holiday. An employeeshall not be disqualified from receiving holiday pay if he/she is unable to complete a qualifying shift due to bona-fide illness or injury.
When the holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company may elect one of 1 he following:
(a)	Pay an extra day's pay.
(b)	Close on the Friday before and observe as a holiday in lieu.
(c)	Close on the Monday following and observe as a holiday in lieu.
13.03	- If an employee is requiredto work on a day that is recognized by iihe Company as a holiday, he/she shall be paid at the rate of double time for eight (8) of the hoursworked on such a holidayln additionto any holiday pay which he/she may otherwise be entitledto receive, subjectto section 13.04 of this agreement. After eight (8) hours, they shall be paid at the rate of triple time.
13.04	- Should an employee be temporarily transferred to a job which carries a higher rate of pay for both the work day before and the work day after a statutory holiday, then statutory holiday pay, payable as provided in 13.02 will be based upon the higher rate of pay.
13.05	- Where as provided in Article 14.09 an employee has elected to take another day In lieu of the holiday which has occurred during his/her vacation
16
period, and where such a day has been agreed to by the Company, if later, at the request of the Company, the employee is requiredto work, and does work, the employee shall be entitled to double time (2X) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on such a day.
13.06	- An employeewho reports for work atthe start of his/her normalshift, unless otherwise previously notified by the Company not to do so, will be entitled to receive four (4) hours' work or pay in lieu thereof at the employee's basic straight time hourly rate of pay unless the circumstances are beyond the control of the Company, includingsuch circumstancesas fire or power failure.
ARTICLE 14
VACATION WITH PAY
14.01	- Employees shall receive a vacation with pay in accordance with the regulationsand requirements covered by the Employment Standards Act, 1968, and as amended.
14.02	- Employees who have completed one (1) or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of two (2) weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be four (4%) of his/her gross earnings during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding May 31 st,
14.03	- Employeeswho have completed five (5) or more years of continuous employmenton May 31 st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of three (3) weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be six percent (6%) of their gross earnings during the twelve (12)months immediately preceding May 31 st.
14.04	- Employeeswho have completed ten (10) or more years of continuous employmenton May 31st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation of four (4) weeks. Payfor such a vacation will be eight (8%) of their gross earnings during the twelve (12) months Immediately preceding May 31st.
17
14.05	- Employees who have completed twenty (20) or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year shall be entitled to a vacation of five (5) weeks. Pay for such a vacation will be ten percent (10%) of their gross earnings during the twelve (12)months immediately preceding May !I1 st.
14.06	-
(i)	Employees who have completed thirty (30) or more years of continuous employment on May 31st of any year, snail be entitled to a vacation of six (6)weeks. Payfor such vacation will betwelve percent (12%) of their gross earnings during the twelve (12)months immediately preceding May 31st.
(ii)	Employees reaching their 30th anniversary of employmentwill receive a onetime payment equivalentto one (l)week of pay. This one time payment equivalentto one (1) week of pay will be repeated when an employee reaches their 35th anniversary of employment.
(lii) Weeky Indemnity payments to be included as gross earnings.
14.07	- Employees who at May31st in anyyear, have completedfive (!i) or more years of continuous employment, and have completed six (6) months of continuous employment in that vacation year, and who are unable to work the remaining six (6) months due to sickness for which they are receiving weekly indemnity benefits or where they are receiving Worker's Compensation Board benefits, will be guaranteed a vacation payment equivalent to eighty (80) hours of work, multiplied by their rate at the time the sickness or Workers’ Compensation Board benefit commenced.
14.08	- An employee who terminates his/her service or is terminated with the Company shall receivevacation pay equivalentto that which he/she has earned up to the date of his/her departure.
14.09	-
(a)	Any of the holidays listed herein which fall within an employee’s annual vacation shall be paid for as provided herein subject to qualifying requirements, and provided the employee has worked on his/her normal shift immediately precedingand following their annual vacation.
18
(b)	If the employee requests no lieu day then his/her vacation pay shall include his/her holiday pay.
(c)	If the employee requests a lieu day, such request shall not be unreasonably withheld, it shall be determined by:
(i) mutual agreement; or if no agreement
(il) the Company will determinethe day.
If later the employee be required to work on the agreed or determined day, [(I) and (ii) above refers] and does work, he/she shall get paid double time (2X) for each hour so worked plus holiday pay.
14.10	- The choice of vacation periodshall be according to seniority, provided it does not conflict with the Company's obligation to maintain an efficient working force.
An empbyee entitled to six (6), eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) percent (%) vacation credits must arrange for the third, fourth, fifth or sixth weeks to be taken at a time suitable to the Company, if so requested by the Company.
On or before March 15th of each year the Company will post a vacation schedule requesting employees to identify when they wish to take their vacations. Employees are required to make their declaration before April 1 st and will have their period confirmed by April 15th.
Should an employee be required to work during the vacation period, the employee will be notified as soon as reasonably possible thereafter.
The Company will advise employees of the winter shut-down-period by October 15th.
The Company agrees to provide at least four (4) weeks' notice of vacation during the winter months.
19
Once the Company has officially scheduled an employee for their vacation period, such vacation periodwill not be changed without the empbyee’s consent.
While the special request of an employee for unusual vacation arrangements and/or a leave of absence may be lodged in writing by such employee with the Personnel Department, the outcome of such request must depend on the Company’s decision, Such special vacation request must be made by March 15th, or for winter vacations by October 25th of the particular year.
The Company will reply to such special requests within fifteen (15) week-days from the dates mentionedabove.
14,11	- The Companywill providean employee with his/her vacation pay prior to the commencement of the employee’s vacation. Vacation pay for a partial week will be paid during the normal pay cycle.
ARTICLE 15
WAGE RATES
15.01	- Wage scale as set out in Schedule “ A hereto shall apply to all
employees during the term of this agreement.
15.02	-
(a)	If, after meeting to discuss the rate assigned by the Company to a position not included in Schedule "A”, the Union does notagreii with the rate they may, within ten (10) working days of the meeting, file a grievance outlining why they consider the Company position to be incorrect and stating what it considers to be the correct rate arid the reasons therefore.
(b)	Such grievance shall be dealt with at Step 2 of the Grievance procedure, and may thereafter, if unresolved, be processed to arbitration.
Should the matter reach arbitration, the jurisdiction of the Board shall be confined to confirming the pay rate attached by the Company or to
20
establish some other rate which would be based upon and within the existing pay range in Schedule “A.
ARTICLE 16
SHIFT PREMIUM
16.01	-
(a)	A separately calculated premium of sixty (60) cents per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on a second shift.
(b)	A separately calculated premium of seventy (70) cents per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on a third shift.
(c)	A separately calculated premium of fifty (50) cents per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on regularly rotatingfirst, second and third shifts.
(d)	A separately calculated premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour shall be paid for all hours worked on schedules supporting continuous operations.
16.02	- A second shift isany shift startingat2:00 p.m. or at any latertime up to 10:00 p.m. A third shift Is any shift starting at 10:00 p.m. or at any later time up to 6:00 a,m.
16.03	- A second shift premiumwill be paidto an employeewhen the majority of his/her regular scheduled hours worked falls between 2:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., and third shift premiumwill be paidto an employeewhen the majority of his/her regularscheduled hours worked falls between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
16.04	- Shiftwork employees who are requiredto work additional hours prior to the start and/or following the finish of the particularshlft on which they are scheduled to work, shall receive the shift premium that would ordinarily apply to other shift work employees working at the time such additional hours are being worked.
21
ARTICLE 17
17.01	- The normal regular hours of work, except the Warehouse Division, shall be forty (40) hours per week, consisting of eight (8) hours per day, Sunday 2300 hours to Friday 2300 hours, inclusive.
The normal regularhours of work for the V\feirehouse Divisionshall be forty-two and one-half (421/2) hours per week, consistingof eight and one-half (81/2) hours per day, Sunday 2300 hours to Friday 2300 hours, inclusive.
Forthe purposeof pay computationthe workweek shall be consideredas starting 2300 hours Sunday and ending 2300 hours the following Sunday. All regular shifts belong to the calendar day in which they start. However, pay for hours worked priorto 2300 hours Sunday but belonging to the shift of a Monday shall be included in the pay week starting at 2300 hours on that day.
The Company shall have the right to establish, suspend, and/or revert to, work schedules in the Processing department to support continuous operations. The normal workweek shall not exceed forty-eight (48) hours, and the normal workday shall not exceed twelve (12) hours. Management dial provide at least thirty (30) days' noticeof intent to implement schedule changes inthe Processing department.
17.02	- The Company does notguaranteeto provide employment or work for normal hours or for any other hours.
17.03	- A part-time employeeshall be an employee working twenty-four(24) hours or less per week. Part-time employees shall receive the same minimum scale applicable to employees under this agreement but not otherwise covered by this agreement.
17.04	- If an employee has left the Refinery following completion of his/her regular daily or weekly employmentand is called back to work after so leaving, he/she shall receive minimum pay for each such call back equivalent to three (3) hoursat time and one-half (11/2).
22
17.05	- Where an employee is requiredto change shifts during his/her regular scheduled shift period, Monday to Friday, he/she shall be entitled to at least twelve (12) hours off work from the completion of his/her regular shift to the commencement of his/her reassigned shift. This does not apply to Sunday night shift change.
ARTICLE 18
18.01	- All overtime required to be worked in a classification named in Schedule "A" of this agreement shall first be offered to the employees in the classification starting with the employee with the least accrued overtime hours.
Ifemployeesinthe classification where the overtime is required decline to work the overtime, itwill be offered to a qualified available employee(s) with the least accrued overtime hours within the department before the offer is made to employees outside the department.
The following principles shall be adopted with overtime:
(a)	An employee who declines overtime opportunity will be charged with the amount of the scheduled overtime as if he/she had worked in the following manner:
(I) for all hours worked:
(It) for all hours worked and refused (to a maximum of eight (8) hours of refusal when coupled with hours worked);
(Hi) where no overtime work is performed, notwithstanding the amount of hours offered, the number of hours charged will be the hours offered up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours.
(b)	An employee who works overtime in either his/her classification or another classification will be charged the overtime.
(c)	An employee who transfers from one classificationto another through the job posting procedure or a new employee will assume the lowest
23
accumulation of overtime in the new classification in place of their accumulation prior to transfer.
(d)	An employee who is absent for whatever reason except vacation, bereavement leave and leave for union business, will be charged with overtime opportunity only if the record as of 2300 hours Wednesday shows that the employee would otherwise have been offered overtime if he/she had been at work.
Notwithstanding the above principles, the parties understand and agree that local arrangements exist with respect to overtime allocation. Further, overtime hours shall be posted and at January 1 st of each year all overtime records shall be considered at zero "0". It is understood that where an employee has given his foreman proper notice of a scheduling error and the employee is not given the opportunityto work the overtime, the employee shall be entitled to receive pay for the hours lost.
18.02	-
(a)	(I) Payment of overtime shall be provided on a daily basis 2300 hours
Sunday to 2300 hours Friday, inclusive, calculated after eight (8) hours worked in the case of the refinery and motor mechanics in any one (1) day.
(il) Aftereightand one-half (81/2) hours have beenworked in any one (1) day In the case of Warehouse employees 2300 hours Sunday to 2300 hours Friday.
(b)	Paymentof double time will be provided on a daily basis Monday to Friday, inclusive, calculated after twelve (12) hours worked in any one day.
(c)	All continuous hours worked, in anytwenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid in accordance with Article 18.02 (a).
(d)	Regular full-time employees will be given the first opportunity to work overtime within their department, provided they can perform the work required, before such work is offered to student employees.
24
18.03	-
(a)	For employees working a Monday through Friday normal workweek, as defined in Article 17.01, all scheduled overtime work on Saturday and Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time. In either event such premium rate shall not apply to work performed during normal regular hours of work.
(b)	For employees working schedules supporting continuous operations, all work on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
(c)	A Saturday or a Sunday for the purpose of this clause shall be defined as 2300 hoursto 2300 hours on the following dayfor all employees.
(d)	Where an employee is scheduled to work a twelve (12) hour shift on any day and such overtime is cancelled by the Company after the sixth (6th) hour of his/her regular work day, providedthe employee is at work during his/her regular eight (8) hour period, he/she shall receive the supper allowance as provided hereinafter.
18.04	- There shall be no pyramiding of overtime payment.
18.05	- The Companywill endeavourto give notice of overtime requirements for a Saturday, Sunday or Holiday by Wednesday at 12:00 hours whereupon the employee, including those absentfrom work, will divulge the intention to accept or decline by Thursday at 07:00 hours.
18.06	- For employees on schedules supporting continuous operations, overtime at the rate of time and one half shall be payable for ail hours worked on the employee's scheduled day off, providing the employee works the majority hours on each of the days of their normalschedule in that workweek.
18.07	- The Company agrees to offer overtime assignments in accordance with the Collective Agreement prior to placing a salaried employee on the job. Such placement, should it occur, will not be subjectto a grievance by the Union.
25
ARTICLE 19
STUDENTS
19.01	-
(a)	The rate of pay for all students is shown inSchedule “ A -Wage Rates and Classifications.
(b)	Students will be hired for vacation relief during the period May ‘I to September 15. All other vacation periods, the students hired should relate to the number of regular employees taking vacation.
(c)	Students will from time to time undertakeassignments as mutually agreed between the Company and the Union.
(d)	Students will primarily be assigned to lower wage classifications.
(e)	Scheduling of students will be referred to the labour Management Committee.
(f)	Students will have only the following articles in the collective agreement apply to their employment:
Articles 4,10,13,14.01 (only), 15,16,17,18,19 - 22, and26, Schedule. “A”.
(g)	Article 4.02 Balso an exceptionand will not be repeatedwith each hire.
(h)	In no circumstances shall the time spent in employment by a student be consideredas counting toward seniority.
ARTICLE 20
MEAL ALLOWANCE
20.01	- If an employeeworkstwo hours or more in exoess of their regular daily work hours, such employee shall be entitled to a meal allowance <f $9.00.
26
ARTICLE 21
21.01	- In the event of a death in the employee's immediate family (employee's parents, sister or brother, spouse, children, grandparent, grandchildren, mother-in-law or father-in-law) the employee shall be entitledto be absent from work for a period of three (3) regular working days, when such absence is necessary to make arrangements for and attend the funeral. During such absence the employee shall be compensated at his/her straight time hourly rate for such regularworking time lost.
21.02	- An employee who will not be able to attend the funeral of a member of their immediate family or In the event the employee attends the funeral of a brother/sister-in-law, shall, if he/she requires time off during their regular working hours, be granted a maximum of one (l)day’s leave with pay for such purpose provided the Company is supplied with proper proof of such death.
ARTICLE 22
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
22.01	- Leave of absence shall be granted to elected representatives of the Union for the conduct of Union business without pay and without loss of seniority provided the granting of such leave does not interfere with the Company's obligation to maintain an efficient working force and provided the requestfor leave is requested inwriting by the Secretary of the Local Union not less than forty-eight (48) hours from the date thereof.
22.02	- Pregnancy/Parental leave shall be granted without pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
22.03	- Inthe eventthatan employee is called for Jury Duly, the employee will be paid their standard payfor work time lost, providedthe employee:
(a)	notifiesthe Company immediatelyof the jury call;
(b)	returnsto work during the jury service at every reasonableopportunity; and
(c)	provides evidence to the Company of the jury pay.
27
ARTICLE 23
SAFETY AND HEALTH
23.01	- In the event that an employee is sent home by the management because of industrial injury, he/she shall be paid for the balance of the shift during which he/she was sent home. The Company will provide transportation for an injured employee. In the eventthat an employee, duo to an accident in the plant, hasto leaveto go to the hospitalfor x-ray or treatment for which he/she does not receive compensation under the Worker’s Compensation Act, then the Company shall compensate such employee for the time lost upon presentation of a certificate from the hospital.
23.02	- The Company agrees to the institution of a Safety Committee which will be representative of both parties and such Committee will report directly to the Refinery Manager. Also, the committee will agree to its own terms of reference and be responsiblefor ensuring an adequate follow-up procedure.
23.03	- It is agreed that the provisions of safety prescription glasses where the Company requires such safety glasses to be worn, will be provided foi by the Company. It is agreed, too, that the employee will provide the necessary prescription for the glasses. This benefit will continue while on Long Term Disability.
23.04	- It shall be mandatory to wear safety footwear and the protective equipment provided by the Company while at work. The Company shall contribute one-hundred five dollars ($105.00) maximum toward the purchase of safetyfootwear once each twelve-month period, commencing from the (late of an employee's last purchase as recorded by the Industrial Relations Department.
Also, work gloves will be provided by the Company and will be replaced when required. The employee, however, will be responsible for ensuring he/she retains their work gloves for replacement purposes.
28
23.05	- An employee who is requested to take a FirstAid Course on their own time will be reimbursed to the extent of two (2) hours of regular basic wages for each attendance that is sixteen (16) hours maximum per course, provided he/she shows proof of attendance and passes the required tests for their certificate. No travelling expenses will be paid.
23.06	- The Company will make reasonable provision for the safely of its employees during the hours of their employment. It is understood that the Union may request a meeting with the Company for the purpose of raising a question of safely.
ARTICLE 24
24.01	- The Company will pay premiums for the following insured benefitsfor each employed employee who has completed three (3) months of continuous service with the Company:
(a)	Equivalentto Canada Life (semi-private) -100% of premium cost.
(b)	Major Medical Expenses - The Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, a benefit pian at least similar to those of the Canada Life Extended Healthcare (Drug Plan) as outlined in the employee booklet. This plan will have a ten dollar/twenty dollar ($10.00/$20.00) single and family deductible feature.
(c)	Dental Plan:
(i)	Effective with in 30 days of ratificationthe current O.D.A. Schedule of Fees shall apply.
(ii)	The Plan shall include, effective with ratification of the agreement, a lifetime orthodontic maximumof $2,000.00.
(iii)	The existing Plan will accept the charges of licensed “Denturists" for dental work.
29
(d)	Group Life Insurance:
(d)	The Company will pay 100% of the premium cost to provide $44,000.00 of insurance effective with ratification of the agreement.
(e)	Weekly Indemnity:
The Company will pay 100% of premium cost of an insurance plan to provide eligible employees with benefitsof sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of their regularweekly earnings based upon their normal regular hours (Article 17 refers) multiplied by their basic hourly rate, excluding premiums. Effective Novemberl, 1997, employees with twenty-three (23), or more, years service, will receive this benefitat a level cf seventy (70) per cent, calculated in the same manner.
These benefits come into effect on the first (1st) day of absence due to accident or being hospitalizedor on the fourth (4th) day of absence due: to sickness (meaning payment on the 4th day) as the case may be, for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks. For employees normally scheduled to twelve hour workdays, benefits come into effect on the first (1st) day of absence due to accident or being hospitalizedor on the third (3rd) day of absence due to sickness (meaning payment on the third [3rd] day) as the case may be, for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks.
Notwithstanding any of the above statements or those contained in the employee booklet, the specific benefits and eligibility requirements as outlined in the carriers' contracts of insuranceshall govern in the event of a dispute of any kind.
The Union acknowledges the right of the Company to select any insurance carrier to provide these benefits and the right cf the Company to change any carrierat anytime provided only that the benefitsshall not be lesstfian those being provided under the insurance plan.
The Company agrees to provide the Union copies of the Insurance agreements covering privately purchased benefits.
30
(f)	Long Term Disability:
The Company will pay the premiums for a long-term disability insurance equivalent to 50% of the employee’s straight time hourly rate multiplied by 173 payable each month following 180 days of continued disability. To qualify for the above benefit an employee must have completed five (5) full years of active employment with the Company.
(g)	Vision Care:
The Company will pay the premiums for a vision care plan for registered (TDI) dependants only. The Plan will contribute one-hundred and eighty dollars ($180.00) each twenty-four (24) month period toward the cost of required prescription glasses.
ARTICLE 25
SEVERANCE PAY
25,01	- In the event an employee is terminated other than for cause, or laid off other than for a “temporary period as that term is defined in the Employment Standards Act, the employee will be entitled to severance pay in an amount equal to one week's regular non-overtime wages peryear of service, or part week per partyear of service, to a maximumof thirty (30) weeks. Other than as expressly set out in this article, an employee's severance pay entitlements shall be governed by the Employment Standards Act. For greater certainty, in the event that the affected employee has a right to recall under this agreement and elects to have the severance pay paid forthwith, such employee's recall rights and seniority are forfeited and their employment is terminated for all purposes.
ARTICLE 26
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
26,01	- This agreement shall come into effect from the date of its signing by the parties, except that wages shall have retroactivity in accordance with the Memorandumof Agreement.
31
This agreement shall come into effect upon signing by both parties and shall expire April 30,2005, and shall renewyearto yearthereafter unless either party gives notice to the other party hereto of an intent to terminate or amend this agreement. Such notice shall be given in writing notearlierthan sixty (60) clays and at least thirty (30) days before the expiry date of this agreement or the anniversary date of any subsequent period in which this agreement remains in force. The parties agree to meet within ten (10) days after the giving of such notice.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement on the 9th day of June, 2003, at Toronto, Ontario.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
George Rapos	David Morin
Doug Marr Neil Jones Ross Rob Bud
32
Attached as Appendix “A” is an agreement entered into by the Company and the Union.
SCHEDULE "A"
WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
The following wage rates for the respective classification shall be effective from the date indicated
CLASSIFICATION	DEPARTMENT
Maintenance Vechicle Mechanic
Engineering
MAY 1,2003
$26.51
MAY 1,2004
$27.37
Bulk Liquid Loader 40kg Icing Operator Rovema Operator Warehouse Operator A Warehouse Operator B Yard Service Night Loader
Processing
Packaging
Packaging
Warehouse
Warehouse
Warehouse
Warehouse
$24.73
$25.53
Central Process Operator Centrifugal Operator First Floor Operator General Maintenance
Processing
Processing
Processing
Engineering
$24.30
$25.09
Liquid Room Operator Kiln Operator Lab Attendant StockroomAssistant
Processing
Processing
Laboratory
Engineering
$24.06
$24.84
CLASSIFICATION	DEPARTMENT	MAY 1,2003	MAY 1,2004
Screen Floor Attendant 1/4 Kilo Operator 2kg Sig Operator IBC Operator Ropak Operator A Highlift Operator	Packaging Packaging Packaging Packaging Packaging Warehouse	$23.74	$24.51
Second Floor Operator Palletizer Operator Melter Operator General MaintenanceHelper Oiler/Malntenance	Processing Packaging Warehouse Engineering Engineering	$23.58	$24.35
1kg 500gm Icing Operator One Tonne Icing Empty Container Handler	Packaging Packaging Packaging	23.40	$24.16
Raw Sugar Operator Blender Operator	Raw Sugar Packaging	$22.90	$23.64
34
CLASSIFICATION	DEPARTMENT	MAY1,2003	MAY 1,2004
Paybader Operator Utility Operator Valve Pack Operator Ten Kilo Operator 40 kg Brown Operator Ropak Operator Cleaner Warehouse Laborer StockroomAttendant	Processing Processing Packaging Packaging Packaging Packaging Packaging Warehouse Engineering	$22.72	$23.46
Process Support	Processing	$21.15	$21.84
Student Rate		$15.99	$16.51
35
APPENDIX "B"
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Schedulesto Support ContinuousOperations
The Company intends to implement schedules to support ContinuousOperations on or about July 1,2003. A sample schedule is shown:
M	T '	W	T	F	s	S
OFF	DAY	DAY	OFF	OFF	DAY	DAY
DAY	OFF	OFF	DAY	DAY	OFF	OFF
OFF	NITE	NITE	OFF	OFF	NITE	NITE
NITE	OFF	OFF	NITE	NITE	OFF	OFF
HOURS OF WORK For the purpose of pay computation, the vrorRweek for any group normally working a twelve hourshift shall begin 0700 hours Monday.
HOLIDAYS The Company will pay eight (8) hours pay at the employee’s basic straight time hourly rate of pay for such holidays not worked, providing an employee has worked their normal shift immediately preceding and their normal shift immediately following the holiday. All work performed on any of the Company recognized holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time, in addition to the holiday pay specified above.
OVERTIME: Employees will be eligible for daily overtime at the rate of time-and-one-halffor hours worked in excess of twelve hours per day, and the provisions of Article 18.02 (a), (b), and (c) do not apply.
IVEAL ALLOWANCE: If an employee works two hours or more in excess of their regulardailywork hours, such employee shall be entitled to a meal allowance of $9.00.
OTHER SCHEDULE OPTIONS: If the Union expresses interest during the term of the agreement, management agrees to meet to discuss other scheduleoptions that may be of mutualinterestto the Company, Union, and the Processing employees.
36