AGREEMENT
Between
GENERAL FOODS INC.
Cobourg, Ontario
and
UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL LOCAL 1230
1988-1991
l
INDEX OF ARTICLES
1.	Recognition ....................................... .1
2.	Bargaining Unit .................................... 4
3.	Management ......................................... 4
4.	Union Security .................................... 5
5.	Grievance Procedure ................................ 6
6.	Arbitration ....................................... 10
7.	Representation ..................................... 12
8.	Plant Holidays ..................................... 13
9.	Rest and Meal Periods .............................. 15
10.	Tools for Tradesmen ............................... 16
1 I. Licenses .......................................... 16
12.	Working Clothes................................... 16
13.	Appearance in Court ............................... 17
14.	Safety. Health and Sanitation ..................... 17
15.	Co-operation...................................... 18
16.	Bereavement Pay ................................... 19
17.	Vacations......................................... 19
18.	Benefits .......................................... 22
19.	Hours of Work and Overtime ........................ 22
20.	Wages and Job Rate Rules .......................... 24
21.	Minimum Recompense ................................ 26
22.	Off-Shift Premiums ................................ 28
23.	Termination Allowance ............................. 28
24.	Seniority ......................................... 29
25.	Posting and Filling of Positions .................. 30
26.	Reduction and Recall of Plant Work Force.......... 32
27.	Leave of Absence .................................. 33
28.	Term of Agreement ...............................£55)
Appendix “A” - Hourly Wage Rates .................. if
Appendix “B” - Special Appendices re Trades ....... 40
Appendix “C” - Temporary Employees ................. 44
Appendix “D” - Definitions ......................... 46
Appendix “ E - Overtime Distribution .............. 48
Appendix “F’- Benefit Plans ........................ 51
1.	Ontario Health Insurance Plan............... 51
2.	Extended Health Plan........................ 51
3.	Dental Plan ................................. 54
4.	Life Insurance and Disability Income Plan .. 57
5.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan .... 63
6.	Non-Occupational Accident and Sickness
Disability Plan ............................ 63
7.	Retirement Plan............................. 68
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GENERAL FOODS INC. COBOURG, ONTARIO
and/or its successor
Hereinafter called “the Company” AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL, affiliated with the A.F. of L. -C.I.O., the Canadian Labour congress (C.L.C.) on behalf of Local 1230.
Hereinafter called “the Union”.
PREAMBLE
Recognizing that the welfare of the Company and that of its employees depends upon the welfare of the business as a whole, and recognizing further that a relationship of goodwill and mutual respect between employer and employees can contribute greatly to the maintenance and increase of that welfare, the parties of this contract join together in the following Agreement.
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and such other working conditions and provisions as are included in this Agreement for all classes of employees, as defined in Article 2 -Bargaining Unit.
1.2	The Company will not bargain collectively with any other labour organization on matters affecting these employees during the term of this Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING UNIT
2.1	The Bargaining Unit is composed of all employees at the Cobourg Plant, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office staff, salaried technicians, watchmen and guards, employees in the research centre, and in the plant laboratories.
2.2	Work customarily performed by the employees in the Bargaining Unit shall not be done on the plant premises by persons excluded from the scope and jurisdiction of this agreement, or by employees not covered by this Agreement, except for purposes of experimental development, audit, quality control, on-the-job training or instruction of employees, in cases of emergency or by sub-contracting,
2.3	The Union agrees the Company has the right to hire personnel on a temporary basis when necessary to meet production requirements or replace full time employees for absence. Terms and conditions covering temporary employees will be in accordance with Appendix C, which forms part of this collective agreement.
2.4	It is understood that the Company may need to subcontract work, but the Company agrees to restrict the hiring of sub-contractors to perform such work on the plant premises to those instances where:
1.	The work cannot be performed by Bargaining unit employees due to inappropriate skills, unavailability of qualified personnel, etc.
2.	Necessary equipment or tools to perform the work are not available at the plant.
3.	Such work cannot be performed by Bargaining Unit employees within required time limits.
2.5	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.1	Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the management
and operation of the business; and the employment, direction,
4
promotion. transfer. lay-off,termination, retirement; and reprimand. suspension, or discharge ofemployees for just cause, shall be vested solely in the Management of the Company. The exercise of such functions shall not be subject to arbitration unless related to the provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.1	All employees as of the signing of the Collective Agreement who are members of the Union (in accordance with its constitution and by-laws) and all employees who become members after such dateshall, as a condition ofemployment, maintain their membership in good standing with the Union so long as this Collective Agreement or its renewal shall continue in force.
In the event that an employee has been expelled from the Union in accordance with its constitution and by-laws, the employment of said employee shall automatically be terminated.
4.2	The Company agrees to deduct from wages due and payable to each employee (excluding a probationary employee) coming within the scope of the Bargaining Unit as defined in Article
2,1	of this Collective Agreement in each calendar month, the regular monthly Union dues. Such dues will be remitted to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Food and Commerical Workers International, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the following calendar month, together with a list of changes in the Bargaining Unit and employees for whom deductions have not been made.
4.3	The Company agrees that upon receipt of written authorization in the form of a signed Union Membership Card, it will deduct from the Wages of employees joining the Union after the ratification of this Agreement, the initiation fee due from him to the Local Union and shall remit the same to the Secretary Treasurer of Local 1230, United Food and Commercial Workers International, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the following calendar month. Special assessments if levied in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of the Union will be deducted from members of the Union upon proper notification from the Union.
5
4.4	The Company shall not be responsible financially or otherwise, either to the Union or to any employee. for any failure to make deductions or for making improper or inaccurate deductions or remittances. However, many instance in which an error occurs in the amount of any deduction of dues from an employee's wages. the Company shall adjust it directly with the employee. In the event of any mistake by the Company in the amount of its remittance to the Union, the Company shall adjust the amount in a subsequent remittance. The Company's liability for any and all amounts deducted pursuant to the provisions in this Article shall terminate at the time it remits the amounts payable to the designated officer or officers of the Union.
4.5	In the event ofanyactionatlawagainst the parties hereto or either of them resulting from any deduction or deductions from payrolls made or to be made by the Company pursuant to Article
4,2	both parties shall co-operate fully in the defense of such action. Each party shall bear its own cost of such defense except that if at the request of the Union counsel fees are incurred, these shall be borne by the Union. Save as aforesaid the Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company from any losses, damages, costs, liability or expenses suffered or sustained by it at a result of any such deduction or deductions from payrolls.
4.6	Neither the Company nor any person acting for the Company, shall in any manner whatsoever, seek to dominate, to influence, hinder or discriminate against the lawful activities of the Union or against any present and prospective member of the Union.
4.7	It shall continue to the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against or intimidate employees because of sex, religious, political or Union beliefs, race, colour, creed or nationality.
ARTICLE 5 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.1	Both the Company and the Union emphasize the desirability
of a satisfactory grievance procedure, the purpose of which will be to settle grievances promptly. For the purposes of this Agreement, grievances are understood to be any disputes, disagreements,
6
dissatisfactions, differences, or alleged grievances arising out of the provisions cf this Agreement. It is agreed that consultation at any step in the following procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that any possible cause of friction may be reduced to a minimum.
5.2	To ensure prompt handling of grievances, the matter concerned should be submitted as soon as possible, but neither the Company nor the Union shall be required to recognize a grievance submitted by an employee after fifteen (15) work days have elapsed from the date of the incident.
The above time limit shall not apply in those instances where the grievance involves an error in employee's pay.
5.3	The employee will discuss his grievance with his Foreman, accompanied by his Steward if he so desires. If such grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, it may be submitted in writing signed by the employee and his Steward, and given to the Foreman.
5.4	Grievances shall be dealt with progressively in the following manner:
Step 1
Within five (5) work days of receiving the written grievance, the employee with the Steward may present the grievance to the Supervisor of the Department with the Foreman.
The Company is expected to render its decision within two (2) full work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit thegrievance to the next step.
Step 2
Within fifteen (1 5Jwork days of receivingthe decision under Step I, the Union President, the 1st Vice-president, with or without the Steward. may present the grievance to the Industrial Relations Manager with the Manager of the Department, the Supervisor and/or the Foreman.
The Company is expected to render its decision within two (2) full 7
work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step.
Step 3
Within twenty (20)work days of receivingthe decision under Step 2, the Grievance Committee may present the grievance to representatives of management. A representative of the Union may be called in if desired by either party.
The Company is expected to render its decision within five (JJfull work days, but, failing to do so, the Union may submit the grievance to Arbitration.
Note I: for the purposes of this Article, the term “work days” is understood to exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and paid plant holidays.
Note 2: In the absence of the Steward, his designated representative (who will be another steward or officer of the Union) may process the grievance.
5.5	Any grievance not appealed from the decision in any step of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) full work days, shall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision.
5.6	The decisions arrived at by agreement between both parties under any of the above steps, shall be recorded in writing at the time of settlement, signed by both parties, and shall be valid and binding upon the Company and the Union and the employees.
5.7	Should the Company representative fail to meet the time limits at any step of the Grievance Procedure the Union may submit the grievance to the next step of the Grievance Procedure or to Arbitration after Step 3. Should the Union fail to process the grievance in accordance with any of the above grievance steps, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the last decision, and shall not be subject to further proceeding.
5.8	The aggrieved employee may be present at any step if requested by either party. Except in the cases of discipline, a grievance initiated by more than one employee, or where a number
8
of grievances dealing with a common issue arc presented, the grievors will be represented by nor more than two of their number, excluding the Union Steward and Grievance Committee, at any step of the grievance procedure.
5.9	If an employee so desires. he may be accompanied by his Steward when being interviewed by a management representative in an office. If the employee is a Steward, he may be accompanied by an officer of the Union.
5.10	The Company shall notify the Union President in writing within one (I) work day from the date the employee is notified in writing of his suspension or discharge. If the employee (excluding a Probationary Employee) believes that he has been unjustly suspended or discharged, he shall submit his grievance in writing to Management, through a member of the Grievance Committee. within ten (10) work days from the date that the official written notice was given to the Union President.
Such grievance shall be presented at the Second Step of the Grievance Procedure, after which it can be submitted to the subsequent steps of the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration.
5.11	It is understood that all meetings between Officers, Stewards of the Union and members of the Grievance Committee and members of Management for handling matters under the scope and jurisdiction of this Agreement but excluding negotiations for the renewal of a new Agreement, shall bescheduled by Management at times suitable to the operation of the business. The Union Officers, Stewards and members of the Grievance Committee affected shall be paid at their prevailing rate for such time. The above shall also apply to the aggrieved employee (except an employee who is under suspension or who has been discharged), and to any employee who is required to attend such meeting as a witness with respect to the grievance.
5.12	Any grievance arising directly between the Union and the Company may be submitted in writing by either party to the other at the Second Step. Discussions between the Company preclude and the Union apart from the Grievance Procedure shall not resort to the Grievance Procedure.
9
5.13	A Union Steward may discuss with his Foreman matters which may directly affect the welfare of the department even though at the same time such matters may not constitute a grievance. Inthe absence of the Steward the Union President may have such discussions with the Foreman. The Union Steward may be accompanied by the Union President in the event that either the Steward or the Foreman request his presence. Similar discussions may take place between a representative of the Union or an Officer of the Union Local and a representative of Management.
5.14	Pending investigation and settlement of a grievance. the employee(s) involved will perform the duties assigned to him by his supervisor.
5.15	The disciplinary record of employees will be reviewed every three (3) months by the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager. Any Management decision arising out of such review may be the subject of a grievance.
5.16	It is mutually agreed that subsection (6) of Section 44 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act does not apply to this Collective Agreement.
5.17	It is understood that any of the time limits referred to in Article 5 - Grievance Procedure and Article 6 - Arbitration including the initiating of a grievance and/or the invoking of Arbitration, may be extended by mutual agreement between the Union President and the Industrial Relations Manager.
ARTICLE 6 - ARBITRATION
6.1	Any grievance which has been handled in accordance with Article 5 and has not been settled, and which involves the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, may be referred by either party to Arbitration within a period of not more than thirty (30) calendar days, following the meeting referred to in the Third Step of the Grievance Procedure.
The party submitting the grievance to Arbitration shall inform the other party in writing and by registered mail. For the purpose of this
10
clause, the date appearingonthis registered mail shall be considered to be the date that the grievance has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration.
At the request cf officials of either the Company or the Union a grievance which has not been settled in accordance with Article 5, and which has been filed for the purpose of Arbitration may be the subject of further discussion in a meeting between the respective representatives of the parties. The object of this clause is to give the parties an opportunity to promote the settlement of such a grievance prior to Arbitration.
6.2	Within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date that the grievance was filed for the purpose of Arbitration as set forth in Section 6,1, the Union shall designate one person and the Company shall designate one person as members ofthe Arbitration Board. In the event that either of the parties fails to appoint its member within this period, the other party shall within fifteen (15) calendar days ask that the member be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province.
6.3	The representatives of the parties shall agree upon the selection, as soon as possible from the date of the last appointment, of a third arbitrator who shall be impartial and who shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Board. In the event that the parties fail to agree upon a Chairman, the representatives of the parties will jointly request the Minister of Labour for the province to appoint such Chairman. The Chairman will be expected to convene this Board as soon as possible.
6.4	The decision of a majority of the said arbitrators shall be final and binding upon the Company and the Union and all employees involved.
6.5	The Arbitration Board shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or to alter, modify, or amend any part of it,
6.6	In the case referred to in Article 5, Section 5,10, thedecision of the Board shall be governed by the following rules as agreed between the Union and the Company.
11
a)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion ofthe Arbitration Board with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement and with full compensation for all time lost from the date that the employee was suspended, or discharged.
b)	the employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board, with partial compensation for time lost as determined by the Arbitration Board, but with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
c)	The employee to be reinstated on a date at the discretion of the Arbitration Board with no compensation whatsoever for time lost, but with all rights accrued to him under this Agreement.
d)	The decision of Management related to said suspension or dismissal of the employee to be upheld by the Arbitration Board.
It is understood that time lost will be computed on the basis of a normal work week and will not include any form of overtime pay.
6.7	The cost of the Chairman shall be shared equally by the parties. Each party will pay its own costs, including those of its representatives.
ARTICLE 7 - REPRESENTATION
7.1	The Union agrees to appoint or elect, and the Company to recognize Stewards (a maximum of one Steward for every Foreman) who shall be employees of the Company, but excluding employees on probation, to deal with matters affecting employees in departments in the Company’s plant.
A list of these Stewards shall be supplied to the Company. The Union will advise the Company as soon as possible of any change in this list and the Union shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
The Company shall furnish the Union with a list of Foremen and Supervisors and the department to which they are attached. The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible of any change to this list and the Company shall confirm this in writing within five (5) work days of such change.
12
7.2	The Union agrees to appoint or elect a Grievance Committee, all employees of the Company. butexcludingemployees on probation. to deal with grievances which may not be settled in the First or Second Steps. The Greivance Committee will be composed of three (3) members one of whom will be the Union President. The names of Grievance Committee members shall be supplied to the Company. The Company shall be advised in writing of any changes in this list within five (5 Jwork days of such changes.
7.3	It is understood that a Steward is expected to assist in the adjustment of grievances as provided in Article 5 and to transact other Union business falling under the scope of the Agreement. In order to prevent disruptions to the regular work schedule, the Steward will request his Foreman, or in his absence his immediate Supervisor, to make the necessary arrangements so that he can be relieved from hisj ob (with no loss of earnings) as soon as possible, but within one (I) hour. Such requests and the time taken away fromthejob will be kept toaminimum. Union representatives shall not contact another employee on Company time without prior permission of that employee’s Supervisor.
Note I: In the absence of the Steward, his designated representative (who will be another Steward or Officer of the Union) may act under the provisions of Article 7,3.
ARTICLE 8 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
8.1	The following paid plant holidays shall be observed:
New Year’s Day	Civic Holiday
Day After New Year’s Day Labour Day Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
There shall be three (3) additional paid plant holidays, the observance of which shall be determined from year to year.
8.2	Notwithstanding Article 21.1, the work days immediately preceeding Christmas Day and New Year’s Day, that is the eve of Christmas and New Year’s Day, the regular schedule of hours for
13
these days shall not exceed four (4)hours, except for the night shift and powerhouse employees.
8.3	If a paid plant holiday(s) falls on a day on which work is not normally scheduled, the work day before or after such holiday(s) shall be observed as a substitute holiday(s). e.g. - In situations where back-to-back paid plant holidays occur on Friday and Saturdaythe substitute holiday for Saturday will be either Thursday or Monday.
8.4	An employee is entitled to holiday pay for each of the paid plant holidays specified in Article 8.1, whether or not he works on such holidays, providing that:
i)	he has earnings to his credit in the week in which such paid plant holiday(s) occur, or
ii)	in the special case of the Christmas and New Year's period, an employee has not less than six (6) months' seniority and who has earnings to his credit in the week immediately following such paid plant holiday(s), or
iii)	he has received a minimum of 26 pay cheques in the calendar year in which such paid plant holiday(s) occurs, and
(iv)such paid plant holiday(s) is observed during his period of employment.
Note I: An employee who qualifies for holiday pay under Article 8.4 (iii) will receive holiday pay in accordance with his regular rate of pay at the time the holiday(s) is observed.
8.5	Fiowever, an employee shall forfeit his holiday pay specified in Article 8.4 above, if
i)	he is scheduled to work on such paid plant holiday(s) and fails to do so, or
ii)	he is absent on the scheduled work day immediately preceding or immediately following such paid plant holiday(s), unless such absence is excused by the Company.
14
8.6	An employee who is eligible to receive payments under the Sick Benefit Plan will receive holiday pay in lieu of sick benefit payments in the event that paid plant holiday(s) falls during his absence.
8.7	An employee receiving LTD payments will receive the difference between holiday pay and that received through LTD payment for paid holidays occuring during his absence and within the initial eighteen month LTD period.
8.8	An employee who works on a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in addition, he will be paid at the rate of double (2) his regular rate for all hours worked.
8.9	An employee who is employed in the powerhouse, and is required to work on one of his scheduled days off and such day is also a paid plant holiday will receive his holiday pay and in additon, he will be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2%)times his regular rate for all hours worked. If required to work both of his scheduled days off and the second scheduled day off is also a paid plant holiday he will be paid at the rate of three (5)times his regular rate for all hours worked.
8.10	The Company will advise the Union President those cases where holiday pay has been forfeited.
ARTICLE 9 - REST AND MEAL PERIODS
9.1	Two paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes duration each and one paid twenty (20) minute meal period in any eight (8) hour shift will be scheduled in a manner so as not to interfere with production or cost of operations.
9.2	An employee who works overtime after his scheduled eight (8)hour day is entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period prior to the start of such overtime. An employee is entitled to a paid meal period of twenty (20) minutes, at his overtime rate, if he is required to work more than two (2) hours after his scheduled quitting time.
Subsequent entitlement for rest and meal periods will be fifteen (15) minute rest period at his overtime rate if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous rest period and a subsequent
15
twenty (20) minute meal period at his overtime rate if his work continues at least four (4) hours beyond the previous meal period. Such rest and meal periods will be scheduled by the Company.
9.3	An employee who works overtime immediately before or after his scheduled eight (8) hour day will be entitled to a meal allowance of $3.75 (effective May 21/89 - $4.00)per meal period providing he is required to work overtime more than (2) hours.
9.4	An employee called in to work under the provisions of Article 21.4 will be entitled to a meal allowance of $3,75 (effective May 21/89- $4.00) for one meal, in the event the emergency call-in is not continuous with his regular shift but exceeds four (4) hours duration.
ARTICLE 10 - TOOLS FOR TRADESMEN
10.1	A regular Maintenance Department employee (excluding a powerhouse employee) with at least one year’s seniority and completing the trial period, shall receive during the first week of January each year, a cheque in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) (effective January 1st, 1990 -$105.00) to be used forthe replacement of worn or lost tools or the purchase of new tools. It is understood such employees must maintain an adequatecomplement of tools for the performance of their duties.
Tools required in the powerhouse will be provided in accordance with past practice.
ARTICLE 11 - LICENSES
11.1	The Company shall reimburse employees for the renewal of licenses required in the performances of their duties.
ARTICLE 12 - WORKING CLOTHES
12.1	The Company shall furnish and launder all uniforms at no cost to the employee, and in addition, shall provide such other clothing and footwear which may be required for work in cold or wet areas.
12.2	All such working clothes issued by the Company to employees will remain the property of the Company.
16
12.3	The Company will pay up to a maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00Jp cr calendar year toward the cost of safety shoes purchased by an employee. Annual credits in whole or in part, may be accumulated to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
ARTICLE 13 - APPEARANCE IN COURT
13.1	Employees called for jury duty or subpoenaed to appear as a witness in court will be paid the difference between their regular rate and the amount paid by the court for hours of work missed up to eight (8)hours per day. To be eligible for payment, the employee must notify his supervisor as soon as such notice is received and furnish evidence of the amount of pay received.
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND SANITATION
14.1	The Company shall continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment, including safety installations, personal protective equipment, and such other safety devices required to maintain safe working conditions. Disagreements pertaining to the provisions of this Article as to whether or not the Company is making reasonable provisions to maintain safe working conditions may be referred to the Grievance Procedure beginning at the Second Step.
14.2	An employee injured while working in the Plant shall suffer no loss of earnings for the balance of hours on the day the accident occurs or on any working day he required medical treatment if as a result of such injury he is sent home or to the hospital or for medical attention on instruction from the medical department, but if such is not possible, then by a Company representative, provided this is not reimbursed by the Worker's Compensation.
14.3	An employee is required to meet the standards of physical fitness established by the Company and will be subject to physical examinations given by the Company Physician at Company expense, when and as required by the Company. An employee shall be paid applicable rate for the purpose of such examinations.
An employee who is working on a shift other than day shift by his
17
own choice shall be paid his regular rate when he is required to have such examinations before his regular starting time or after his regular quitting time.
14.4	The Company may transfer, require a medical leave of absence, demote or terminate the employment of an employee who in its belief, does not meet the physical conditions required by the Company, as interpreted by the Company Physician. Any disagreement with such interpretation can be submitted to a recognized medical authority. This action will be taken by the Company only after reasonable effort has been made to provide suitable employment.
14.5	In consideration of the nature of the Company's business, the Union recognizes the need for maintaining high standards of sanitation and employee health in accordance with Federal and Provincial laws and regulations. The Union agrees to recognize and support such Company policies and procedures pertaining to the foregoing. The Company agrees to communicate to the Union any changes to policies and procedures as they affect employees before implementing such changes.
14.6	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Plant Safety Committee which will meet at least once each month or more often as required. The Company and the Union agree that the Safety Program established by the parties is given principal importance in the areas of safety and health.
ARTICLE 15 — CO-OPERATION
15.1	During the terms of this Agreement the Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out of employees and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike.
Neither the Union, nor any of its stewards, officers or representatives, shall order, encourage or support a slow-down or walk-out. The Union will not recognize the rights of employees who participate singly or collectively in such a slow-down or walk-out.
15.2	The Company agrees that no employee shall be requested or required to cross a picket line established by the Union.
18
15.3	The Union President shall have the right to post on notice boards, bulletins pertaining to meetings of the Union, election of officers, educational, social and recreational events. The contents of such notices shall not contain anything detrimental to Company interests.
15.4	No employee shall conduct Union activitiesduring working hours except as specifically permitted in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
16.1	An employee absent due to a death in his family during periods when he is both scheduled and available for work shall receive the following entitlement for time lost during the period between death and three (3) calendar days following the funeral:
a)	five (5) days’ pay for spouse or dependent children
b)	three (3) days’ pay for non-dependent children, parents, brothers, sisters, grandparents or grand-children.
c)	one (I) day’s pay for parents-in-law, grandparent-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,son-in-law, daughter-in-law. and relative residing permanently with the employee.
17.1	An employee who has completed the service requirements listed below shall be granted a vacation and receive vacation pay as follows:
ARTICLE 17 - VACATIONS
Service Requirement Length of (as of date of 
Computation of Vacation Pay
I year
2 weeks
4% of wages earned for the year ending December 31st of previous year.
3 years
3 weeks
6% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of previous year
19
10 years	4 weeks	8% of wages earned for the year ending December 31st of
		previous year
20 years	5 weeks	10% of wages earned for the year ending December 31st of
		previous year
25 years	6 weeks	12% of wages earned for the year ending December 31 st of
		previous year
17.2	For each week of vacation, an employee will receive a minimum of forty (40) hours’ pay at his hourly rate, providing that the employee has fulfilled the following active employment requirements:
a)	the employee has worked during the calendar year in which the vacation is taken;
b)	the employee has received twenty-six (26)pay cheques during a consecutive fifty-two (52) week period measured from any point in the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
17.3	Receipt of sick benefits, LTD benefits within the initial eighteen (18) months LTD period, and Workers’ Compensation payments shall be considered to be the equivalent of pay cheques in fulfilling the active employment requirements.
17.4	On termination of employment with the Company. an employee shall be entitled to vacation pay as follows:
!) Iftheemployee has received a vacation with pay in thecurrent calendar year:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January I. 1977; no further entitlement
b)	for an employee hired subsequent to January I. 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages
20
earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
2)	If the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year. but has fulfilled the active employment requirements under Articles ] 7.1 and 17.2:
a)	for an employee hired prior to January I. 1977: full entitlement under Articles 17.1 or 17.2,
b)	for an employee hired subsequent to January 1, 1977; entitlement under Articles 17.1 or 17.2plustheapplicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
3)	If the employee has not received a vacation with pay in the current calendar year nor fulfilled the active employment requirements under Articles 17.1 and 17.2.
a)	for an employee hired prior to Januray 1, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
b)	for an employee hired subsequent to January I, 1977; the applicable percentage under Article 17. I of wages earned in the previous calendar year, plus the applicable percentage under Article 17.1 of wages earned in the current year up to the date of termination.
17.5	Vacations may not be postponed from one year to another and made cumulative. However, an employee entitled to three, four, or five weeks’ vacation who does not receive his entitlement during the scheduled Plant shutdown periods, may postpone one week to be taken at any time in succeeding year subject to Article 17.7. Six weeks of vacation in a calendar year is the maximum entitlement and therefore any postponed week must be taken before the calendar year in which the employee becomes entitled to six weeks of vacation.
17.6	The occurrence of a paid holiday during the employee’s vacation will either be paid as a holiday during that period or another day will be substituted for such holiday. If a substitute day is granted, it will be considered for all purposes as a holiday, and
21
such time off may be granted at the beginning or the end of the vacation period, pr at any time following the vacation within the calendar year in which the vacation is taken.
17.7	Except in the case of a Plant shutdown. employees entitled to additional vacation will be notified of their vacation periods as far in advance as possible. due regard being paid to employee's seniority and personal wishes.
In the case of a Plant shutdown the Union will be notified of the shutdown period as soon as possible, but not later than March 1st of the vacation year. Should subsequent changes in the Plant shutdown be necessary, e.g. the need to run certain lines due to production requirements, the Union will co-operate with the Company in arranging staffing by qualified personnel. No allowance will be made for periods of disability occurring during vacations.
ARTICLE 18 — BENEFITS
18.1	Alleligibleemployees(excludingemployees onprobation) shall, subject to the conditions therein, have the benefit of the various Plans outlined in Appendix F. Throughout the life of this Agreement, the Company will not change any of the participating benefits provisions without prior consent of the Union.
ARTICLE 19 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
19.1	Eight (8) hours per day shall be the basic work day, and five (AJconsecutive work days, (Mondays-Friday inclusive) shall be the basic work week of forty (40) hours, except for the powerhouse operation. The normal work schedules will be 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.; 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.; and 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
19.2	All time worked in excess of the basic work day of eight (8) hours, before or after, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (l!/)) the regular rate. Time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall be paid at the rate of double (2) the regular rate.
19.3	An employee who is employed in the powerhouse, and who works on one of his scheduled days off will be paid one and one-half (I !4) times his regular rate for all hours worked on such
22
day, except that time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours or on Sunday, will be paid at the rate of double (2) the regular rate. If required to work both of his scheduled days off he will be paid double (2) the regular rate for all hours worked on the second scheduled day off.
19.4	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 'A) times the regular rate. All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at double (2) the regular rate. However, any hour(s) worked on Saturday or Sunday which are a part of the basic work week (Article 19.1) will be paid at the regular rate.
19.5	Any change in the normal work schedules referred to in Article 19,1 (unless made as a result of an emergency) will be made by the Director of Operations and notice of such change will be given in writing to the Union President and stewards at least ten (IO) days prior to the change, or failing such notice affected employees will be paid time and one-half (IV2) their regular rate for the next ten (IO) regular work days. Copies of such notice will also be posted at the time clocks.
19.6	Subject to production requirements, every effort will be made to schedule employees, working on a multiple shift schedule, in such a way as to rotate such employees in an equitable manner.
19.7	An employee assigned to shift work shall not leave his work place unless relieved by the employee assigned to the same operation on the succeeding shift, or a substitute instructed to do so by the supervisor.
19.8	Anemployee shall not change shifts with another employee without permission of his foreman or supervisor.
19.9	Every effort will be made to avoid the necessity for overtime; however. when conditions necessitate, an employee will perform overtime work. The response of the employee requested to work overtime will be on a voluntary basis. The Union agrees that when overtime is necessary it will do its utmost to co-operate with the Company to make sure that employees are available to do the work particularly when such overtime is due to the unexpected absence of any employee. Distribution of overtime will be in
23
accordance with Appendix E, which forms a part of this Collective Agreement.
19.10	Whenever an employee’s regular scheduled working hours are changed by the Company, that is, both starting and finishing times changed, except in an emergency, he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (l*/$) the regular rate for work performed during his first working day following such change unless the employee was informed of the change at least twenty (20) hours prior to the commencement of the new shift.
19.11	Unless specifically provided for in this Agreement, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime payment nor shall the same hours worked be counted as part of the normal work week and also as hours for which an overtime premium is payable.
ARTICLE 20 - WAGES AND JOB RATE RULES
20.1	Basic rates of pay during the term of this Agreement shall be in accordance with Appendix A.
20.2	The successful applicant to ajob posting shall receive the regular rate of the job as soon as he starts his trial period.
20.3	An employee, if qualified and available, may be assigned by the Company to ajob other than his regularjob for a temporary period up to thirty (30) days of work:
1)	In an emergency to fill a vacancy or to perform obviously temporary work;
2)	To replace an employee injured or absent for medical reasons;
3)	To replace an employee who is on vacation;
and shall, during the period of such assignment, receive his regulaf rate or the rate of the job to which he is assigned. whichever is higher.
20.4	An employee assigned temporarily to a higher rated job than his regular j ob will receive the higher rate for the entire work week. provided that eight (8) or more of the hours worked during that week are performed on the higher rated job.
24
20.5	When it becomes apparent that the assignment is no longer temporary. then the job will be deemed vacant and the opening will be posted.
20.6	When an employee is scheduled to work on a higher rated job and his schedule is changed after he starts his week, requiring him to work on a lower rated job, he shall be paid the higher rate as set up by the schedule.
20.7	Job transfers made necessary by absences of employees or by the return to work of employees from sick leave, or personal leave of absence during any week, are not required to be made until the start of the next scheduled week.
20.8	During the development stages of a newj ob, the Company may assign employees excluded from this Agreement to work on the new operation but these employees shall not he retained when the job has reached normal operation. For the purposes of administration of this Agreement, the development of a newjob will be considered to be completed when the job reaches normal operation.
20.9	When ajob is or is to be established, or an existing job is changed, which cannot be properly placed in an existing classification by mutual agreement, management will establish a classification and rate on a temporary basis.
20.10	Written notification of the temporary rate and classification will be furnished to the Union President.
20.11	The new rate and classification shall be considered temporary for a period of thirty (30) calendar days following the date of notification to the Union President.
20.12	During this period (but not thereafter) the Union President may request the Company to negotiate the rate for the classification. The negotiated rate, if higher than the temporary rate, shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary classification and rate. If no request has been made by the Union President to negotiate the rate within the thirty (30) calendar day period the temporary rate and classification shall become a part of the wage scale.
25
20.13	If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on a rate and classification for a new job, or an existing job that has been changed, the disputed rate and/or classification may be treated asa grievance and either referred to a single arbitrator selected by the parties or referred to the Pay Equity Commission. In the event that the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator. the parties will jointly request the Minister of Labour for the Province to appoint such arbitrator. The arbitrator will be expected to convene a hearing as soon as possible.
20.14	It is specifically agreed that the arbitrator will have no authority to alter or modify the existing rates and classifications but he shall have the authority, subject to the provisions of this agreement, to determine the new rate and/or classification.
20.15	If the arbitrator sets the new rate higher than the temporary rate it shall be applied retroactively to the date of the establishment of the temporary rate and classification.
20.16	When the rate of a job is lowered as a result of changed job content and re-evaluation, the then incumbent shall continue to receive the former rate, that which existed at the time the rate was lowered, while he continued on that job. Continuance on the job shall be broken by bidding off or requests for transfer by the employee. A new incumbent onthatjobshall receive theestablished lower rate for the-job.
ARTICLE 21 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
21.1	An employee who is scheduled, available and reports to work will be provided with work, or pay in lieu of work, for not less than his regular weekly work schedule of hours, except that, an employee who is employed after the regular weekly work schedule has commenced will only be provided with work or pay in lieu of work, for the remaining work days in that particular regular work schedule.
This shall be governed by the following conditions:
26
a)	The Company shall adjust the work force within a department in proportion to the work available or expected. To provide employees with work, the Company shall be free to distribute work within departments and to transfer employees cf one department to another with reasonable consideration given to extreme changes in the physical requirements of the work to be done.
b)	The Company expects and the Union agrees that employees will conscientiously perform whatever tasks may be assigned to them. If any employee declines to perform the task assigned to him, the Company shall be absolved of its responsibility to provide work to that employee for such hours so lost by him.
c)	Any employee who is tardy or absent from work on any day or part of a day that he is scheduled or instructed to work shall have reduced, by the time so lost, the weekly hours of work with which the Company will provide him.
21.2	If a Plant Holiday occurs during the periods specified in
21.1	above, the employee, if otherwise qualified for Holiday pay, will receive pay rather than being provided with work on that day.
21.3	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to an employeedischarged forjust cause, suspended, retiring or voluntarily leaving the service of the Company, or in the event of closing of the Plant or a part of the Plant due to an emergency.
21.4	An employee, called in to work from off the premises for an emergency, shall be paid the applicable rate for all hours worked with a minimum of four (4)hours’ pay at such rate, for time spent on the emergency outside of his regular schedule of hours. His work shall be through when the emergency is over, but in the event the emergency is not over at the time the employee’s regular shift begins, then the employee shall be paid at his regular rate. Hours worked during an emergency will not be counted as overtime.
21.5	An employee, who works on Saturday, Sunday or a paid holiday, not continuous with, before or after his regular scheduled shift, shall not be paid less than four (4)hours’ pay at the applicable rate.
27
ARTICLE 22 - OFF-SHIFT PREMIUMS
22.1	A shift premium of forty-five cents (450) per hour (effective May 21, 1989 - 50e per hour) will be paid to employees scheduled and working on the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shifts.
ARTICLE 23 - TERMINATION ALLOWANCE
23.1	An employee, excluding an employee on probation, whois terminated due to such causes as transfer or discontinuance of the manufacture of a product, introduction of new equipment or processes, closing of the Plant or part of the Plant, or other causes which, insofar as the Company can determine, permanently reduce the work force, shall be entitled to a Termination Allowance, in accordance with the following provisions:
Note: For the purposes of this Article, a permanent reduction of the workforce is understood to be a reduction which is expected to last continuously for a period of at least one (1) year.
1)	The Company will advise the Union as soon as possible in advance if a reduction with Termination Allowance, as provided in this Article, is to take place.
2)	An employee who is eligible for Termination Allowance shall be paid one week's pay for each completed year of service, to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks' pay.
3)	The amount of payment for each week will be calculated at forty (40) hours times the employee's regular hourly base wage rate at the date of termination.
4)	An employee who is terminated may elect to remain on the Plant seniority list for possible recall. In such cases, the Company will hold the Termination Allowance payment for a maximum of twelve (12) months, during which time the employee may request payment with a complete break in service.
5)	Termination Allowance shall not be paid:
a)	to an employee with less than three (3) years' seniority;
28
b)	To an employee discharged forjust cause;
c)	To an employee who voluntarily resigns from the Company’s employ:
d)	to an employee who retires from the Company's employ;
e)	In the event ofclosing the Plant or part of the Plant due to Acts of Nature, or in times of public peril, war, disaster or any other reason of similar nature;
f)	The number of weeks Termination Allowance will not exceed the number of weeks remaining to an employee’s normal retirement date.
ARTICLE 24 - SENIORITY
24.1	An employee will be considered on probation until he has completed fifty (50) days of actual work within a twelve( 12) month period, in the service of the Company. If found unsuitable during such period, such employee will not be retained in the service of the Company. If found suitable and on completion of the probationary period the name of the employee will be placed on the seniority list dating back to the first day of the fifty (50) day probationary period.
24.2	The Company shall give a seniority list to the Union President and shall assist him in keeping his list up to date by advising him, in writing, of any changes.
24.3	When an employee is transferred by the Company to a position outside the bargaining unit, and within twelve (12)months inclusive from such date is returned to the bargaining unit, he shall return to the general labour classification with the seniority he held at the time the transfer first took place. However, an employee returned to the bargaining unit after twelve (12) months from the date of the original transfer, will be credited with one (I) month’s seniority.
24.4	In the event of transfer of operations to this Plant from other General Foods Inc. plants, employees possessing particular skills required by the operation shall be allowed to transfer into the bargaining unit with one (I) month’s seniority or otherwise as a
29
result of discussion or mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
24.5	Termination of employment and loss of seniority shall result from any of the following:
1.	Discharge forjust cause or other termination by the Company.
2,	Resignation.
3,	Retirement.
4.	Continuous absence for three (3) days without permission of the Company. unless the employee was absent for reasons beyond his control.
24.6	Any break in seniority shall cancel seniority previously accrued. New seniority can be acquired after such breaks only after re-employment, in which case seniority shall date from such re-employment.
ARTICLE 25 - POSTING AND FILLING OF POSITIONS
25.1	All job vacancies, which need to be filled for more than thirty (30) work days shall be posted for three (3) work days. Exception will be made forthosejobs listed in Appendix C, General Labour in Appendix A, and those associated with special production runs with specific starting and ending dates covering a period of up to fifty (50)work days. The fifty (50)work day limitation may be extended by mutual consent.
25.2	In the event the j ob opening pertains to a new process or new equipment where extensive training is required, applicants may be pre-tested prior to being awarded the job. In addition, the first five (5J days of the training period will be considered the five (5) work days of his trial period. In the instance where new equipment is installed in the department which parallels or duplicates existing equipment, operating personnel in the unit who are eligible will be given the opportunity by seniority to be tested and selected for the opening before the job is bid plant-wide.
25.3	Seniority, aptitude and ability shall be the determining factors in selecting applicants. Seniority shall be the governing
30
factor whenaptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
25.4	The successful applicant on a bidj ob shall be considered to be on trial for a period not exceeding thirty (30) work days. An employee, who fails to qualify for the job, shall be returned to his former classification.
25.5	An employee must decide during the first five (5) work days (ten (10) work days for jobs in groups 4 and 5) of his trial period if he wishes to continue on the job or return to his former classification.
25.6	An employee may bid on any job opening, but be the successful applicant only three (3) times during any twelve (12) month period, commencing with the date of his first successfuljob bid. However, a successful applicant of a job in groups 4 or 5 may not bid again for a period of twelve months from the date of his successful bid.
25.7	In the event there are not sufficient applicants for posted job opening(s), available employee(s) will be assigned to such vacant job(s), due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications. Theemployee(s) will continue onsuchjob(s) until he is a successful applicant to a job opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 25.1 or reassigned by the Company or displaced by successful applicants) on subsequent bid(s).
25.8	In the event cf a reduction in staff, regular incumbents of jobs affected will receive rate protection and shall receive not less than the hourly rate of his bid job for one (1) year following the reduction in staff, subject to the following conditions:
a)	An employee, whose rate is protected, may be assigned by the Company to any availablejob opening, due regard being paid to seniority and qualifications.
b)	In the event an employee, on a protected rate, is assigned to a higher rated job, he shall receive the higher rate while performing such job.
c)	An employee. on a protected rate. will be assigned to any
31
available job opening first, irrespective of seniority.
d)	If an employee, whose rate is protected, fails to accept an assignment in accordance with Section (a) and (c) above, he shall forfeit his rate protection and shall be paid the rate of the job he is assigned.
e)	An employee will be scheduled back on his bid job when it is again available providing the job is not down for more than twelve (I 2) consecutive months. An employee whose bidjob is down for more than twelve (12) consecutive months will lose his rights to such job.
f)	An employee scheduled back on his job under Section (e) above will renew his rights to rate protection should his job go down again as a result of a business fluctuation.
g)	In the event that an employee, whose rate is protected, bids for and is the successful applicant to ajob opening which has been posted in accordance with Article 25.1 he forfeits his claim to his former bidjob and its rate protection, unless he is returned to his former bidjob under the terms of either Articles 25.4 or
25.5	above.
h)	In the special case where an existingjob(s) is changed creating a new job, displaced incumbent(s) will be given the opportunity to fill the new job in accordance with Article 25.3 prior to posting the new job.
25.9	An employee unable to perform previous duties due to injury received while in the employ of the Company, or an employee of long service who has become unable to handle his job. may be reclassified and will be given such other work as is available and which he is capable of performing in the opinion of the Company Physician.
ARTICLE 26 - REDUCTION AND RECALL OF PLANT WORK FORCE
26.1	Each employee will be provided the opportunity to work unless their employment is terminated under the provisions of Article 23 or Article 24.5.
32
26.2	The recall cf an employee will only pertain to an employee
who has elected the recall option under Article 23.1 4). and has not received the Termination Allowance payment.
ARTICLE 27 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
27.1	Requests fcr leaves cf absence without pay must be made in writing with the reasons shewn and be received by the Company at least sixty (60)calendar days prior to the commencement date of the leave. The employee shall be advised of the Company’s decision in writing with a copy to the Union at least thirty (30)calendar days prior to such commencement date.
27.2	Leaves of absence may be granted by the Company for good and sufficient personal reasons, except when the efficient operation of the business would be adversely affected.
It is agreed that the discretionary powers vested in the Company to consider such request for leave of absence will be exercised only in respect to the operating needs of the business. the whole subject to the grievance procedure.
27.3	Leaves of absence except those granted for personal disability or for service in the Armed Forces may not exceed four (4) calendar weeks without breaking seniority.
In the event that the employee feels he requires additional time off, he may apply for an extension, but his application must be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the termination of his original leave of absence.
27.4	Any employee member of the Union elected or appointed to a Union Office will, upon request in writing received by the Company at least fifteen (16) calendar days prior to the commencement date of the leave, if possible, be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. It is agreed that no more than five (6) members of the Union be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
33
27.5	Any employee member of the Union appointed as a delegate for specific Union activities will, upon request in writing received by the Company at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement date of the leave, if possible, be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. It is agreed that no more than twelve (12) members of the Union need be granted such leave concurrently by the Company. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of Company and the Union prior to the termination of the original leave.
27.6	Any employee elected to Public Office will, upon request in writing. be granted a leave of absence. without pay. not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months without a break in continuity of Company service. An extension of such leave will be granted by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union prior to termination of the original leave.
27.7	A request for leave of absence because of pregnancy must be in the hands of the Company at least four (4)months before the expected delivery date. and be accompanied by a written note from the attending physician indicating the expected date of birth and his recommendation that the employee is physically able to continue working.
A pregnancy leave of absence will commence during the three (3) month period immediately preceding the expected delivery date. An employee who has been on such leave of absence, shall, upon presentation of a medical certificate denoting her fitness for work, and within three (3) months following delivery, be reinstated. Further leave of absence may be granted upon presentation of medical evidence if such leave of absence is necessary.
27.8	An employee who is adopting a child will be granted a leave of absence without pay, for such time as is necessary to fulfill the legal adoption requirements. Such leave of absence will be requested in writing.
27.9	A leave of absence will be granted by the Company to an employee who has at least three (3) years’ seniority who requests
34
such leave for the purpose of full-time attendance at a school of recognized educational standards, but such leave shall only apply throughout the duration of a full academic year. Seniority shall accumulate while he is on such leave.
The employee shall be eligible for recall effective at the beginning cf the second full work week following the date of receipt of his written notice of his intention to return to work. His written notice is to be addressed to the Industrial Relations Manager.
27,10	Leaves of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employeeto take another position, try out new work or venture into business for himself. His leave of absence shall be cancelled, and his employment shall be terminated if he engages in activities other than those for which the leave was granted.
ARTICLE 28 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
28.1	This Agreement is effective the 22nd day of May, 1988, and shall remain in effecturiTil file IHlIulay uf May, 1991 inclusive and from year to year thereafter unless either party gives the other, not less than thirty (30)nor more than ninety (90) days prior to such expiry date, a written notice of its intention to terminate this Agreement or seek amendments to same, in which case this present Agreement shall remain in force during negotiations for its renewal or amendment.
28.2	After either party has given written notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this Agreement the parties shall meet to exchange listings of the changes desired. Negotiations shall start at least twenty (20) clear days prior to the expiration date or such further time as the parties may agree.
28.3	The notices provided for in Article 28.2 shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by registered mail addressed to the Union President, and if to the Company, to General Foods Inc., Cobourg, Ontario.
35
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this Agreement on the 8th day of June, 1988,
General Foods Inc.	United Food and Commercial
Workers International Union Local 1230
36
APPENDIX "A
Classifications
May 22, 1988 May 2 U 989 $13.68	$14.13
GROUP I General Labour
Lunch Room Attendant - Plant Services
Locker Room Attendant - Plant Services
Packer - Jell-0 - Desserts
Packer - Bldg. 2A - Desserts
Packer - Certo
Packer - Beverages
Packer - Sprinter - Desserts
Janitor - Waste Handler - Plant Services
Janitor - Cereal Services - Cereals/ Rice
Janitor - Cereal /Rice Packaging
Janitor - Beverages Packaging
Janitor - Bldg. 2A - Desserts
Janitor - Cereal Processing
Janitor - 'sanitizer - Desserts
Utility Janitor - Jell-0 Packing - Desserts
Utility Packer - Cereal/ Rice
Utility Packer - Volpaks - Beverages
Utility Packer - Nordale - Desserts
Utility Person - Bldg. #7 - Desserts
Utility Person - Volpaks - Beverages
Utility Packers - Displays - Beverages
Can Depalletizer Operator - Beverages
Beverages Sanitation Person - Beverages
Case Piler - Bldg. 2A - Desserts
Case Piler - Desserts
Case Piler - Certo - Desserts
Case Piler - Cereals/Rice
Machine Cleaner - Desserts
Machine 'Cleaner - Cereals/ Rice
Machine Cleaner - Beverages
Warehouse Custodian
37
May 20, 1990 $14.63
May 22, 1988 May 21. 1989 May 20. 1990 SI 3.88	$14.33	$14.83
Group 2
Tote Operator - Beverages
Tote Operator/Janitor - Desserts
Product Bin Operator - Cereals/ Rice
Operator • Poly Bagging Machines - Beverages
Sanitizer - Cereals/ Rice
Fruit & Fibre Blender - Cereals/ Rice
Utility Person - Plant Services
Utility Operator - Plant Services
Line Attendant - Certo
Mixer/Operator - Certo - Desserts
Material C.S.P. - Cereals/Rice
$14.18	$14.63	$15.13
Group 3
Warehouseperson Utility - Shipping Whse.
Machine Operator - Certo - Desserts
Packaging Machine Operator - Sprinter - Desserts
Packaging Machine Operator - Hayssen/Novema - Desserts
Mixer - Jell-O - Desserts
Mixer - #29 & #30 - Desserts
Mixer - #31 & #32 - Desserts
Premix Mixer - #28 - Beverages
Raw Material Control Service Person - Beverages
Machine Operator - Group “A” - Jell-0 Pkg. - Desserts
Machine Operator - Group “B" - Beverages Pkg, - Beverages
Material C.S.P. - Desserts
Material C.S.P. - Volpaks - Beverages
Material C.S.P. - Beverages
Palletizer Operator - Beverages
Mixer/Operator - #21-24, #25-26-27 - Beverages
Process Operator - Bldg. 2A - Desserts
Buhler Operator - Cereals/Rice
Minor Ingredient Centre Flavour Blender - Desserts
38
Machine Operator - Bldg, 2A - Desserts Machine Operator - C.M. Bartelt - Beverages Line Operator - Bldg, #7 - Desserts Raw Material Control Service Person - Desserts Line Attendant - Beverages Line Attendant - Desserts
May 22, 1988 May 21, 1989 May 20, 1990
Group 4
Warehouse Receiver - Receiving Whse.
Bulk Material & Feed Handling Operator - Cereals/Rice Packaging Machine Operator - Volpaks Packaging Machine Operator - Cereals/ Rice Batching Operator - Cereals/Rice Shipper/Receiver - Bldg. 2A - Desserts Warehouseperson I - Material Handling - Receiving Whse, Packaging Machine Operator - Nordale - Desserts Machine Operator — Can Line Beverages Rice Mill Operator - Cereals/Rice
$14,58
$15.03
$15.53
$14.83
Group 5
$15.38
$15.93
Process Operator - Cereals/ Rice Utility Operator - RTD
Trades
Apprentice
Oiler
Group I
Group II
Group 111
Engineer 2nd Class
Maint, Service Man
Electrical Service Man
39
APPENDIX “B”
Special Appendices Respecting Trade Classifications
Oiler	- bid will be on a plant-wide basis.
Group I	- must have one (1) recognized trade.
Group II	- must have one (1) recognized trade.
and two (2) recognized skills.
Group III	- must have two (2) recognized trades
or
one (1) recognized trade and four (4) recognized skills.
MAINTENANCE GROUPS
DEPARTMENT	UNIT
Electrical	a)	Electricians b)	Scales c)	Maintenance Services
Site Facilities	a)	Utilities b)	Refrigeration c)	Stationary Engineers
Central Maintenance	a)	Maintenance Services b)	Machine Auditors c)	Apprentices d)	Material Handling e)	Central Mechanics f)	Oilers
Desserts	a) Mechanic
Beverages	a) Mechanic
Cereal	a)	Process Mechanic b)	Packaging Mechanic
RTD	a) Associate Mechanic
40
Assignment from Group to Group
a)	Low seniority with qualifications to do the assigned work.
b)	Return to own group by high seniority provided necessary skills are maintained where needed.
c)	No limit of time on assignments.
d)	When assignment is over - return to own group.
FILLING OF VACANCIES
I	Types of Vacancies
a)	Permanent replacement
b)	Increase beyond present work force
c)	Permanent increase within a group.
II	Method
a)	After a vacancy of a type described above has been identified, the skill needs of the area where the vacancy exists are assessed by the Area Maintenance Foreman and the Maintenance Services Supervisor. Specific Plant area experience requirements will vary depending on the background of individuals in the remainder of the crew at the time when a vacancy occurs.
b)	An Advice Notice will be posted in all appropriate Maintenance areas. All applications must be deposited in the box in the Central Maintenance Supervisor’s office.
For vacancies in the following Maintenance Groups:
i)	Electrical Department,
ii)	Site Facilities (except Stationary Engineer),
iii)	Central Maintenance Department/ Maintenance Services/ Machine Auditors/ Central Mechanics, and
iv)	Mechanic Unit of Desserts, Beverages, or Cereal Departments.
41
The successful applicant will be the senior person recognized as having the skills requested. For vacancies in the Maintenance Services and Machine Auditor Units. aptitude and ability will also be considerations as the applicant must be able to fill the training function of these positions.
c)	If no response is received to an Advice Notice, and depending on the remaining skills in the area. The Company will:
1)	adjust the skill requirements. or
2)	assign a qualified Mechanic from the central crew. or
3)	hire someone from outside the Plant.
All individuals hired from outside will enter the Plant work force through the central crew. Skills will be confirmed by tests or observations before the end of the 50-day probationary period. Assignments will then be made depending on crew vacancies.
d)	Vacancies in maintenance are filled from within or outside the Plant, as required. Maintenance applicants will be selected on the basis of aptitude and ability ad determined by both written and practical tests. For Plant applicants, seniority will be a governing factor when aptitude and ability are considered by the Company to be equal.
Successful Plant applicants will enter the maintenance crew as Apprentices.
e)	A vacancy which occurs following the transfer of a mechanic from one area to another as the result of a response to an Advice Notice would be filled as per II a), b), and c).
f)	Any individual wishing to respond to an Advice Notice has the right to discuss the posted job with the potential Foreman.
g)	Any vacancies filled by the Maintenance Advice Notice System are not subject to thejob bid trial periods of 5 or 30 days since the Mechanic is already recognized as having the skills to dothe newjob. A Maintenance Serviceman,however, could be asked to assist with the familiarization of a person who has moved into a new area.
42
SHIFT ROTATION
a)	Production or maintenance requirements will dictate shift rotation.
-	Individual skills
b)	Rotation within unit only - except Manufacturing Department.
c)	In Manufacturing Departments - rotate within similarjobs,
e.g.:
-	Processing
-	Packaging
43
APPENDIX “C”
Terms and Conditions of Employment for Temporary Employees:
A)	A Temporary Employee:
1)	is a person who occupies a job limited by the amount of work or by time with no prospect of continuing employment;
2)	does not participate in benefit plans nor obtain seniority under the provisions of Article 24.1 of this agreement, but will be subject to an evaluation period not to exceed fifty (50)work days.
3)	is subject to a deduction from wages due and payable in each calendar month, the regular monthly union dues;
4)	is eligible for overtime if working in the department where overtime is required;
5)	will be terminated after each work term, but retain their original hire date for rehire purposes;
6)	will be terminated and rehired in order of their original hire date;
7)	students hired to work between May and September will not be considered astemporary employees nor displace temporary employees in the work force.
B)	The Company agrees:
1)	the number of temporary employees working in the Plant during any work week will not exceed fifty;
2)	if the Company requires permanent employees in the future, temporary employees will be given hiring preference by their original hire date.
3)	if a temporary has completed the fifty (50) work day evaluation period, and is hired as a permanent employee, such employee will be placed on the seniority list effective his first work day as a permanent employee and will not be required to complete the normal probationary period.
44
C) Hourly wage rate:
1)	Effective May 22/88 - $10.94 - per hour Effective May 21/89 - $11.30 - per hour Effective May 20/90 - J 11.70 - per hour
2)	For performing jobs in Group 2 or above:
the wage differential between such higher group and item (1) above.
45
APPENDIX "D"
Definitions
UNION PRESIDENT — Refers to the actual President of Local 1230 or his designated representative.
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS — Refers to the actual Director of Operations or his designated representative.
EMERGENCY — An Act of nature, catastrophe, disaster or any reason of a similar nature and unanticipated conditions when immediate action is necessary to prevent spoilage or loss of product or danger to persons or property. With respect to Article 21.4 only, it is understood an emergency will also include those instances where action is required to undertake equipment repair.
HOLIDAY PAY — Eight (8)hours' pay at the employee's regular rate.
REGULAR RATE — Basic rate of pay (Appendix " A (plus shift premium when applicable.
APPLICABLE RATE — The rate an employee would have been paid had he been at work.
BASIC WORK WEEK — Monday through Friday, inclusive
CALENDAR WEEK — Monday through Sunday, inclusive.
EMPLOYEE — A person holding seniority under this Agreement.
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE — A person who does not hold seniority in accordance with Article 24.1 of this Agreement. A probationary employee is covered by all the provisions of this Collective Agrreement unless otherwise specifically excluded under any article of this Agreement.
SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT — anemployee who has exercised his bidding rights under this Agreement, has been awarded the bid job and has actually commenced working on such job.
PAY CHEQUE — (applicable only to Article 8)-thefollowing will by counted:
46
a Regular pay cheque a Sick Benefit cheque
an LTD cheque within the initial 18-month LTD period a Vacation cheque a Workers’ Compensation payment
UNION OFFICERS — The following representatives of Local 1230:
Union President Secretary Treasurer Recorder 1st Vice-president 2nd Vice-president 3rd Vice-president
47
APPENDIX “E”
Overtime Distribution
The parties shall co-operate and make every effort to distribute overtime as evenly as possible. However, the number of overtime hours offered to an employee within any twenty-four (24) hour period remains within the discretion of the Company.
Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee shall be recorded weekly and posted the following week. Hours of overtime worked or refused by an employee will be accumulated over a period of six (6) months commencing with the first work week of the calendar year.
Overtime shall be offered to the employee with the lowest number of recorded hours in each of the categories in the following priority.
a)	Among employees, qualified, available, currently performing ortemporarily assigned under Article 20.3 within the unit and holding the bid in the job in which overtime is required.
b)	Among employees, qualified, available, and currently performing the job in which overtime is required.
c)	Among employees, qualified, available, and currently working in the Unit in which overtime is required.
d)	Among employees, qualified, available, and currently working in the Department in which overtime is required.
In the event that all employees referred to in (a), (b), (c) and (d) above refuse the overtime, it is agreed such overtime will be worked by the employee first offered the overtime, providing such overtime does not exceed four (4) hours in a day, or eight (8) hours in a calendar week.
During the basic work week, overtime offered will be assigned where possible to run consecutive to an employee’s scheduled shift. For weekend overtime, available shifts will be filled in sequence (11-7, 7-3, 3-1 I) by employees in priority order, providing the shift assigned would not result in an employee working sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
48
Should a selection error occur. the missed employee will be accorded the next available overtime opportunity. A grievance respecting a selection error may besubmitted at the Second Step of the grievance procedure.
Employees who do not wish to work overtime must notify the Company. in writing. of their intent. These employees will not be asked or scheduled to work overtime (unless it is necessary to protect the job) until the employee notifies the Company, in writing, that he wishes to work overtime. Such employee will assume one hour more than the highest hours of overtime in his bid classification or his accumulated hours of overtime whichever is greater.
Departments and Units are as follows:
Manufacturing, Warehouse, Plant Services, Maintenance Groups.
Department
Beverages
Desserts
Cereals/ Rice RTD
Warehouse
Plant Services Electrical
Units
a)	Beverage Packaging
b)	Beverage Processing
c)	Volpaks/Nordale
a)	Nordale/Sprinter, Jell-0 Packaging
b)	Certo/Awake, Bldg. #7, Bldg, #2A
c)	Desserts Processing
a)	Packaging
b)	Processing
a)	Utility Operator
a)	Shipping
b)	Receiving
a)	Plant Services
a)	Electricians
b)	Scales
c)	Maintenance Services 49
Site Facilities Central Maintenance
Desserts
Beverages
Cereal
RTD
a)	Utilities
b)	Refrigeration
c)	Stationary Engineers
a)	Maintenance Services
b)	Machine Auditors
c)	Apprentices
d)	Material Flandling
e)	Central Mechanics
f)	Oilers
a) Mechanic a) Mechanic
a)	Process Mechanic
b)	Packaging Mechanic
a) Associate Mechanic
50
APPENDIX “F”
Benefit Plans
1)	Provincial Health Insurance Plan - (OHIP)
This Plan provides coverage in two areas:
1)	Hospital Expenses
-	Standard ward-level accommodation in a hospital
-	All normal hospital services while confined, plus
-	certain required out-patient services.
2)	Physicians’ Services
-	Doctors’ visits at home, in the office, or in the hospital.
-	Surgical procedures,
-	Diagnostic tests, and
-	Specialists’ fees.
The Physician is paid a fee for his services which is based on a Province-wide schedule of fees.
The Company will pay the full premium cost of this Plan for employees (excluding probationary employees) providing such Company payment is not prohibited by law.
2)	Extended Health Plan
This Plan provides the following coverage for each employee (excluding a probationary employee), their spouse, and each unmarried, unemployed child up to age twenty-one (21); dependents until age twenty-five (25) as long as a dependent and attending school:
a) Hospital Benefits (not subject to the deductible)
-	in active treatment or convalescent hospitals, payment will be made for the difference between standard ward and semi-private hospital accommodation:
51
- in public chronic hospitals, or chronic wing facilities, up to $3,00 per day for a maximum of 120 days in any period of 12 consecutive months for semi-private accommodation.
b)	Major Medical Benefits
100% of the cost of the following services will be reimbursed after deducting the first $10.00 ($10.00 family deductible) in any period of twelve (12) consecutive months:
1.	Drugs, serums, injectibles and insulin purchased on the prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines.
2.	Private duty nursing by a Registered Nurse who is registered in any province of Canada (not a relative); either in the hospital or home, providing the private duty nursing is ordered by the attending physical.
3.	Diagnostic services.
4.	Difference in cost between semi-private accommodation and a private room (not a suite) in a public general hospital.
5.	Dental care necessitated by a direct accidental blow to the mouth, excluding damage caused by an object wittingly or unwittingly placed in the mouth; when such accident occurs after the effective date of the contract. The dental care must commence within ninety (90)days from the date of the accident.
6.	Charges up to $10 a day for care in a licensed private hospital, to a maximum of 120 days.
7.	Purchase or rental of wheelchair. hospital bed. iron lung, oxygen set. artificial limbs or eye. cast.
52
trass, braces or crutches.
8.	Radium and radio-isotope treatment and blood transfusions.
9.	Professional ambulance services
10.	Payment to registered clinical psychologists up to $45 for the first visit and $30 per hour for subsequent treatments to a maximum of $315 per person during a benefit year.
1 I. Payment to registered masseurs up to $7 per treatment for not more than 12 treatments per benefit year per person, but only when certified by a medical doctor that such treatment is necessary.
12.	Payment to qualified speech therapists up to $200 per benefit year per person, but only when certified by a medical doctor or dentist that such treatment is necessary.
13.	Payment for medical fees where legal while travelling outside your province of residence when such fees are over the Medical Association Schedule of Fees and are not greater than what would be paid in your province if it were legal to provide such benefits.
14.	Eyeglasses up to a total amount of $85 per person in any period of 24 consecutive months when provided on the written prescription of a medical doctor or optometrist. Sunglasses or eyeglassesfor cosmetic purposes are not included, nor is the cost of eye examinations
15.	Contact lenses will be covered in an amount up to $250 during your employment with GF,
16.	Coverage for Travel Outside Canada (Ontario Blue Cross Deluxe Rider) with limitations and exclusions as outlined in the Blue Cross Contract.
53
The Company will pay the full cost of this Plan, however the employee must complete an application card within 31 day s of obtaining seniority to be eligible lor the pro\ isions of this Plan.
3. Dental Plan
This Plan provides the coverage listed below lor each employee (excluding a probationary employee), his spouse, and each unmarried, unemployed child up to age 21. Payment will be made up to amounts outlined in the Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees for dental services provided.
Effective May 22, 1988 - 1987 Tariffs Effective May 21, 1989 - 1988 Tariffs Effective May 20, 1990 - 1989 Tariffs
Payments will be made up to amounts outlined above for Dental Services provided by General Practitioners less 20%,
Insured Services:
a)	Examinations
b)	Consultations
c)	Specific Diagnostic Procedures
-	Biopsy
-	Oral Pathology
-	Cytological examination
-	Dental Caries Susceptibility Test
-	General Vitality Test
-	Specific Vitality Test
-	Bacterial Examination
-	Cytology Report
d)	Radiographic Examination and Interpretation (X-Ray)
e)	Preventive Services
-	Scaling and Polishing
-	Topical Fluoride Treatment
-	Oral Hygiene Instruction
-	Occlusal Equilibration
54
f)	Treatment cf Dental Caries (Fillings)
-	Removal of carious lesion and dressing
-	Amalgam Restoration
-	Bicuspids, permanent anteriors, all primary teeth
-	Amalgam Restorations Permanent Molars
-	Silicate cement and direct resin restorations
-	Plastic Composite Restorations
g)	Surgical Services - Removal of Teeth
-	Removal of Erupted tooth (uncomplicated)
-	Removal of Erupted tooth (complicated)
-	Removal of Unerupted tooth
-	Removal of residual roots
-	Soft tissue coverage
-	Bone tissue coverage
h)	Anaesthesia Services
-	General anaesthesia - separate anaesthetist
-	General anaesthesia - using auxiliary personnel
i)	Periodontal Services
(Diagnosis & Treatment of Gum Tissue)
-	Treatment planning and consultations
-	Application of dressings
-	Supragingival and subgingival scaling (above and below gum line)
-	Root planing
-	Polishing
-	Emergency treatment of periodontal abscess
-	Treatment of oral infections
-	Desensitization of tooth surface
-	Splinting - provisional
-	Provisional occlusal splint
-	Gingival scaling
-	Gingivoplasty and Gingivectomy
-	Gingivectomy with Osteoplasty
-	Gingivectomy with Currettage
-	Flap surgery
-	Mucogingival surgery
-	Post surgical treatment
55
j)	Endodontic Services
(Diagnosis & Treatment of Pulp and Root Canals)
-	Emergency endodontic procedures incision and drainage - through pulp canal
-	Smoothing
-	Pulp capping
-	Pulpotomy (partial removal of nerve)
-	Repositioning of displaced tooth
-	Replantation of totally displaced tooth
-	Pulpectomy
-	Biomechanical
-	Preparation of root canal
-	Chemotherapeutic treatment of root canal
-	Obliteration of root canal
-	Endodontic services involving Periradicular root surgery
-	Root end fillings and silver points
-	Amputation of roots
-	Intentional extraction, root canal obliteration and repositioning of tooth
-	Bleaching of treated tooth
-	Endodontic management of primary teeth
k)	Surgical Services
-	Alveoloplasty - Reshaping bone arch to prepare for dentures
-	Frenoplasty - reshaping of tissue that connects the lip with the gingiva
-	Exposure of tooth for repositioning
-	Enucleation of tooth follicle
-	Repair of soft tissue lacerations
-	Incision and Drainage
-	Fractures - consultation and repair jaw fractures
-	Removal of growths - including biopsy
-	Treatment of Temporomandibular joint
-	Sialolithotomy
-	Intramuscular injection
-	Post surgical treatments
-	Removal of root or foreign body from Sinus
56
I)	Denture Services
-	Denture adjustments
-	Denture repairs
-	Denture rebasing and or relining
m)	Repairs to Crown and Bridgework (dental Rider 4)
-	Reimbursement of charges for covered benefits up to 50% of the fees specified in the applicable Fee Guide
-	Restorative Services
-	Prosthodontic Services Fixed (once every 3 years)
Employee Cost:
Single - S3.00 per month Family - $6.00 per month
The balance of the cost of the Plan will be paid by the Company.
Eligibility
An employee is eligible to join the Plan on obtaining seniority with the Company. Coverage will commence the first of the month following such date providing the employee completes the required application form within 31 days of obtaining seniority.
An eligible employee who does not join the Plan in the initial open period, may make application at a later date. However, coverage and premiums will not commence until the first of the month following a waiting period of one year commencing with the date of such application.
4)	Life Insurance and Disability Income Plan
An employee must sign an application form to be eligible for this Plan and coverage will commence on the first of the month following completion of the probationary period. Should application not be made within three (3) months of this initial commencement date, the insurance company will require satisfactory evidence of insurability from the employee and his eligible dependents (i.e., spouse and unmarried, unemployed children between the ages of 14 days and twenty-
57
five year,)
a) Amount of Term Insurance
-	Employee
-	Spouse
-	Dependent Child
Note I: The amount of Paid-up Insurance purchased by an employee under the former Insurance Plan will remain in force until the employee leases OF or retires. At that time, the Paid-up Insurance (providingthe face amount is $100 or more) may be kept in force. or surrendered for its cash value. This cash value will never be less than the amount of thecontributions the employee had made to the Paid-up Insurance Plan.
Note 2: “Spouse” means:
1.	The person who is your lawfully wedded husband or wife; or
2.	If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife. the person of the opposite sex who has resided with you in conjugal relationship. either continuously for not less than three (3)years. or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
b)	Retirement Insurance
The Company will assume the full cost of providing Term Insurance coverage in the amount of $2,000 for an employee who retires from the Company while in active employee status on or after age 55 with 10 years or more of service.
c)	Long Term Disability Benefits
Long term disability benefits provide income if you are disabled and prevented from working for more than six
58
months because of disease or an injury.
You are eligible while an active participant in the Plan, provided your disability begins before you reach age 65, or before you terminate employment or retire.
i)	Waiting Period
-	Your disability must prevent you from working for more than six months before you are eligible for LTD Benefits.
-	Periods of disability that arise from the same or related cause separated by less than three months of full-time employment, will be counted toward the waiting period.
-	If you return to work after receiving LTD Benefits and then reincur the same disability within three months of your return, you do not have to begin another waiting period, but LTD Benefits will resume subject to the normal provisions of the Plan.
ii)	Disability Requirement
-	For the first two years after the six-month waiting period, your disability must keep you from working at your GF occupation or any GFjob or position for which you are eligible and qualified to perform and which is offered to you.
-	Thereafter, to collect LTD benefits your disability must prevent you from engaging in any gainful activity for which you are or may reasonably become suited by training, education and experience.
-	You must be under the care of a legally qualified physician to be considered disabled, and from time to time you will need to prove to the insurance company's satisfaction. be medical evidence, that your disability still qualifies you for benefits.
59
iii)	Amount of Benefits
-	60% of your basic wage rate reduced by:
Workers’ Compensation
Primary Canada Pension Plan payments at the time of the initial LTD benefit calculation.
Federal, Provincial or local disability benefit payments.
Other disability benefits under any employer’s plan, including GF,
Income you earn through any employment, to the extent this income, plus 60% of your basic earnings exceeds:
80% x monthly basic earnings up to $416.47 and
60% x monthly basic earnings over $416.67
iv)	Duration of Benefits
Your LTD benefits will continue as long as you meet the disability requirements, but no longer than:
-	Age 65 if you have 8 or more years of service at the end of the six month waiting period.
-	A period equal to your length of service, but no less than 4 years, if you have under 8 years of service at the end of the six-month waiting period, but not beyond age 65.
d)	General Provisions
i) If your are on leave of absence for up to one year you may keep this Plan in force by continuing to make your contributions. Otherwise your coverage willterminateat the end of the month in which your contributions stop. For reinstatement in the
60
Plan. the insurance company would require satisfactory evidence of insurability from the employee and his eligible dependents.
ii)	LTD payments will not reduce the amount of life insurance in force just prior to the start of LTD benefits. Such insurance will remain in force for so long as eligibility to LTD benefits continues, but not beyond age 65.
iii)	All term insurance coverage will stop at the end of the month in which you leave GF, but if you die within the following 31 days, the full amount will be paid. Also during this 31-day period you may convert all or part of your term insurance without medical examination, to an individual life insurance policy. This individual policy will be issued at the insurance company's regular rates; it may be written on any regular Whole Life Insurance Plan and may, if desired, provide a preliminary period of up to one year of term insurance coverage.
iv)	When you die from any cause, the full amount of your G F life insurance then in force will be payable to the beneficiary you name. You may specify that payment be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments, or you may allow your beneficiary to make the choice. You may change the beneficiary designation at any time in the manner provided by the Plan, subject to applicable Provincial Law. The beneficiary for the dependent insurance coverage will be the employee in all cases. In those instances where both parents are employed at GF and both are enrolled in the Life Insurance Plan, the employee claimingthe child(ren) as dependent(s) for income tax purposes will be deemed to be the beneficiary.
v)	Status of Benefit Plants while employee is receiving LTD payments:
61
OH IP and Extended Health Plans will remain in force and be fully Company paid.
Life Insurance coverage (including dependent coverage) will remain in force and be fully Company paid.
Dental Plan coverage may be kept in force by the employeecontinuing to remi11he em p 1 oyee portion of the premium, otherwise coverage will terminate at the end of the month in which such employee contribution stops.
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan coverage may be kept in force by the employee continuing to remit the monthly premium. otherwise coverage will terminate at the end of the month in which such employeecontribution stops.
Non-Occupational Accident and Sickness Disability Plan will not be in effect during the LTD period. However, if the employee returns to work (and LTD payments thus cease) he may become eligible for benefits again under such plan.
Retirement Plan - if an employee wishes to continue contributions to the plan. retirement benefits will accrue during the LTD period. However, on or after age 55 retirement benefits may be initiated, without affecting LTD payments.
vi)	Employee status while receiving LTD payments:
Seniority will continue to accumulate for as long as LTD benefits are paid. or until the employee retires from the Company. Active employment with GF will terminate on the date seniority ceases to accumulate.
Employee Cost:
Single or Family - $.75 per month
62
The balance of the cost of the Plan will be paid by the Company.
5)	Accidental Death an Dismemberment Plan
This Plan provides benefits for the loss, while insured, of life, limbs, or the entire and irrecoverable loss of sight.
Benefits are payable only if the loss results directly from bodily injuries caused by an accident and occurs within 90 days after the date of the accident causing the loss.
This Plan is optional and coverage is the same as the basic amount of Life Insurance or $45,000. The cost to the employee is $2.25 per month (5c per $1,000 insurance).
The full Principal Sum ($45,000) will be paid for such loss of
life
both hands both feet
one hand and one foot one hand and sight of one eye one foot and sight of one eye sight of both eyes
One-half the Principal Sum (i.e. $22,500) will be paid for such loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye. In no instance will more than the full Principal Sum be paid for all losses resulting from one accident.
Since this is coverage for losses due to accidents no benefits are paid on account of a loss caused or contributed to by bodily or mental infirmity, ptomaines, bacterial infections, disease, medical or surgical treatment not made necessary by injuries covered under the Plan. war. or suicide.
6)	Non-Occupational Accident and Sickness Disability Plan
This Plan is fully Company paid and applies to all employees (excluding Probationary employees) who meet the eligibility conditions:
a) Eligibility for Benefits
63
To establish eligibility for benefits, an employee must show disability due to non-occupational accident or sickness by reasonably satisfactory evidence, which in the Company’sjudgement, prevents him from performing normal work assignments.
No Supplemental Benefitsare payable until an Attending Physician’s Statement has been submitted attesting to the nature and severity of disability and certifying that the disability precludes the employee from performing regular work assignments.
Further, the Company, at its expense and discretion, may have a physician or nurse of its own choice examine any employee who seeks benefit payments; if in the physician’s or nurse’s opinion the employee was able to perform regular work assignments, he will not beeligible for benefit payments. Any employee who fails or refuses to submit to such an examination will not be eligible for benefit payments. Any disagreement with the Company’s decision may be processed through the grievance procedure commencing at the second step.
An employee has responsibility for informing his supervisor immediately with respect to a disability. Further, to qualify for benefits he has the responsibility for taking all proper steps to insure early recovery. Such steps may include the attendance of a qualified physician and the purchase of drugs, medicines, medical supplies and hospitalization services as necessary.
b) Benefits
Plan Benefits are payable to eligible employees during a maximum benefit period of 26 weeks per disability but not more than twenty-six (26) weeks in a calendar year, subject to the following conditions:
i)	Basic Benefits
An employee is credited with ten (10) days of Basic
Benefits uponattainment of seniority and with ten
64
additional days on his employment anniversary in each subsequent year of continuous employment. Ifemployment is continuous, unused Basic Benefits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred and thirty (130)days.
When disabled. an eligible employee will receive Basic Benefits of three-quarters of his basic rate of pay, after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days. for as many days as he has to his credit or a minimum period of seventy-five (75) days per disability, as long as the disability is continued.
When an employee returns to work after an absence, the basic benefit period of seventy-five (75) days will be fully reinstated after theemployee has been back at work for at least four (4) weeks.
If he is back at work for at least a four-week period, and is then absent, due to a disability not associated with the previous disability, the minimum period of seventy-five (75) days of basic benefits will apply.
If he is absent again due to the same or associated disability that caused the first absence, and this second absence occurred before thirteen (13) weeks had elapsed since the initial absence, the disability will be considered to be the same disability, and the employee will resume Basic Benefits as if he had not returned to work.
Basic Benefits are payable to employees after a waiting period of two (2) scheduled work days. Further, if the first day following the waiting period is not a regularly scheduled workingday for the employee, Basic Benefits will not begin until the employee’s next regularly scheduled working day.
There will be no waiting period of the disability
65
results from an accident, or from the day on which the employee is hospitalized. Further, if the employee is unable to work because of disability for fourteen (14) calendar days beginning with the first regularly scheduled working day of disability. Basic Benefits are payable retroactively for all regularly scheduled working days in the waiting period, if such benefits have not been exhausted.
Should an employee leave work because of disability, the time so lost will count as the first day of the waiting period only in those instances where he has worked one-half or less of his regular shift.
ii)	Supplemental Benefits
After all Basic Benefits for which an employee is eligible have been paid, Supplemental Benefits amounting to 60% of his basic rate of pay are payable to the employee during the remainder of the 26-week benefit period for the disability but not to exceed 26 weeks in a calendar year.
c)	Discontinuance of Benefits
An employee who, after incurring disability, is discharged or would not have worked due to strike or suspension of employment is not eligible for Benefits after the day on which such event occurs.
d)	Employees Not Actively Employed
An employee who becomes disabled while on leave of absence or vacation, or while on strike, suspension from work or otherwise not actively employed, is not eligible for benefits during any such period. The employee will be eligibile for benefits under this Plan on the first regularly scheduled working day on which he would have returned to work but for the disability, and absence on such day will be deemed the first day of the waiting period for purposes of determining when benefits start.
66
e)	Part-Time Employment Due to Disability
An employee, who because of disability, is not able to work full regularly scheduled working days, may receive less than the full amount of daily benefits for which he is eligible. Ths provision only applies when the Company can provide part-time employment. Otherwise, such employees will receive the full amount of daily benefits.
If the employee is eligible for Basic Benefits for all hours not worked within the working day.
If the employee is not eligible for Basic Benefits, but is eligible for Supplemental Benefits, he will be paid for all hours worked, and 60% of his regular hourly rate for hours not worked within the working day. Each partial working day will be considered a full day for purposes of determining the maximum benefits period of 26 weeks per disability or per calendar year.
0 Exclusions
No payment will be made under the Plan with respect to absence from work due to the following reasons:
i)	Disability arising from or in the course of employment by another employer, and where the employee had anemployee/employer relationship with the otheremployer and received renumeration for his services. Disability from work performed on an employee’s own residence or land will not be considered ‘*employmentby another employer”.
ii)	Disability caused by or resulting from use of alcoholic beverages, stimulants, drugs or narcotics, unless the employee is participating in a GF sponsored program toward rehabilitation.
iii)	Disability resulting from acts of immorality or fighting.
iv)	Disability occurring while an employee is violating a Company rule.
67
v)	Disability resulting from a pregnancy related illness during:
a)	a pregnancy leave of absence,
b)	the period commencing with the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth week after the week of confinement.
g) Definitions
A.	Disability
“Disability” means the inability or incapacity to perform regular work assignments resulting from sickness or accident not arising from, or in any way related to, the course of employment. Any disability arising out of or in the course of employment, which is compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Law ofthe province is not a disability under this Plan.
B.	Hospitalization
“Hospitalization” occurs when the employee is admitted to and confined in a duly constituted hospital as a bed patient for care and treatment of sickness, or hurt, injury or damage to the body as a result of an accident. At the discretion of the Company Physician, an employee treated in the out-patient or emergency treatment service or facilities of a hospital may be deemed to be hospitalized for purposes of this Plan.
C.	Hourly Kate of Pay
The employee’s basic rate of pay (excluding off-shift premium)
7)	Retirement Plan
a) Eligibility
You are eligible tojoin the Retirement Plan on the first of the month after obtaining one year’s seniority. You
68
mayjoin anytime after you become eligible by completing an enrollment form authorizing GF to make payroll deductions and naming a beneficiary.
A temporary employee who hascompleted two years of service becomes eligibleto join the pension plan provided earnings are equal to or exceed 35% of the years maximum Pensionable Earnings (YMPE) under the Canada Pension Plan in each year or if they have worked at least 700 hours in each year. Contributions and benefits will be prorated based on hours worked.
b) Benefit Formula
-	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement is the first day of the month following attainment of age 65.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$30.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June I, 1988
$32.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June I, 1989
$34.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June I, 1990
-	Early Retirement
You may retire on the first of any month after your 55th birthday.
The monthly pension you will receive will be calculated as follows:
$30.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June 1, 1988
$32.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June 1, 1989
69
$34.00 per month for each year of credited service, effective June I. 1990,
less 4(7 for each year of early retirement before age 60.
In addition, if you retire early while still an employee, a supplemental benefit of $10,00* per month per year of credited service, (maximum 30 years) will be payable until age 65,
* Effective June I, 1989 - $11,00 per month per year of credited service.
Effective June I, 1990 - $12.00 per month per year of credited service.
Note I:
Credited service means continuous service to the date you retire less periods for which you made no contributions while eligible to participate in this or predecessor Plans or for which you withdrew contributions. Further, no credit will be given for periods of military service if contributions are not made upon return to active employment.
For a regular employee who is hired on or after January I, 1988, and a temporary employee who becomes a member on or after January 1.1988, the service prior to becoming a member of the Plan shall not be included in the computation of credited service.
Note 2:
The Canada Pension Plan (CPP) and the Old Age security (OAS) pensions are in addition to your GF Pension.
c)	Employee Contributions
The monthly contributions will equal that of the monthly pension benefit referred to in (b).
d)	Spouse's Benefit
70
This benefit provides the surviving spouse with 60% of the monthly pension paid to the retired employee for as long as the spouse remains alive. The monthly pension will be automatically reduced by 10% unless prior to retirement the employee and the spouse choose to opt out of this normal form of pension by submitting a Spouse Pension Waiver which requires the witnessed signature of the employee's spouse.
In the case of early retirement, this reduction or resultant pension benefit will not include the early retirement supplement referred to in Section (b).
Should your spouse pre-decease you, the Spouse's Benefit reduction shall not apply after his/her death.
e)	Retirement Income Options
You may wish to provide other provisions for your dependents after your death, and for this reason a number of other retirement options are available.
Such operions are:
Joint and Survivor Option Term-Certain Retirement Income Level Income
and these options will be fully explained to you prior to retirement as they must be selected one year before retirement commences. Also, each specific option will cause a particular adjustment to your normal retirement income payment.
f)	Death Benefit
Should you die before retirement. your beneficiary will receive a death benefit equal to the sum of the following:
I) The total amount of your contributions to December 31. 1986 plus compound interest to date of payment.
71
2)	The commuted value of the retirement income earned for service on and after January I, 1987 together with the additional retirement income granted on and after January 1, 1988 for service prior to 1987.
3)	The excess, if any, of the total amount of your contributions made after 1986 plus compound interest over 50% of the commuted value in paragraph 2.
Should death occur after retirement, but before receiving your total contributions plus compound interest and the spouse benefit is not in effect, your beneficiary will receive the difference.
g)	General Provisions
i)	Regardless of whether or not an employee participates in this Plan, retirement from the service of General Foods Inc. must be not later than the first day of the month following attainment
of age 65.
iij You become entitled to a pension benefit under the Plan after 10 years' continuous service for benefits earned prior to January I, 1987 and/or after 2 years' Plan membership for benefits earned after January I, 1987.
Contributions which are made after January I. 1987 are locked-in (not refundable in cash) after 2 years' plan membership. Contributions made between January I. 1965 and January I. 1987 are locked in at age 45 and 10 or more years continuous service.
iii)	If you leave GF, and Plan contributions which are not vested, as described in (ii), will be refunded to you with compound interest. Such refunds remain eligiblefortransferto an RRSPwithout locking-in
72
provisions.
If your are vested. you may leave your money in the Plan and receive retirement income or transfer the value from the Plan as outlined in (viii) which describes the portability provisions.
If you do not transfer your money from the Plan, as outlined in (viii) you will receive retirement income at normal or early retirement date equal to the amount calculated at the time you leave. If you elect to have your retirement income begin before age 65, the reduction for early retirement will apply.
Anytimeafter you leave, but before your retirement income starts. you can request that the value of your pension be transferred under the Portability provisions. If you do, all your rights to benefits under the Plan are cancelled.
iv)	If you are absent on leave of absence, injury or illness, or any other reason and your pay stops, contributions will not resume until you return to work.
Except for absences due to Military Service, Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability, missed contributions cannot be paid into the Plan on your return to work. Contributions shall be remitted once a month by employees on Workers’ Compensation and Long Term Disability.
v)	If you have a spouse, Provincial legislation requires that your pension beneficiary must be your spouse. You may change your beneficiary, subject to Provincial legislation, at any time by notifying the Pension Board through your local personnel representative. This is your responsibility.
vi)	Canadian Income Tax Regulation allows an employee to contribute up to $3,500 in 1988 and
73
1989 exempt from income tax to a registered retirement plan. It is anticipated commencing January I. 1990 new rules will apply.
To permit an employee to take advantage of this tax concession and provide greater retirement income, the Plan allows for voluntary contributions. A participant age 21 or over and enrolled in the Retirement Plan is thus eligible to contribute additional funds through regular payroll deductions. The minimum contribution is $10,00 per month, and the employee has a choice of two mutual funds (stock or bond) in which these contributions are invested and administered by the Royal Trust Company.
In addition to regular payroll deductions, two lump sum contributions of $50.00 or more may be made by payroll deduction on two specified dates each year.
There are no Company contributions to this section of the Plan; however, the Company assumes all administrative and brokerage costs.
vii)	Surviving Spouse means the person who, at the earlier of your death or the commencement of your retirement income meets one of the following eligibility requirements:
1)	The person who is your lawfully wedded
husband or wife; or
2)	If you do not have a lawfully wedded husband or wife, the person of the opposite sex who has resided with you in conjugal relationship, either continuously for not less than 3 years, or in a relationship of some permanence if you and the other person are the natural or adoptive parents of a child as defined in the Ontario Family Law Act.
74
However, no more than one person can be a surviving spouse. In the event of more than one person claiming to be such, GF will determine, based on evidence available that GF considers to be sufficient, as to which person shall be designated a surviving spouse for the purpose of the Plan. GFs decision in this regard shall be final and binding.
viii)	If you terminate your employment on or after January 1, 1988 and you are entitled to a retirement income as described in the preceding paragraphs, you may direct the commuted value of your retirement income be transferred to another registered pension plan (subject to Plan provisions) or a locked-in registered retirement savings plan.
ix)	The cost of vested benefits earned for service commencing January 1, 1987 plus additional retirement income granted on or after January I, 1988 for service prior to 1987 must be at least 50% employer paid. Any excess employee contributions will be refunded upon retirement, termination or death prior to retirement.
x)	Marriage Breakdown - Pension benefits may be included as part of net family assets under the Ontario Family Law Reform Act. Any credit splitting with respect to your benefits under the Plan upon marriage breakdown can be requested in accordance with the Ontario Family Law Reform and Pension Benefits Acts.
h)	Status of Benefits on Retirement
i)	OH 1P will be fully paid by the Company until age 65, at which time no further premiums are payable.
ii)	Extended Health Plan will be fully paid by the Company and coverage amended to reflect the changes made for active employees.
7s
iii)	Dental Plan coverage terminates at the end of the month prior to retirement.
iv)	Life Insurance coverage as provided under the Life Insurance Plan.
v)	AD&D coverage terminates at the end of the month prior to retirement.
76