COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
RATIFIED THIS 4 DAY OF_NOVEMBER___‘2000
between:	OLD DUTCH FOODS LTD.,
Calgary, Alberta hereinafter called the
Company
and:	• UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
Local 3 73A, Calgary, Alberta chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union,
AFLCIO& CLC, hereinafter referred to as the
lOOZUtW
Union
oo (M (0-3)
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree with the other as follows:
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The Company and Union desire to establish and maintain conditions which will promote a harmonious relationship between the Company and the employees covered by the terms of this Agreement and &sire to provide methods of fair and amicable adjustments of disputes which may arise between them.
ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION
1.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole agency for the purpose of collective bargaining ofall employees in the plant operated at Calgary, Alberta, Canada, as more particularly set forth in the certification granted the Union by the Board of Industrial Relations in the Province of Alberta
1.2	Any employee who at the date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, or who becomes a member of the Union after the date, shall as a condition of employment, maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement.
The Company shall be free to hire or to rehire new employees who are not members of the Union, provided said non-members shall be eligible for membership in the Union. Membership in the Union shall be voluntary.
Employees who are Union members shall be considered to have maintained membership in the Union in good standing so long as they pay uniform union dues, initiation fees and special assessments required of all members.
1.3	The Company agrees to deduct from the wages of each employee affected, such initiation fees and Union dues as are authorized by regular and proper vote of the membership of the Union and the provisions of the Alberta Labour Co&.
1.4	Monies deducted during any month shall be forwarded by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union not later than ten (10) daysfollowing the end of the Employer’s four (4) or Jive (5) week accounting period accompanied by a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made, and amount of each deduction.
3
ARTICLE 1 cont
1.5	It is expressly agreed and understood that the Union assumes full responsibility for the validity and legality of such employee’s deductions as are made by the Company and hereby agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless by virtue of such collections andpayments to the Union
1.6	The Company agrees to provide the Union in writing, with the name, address, and telephone number of each new employee at the date of hire and of all terminations and layoffs within two (2) weeks.
ARTICLE!
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes and agrees that except as specifically delegated granted or modified by this Agreement, all of the rights, powers and authority which the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained solely and exclusively by the Compary and remain without limitation within the rights of Management.
For greater certainty, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Company reserves the sole and exclusive tight to operate and manage its affairs andfacilities in all respects as it sees fit, including the right to hire, direct and schedule its workforce; to promote, demote, transfer, layoff, suspend, discipline, and dischargeforjust cause; determine job content; assign work; determine qualifications of employees to perform work; establish methods to make policies, process and means of performing work; make, establish, publish and enforce rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees and the Company’s facilities, equipment and operations; to determine the number of employees to be employed and the duties performed; f0 establish, expand, reduce, alter, consolidate or abolish any job classification or department; to discontinue, reorganize or combine departments or ary branch or unit of operations, with atry consequent reduction or other changes in the workforce.
In administering this Agreement, the Company shall act reasonably, fairly and in go&faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whole..
ARTICLE 3 NO DISCRIMINATION
The Company and Union agree not to discriminate against any employee or prospective employee because of membership or activity in the Union, or because of race, creed color, sex, age, or place of national origin Further, there shall be no discrimination against any employee for refusal to cross a legal picket line or obey a lawful Union order.
ARTICLE 3 cont
Any employee alleging discrimination may place his or her allegation before the Union and if the Union considers that the objection has merit, the allegation shall become a grievance and subject to the grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
Forty (40) hours per week, consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each shall constitute the basic work week
All time worked in excess of the daily or weekly hours shall be considered as overtime and paid at time and one-hay 01/2) the regular rate.
Any employee who is scheduled to work on Saturday shall receive time and one-hay (1-1/2) for hours worked on Saturday provided he/she has worked his/her full forty (40) hours during the basic work week. If an employee has not worked in the said period because he/she was scheduled off by the Company or because of a Statutory Holiday, he/she shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) rate. Time and one-half (I-1/2) does not apply to any employee who misses time during the basic work week on their own volition.
An exception to the above would be the Production Maintenance Classification who are scheduled to workfive (5) days on a rotating work schedule. Those workers who work in excess offive (5) days or forty (40) hours of theiybasic work week will be paid one and one half (l-J/2x) times for all hours worked except Sunday (which is paid at double (2x) time for all hours worked)
If an employee misses time-prior to Saturday because of a Dentist or doctor’s appointment he/she will receive time and one-halj@-F2) for Saturday provided that such appointments are pre-arranged with the Supervisor.
Employees must provide the Company with a Doctor’s Certificate if requested
In the event overtime is necessary, the overtime will be assigned on a departmental basis. When overtime work requires less employees than normally employed on such work then overtime will be offered to the most senior employees whenever practical.
5
AZITZCLE4.5 cont.
An employee may request to be excusedfrom overtime. This request may be granted unless no other suitable employee is available to replace him/her; or an emergency exists which demands his/her presence.
4.6	Double (2x) time shall be paid on Sunday hours worked provided it is not part of a regular shift.
4.7	Daily hours of work shall be consecutive except a ten (10) minute paid rest period during each half of a shift and the time for each rest period shall be computed as time in the lunchroom. A thirty (30) minute unpaidperiod will be provided for the purpose of eating lunch Rest periods will not be added to the mealperiodandshall be part of the daily hours of work
4.8	The Company shall advise employees of any changes in the starting work schedule
prior to Friday noon of each work week If no changes have been communicated
prior to Friday noon then the schedule in effect shall apply for the following week
However, the schedule of any employee may be changed without notice in the event of
unscheduled absence of fellow employees, the event of emergencies, such as
breakdowns, lack of work or acts of God In all other cases, at least twelve (12) hours
notice of any change must be given or four (4) hours pay granted in lieu of notice.
Exceptions to this ‘general rule will apply in the case of the night clean-up crew.
when the plant is forced to work overtime and this crew is unable to start at its
regular time because the machinery is still operating they may have their starting
hours altered provided reasonable notice is given. Reasonable notice is defined as
being a telephone call at least four (4) hours prior to the change.
)
4.9	Each employee reporting for work shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours payfor that time if there is no work available providing that the reason for lack of work is the fault of the Company and not an Act of God over which the Company has no control.
The Company will make reasonable effort to contact all it’s employees. It will be the employee’s responsibility to keep their Supervisor informed of any changes to telephone numbers or addresses. Failing to do so, the employee will not be entitled to any pay, in lieu of notice.
4.10	The Company shall provide a time clock to enable employees to record their time for payroll purposes. Employees shall record their own time when they start and finish work
ARTICLE 5
STA TUTOR YHOLZDA YS
The following days shall be paid Statutory Holidays:
New Year’s Day GoodFriday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day FamilyDay
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Calgary Day /first Monday in AugustJ
In the event that any of the above Holidays fall on a weekend employees shall be paid for the Holiday or declared Holiday, tf any of these days fall on a Sunday, the day proclaimed in its stead shall be observed Employees shall receive pay for Statutory Holiday or Holidays, provided they work their fidl scheduled work day before and after the Holiday, unless absent due to bona fide illness [doctor's certi’cate] or accident.
Any employee entitled to Statutory Holidays with pay, if required to work on such a day, shall receive in addition to their regular pay for the Holiday, straight time and one-half for each hour worked on said Holiday.
ARTICLE 6 WAGES
The parties agreejhdt there shall be attached to this Agreement, Schedule "A " which shall setforth, in detail, the classification and wages of all employees. The Company agrees to pay all persons covered by the terms of this Agreement not less than the schedule of wages listed in Schedule "A" during such time as this Agreement is in force. If an employee is receiving a wage rate in excess of the rate herein contained such wage rate shall not be reduced by reason of the signing of this Agreement.
In the event of a change in production methods that will lead to a change in job categories and shifts, the Company and Union agree to negotiate new rates applicable to those new categories and shifts created by the change.
a] The Union agrees it is the sole right andfimction of management to change methods offacilities, and to install equipment of all kinds, and to make such other changes to its operations as it deems necessary.
ARTICLE 6.3 coni.
bj in the event the Employer proposes the introduction of equipment in its operations, the Employer agrees to give first opportunity to employees on the payroll.
cI	In the selection of employees for training as a result of technological changes,
assignments will be made on seniority basis, qualifications, ability and skill. If qualifications, ability, and skill are equal, then seniority shall govern
d] The Employer shall provide the Union, at least forty-five (45) days before the introduction of a technological change, disclosing all foreseeable effects and repercussions on employees.
6.4	In the event that new employees demonstrate proven experience amiabilities by
experience in another similar Company, the Company may waive the standard of forty-five (45) or sixty (60) days waiting period in order to pay that employee at standard rates ofpay. This will in no way be constituted as a waiver of an employees probationary periodfor purposes of either job assessment or eligibility to enter benefitprograms.
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS
7.1	The anniversary date of all employees for an earned vacation with pay shall be December 31 of each year.
7.2	An employee who commences employment with the Company after January 1st of a year and before December 31st of that year shall be entitled to an earned vacation prorated on the basis of thefollowing Schedule:
MONTH HIRED CALENDAR TEARS FOLLOWING THE
WAS HIRED
1st
I
2nd & 3rd
\ ^ ft,
4th 5
Jan - Feb. Mar. -Apr. May-June July -Aug. Sept. - Oct. Nov. - Dec.
10 days 10 days 15 days 15 days 8 days	10 days	14 days	15 days
6 days	10 days	13 days	15 days
4 days	10 days	12 days	15 days
2 days	10 days	11 days	15 days
1 day	10 days	10 days	15 days
20 days	20 days
19 days	20 days
18 days	20 days
17 days	20days
16days 20 days 15 days	20days
ARTICLE 7.2 coni
An employee who has earned three (3) days but less than five (5) days under this Section will be allowed upon request, one (I) week vacation including days earned -it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay. An employee who has earned seven (7) days but less than ten (10) days under this section will be allowed, uponrequest, two (2) weeks vacation including days earned - it is understood and agreed that any additional days beyond those earned will be granted without pay.
7.3	Earned vacation shall be scheduled between January 1st, and December 31st of each year. Vacation shall be granted on the basis of seniority. In the event that vacation schedules have not been selected by April 1st, vacations may be assigned by the Employer, It is understood that the Employer has the sole andabsolute right to limit the number of employees who may be away on vacation at any one time.
7.4	The Company reserves the right to close the plant for one (I) week or more for vacation purposes. The Compary will give to the employee a minimum of two (2) weeks notice in writing of the date before closing the plant.
7.5	The amount of vacation pay shall be computed by applying a percentage to the prior calendar years earnings as set forth in the following schedule:
MONTH HIRED	1st	2nd & 3rd 4th	5 to 9th	10th 11	&over
Jan. -Feb.	4.0%	4.0% 6.0%	6.0%	8.0%	8.0%
Mar. -Apr.	4.0%	4.0% 5.6%	6.0%	7.6%	8.0%
May -June	4.0%	4.0% 5.2%	6.0%	7.2%	8.0%
July-Aug.	4.0%	4.0% 4.8%	6.0%	6.8%	8.0%
Sept. - Oct.	4.0%	4.0% 4.4%	6.0%	6.4%	8.0%
Nov. -Dec.	4.0%	4.0% 4.0%	6.0%	6.0%	8.0%
An employee entitled to three (3) weeb vacation, may upon request be granted three (3) weeb consecutively during the period ofJamtary 1st to May 1st of any year.
To accommodate employees during summer months, employees will be entitled to two (2) weeks only during‘the months of June, July and August unless otherwise agreed in writing between the employee and Employer.
The employee shall receive vacation pay immediately prior to going on vacation.
ARTICLE 7 con!.
7.6	Students may be hired to relieve for vacation purposes during the months of May, June, July, and August.
7.7	When a Statutory Holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation and the Company’s place of business is closed by reasons of such holiday, the Company agrees to give the employee another day with pay in lieu of the Statutory Holiday within six months.
7.8	An employee with earned but unpaid vacation upon termination of employment will receive a vacation based on two percent (2%) of total wages eamedfor each week of entitlement.
ARTICLE 8
SENIORITY
8.1	Mien an employee in the Packer, Weight Taker, Inspection, Trimming, General Labourer, Production Help, Shipping and Warehouse classifications has completed forty-five (45) days worked and an employee in the Shipping (Lead Hand) Machine Operator, Receiving and Inventory, Maintenance and Production, Fryer, Extruder Classifications has completed sixty (60) days worked he or she shall have completed their probationary period
The Company reserves the right to extend the probationary period of any employee (in writing) to an additional twenty five (25) days maximum.
Notwithstana ’ing the above, no probationary period shall exceed ninety (90) calendar days.
8.2	The Company agrees to make an up to date seniority list of all hourly paid employees and post on the bulletin board in the coffee room every six (6) months, and a copy forwarded to the Union office.
8.3	In cases of lay-offs and reduction of the work force, the probationary employees will be laid offfirst. In all other cases of lay-offs, reduction of work force, re-employment, filling of new positions and filling of job vacancies, the Company will give consideration, to seniority, the individual qualifications of the employee and the efficient operation of its plant and business. When qualifications of two or more employees are equal, then seniority shall be the final factor in deciding who will receive the position, or who will be laid off "Qualifications" as used in this Article shall include an employee’s attendance record
10
ARTICLE 8 cont
8.4	After absence due to injury or illness the employee must be returned to his/her job
without loss of seniority when capable ofperforming his/her duties provided one (1) year has not elapsed between the return and the last day worked in case of compensable accident and six (6) months in the case of illness or non-compensable accident. The Company reserves the right to decide V the employee is capable of performing his or her duties.
Upon recuperation from an extended absence the employee will give the employer one (1) weeks notice of his/her intention to return to work
If there is a re-occurrence of the illness or injury that caused the original absence within one (I) month from the date of return then the absence is considered to have continued It is understood that the actual time worked will be added to the time limits specified above before the termination is effected
8.5	Seniority shall be definedfor the purpose of this Agreement as the net credited service to the employee. Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period the employee will be placed on the seniority list and his/her seniority will be dated back to the beginning of his/her employment. Temporary and Student employees shall not accumulate seniority, nor shall they be entitled to any vacation time, insurance benefits or payments or other fringe benefit except for shift premium. If Temporary or Student employees are hiredfor full time employment, their seniority will start on the day they started as full time. (This Article does not include employees from Temporary Services.)
8.6	In cases offilling job vacancies in the classification of Lead Hand or above, and the Company requires a replacement; or creates new jobs, they shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of three (3) days. During this time, applications for the
job may be made by the employees. Qualifications will be considered by the Company. The Company has sole right to decide ifsuitable applications are received If no suitable applications are received, the Company may then hire a person to fill the job.
It is understood and agreed that the Company is not obligated to post qualifications
for the job in question; and that temporary appointments may be made by the Company pending receipt of applications. An employee who received the posted job and is found not suitable shall not be permitted to apply again until four (4) consecutive months have elapsed Only the original vacancy arising from this posting will be posted
11
ARTICLE 8.6 coni,
An employee receiving the posted job will be on trial for up to forty-five (45) working days. If they cannot perform the job satisfactorily they shall be returned to their prior job. It is understood and agreed that the Company has the sole and absolute right to decide whether an applicant qualifies for any job.
8.7	An employee desiring transfer to another shift must make an application in writing
prior to the occurrence of the vacancy and will be transferred in accordance with the date of application (whenever possible), when a vacancy occurs and is offered, but refused, the employee refusing must reapply and the vacancy will be offered to the next applicant.
An employee receiving such transfer will not be able to re-apply until two (2) months have elapsed and will be on trial for thirty (30) working days, where the transfer is a classification change the trial period shall be for forty-five (45) working days. If found not suitable or the employee wishes, he/she will return to their prior job. If more than one vacancy occurs at the same time, new employees may be trained on day shift then transferred to another shift by the end of their probation period
ARTICLE 9 PREGNANCY LEAVE
9.1	MATERNITY LEAVE AND ADOPTION LEAVE
A pregnant employee who has been employed with the Company for at least nine (9) consecutive months of service is entitled to maternity leave.
a)	Such leave will be granted provided the employee submits to her Employer a request in writing for such leave- at least two (2) weeks prior to the date she intends to commence such leave, together with a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, certifying that she is pregnant and indicating the date of delivery.
b)	Such leave may be for a period not more than twenty-seven (27) weeks. The employee may work up to two (2) weeks prior to the delivery date. At any time prior to the estimated date of delivery the pregnancy of an employee interferes with the performance of her duties, an Employer may give the employee written notice requiring her to start maternity leave.
12
ARTICLE 9.1 cont
c)	Where an employee takes pregnancy leave and is unable to return to work after the expiration of twenty seven (27) weeks period by reasons of a medical conditions arising following the date of delivery, she shall be granted a further period of pregnancy leave without pay of not more than three (3) weeks, if she provides her Employer with a medical certificate indicating that due to medical conditions arising following the date of delivery she is unable to return to work at that time.
d)	Eligible employee will be entitled to collect E.I. benefits in the amounts for a time period as provided under the E.I. act.
9.2	ADOPTION LEAVE
a)	An employee who has been employed with the Company for at least twelve (12) consecutive months of services shall be entitled to an adoption leave without pay for a maximum of six (6) months.
b)	Adoption leave will be granted to an employee who is the adoptive parent of a child under three (3) years of age.
c)	The employee must give notice in writing to the Employer at least two (2) weeks before the employee can reasonably expect to first obtain custody of the child
e)	Employees who are granted the adoption leave of absence will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company Group Insurance Package.
f)	An Employer is not required to grant adoption leave to more than one parent of an adoptive child.
g)	Eligible employees will be entitled to collect EJ. benefits in the amounts for the time period as provided under the EJ, Act.
h)	Employee who is granted pregnancy or adoption leave shall accumulate seniority during such leave.
9.3
Seniority shall accumulate on all pregnancy leaves of absence as defined above.
13
ARTICLE 10
FUNERAL LEA VES
10.1
10.2
10.3
10.4
10.5
11.1
11.2
A fall time employee will be granted three (3) days leave from work with pay to attend the funeral of a member of his or her immediate family. Immediate family is defined as spouse, parent, child, brother, or sister or step parents. The Companywill pay one (I) day leave if the employee is unable to attend the funeral for an immediate family member.
An employee will be granted two (2) days leave from work with pay to attend the funeral of other members of his or her family. Other members are defined as legal foster parents, stepsister, step-brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, common-law spouse or common-law child
It is understood that such employee must have been living common-law for a minimum of twelve (12) months prior to the death.
It is the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company, in writing, of the name and length of time of such relationship.
No payment shall be made for any part of the three (3) or two (2) days which fail on Saturday, Sun&y, paid Holiday or part of the employees vacation.
Any extended leave of absence beyond those mentioned in Sections 10.1 and 10.2 will be at the discretion of the Company.
ARTICLE 11
TIME OFF FOR UNION BUSINESS
The Company agrees that up to two (2) employees chosen for such purposes, shall be granted time off without pay in order to attend Union conventions or to participate in contract negotiations involving the Employer, PROVIDING that a suitable replacement is available to do the employee’s job(s).
When an employee is chosen to attend a Union convention or participate in contract negotiations, the Employer agrees to pay the employee in fill for time lost, then bill the Union for such time.
14
ARTICLE 12
GENERAL LEA VE OF ABSENCE
12.1	All leaves of absence or time off will be without pay. Requests for leave of absence or time off exceeding one (I) week (excluding pregnancy or bereavement leaves) shall be submitted to the Company in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance of the anticipated time of absence. The Company may in its discretion, refuse any request
for leave of absence or time off
12.2	Failure to report for dirty or an explanation by way of telegram or phone call to the Company, with an explanation satisfactory to the Company, within twenty-four (24) hours of the start of the first scheduled shift,following the expiry of such leave of absence or time off, shall be deemed to be a voluntary separation by the employee from his/her employment.
12.3	Employees with four (4) or more years of continuous service with the Company may request leave of absence in addition to their regular vacation. It is understood that the Company maintains the right to limit the number of employees granted such requests for leave. It is understood that all such leaves will be without pay. Any employee who is granted such leave will not be permitted to reapply until four (4) years have elapsed unless no other application has been made. If two (2) or more employees apply for such leave and seniority is equal the date of application shall prevail.
ADOPTION LEAVE
An employee with twelve (12) months service may request a leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months without loss ofseniority.
Employees who are granted the foregoing leaves of absence will be responsible for the full cost of continuing the Company's Group Insurance Package.
ARTICLE 13 JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such Jury Duty service and the amount of basic wages they would normally have earned had they been scheduled to work on such days. The employee shall report for work when not required by the court, providing there is more than two (2) hours remaining in his or her normal work shiji.
15
ARTICLE 14
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
14.1	1] EffectiveNovember4,2000
Group Life Coverage in the amount of $30,000 Life Coverage, plus $30,000 accidental death coverage.
Effective March 17,2002
Group Life Coverage in the amount of $35,000.00 Life Coverage, plus $35,000.00 accidental deathcoverage.
2] a)	Weekly Indemnity benefits of 70% of earnings to the maximum established by
Employment Insurance, first day accident, day sickness, 1st day surgery, I” day hospitalization - benefits to cover twenty-six (26) weeks. Company to pay 100% of premium Payment of benefits shall be subject to the acceptance of the claim by the Insurance Company. The Employer will provide a process for resolving claims denied by the Insurance Company.
An employee receiving sick pay will be deducted 10% for income tax purposes.
b) Employees who become confined to home or in hospital due to serious illness or injury while on vacation, may file a claim for Weekly Indemnity Benefits and the balance of the employee’s vacation may be rescheduled upon approval of the claim by the Insurance Company providing there is a minimum of one (I) week left of the Employee’s vacation, If this is a reoccurring illness or injury the employee will not be entitled to reschedule his or her vacation Rescheduling of vacation shall not interfere with other employees who have already scheduled their vacation (no bumping).
31	Alberta Blue Cross supplementary Health Care Plan with prescription drugs
coverage of eighty (80%) percent.
4]	The above benefits to be paid 100% by the Company.
5/	Alberta Health Care Plan coverage, the Company will pay one hundred (100%)
percent ofpremium cost.
6] Employees shall be eligible to join in the Health and Welfare Plan and Alberta Blue Cross following three (3) months of service. The Health and Welfare Plan shall become effective on the 1st day of the month following three (3) months of service.
16
ARTICLE 14.1 coni
71
81
14.2
14.3
14.4	a)
b)
o)
d)
e)
The Company will provide a Dental Plan for employees with one (I) year or more of service. The plan will pay eighty (80%) percent of basic dental care and eighty (80%>) percent of major care. Die premium for the employee only will be paid by the Company. For those employees electing dependency coverage the Company will pay fifty (50%) percent of the premium for dependency coverage and the employee will pay the remaining fifty percent (50%).
The A.D.A. Fee Schedule will be effective November 4, 2000 or, if not available, the current fee schedule as provided by the Carrier, as per the current A.D.A. survey in each year of the current Collective Agreement.
In the event that an employee is injured on the job, he/she shall be paid for the balance of the scheduled shift in which the accident occurs.
In the event that injury requires the employee to be sent home or to the hospital, transportation shall be provided by the Company.
The parties of this Collective Agreement will cooperate in ail matters pertaining to Occupational Health and Safety.
A joint Heaith and Safety Committee shall be established, composed of three (3) members of the Bargaining Unit, one from packaging, one from warehouse, and one from cleaning crew and an equal number from management (if possible). Minutes shall be taken of ail meetings with a copy posted, one in the warehouse, one in packaging and a copy sent to the Union Office.
The Committee shall meet no less than four (4) times per year. Meetings shall be during working hours. Committee members not on shift at the time of the meeting shall attend on a voluntary basis and frail be paid for in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement. Additional meetings may be requested in case of an emergency.
The Employer shall provide material safety data sheets that identify ail chemicals, compounds, substances used in the worlcplace. Copies to be in the lunch rooms and first aid room
The Employer shall provide the Safety Committee if requested the accident reports and other Health and Safety records provided they are not deemed to be confidential.
17
ARTICLE 14. cont.
14.5
Retirement Savings Plan
The Company will contribute on behalf of ail employees covered by this Agreement to a Group Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions will be remitted to the plan on a monthly basis for ail hours paid (hours paid shall include ail hours worked, vacation, general holiday, jury duty, funeral leave, Union leave,[terminal hours and driving hours per log books].
Thirty Cents (300 per hour to be deductedfrom wages.
EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS:
Effective March 20, 2000	ten cents (10 Ifper hour.
Effective March 19,2001 an additionalfive cen^pljp^kourff
The Company will also administer through payroll, a deduction Group Retirement Savings Plan in conjunction with the above on a calendar year basis, and shall remain unchanged during the year except where no pay cheque is issued and in such case, no deduction will be made. Such deductions will be remitted on a monthly basis with the above contributions.
ARTICLE IS DISCIPLINE
No employee shall be disciplined without proper cause.
Any empioyee alleging wrongful termination, suspension, or written reprimand may place his/her allegations before the Union, and if the Union considers that the objection of the employee has merit, the termination, suspension or written reprimand shall become a grievance, and be subject to the grievance procedure established by this Agreement. Terminations, suspensions and written reprimands shall be given in writing, with a copy to the Union
Termination of students and probationary employees is at the discretion of the Company and shall not be challenged by the Union or the employee and is not subject to the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration of the Collective Agreement.
15.1
15.2
18
ARTICLE IS cont.
15.3	An employee alleging wrong@ termination may place his/her allegations before the Won If the Company and the Union should determine that an employee has been terminated without proper cause such employee will be reinstated and shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, or such portion of such pay as the Company and the Union agree to. If unable to arrive at a satisfactory adjustment, then it shall be subject to the grievance procedure established by this Agreement.
15.4	After absence due to illness or injury, an employee will be returned to his or her job if capable of performing the work If required by the Employer, the employee will provide confirmation from his or her Doctor of his or her ability to return to work For the health and safety of the employee, the Company may make the decision if the employee is capable of performing the work
15.5	Grievances involving dismissals must be submitted to the Company in writing not later than fourteen (14) calendar days from the event giving rise to the grievance or the grievance shall be considered as waived by the aggrieved party.
15.6	All disciplinary meetings shall be held in private. A Shop Steward shall be present at alldisciplinarymeetings.
15.7	SHOP STEWARDS
The Company shall recognize all Union Shop Stewards for the purpose of representing the Union within the Plant, and shall restrict their activities to the handling of grievances and other legitimate Union business and shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time with pay during regular working hours. The Company may determine the reasonable time.
Stewards must ask their foreperson (Supervisor) for permission to leave their job to investigate and adjust grievances, and such permission shall be granted without unreasonable delay, providing a replacement is available. It is further agreed that this provision shall be limited to periods of regular pay.
15.8	ORIENTATION
The Company agrees to provide a Union representative or his/her designate, not less than ten (10) minutes but not more than thirty (30) minutes at a time mutually agreed upon, during the employee's first week of employment as an orientation period for the familiarization of the employee with the general conditions and responsibilities with respect to the Collective Agreement. Such time will be with pay at their regular rate of pay.
19
ARTICLE 16 NOTICE
If the Employer wishes to terminate the employment of an employee by Notice of Termination, the Employer shall give the employee a written notice or pay in lieu of notice as per the Employment Standards Act as follows:
One (I) week if the employee has been employed by the Employerfor less than two (2) years.
two (2) weeks, if the employee has been employed by the Employerfor two (2) years or more but less than four (4) years.
four (4) weeks, if the employee has been employed for four (4) years or more but less than six (6) years.
five (5) Weeks, if the employee has been employedfor six (6) years or more but less than eight (8) years.
six (6) weeks, if the employee has been employedfor eight (8) years or more but less than ten (10) years.
OR
eight (8) weeks, if the employee has been employedfor ten (10) years or more.
This individual notice does not apply to employees on probation or Students.
It is understood and agreed that the Company shall not be o&ligated to give any notice or pay whatsoeverjo any employee terminated for proper cause which shall include but not be limited to:
11	Theft
2J	Dishonesty
3J Drunkenness; including drinking during working hours 4J Being under the influence of Liquor or Drugs during working hours
5]	Bringing Intoxicants or Drugs into the Plant
6]	Disorderly conduct
7]	Punching the time clock card of another employee
8J	Insubordination
9J	Willful damage to property
10J	Disloyalty
ARTICLE 16 com.
16.3	In the went that new production techniques ’ or machinery causes the elimination of
jobs, the Company agrees to provide all employees affected with one (I) months notice of change or one (I) monthspay in lieu of notice.
ARTICLE 17 GENERAL
17.1	The Company agrees to provide space and allow the Union to supply and install a U. F.C. W. Bulletin Board for posting Union notices providing said notices are approvedand initialed by the Company.
17.2	The Company agrees to furnish all special wearing apparel either approved as necessary by the Company or dictated by either the Occupational Health and Safety Branch or Alberta Department of Labour.
The Company also agrees to pay twenty dollars ($20.00) towards the purchase of rubber boots (maximum of five (5) pairs per year) for cleaning crew 3rd shift.
17.3	Uniforms shall be worn by such employees as directed by the Company, and skill be provided by the employee. The Company agrees to pay two hundred andforty-seven ($247.00) yearly to be paid out at four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) weekly towards the purchase and laundering of these articles of clothing. The Company reserves the right to supply such uniforms in lieu of an allowance. This Article also includes Night Cleaning employees (f* Shift). Newly hired employees will be paid in proportion to the time worked during the 1st year of employment.
The Company agrees to supply hairnets to the Employees. Employees must return used hairnets, if unable to return wed hairnets the employee may be charged for a new one and the fee will be deductedfrom their wages. Fee to be the actual cost of the hairnet.
17.4	When the Company requires an employee or applicant for employment to undergo a physical examination, doctor’s fees for examination shall be paid for by the Company, and shall be taken on the employee or applicant's own time. If the Company requires a follow-up examination, such examination will be paid for by the Company up to a maximum offour (4) hours or balance of regular shift. All examinations paid for by the Company shall be performed by a physician of the Company’s choice.
21
ARTICLE 17 conL
17.5
17.6
17.7
17.8
17.9
18.1
18.2
Employee/Management meetings other than social meetings, whenever called by the Company shall be considered as time worked and compensatedfor as such
An authorized Union representative may, upon notifying the Plant Manager or Shift Supervisor, enter the plant provided that said representative shall not unduly occupy the time of employees during working hours, and agree to abide by all Company conduct and safety regulations while in the plant.
Packers, etc. employees shall not be required to lift in excess of thirty-five (35) pounds at any time during the performance of their duties except where the cartons are slid across the mezzanine floor.
The Company agrees to pay eighty ($80.00) dollars per year toward the purchase of tools for maintenance employees in the Classification of Grade I to Grade IV (including entrance level Maintenance Operator and Grade I to III, excluding labourers, etc.).
The Company agrees to fully comply with Federal and Provincial election regulations, giving employees the required time off to vote.
ARTICLE 18
NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
During the term of this Agreement the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout, and the Union agrees that there will be no slowdown, walkout or strike until all provisions of this Agreement and other resources provided by law have been exhausted
After once serving notice to the Company of the Local Union’s intention to strike, no strike shall take place for 12 hours to allow any product already started into the process of manufacture to be completed
19.1
19.2
ARTICLE 19
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
In the event of any controversy concerning the meaning or application of any provision of this Agreement, there shall be no suspension of work but such controversy shall be treated as a grievance and shall be settled, if possible, by the employees and the Company in the following manner:
Step 1
The employee or employees concerned and/or their Chief Steward shall endeavour to adjust the matter with their supervisor. Failing satisfactory settlement at Step I, then,
Step 2
The matter shall be presented to the Plant Manager. Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, then,
Step 3
The Union Represehtative together with the Plant Manager and employee/or Shop Steward shall take grievance up.
Grievances with respect to matters of transfers, promotions, demotions, discipline or layoffs shall be presented to the Company in writing within thirty (30) days from the date of the transfer,'promotion, demotion, discipline or layoff, but fourteen (14) days for termination IF the notice in writing is not given to the facts upon which the complain? is based, then it shall be deemed waived and abandoned and shall not thereafter form the basis of a grievance between the parties thereto. This Article does not apply to probationary employees and part-time or students as defined in Article 7.6.
23
ARTICLE 20 ARBITRATION
Any disagreement, grievance or dispute arising under this Agreement, which is not settled to the satisfaction of either the Union or the Company shall, upon written notice of either party, be submitted to an Arbitration Board provided the grievance involves the interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement. The Arbitration shall be established within twenty (20) days of the last meeting with the Plant Manager and if notice is not given within the time limit of twenty (20) days then the grievance and the right to refer same to Arbitration shall be considered as having been waived and abandoned by the Union and the employee involved and it shall not thereafter form a basis of grievance or arbitration between the Union or an employee and the Company.
Upon the matter being referred to arbitration as above set forth an Arbitration Board shall be constituted in one of the following manners:
If the parties agree in writing, the reference to arbitration shall mean reference to a single arbitrator;or
If the parties do not agree as above set forth, then the reference shall be to an Arbitration Board composed of three (3) persons. The party requesting arbitration shall nominate a member to the Board at the time of making the request for arbitration. The other party shall nominate its member to the Board within fifteen (15) calendar days of the receipt of the request for Arbitration.
The two (2) nominees so appointed shall select a person to be the third member and chairman of the board within ten (10) calendar days of the nomination of the last of them to said board If said nominees are unable to agree upon a third member and chairman then either nominee may request within ten (10) days the said Minister of Labour.to make such decision
The Board of Arbitration, when duly constituted, shall meet and hear evidence and/or submissions from both parties and give a decision as soon as possible after completion of the hearings of evidence and/or submissions. The decisions shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board and such decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
The Board of Arbitration shall not have any authority or jurisdiction to alter or change any terms or provision(s) of this Agreement or to substitute any new provision@ in lieu thereof, or give any decision contrary to the terms or provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 cont
20.5
20.6
If a Board of Arbitration shall determine that an employee has been terminated without cause, it may award that such employee be reinstated and that he/she shall receive pay for time lost following termination and prior to reinstatement, or such portion of such pay as the Boardfeels is just wider all the circumstances, less monies received by him/herfrom other employment during the said period
The Union and the Company shall pay fees and expenses of their respective nominees and the expenses of the Chairman shall be divided equally between the Company and the Union
ARTICLE 21
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS CLA USE
This Agreement shall be binding upon the purchaser, lessee or transferee as provided in the Alberta Labour Code.
ARTICLE 22
DURA TION OF A GREEMENT
The terms of this Agreement shall be from March 20th A.D. 2000 to March 17th, A.D. 2002 and shall continue in force after March 17th, A.D. 2002 on a yearly basis, which in each instance of renewal shall be regarded as the term of the Agreement, until terminated by either party giving the other party not more than sixty (60) days, and not less than thirty (20) days notice in writing prior to the expiration dare. If amendments are contemplated by either party to become effective in the ensuing term the party proposing amendments shall give notice in writing thereof to the other parly not more than ninety (90) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 17th, A.D. 2002. During the period of negotiations, this Agreement shall remain in force.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Union and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed in their names by their duly authorized representatives at Calgary, Alberta, this day of ___________________, A D. 2000.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL
WORKERSINTERNA TIONALUNION
LOCAL 272A	OLD DUTCH FOODS LIMITED
26
SCHEDULE “A
		EFFECTIVE	+30a	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATIONS		MarJ99	RSP.	MarJOVO	Mar.lMl	Mar.lt/02	MAR.17/V3
PACKERS	START	9.88	jO. 18	/O-&10.68	/(0kl.l4	11.54	11.94
	60 DAYS	10.5)	10.83	/10311.33	l/tfilI-79	12.19	12.59
	6 MONTHS	11.15	11.45	//#> 11.95	<am<*	12.81	13.21
GENERAL LABOUR	START	10.88	11.18	//■3% il.68	11M2.14	1254	12.94
	60 DAYS	11.02	II.3T	nSOMl.82	H-%12.28	12.68	13.08
	6 MONTHS	12.23	22.53	<ot03 13.03	/’S-Tf 13.49	13.89	14.29
SHIPPING	START	JO.08	11.18	11.68	nM2.14	12.54	1294
&	60 DAYS	11.02	11.32	//■Sd'11.82	/mu	12.68	13.08
WAREHOUSE	6 MONTHS	12.23	12.53	<o!-92l3.03	ismi9	13.89	14.29
RECEIVER	START	12.23	12.53	&9213.03	I3ft3.49	13.89	14.29
INVENTORY	60 DAYS	12.86	13.16	r$’2h> 13.66	134914.12 i4-3fL89	14.52	14.92
	6M0NTHS	13.63	13.93	rt-Qu.43		15.29	15.69
SHIPPING							
LEAD HAND		50<Z PER HOUR OVER WAREHOUSE WORKERS RATE					
MACHINE	START	11.33	11.63	A#3l213		12.99	13.49
OPERATOR	60 DAYS	11.94	12.24	/Stfll2.74	66*3X3.20	13.60	14.00
	6 MONTHS	12.77	13.07	&STI13.57	I3'v3l4.03	14.43	14.83
MAINTENANCE	START	12.12	12.42	ia<tO>12.92	13C$3.38 /3(03.90	13.78	14.18
PROD.ENTRANCE	60 DAYS	12.64	12.94	/%4}3.44		14.30	14.70
LEVELMACHINE OPERATOR	6 MONTHS	13.30	13.60	/3.g0i4.io	lHofa4.S6	14.96	15.36
I	START	12.81	13.11	<23/13.6!	2304.07	14.47	14.87
	60 DAYS	13.22	13.52	132914.02 <4$ 14*	1^1W4.48	14.88	15.28
	6 MONTHS	14.0 6	14.36		l5<®j5.32	IS. 72	16.12
U	START	13.68	13.98	Ml# 14.48	l*H>fl4.94	15.34	25.74
	60 DAYS	14.20	14.50	jHvQ 15.00 15.36	<5105.46	IS.86	16.26
	6 MONTHS	14.56	14.86		/55SI5.82	16.22	16.66
m	START	14.51	14.81	/50.1531	lSfljS.77	16.17	16.57
	60 DAYS	. 14.88	15.18	tSjP 15.68	iS€*lKVM	16.54	16.94
	6 MONTHS	- 15.37	15.67	116.17	016.63	17.03	17.43
KETTLE FRYER	BEGINNING LEVEL '	14.01	14.31	<4^114.81	/f-n527	15.67	16.07
	INTERMEDIATE LEVEL	14.51	14.81	/S015.31	<S4<isj7	16.17	16.47
	EXPERIENCED LEVEL	15.19	15.49	1^0 IS.99	/&/&I6.45	16.85	17.25
FRYER	BEGINNING LEVEL INTERMEDIATE	14.01	14.31	M$\l4.81 /S<fal5.36	<4^5.27 /Sdt>15J86	15.67	16.07
	LEVEL	Ji.56	14.86			16.26	16.66
	EXPERIENCED LEVEL	15.37	15.67	16.17	/&2116.67	17.07	11.47
STUDENT		9.26	9.56	9f%alo.o 6	/0200. jo	10.90	11.30
			. q5V . _				
Effective March 20,2000 a shift premium shall be paid for all hours worked on the Second Shift of fifty cents (506) per hour and on the third shift of fifty-five cents (556) per hour.
s<r
<£o
S/ <
djQ pjjO
27
SCHEDULE*A” conk
Effective March 18, 2002 a shift premium shall be paid for all hours worked on the Second Shift of fifty-five cenisffitij) per hour and on the third shift of sixty cents (fimpper hour.
LO	(q5
COST OF LIVING:
Effective (I) March 18,2002 and (2) March 17, 2003 on all rates in all classifications and to all employees, a Cost of Living allowance as provided below.
“Cost of Living” isdefimedas:
1. Consumer Price Index statistics provided by Statistics Canada and translated by Statistics Canada into “Cost of Living Percent Increases ”for the purpose of calculating the above mentioned cost of living increase in the above clause, (I) the Cost of Living Index published in late February 2002 will be compared with the Cost of Living Index published in late February2001. (2) The Cost of Living Index published in late February 2003 will be compared with the Cost of Living Index published in late February 2002.
2. Statistics Canada data for the City of Calgary.
3) The above clauses are qualified with the fallowing:
i]	Minimum increase of forty cents (40 fy per hour March 2002 and March 2003.
ii]	A maximum increase of five percent (5%) March 2002 and March 2003..
Rl
a!
bl
c]
SCHEDULE "B"
“Transport drivers, for clarification means semi-drivers."
The working day of a transport driver shall be governed by the Motor Vehicles BranchAct 1987 and the Alberta Labour Standards Act.
Any driver who is in violation of the Motor Vehicles Act 1987 and the Alberta Labour Standards Act will be subject to immediate dismissal.
Terminal work (including loading, unloading, waiting and preparation time) shall be a part of a driver’s duties
A transport driver who has not received his average of two (2) days rest per week and who is called in on his day off, shall receive one and one-half (1-112) times his regular rate of pay for a period of not less than four (4) hours.
28
SCHEDULE
8.2
B.3 a/
"B” cont.
In the event a permanent vacancy occurs in the Transport Department, the vacancy shall be posted for a period of seven (7) days. During this time, application for the vacancy may be made by transport drivers.
The Company shall give consideration to seniority, qualifications and ability. “Qualifications’’ as used in this Article shall include an employee’s job skills. If no suitable applicants are received the Company may hire a person to fill the vacancy.
The applicants or person selectedfor the vacancy will be on probation for up to three (3) calendar months.
The Company retains the sole right to decide whether the applicant or person qualifies for the vacancy and it shall not be subject to the grievance procedure dr arbitration of this Agreement.
In the event a permanent vacancy occurs, as set forth in Section (8.2) and a transport driver is on vacation at the time, he shall have the privilege of applying, in writing, within five (5) days, after he has returned to work
All runs will be assigned by the Company according to Driving Seniority and qualifications.
The Company may maintain yard drivers who have been elevated through the warehouse system In the event a vacancy occurs the Company may consider application from the employee. The Company retains the sole right to make the decision if any applicant or employee be transferred into the transport department.
If such employee is transferred into the transport department and does not qualify during the probationary period he shall return to the prior job before the transfer.
Company seniority is for all employees, including semi-drivers, for vacation purposes.
In the event of a layover (breakdown, accident, bad weather, or other circumstances beyond control) the driver will be paid at the regular hourly rate for all such idle time up to the eighth hour from the time the run started Pay for such idle time is limited to eight (8) hours in each twenty-four (24) hour period
29
In the event a layover is necessary, the Company will provide a hotel or motel room providing the driver first obtains permission from his supervisor. In the event a supervisor cannot be reached the driver may use his own discretion in securing reasonabhaccommodations.
In the event a layover is necessary the Company will reimburse the driver for up to three meals for each twenty-four (24) hour layover. A maximum of eight dollars and eighty cents ($8.80) per meal shall be Raid as follows:
1st meal after four (4) hours layover 2ndmeal after eight (8) hours layover 3rd meal after twelve (12) hours layover
The driver must submit receipts confirming payment of same.
The above rates are flat rates on which no overtime rate will be Raid unless Driver exceeds thirteen (13) hours of driving time or sixteen (16) hours worked
Recognizing that there may be delays as a result of breakdown, accident, bad weather, or other circumstances beyond control, drivers will report all situations to the supervisor if there will be a delay of two (2) hours or more.
It shall be the responsibility of each driver to accurately record their own time for payroll purposes by the method provided by the Company (tachography, log books, etc.) '
Drivers shall be responsible for checking the Schedule Board or calling the Shift Supervisor to find out when and where their next tour of duty is scheduled
Drivers must sign a consent form authorising the Company to obtain their driver’s abstract form from the Department of Motor Vehicles, at any time during their employment with the Company.
SCHEDULE “B” cont.
B. 7	Company agrees to pay semi drivers five ($5.00) dollars for shower allowance for
second night out.
SEMI DRIVER RATE OF PAY	EFFECTIVE +SO<z Mar/99 RJLP.	EFFECTIVE MarJO/OO	/EFFECTIVE \ Mar.19/01 .	\ EFFECTIVE / Mar.li/02	EFFECTIVE MARI 7/03
PRAIRIE	38.88aMLE	39.38<sMLE	39.88COMILE	40.38a/MILE	40.88&MILE
MOUNTAIN (MILES DRIVEN IN					
B.C. ONLY	miaMLE	4L3UzMLE	4I.81&M11E	42.31aMLE	42.81aMILE
TERKONALWORK	&3.0I $3.31	rfMih JS.-93		17.16	18.39
SLEEPER TEAM RATE will be four cents (46) per mile over the applicable rate. [Sleeper team one half (1/2) each on applicable rate.]
The above rates are Flat Rates on. which no overtime rate will be paid unless Driver exceeds thirteen (13) hours of driving time or sixteen (16) hours worked.
31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	OLD DUTCH FOODS LIMITED
and:	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 3 73A
Employees who have left the Company in the last year will be permitted to apply in writing to receive their retroactive pay up to thirty (30) days from the date of ratification.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE EMPLOYER:
Signed this
day of__________________, 2 0 0 0 .
32
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between:	OLD DUTCH FOODS LIMITED
and:	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 373A
Whereas Article 7.6 of the current Collective Agreement sets out specific months for the use of Students it is agreed between the parties that it is desirable to use Students on a year round basis to relieve for vacation relief and other employee absences.
This additional use of Students is to facilitate the following:
1.	Minimize the use of floater staff from temporary services.
2.	Ensure the rotation of regular staff into the easier jobs of sweeping, picking chips, waste and cutting potatoes.
3.	Increase the number of employees allowed to take vacation at one time.
Employees in this classification will be required to verify their full time student status prior to the start of each semester. Students will be limited to twenty four (24) hours of work per week (except the months ofMay, June, July and August).
The total number of students used will not exceed the total number of employees off on vacation or absent from work on each shift.
To be considered a full time student an employee must be registeredfor 3 courses and/or a total of nine credits.
The Employer and Chief Shop Steward may discuss doubtful or cases that do not exactlyfit.
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING -2-
In the event the Union or the Company experiences difficulties with this Letter of Understanding the parties agree to re-open negotiations on this issue prior to the expiration of this Agreement and/or delete this Letter of Understanding.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE EMPLOYER:
Signed this______day of
} 2000.
34