SOURCE
! W
M,
TERM.

tel
No. OF EMPLOYEES
AGREEM'
Jj
THE NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION Of CANADA (CAW - CANADA) and its Local 2027
HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITE0 Walkerville, Ontario
JANUARY 4, 1993
and
to
JANUARY 2. 1996
1 ! 1984

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Clause	Page
Number	Number
AGREEMENT ...................
1	- UNION RECOGNITION........
2	- UNION MEMBERSHIP.........
3	- UNION DUES...............
4	- UNION ACTIVITY...........
5	- UNION REPRESENTATION ....
6	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .......
7	- WORKING SCHEDULE.........
8	- OVERTIME.................
9	- VACATIONS................
10	- HOLIDAYS................
UA - CHRISTMAS SHUTDOWN .....
11B - EASTER SHUTDOWN........
12	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT
PAY ....................
13	- JOB VACANCIES...........
14	- SENIORITY...............
Shortage of Work
Layoffs
Recalls
Loss of Seniority Seniority List
15	- LETTERS OF REPRIMAND....
16	- DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE . . ,
17	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....
18	- STRIKE-BOUND GOODS .....
19	- NO PYRAMIDING...........
1
2
3
5
6
6
9
9
10 19 24 27 32
37
41
48
54
54
55 60 61
i
Clause	Page
Number	Number
20	- RECESS PERIODS............. 62
21	-WAGES ...................... 63
Cost of Living
Night Shift Premium Employees Permanently On Continually Rotating Shifts Shortage of Work
General Help Classification, Construction Department
Practice of Paying Inspector/Repairs and Supervisors Weekly Pay
22	- REPORTING TO WORK AND
CALL-IN PAY.................. 81
23	- MEAL ALLOWANCES ............. 82
24	- USE OF PRIVATE CARS.......... 82
25	- UNIFORMS AND PROTECTIVE
CLOTHING..................... 83
26	■ RETIREMENT................... 85
27	- BEREAVEMENT PAY.............. 86
28	- WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
SUPPLEMENT................... 87
29	- WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN
SUPPLEMENT................... 88
30	- WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN.....	88
31	■ LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN . .	92
ii
Clause
Number
Page
Number
32	- HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL
BENEFITS................ 92
33	- DENTAL PLAN............ 96
34	- GUARANTEED WORK FORCE ....	97
35	- CONTRACTING OUT........ 98
36	- SAFETY COMMITTEE .......... 101
37	- JURY DUTY............. 103
38	- TUITION-SHARING PROGRAM ...	104
39	- SEXUAL HARASSMENT..... 106
40	- WORK AREA CLEANLINESS. 107
41	- SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM ..	107
42	- SEVERANCE PAY PLAN ........ 108
43	- TERM OF CONTRACT .......... 109
APPENDIX INDEX
Appendix	Page
Number	Number
1	- PROGRESSION AND
RETROGRESSION AGREEMENT . . 110
2	- AUTHORIZATION FOR PAYROLL
DEDUCTION................ 122
3	- PROCEDURE FOR CALCULATING
VACATION PAY............. 124
iii
LETTERS OF INTENT INDEX
No. of Letter
1 ........................
2 ........................
3 ........................
PENSION PLAN INFORMATION
Page Number ... 127 ... 129 ... 130 . .. 134
iv
AGREEMENT entered into November 12, 1992 BY AND BETWEEN
THE NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW -CANADA) and its LOCAL 2027 (hereinafter referred to as the Union),
- and -
HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITED,
whose principal office and place of business is located at Walkerville, Ontario, (hereinafterreferred to as the Employer).
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto to promote and improve the industrial and economic relations between the Employer, its employees and the Union, and to establish and encourage the practice and procedure of collective bargaining between the parties hereto.
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, by each party, to the other in hand paid, at the ensealing of these presents, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and in further consideration of the mutual promises and covenants hereinafter contained, it is mutually agreed as follows:
CLAUSE 1 - UNION RECOGNITION
(a)	The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole labour organization representing the Employer's employees at its Walkerville plant, including Pike Creek and any newly acquired plant in Essex County in the Province cf Ontario, which may be operated and managed by the Employer, provided, however, that application of this clause conforms with any federal or provincial law or regulation relating to the recognition of any labour organization as the certified representatives of any employees and agrees to treat and negotiate with the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for and on behalf of such employees.
(h) The term "employees" as used in this instrument shall not include foremen, persons above the rank of foremen, office and clerical staff, chemists, laboratory employees, powerhouse employees and plant guards. Assistant foremen and employees who clean plant offices, other than employees who clean non-plant offices or the reception centre, are to be included in the bargaining unit.
(c) The Employer shall instruct its supervisory employees of the rank of foremen or higher or other employees of the Employer not covered by the bargaining unit that they shall not perform any work that is performed by or assigned to members
2
of the Union tv the Employer except for the purposes of instructing and training employees or in cases of emergency. A case shall be considered an emergency if action by the supervisory employee is necessary to avoid or to eliminate a dangerous or hazardous condition, or to avoid loss or damage to the Employer’s property or equipment or to the Employer’s product.
CLAUSE 2 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
(a)	All employees in this bargaining unit will be required to maintain good standing in the Union as a condition of employment with the Employer.
The Union shall be the solejudge of the good standing of its members and any employee who shall hereafter cease to be a member in good standing according to the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union shall, subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act, on notice to the Employer be discharged or suspended immediately, which notice shall contain the reason for expulsion or suspension.
(b)	Employees subsequently hired by the Employer shall be deemed temporary employees for a trial period cf sixty (60) calendar days after hiring and during such period may be released by the Employer at any time without the necessity of specifying any cause therefor. Upon the request of
3
the Union President the Employer will discuss the reasons for such release.
If a temporary employee works for a period of less than sixty (60) calendar days and is laid off, the first period worked will apply against the sixty (60) calendar days, provided not more than one (1) year has elapsed between the date of layoff and the date he is subsequently rehired.
Such temporary employees shall during such trial period be subject to and abide by all rules and regulations of the Union and they shall pay all required dues as prescribed by the Union.
(c)	Temporary employees who are retained by the Employer after the trial period of sixty (60) calendar days shall become regular employees and shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Union, and their seniority shall date from their date of hire but not more than one (1) year prior to the date they complete their probationary period.
(d)	Except for good and sufficient cause, the Union agrees that it will accept all future employees into the Union for the regular initiation fee and accept them into the Union as full members at the conclusion of their sixty (60) calendar days’ trial period upon payment of all fees and regular dues.
4
(e)	Subject to the provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act all members in good standing shall continue as such provided they abide by and adhere to the Constitution and Rules and Regulations of the Union, If any employee is expelled or suspended ty the Union for good and sufficient cause, he shall upon written notice to the Employer be discharged or suspended immediately. An employee discharged ty the Employer for any cause shall be paid off as soon as possible thereafter. Any employee suspended shall retain and accumulate seniority.
CLAUSE 3 - UNION DUES
(a)	Upon written authorization by the employee, the Employer agrees to deduct from the last pay cheque of each employee in each calendar month such sum as from time to time may be authorized by the Union from all of its members for regular monthly dues and initiation fees and assessment., duly authorized by the Constitution and By-Laws of the Local and National Union and the labour agreement between the Union and the Employer, and deliver the total amount so deducted to such person as the Union shall designate to receive and receipt for such money in the form cf a cheque payable to the Union not later than the seventh (7) working day of the following month.
5
(b)	The Employee authorization for such deductions shall be on a form to be approved by the Employer and shall not be revocable by the employee during the term of this agreement, except for assessments which shall be for a specific period of time. The Employer assumes no responsibility for obtaining the execution of such authorization forms from employees. (Appendix No. 2).
(c)	Notice from the Union of any change in regular initiation fees, regular dues, or assessments as stated in (a) above shall be given in writing, signed by proper officers of the Union, to the Employer not less than thirty (30) calendar days before such contemplated change is to become effective.
CLAUSE 4 - UNION ACTIVITY
There shall be no coercion, restraint, or discrimination by the Employer or any of its agents against any members of the Union because of membership therein, or the carrying on of any proper union activity.
CLAUSE S • UNION REPRESENTATION
(a)	Each department shall be represented by a Union Steward or other Union representative, certified as such by the Secretary of the Union,
6
who shall be recognized by the Employer. The Union shall keep 1he Employer informed as to the names, departments, current mailing addresses and’ home telephonenumbers of all such representatives.
(b)	Both parties recognize that all employees, includingUnion representatives,have regular duties to perform for the Employer. Both parties recognize that meetings will not be held on the Employer’s time for wholly Union matters. Union representatives after arrangements with and permission from the foreman, such permission not to be unreasonably withheld, shall be allowed during their working hours, without loss of time or pay, to leave their regular duties within thirty (30) minutes for a reasonable length of time to investigate, adjust, write and present grievances or complaints within their own department, subject to the fact that this procedure shall not be abused by either party. If a Union representative is required to leave his own department for Union business, he shall also be required to obtain the permission of a member of the Industrial Relations Department; or in their absence, permission may be obtained from the representative’s immediate foreman.
If there is a dispute pertaining to abuse of this procedure by either party, discussions shall be held and if no agreement is reached, the matter shall be subject to grievance and arbitration procedures.
7
(c)	Union representatives up to five (5) in number shall be allowed reasonable time without loss of pay to attend meetings with Management or meetings mutually called by both parties.
The Company and Union will meet once every three (3) weeks for the purpose of discussing grievances, complaints and matters of mutual concern. The Company further agrees to hold other meetings to deal with important issues such as suspensions and discharges at mutually agreeable times.
One union representative (eg. union president) shall be permitted to join the company representative during the "New Hire Orientation" process, Such union representative shall be compensated at their regular rate should the orientation be conducted during regular working hours.
(d)	Representatives cf the National Union may attend meetings between the Industrial Relations Manager and the Grievance Committee. Such representatives may visit the plant during normal business hours to investigate pending grievances. All visits shall be of a reasonable duration. It is understood that permission must be obtained from the Industrial Relations Manager or his designate prior to such representative entering the plant. It is further understood that such representatives shall be subject to all plant rules and regulations while on the Employer's premises.
8
CLAUSE 6 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Employer shall have full authority in the operation of all branches of its business, including the right to employ any person it may see fit, to maintain discipline and enforce reasonable employment rules, and to discharge or suspend any employee who is in any wav unsatisfactory to it; provided, however, it shall not discriminate against any member of the Union for a proper union activity nor shall this clause be interpreted to invalidate other portions of this contract. Upon request of the Union, the Employer shall advise the Union promptly of the reason or reasons for any discharge or suspension.
CLAUSE 7 - WORKING SCHEDULE
The working schedule for all employees shall consist of not more than forty (40) hours per week divided into not more than eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday, except in the manufacturing departments including manufacturing maintenance where the schedule calls for Monday through Saturday operation.
The Employer agrees to post the various working schedules in appropriate locations in the plant. If such schedules are to be changed, as much notice as possible of such change will be given.
9
CLAUSE 8 - OVERTIME
(a)	All time worked in excess cf eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the starting time of employees’ various scheduled shifts, or forty (40) hours in any one week, shall be deemed to be overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. It is understood that eight (8) hours in such twenty-four (24) hour period will be paid at straight time if worked. This time and one-half rate does not apply in the case of mutual arrangement between employees and the Employer on exchange of shifts, upon the request for such exchanges by employees. When shift workers are required to work overtime, the shift premium shall be added to the regular rate of pay and the overtime rate applied to the total thereof. The employee’s basic shift shall determine the amount of shift premium applicable on overtime. In determining overtime compensation, employees shall receive credit for a regular work schedule on a holiday.
(b)	For Saturday work and work on a scheduled day off, the Employer shall pay all employees at the rate of time and one-half their regular rate and for Sunday work at the rate of double time their regular rate.
(c)	No employee shall be laid off during his or her regular working schedule to equalize any
10
overtime which the employee has worked during the same working week or pay period.
(d)	Any overtime required in any department or classification shall be performed by employees of such department or classification if help is available. Overtime work will be equalized as far as possible.
(e)	Overtime work will be voluntary on the part of each employee and no employee will be disciplined for refusal to work overtime if someone else is available to do the work. The Employer may assign needed employees to work overtime in inverse order of seniority.
(f)	It is understood and agreed that the obligation
of the Employer is to equalize overtime as far as
possible among its employees as herein set out.
The Union understands that the Employer may on occasion make an honest error in selecting employees from the equalization lists for overtime work and agrees that, provided the Employer assigns at least an equal amount of overtime work to employees passed by through honest error within eight (8) calendar days or pays the overtime missed by the improper assignment, such honest error will not be cause for grievance.
(g)	Overtime will be distributed equally as far as
11
possible according to department and classification if help is available.
1(1) An employee’s classification, for the purpose cf recording overtime, will be that classification which he or she holds (either permanent or temporary).
(2)	A Trades Group Leader shall not work on overtime to the extent that he replaces another tradesman.
(3)	When the company does not require a trades group leader to work overtime and where insufficient tradesmen have consented to work the required overtime, the company, prior to implementing Section (e) of this clause, will offer such overtime to the qualified trades group leader. Any overtime in such instance will be worked at the regular trades rate.
(4)	Anyone temporarily assigned to a classification shall not receive overtime in that classification until all regular classified employees have been asked. All overtime hours worked in the classification will be charged against the employee’s classification which he or she holds (either permanent or temporary),
12
(h)	When employees:
(1)	Transfer into a department as general help, or
(2)	Qualify in a classification, they will be charged with the average recorded overtime in their new classification within that department. From that date, they will be offered overtime in their turn.
(i)	Overtime of one hour or less need not be offered in rotation. Overtime in excess of one hour will be offered to employees with the least recorded overtime within the classification as far as possible and according to seniority when the overtime hours are equal. All overtime will be recorded.
(j)	For the purpose of recording overtime, the employee will be charged with the number of hours' pay involved at the regular hourly rate, e.g. eight (8) hours worked at one and one-half times the regular rate would be charged as twelve (12) hours' overtime. When an employee "doubles back" within a twenty-four (24) hour period and does not work in excess of eight (8) continuous hours, the resulting time and one-half payment will not be recorded for overtime equalization purposes. If in his new twenty-four (24) hour period the employee works more than eight (8) hours, any time worked in excess of such eight (8) hours will be recorded
13
for overtime equalization purposes. Employees who refuse to work overtime will be charged with the number of hours involved as if they had worked.
(k) (i)	Many departments have developed their
own procedures regarding ordering meals and arranging for meal breaks and recesses. These current practices will be continued.
(ii) Employees required to work overtime in excess of one hour will receive a fifteen (15) minute break period at the conclusion of their regular work schedule. A fifteen (15) minute break period will be allowed at the conclusion of each two (2) hours of overtime.
(l)	Employees returning to work or to the classification to which they return after a leave of absence, suspension, layoff,job posting, or transfer in excess of one (1) week will be charged with the average recorded overtime in their classification if their recorded overtime hours are less than the average overtime hours in such classification and if overtime has been worked during their absence.
(m)	An employee who will be absent from work during a week, due to vacation or approved leave of absence, and who wishes to make himself available in the event weekend overtime occurs,
14
must do so by completing a form supplied by the Company for that purpose. Such form is valid for the forthcoming weekend only and must be submitted in person to the employee’s foreman prior to commencement of such vacation or approved leave of absence.
(n)	Employees absent in excess of one week because of illness or Jury Duty, or employees returning to work from a leave of absence for union business in excess of thirty (30) days will be charged with the lowest recorded overtime of a man currently working in their classification provided their recorded overtime hours are less than the lowest in the classification and if overtime has been worked during their absence.
(o)	Employees under each job title in the Grain Corporation Utility and Bottling Utility groups will work their own overtime without rotation, except where two or more employees are included under one job title.
(p)	Department overtime lists showing classification, employee’s name, seniority and number of overtime hours worked by each employee will be posted the day following each time overtime is worked in a place accessible to the view of employees.
15
(q)	Section A of this procedure covers departments which require supplementary procedures to cover specific problems, and such supplementary
procedures shall prevail if there is a conflict with the overtime procedure outlined herein.
(r)	Section B of this procedure will cover such incidental matters as method of recording, notice to stewards, etc.
SECTION A
MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT
1.	Twelve-hour shifts and double shifts will not be scheduled. If due to the absence of an employee overtime is necessary, in general it will be given to the classification in which it occurs until such time as a new schedule can be drawn up. In all instances, equalizing of overtime will be given consideration.
2.	Overtime not in any definite classification will be offered to that employee in the department who has the least overtime or according to seniority when the overtime hours are equal, providing the employee is physically able and has the ability to do the job.
3.	Overtime in excess of one hour will be given to the operator already on duty when such overtime occurs on a regular operating shift due to the unexpected absence of the relief operator.
16
CEREAL PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT
25
1.	To be available for scheduled overtime, an employee normally must have eight consecutive hours off shift, both prior to working the overtime and before commencing his next scheduled shift.
2.	Unexpected overtime will be performed by the men available at work when the overtime develops. Overtime required to complete the evaporator boil-out will be considered unexpected overtime.
3.	Eight hours overtime would not normally be split between two shifts, i.e. twelve hours each, unless in case of emergency due to illness, or other reasons such as lack of a suitable operator. Sixteen-hour shifts, for the purpose of equalizing overtime, will be avoided.
4.	For extraordinary cleanup, which is primarily process men’s work, but where a knowledge of the equipment is desirable in the interests of safety to personnel and equipment, such as drilling tubes in the evaporators, or scraping tubes in the dryers, an operator from the classification directly involved would work. The balance of the help would be drawn from the process men’s groups by the regular procedure.
EMPLOYEES ON LOAN
Subject to (g) (4) of Clause 8, employees on
17
loan to other departments work any overtime connected with their daily assignment.
When plant departments have insufficient help available to perform their required overtime work, additional overtime help will come from other plant departments according to Clause 13 (Job Vacancies). Overtime is offered in turn to the employees with the least recorded overtime in the department from which the help is requested.
BOTTLING MAINTENANCE
1.	On somej obs where training or experience is required, overtime personnel selection may not follow rotation.
2.	Personnel are allowed to finish a job on overtime which they have started on their regular shift (when and where necessary at supervisor’s discretion), regardless of overtime position.
CENTRAL SHOPS AND STORES
Overtime will be offered as equally as possible considering the individual abilities and qualifications of the tradesmen involved and the requirements of the job.
SECTION B
1. At the beginning of each calendar year, the employee with the lowest recorded overtime hours
18
within a classification or department shall be recorded as having zero hours on the overtime list and the remaining employees in the classification or department shall have their recorded overtime hours adjusted accordingly. e-g-
Dec. 31/77 Jan. 1/78
Ray Reid ......39 hrs.......6V2 hrs,
John Jones .... 37 hrs......AVi hrs.
Sam Smith .... 32'/2 hrs ... 0 hrs.
2.	Employees will be requested to work overtime with as much notice as is possible. Whenever possible, at least 48 hours’ notice will be given for scheduled overtime and 4 hours’ notice for unscheduled overtime.
3.	Stewards will be given written notice of all overtime worked, or refused within their department on the working day following working of the overtime.
4.	Overtime hours worked or refused by an employee (providing an employee would have received overtime rates) will be charged against his or her recorded overtime hours.
CLAUSE 9 ■ VACATIONS
(a)	I. Any employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of at least one (1) year, but less than five (5) years, shall be eligible for a vaca-
19
tion of two (2) weeks.
II.	Any employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of at least five (5) years, but less than twelve (12) years, shall be eligible for a vacation of three (3) weeks.
III.	Any employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of at least twelve (12) years, but less than twenty (20) years, shall be eligible for a vacation of four (4) weeks.
IV.	Any employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of at least twenty (20) years or more shall be eligible for a vacation of five (5) weeks.
(b)	An employee shall receive vacation pay of an amount equal to two (2) per cent of his gross earnings for the preceding calendar year for each week of vacation for which he is eligible; except a first-year employee eligible for two (2) weeks' vacation shall receive vacation pay of an amount equal to four (4) per cent of his gross earnings for the year preceding the first anniversary of his employment,
(c)	Provided an employee has worked all or part of each of twenty-six (26) calendar weeks during the preceding calendar year, except a first year
20
employee eligible for two (2) weeks’ vacation who must have worked all or part of each of twenty-six (26) calendar weeks during the year preceding the first anniversary of his employment, he shall receive as minimum vacation pay an amount equal to forty (40)hours’ pay at his regular rate for each week of vacation for which he is eligible. Time off oil Workers’ Compensation due to injury incurred while in the employ of the Employer or time off for illness while receiving lost time benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be counted towards the twenty-six (26) weeks provided the employee is
not on layoff.
(d)	An employee discharged for cause who is eligible for vacation in that calendar year shall receive any vacation pay due him.
(e)	An employee to be eligible for any vacation pay must have worked during the preceding calendar year.
(f)	(i) Vacations shall be taken at times mutu-
ally agreeable to the Employer and the employee insofar as the operating schedule of the Employer will permit. As between employees preference as to time of vacation period shall be granted on the basis of seniority within the department and classification. No
21
employee shall be required to take his vacation prior to May 1,
(ii)	In connection with paragraph (f) (i) of this clause, the Company wishes to state that it will make every effort to allow employees to take vacations at the time desired. It must be recognized that when vacations are granted under these circumstances, senior employees will receive preferential consideration and the Company's ability to grant these vacations is dependent on the number of employees in the classification and department involved.
(g)	The Employer will post a notice to all employees each year, not later than February 1, setting out the planned dates for the July and Christmas shutdowns. The employees shall be required to notify the Employer cf their preferences for their vacation period by March 1 each year or forfeit their seniority preference for vacation periods. A final schedule of vacation times for employees shall be posted by the Employer not later than April 14 of each year.
(h)	If an employee voluntarily transfers to another Department prior to his scheduled vacation period, he may have to alter his scheduled vacation period to conform to the vacation schedule in the
22
new Department.
(i)	No employee who has worked forty-eight (48) weeks or more in the preceding calendar year shall be asked ty the Employer to take vacation pay in lieu of vacation time.
(j)	Vacation pay cheques shall be available to employees at the commencement of their designated vacation periods.
(k)	Employment of General Help during the regular plant shutdown shall be in order of plant seniority and on the following basis:
(i)	Employees must hold the General Help classification at time of posting (two weeks prior to regular plant shutdown), and,
(ii)	Once having bid on the posting must remain in the General Help classification from time of bidding up to and including the period they are scheduled to work during the shutdown.
(iii)	Should subsections (i) and (ii) above fail to provide a sufficient number of General Help employees a second notice will be posted offering the General Help work still available to classified employees in order cf seniority. Said classified employees (excluding
23
tradesmen) shall be compensated at the General Help rate.
(1)	Accrued vacation owing upon retirement, death, discharge and resignation shall be paid at the rate of two (2) per cent of gross earnings, earned during the accrual period, for each week of vacation for which the employee involved was eligible.
CLAUSE 10 - HOLIDAYS
(a)	New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Day before Christmas, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Eve are hereby designated as holidays. Except as subsequently limited, when any such holiday is observed on a regularly scheduled workday an employee who would otherwise have been scheduled to work shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for such holiday. Except as subsequently limited, when any such holiday is observed on Saturday or any other day which is not an employee’s regularly scheduled workday the Employer shall be entitled at its discretion, exercisable on an individual basis, to pay him eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate or to give him another day off with eight (8) hours’
pay at his regular rate within one (1) calendar week before or after the holiday.
24
(b)	To be eligible for unworked holiday pay, the following conditions will apply:
(i)	Except as subsequently modified, an employee must have worked his regular scheduled workday immediately preceding and following the day observed as the holiday.
(ii)	An employee who is away ill and receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or on Workers’ Compensation or who is on leave of absence for legitimate Union business will be eligible for unworked holiday pay providing he or she has worked at any time in the seven (7) calendar-day period immediately preceding or following the day observed as the holiday. Unworked holiday pay shall be reduced however by any Workers’ Compensation Benefit, Weekly Indemnity Benefit, or any other pay, paid for the same day. The intention is that there shall be no duplication of holiday pay, any other pay or lost time benefits.
(iii)	An employee who is unable to work his regularly scheduled workday either immediately preceding or following the day observed as the holiday and is not receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or Workers’ Compensation may be
25
excused for not working on one of the qualifying days (but not both) upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of his inability to work.
(iv)	When the day a holiday is observed occurs on what would have been a regularly scheduled workday during an employee’s vacation the employee shall receive holiday pay for such holiday in the amount of eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for such holiday in lieu of vacation pay for such day and will receive an additional day of vacation with vacation pay for such day at a mutually agreeable later date.
(v)	An employee who is laid off is not eligible for unworked holiday pay unless he or she is laid off during the ten (10) calendar-day period immediat ely preceding the holiday, provided he has worked his last scheduled workday prior to his lay-off.
(vi)	An employee hired or recalled and starting work on the day after the holi day will not be eligible for holiday pay.
(vii)	An employee who is discharged for cause prior to any holiday or who is under suspension during the period in which a holiday occurs is not eligible for holiday pay.
26
(viii)	An employee who is on leave of abse nee is not eligible for holiday pay, except if said employee has worked either the day immediately preceding or following the holiday and except for the provisions of Clause 10 (b) (ii).
(c)	An employee who is scheduled to work on a day observed as a holiday shall receive, in addition to the eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate, double time for all hours worked. Ary employee who refuses to work without a reasonable excuse the full time required of him on such holiday, shall not receive holiday pay for not working.
CLAUSE 11A - CHRISTMAS SHUTDOWN
There will be a Christmas Shutdown Period com-' mencing:
Friday, December 24, 1993, up to and including, Friday, December 31, 1993 and commencing: Monday, December 26, 1994 up to and including, Friday, December 30, 1994 and commencing: Monday, December 25, 1995, up to and including, Monday, January 01, 1996.
Designated Christmas Shutdown days in these periods will be:
Wednesday, December 29, 1993 Thursday, December 28, 1995
27
The designated plant holidays included in the Christmas Shutdown Period are and will be observed cn the following days:
Plant Holiday Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year’s Eve New Year’s Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year’s Eve New Year’s Day
Observed
Friday,	December24,1993
Monday,	December 27,1993
Tuesday,	December28,1993
Thursday,	December30,1993
Friday,	December31,1993
Tuesday,	December27,1994
Wednesday,	December28,1994
Monday,	December26,1994
Thursday,	December29,1994
Friday,	December30,1994
Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day New Year’s Eve New Year’s Day
Wednesday, December27,1995 Monday, December 25,1995 Tuesday, December26,1995 Friday, December29,1995 Monday, January 01, 1996
I.	Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his or her regular straight time hourly rate for each aforementioned Christmas Shutdown day and plant holiday. To be eligible for unworked Christmas Shutdown Period pay an employee must have worked his last scheduled workday
28
immediately preceding and following the period observed as the Christmas Shutdown except as subsequently modified.
II.	An employee who is away ill and receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or on Workers’ Compensation or who is on leave cf absence for legitimate Union business will be eligible for Christmas Shutdown Period pay providing he or she has worked at any time in the seven (7) calendar day period immediately preceding or following the Christmas Shutdown Period. Unworked Christmas Shutdown Period pay shall be reduced however, by any Workers’ Compensation Benefit, Weekly Indemnity Benefit or any other pay, paid for all or part of the Christmas Shutdown Period. The intention is that there shall be no duplication of Christmas Shutdown Period pay, any other pay or lost time benefits.
III.	An employee who is unable to work his regularly scheduled workday either immediately preceding or following the Christmas Shutdown Period and is not receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or Workers’ Compensation may be excused for not working on one of the
29
qualifying days (but not both) upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of his inability to work.
IV.	fin employee who is on an approved leave of absence will be eligible for Christmas Shutdown Period pay provided he or she has worked within the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately prior to the first day of the Christmas Shutdown leaded and has worked either the day immediately preceding or following the Christmas Shutdown Period.
V.	An employee who is laid off is not eligible for the Christmas Shutdown Period pay unless such employee is laid off during the seven (7) calendar day
period immediately preceding the commencement of the Christmas Shutdown provided such employee has worked his last scheduled workday prior to his layoff.
VI.	An employee hired or recalled and starting work on the day after the com pletion of the Christmas Shutdown Period will not be eligible for Christ-nas Shutdown Period pay.
VII.	An employee who is discharged forjust cause prior to the Christmas Shutdown
30
Period or who is under suspension during the period in which the Christmas Shutdown occurs is not eligible for Christmas Shutdown Period pay.
VIII.	An employee who is on leave of abse nee is not eligible for Christmas Shut down Period pay except as set out in Section IV.
IX.	Any employee who works a Christmas Shutdown day will receive for each day worked in addition to the eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate, a day off with pay at such time in the following year as he may be able to arrange with his supervisor.
Christmas Shutdown day work will be offered in order of highest seniority according to classification and department concerned considering also ability for the job. If sufficient help cannot be obtained in this manner, the Employer will assign needed employees in inverse order of seniority considering also ability for the job. Any employee scheduled to work who refuses to work without a reasonable excuse the full time required of him on such Christmas Shutdown day, shall not receive Christmas Shutdown day pay for not working.
31
X.	It is recognized that certain plant holidays as provided in Clause 10 are included in the Christmas Shutdown Period, and it is agreed that the eligibility requirements for holiday pay in Clause 10, Holidays, with regard to plant holidays included as part cf the Christmas Shutdown Period, are superseded by the eligibility requirements for Christmas Shutdown Period pay in this clause.
CLAUSE 11B - EASTER SHUTDOWN
There will be an Easter Shutdown Period commencing:
Friday, April 09,1993, up to and including, Friday,	April	16,	1993,	and commencing:
Friday, April 01,1994, up to and including, Friday,	April	08,	1994,	and commencing:
Friday, April 14,1995, up to and including, Friday,	April	21,	1995.
Designated Easter Shutdown days in these periods will be:
Tuesday,	April	13,	1993
Wednesday,	April	14,	1993
Thursday,	April	15,	1993
Friday,	April	16,	1993
Tuesday,	April	05,	1994
32
Wednesday, April 06, 1994 Thursday, April 07, 1994 Friday, April 08, 1994 Tuesday, April 18, 1995 Wednesday, April 19, 1995 Thursday, April 20, 1995 Friday, April 21, 1995
The designatedplant holidays included in the Easter Shutdown Period are and will be observed on the following days:
Plant Holiday Good Friday
Observed
Friday,	April	09,	1993
Friday,	April	01,	1994
Friday,	April	14,	1995
Easter Monday	Monday,	April 12,	1993
Monday,	April 04,	1994
Monday,	April 17,	1995
I.	Eligible employees shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his or her regular straight time hourly rate for each aforementioned Easter Shutdown day and plant holiday. To be eligible for unworked Easter Shutdown Period pay an employee must have worked his last scheduled workday immediately preced-
33
ing and following the period observed as the Easter Shutdown except as subsequently modified.
II.	An employee who is away ill and receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or on Workers’ Compensation or who is on leave of absence for legitimate Union business will be eligible for Easter Shutdown Period pay providing he or she has worked at any time in the seven (7) calendar day period immediately preceding or following the Easter Shutdown Period. Unworked Easter Shutdown Period pay shall be reduced however, by any Workers’ Compensation Benefit, Weekly Indemnity Benefit or any other pay, paid for all or part of the Easter Shutdown Period. The intention is that there shall be no duplication of Easter Shutdown Period pay, any other pay or lost time benefits.
III.	An employee who is unable to work his regularly scheduled workday either immediately preceding or following the Easter Shutdown Period and is not receiving Weekly Indemnity Benefits or Workers’ Compensation may be excused for not working on one of the qualifying days (but not both) upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of his inability to
34
work.
IV.	An employee who is cn an approved leave of absence will be eligible for Easter Shutdown Period pay provided he or she has worked within the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately prior to tbe first day of tbe Easter Shutdown Period and has worked either the day immediately preceding or following the Easter Shutdown Period.
V.	An employee who is laid off is not eligible for the Easter Shutdown Period pay unless such employee is laid off during the seven (7) calendar day period immediately preceding the commencement of the Easter Shutdown provided such employee has worked his last scheduled workday prior to his layoff.
VI.	An employee hired or recalled and starting work on the day after the completion of the Easter Shutdown Period will not be eligible for Easter Shutdown Period pay.
VII.	An employee who is discharged forjust cause prior to the Easter Shutdown Period or who is under suspension during the period in which the Easter Shutdown occurs is not eligible for Easter Shutdown Period pay.
VIII.	An employee who is on leave of
35
absence is not eligible for Easter Shutdown Period pay except as set out in Section IV.
IX.	Any employee who works an Easter Shutdown day will receive for each day worked in addition to the eight (8) hours' pay at his regular rate, a day off with pay at such time in the remaining year as he may be able to arrange with his supervisor.
Easter Shutdown day work will be offered in order of highest seniority according to classification and department concerned considering also ability for the job. If sufficient help cannot be obtained in this manner, the Employer will assign needed employees in inverse order cf seniority considering also ability for the job. Any employee scheduled to work who refuses to work without a reasonable excuse the full time required of him on such Easter Shutdown day, shall not receive Easter Shutdown day pay for not working.
X.	It is recognized that certain plant holidays as provided in Clause 10 are included in the Easter Shutdown Period, and it is agreed that the eligibility requirements for holiday pay in Clause 10, Holidays, with regard to plant holidays
36
included as part of the Easter Shutdown Period, are superseded by the eligibility requirements for Easter Shutdown Period pay in this clause.
CLAUSE 12 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
(a)	A leave of absence, supported by proper evidence, for a reasonable period not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive months, will be granted for personal illness or accident, death or serious illness in the immediate family, or military reserve training. Such leaves may be extended.
(b)	A leave of absence not exceeding ninety (90) consecutive calendar days may be granted to an employee for the time during which he is serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed on a conviction arising from the operation of a motor vehicle.
(c)	(i) A leave of absence for personal reasons
may be granted for a period not to exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar days.
(ii) A leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) consecutive calendar days will be granted to an employee who is in jail awaiting trial. Such leave must be applied for in writing within four (4)
37
consecutive working days from date of detention by either the employee involved, his legal representative or an executive of the Union acting on his behalf.
(d)	Upon submission of satisfactory evidence, a leave of absence of up to thirty (30) consecutive calendar days for the purpose of preparing for and writing examinations at a recognized university, community college, technical, trade or high school will be granted. In order to qualify for such leave, an employee must have a minimum of one year’s seniority,
(e)	If an employee is selected to serve the Union in a full-time official capacity, he will be granted a leave cf absence for a period not to exceed three (3) years. The Industrial Relations Manager may extend such leave after consultation with the National Union.
(f)	A leave of absence for a period not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive months will be granted to an employee who is elected or appointed to a full time position with a credit union chartered by a provincial or federal government to service the employees of Hixan Walker & Sons Limited, Walkerville, Ontario.
38
(g)	Union members, up to nine (9) in number, shall be granted a leave of absence for a reasonable period to conduct legitimate Union business.
(h)	The Company will grant to employees selected by the Union a leave of absence for twenty (20) days of class time in any one calendar year plus required travel time where necessary, for the purpose of attending the C.A.W. courses on trade union functions. Such leave of absence may be broken into shorter segments during the twelve (12) month period commencing on the first day of leave. For this purpose the Company will contribute to a special fund the amount of one (1) cent per compensated straight time hour per employee and will pay such monies on a quarterly basis to a trust fund established by the National Union C.A.W, at the Canadian Region Headquarters, 205 Placer Court, Willowdale, Ontario, M2H 3H9.
(i)	A paternity or adoptive leave of absence may be granted to eligible employees for a reasonable period to remain at home in order to care for the child. Such leaves will not exceed 6 (six) consecutive months duration.
(j)	Maternity Leave of Absence
A pregnant employee should report the fact of her pregnancy as solon as that condition is determined, and also upon recall, using the Company
39
form provided for this purpose, and such employee having seniority will be eligible for a maternity leave of absence. Such leave cf absence shall commence at any time during the eleven (1 1) week period prior to the expectant date and terminate no later than six (6) months after the delivery date. If pregnancy prevents a female employee who is eligible for a maternity leave of absence from performing her regular duties she may be required to commence her leave earlier.
A pregnant employee, having seniority, desiring a maternity leave of absence, must apply for such leave using the Company form provided for this purpose. Thereafter, the Company will notify the employee of the date of commencement of her leave. The employee must notify the Company as soon as possible, of the actual birth date, at which time the Company will notify her of the termination date of her leave.
A female employee on maternity leave may return to work if her seniority so warrants at any time after the birth of her child up to the expiration date of her leave of absence. However, the return to work of a female employee at any time after the birth of her child is dependent upon the written approval of her attending physician and the Company physician, which must be obtained one (1) week prior to her proposed return.
Maternity, paternity or adoptive leave of absence is not a leave of absence for illness and is
40
without pay. Seniority will accumulate during maternity, paternity and adoptive leave.
(k) All leaves of absence shall be granted without loss of seniority rights, but if obtained through fraud or misrepresentation or if the employee obtains employmentelsewhere during such leave of absence, he shall be subject to discharge. Where application for such leaves is required, the application must be made in writing to the Industrial Relations Manager at least one (1) week before the beginning of such leave.
CLAUSE 13 - JOB VACANCIES
The Employer will advertise vacancies for seventy-two (72) hours and the Union stewards in all departments will receive copies of all posted job vacancies. Union stewards, if authorized by employees on vacation, may make application for each vacancy for such employees during the advertised period.
The Employer will advertise any new classifications created by this contract plant-wide.
The Employer agrees to meet with the Union president, vice- president and
41
(a) (i)
(ii)
(iii)
area representative to discuss the filling of advertised vacancies prior to actual selection if the applicant with the most seniority is not selected.
(iv)	In filling of all job vacancies, the Employer shall consider seniority as well as ability. Applications once made cannot be revoked and the senior applicant with the ability to do the job must take the job.
(v)	The Employer will decide in its sole discretion whether or not any classification or vacancy will be filled. This is not intended to apply to a vacancy in a job classification created by the temporary absence of the incumbent if the work ordinarily performed by the incumbent in such classification is to be performed during such absence.
(b)	Employees selected to fill vacancies shall be given a fair trial period with any necessary job instruction in the new job for a period up to thirty (30) calendar days, and if such employees fail to perform in accordance with the Employer’s requirements, they shall be returned to their permanent jobs.
(c)	The Employer agrees to advertise within
42
fifteen (15) working days vacancies caused by the death or retirement of an employee, or by an employee qualifying in another permanent job, subject to section (a)(v) of this clause.
The Employer agrees to advertise vacancies caused by a layoff.
(d)	When a vacancy is advertised and there are no applicants, the Employer agrees when filling such vacancy to fill the vacancy with the general help employee having the least seniority considering also ability for the job.
(e)	Applications for job postings will be valid for thirty (30) calendar days from the date cf posting expiry.
(f)	Successful applicants will maintain the rate of their permanent job classification until qualified on their new job classification. Successful applicants for jobs on which they have qualified within the previous five (5) year period shall receive the rate of the new job classification immediately upon assuming the job.
(g)	TEMPORARY VACANCY is a vacancy created as a result of sickness, accident, vacation or leave of absence and is likely to last more than thirty (30) calendar days. Such vacancies shall be filled as required on a temporary basis for a period
43
of up to twelve months after which the job will be considered permanent. In all cases of filling temporary vacancies by advertisement, the employee so selected will return to his permanent job and rate at the end of the temporaryjob.
Subject to Section (b) a successful applicant on a temporary job vacancy will remain on the job until the temporary vacancy is completed. Such successful applicant may only bid on a permanent job vacancy.
(h)	PERMANENT VACANCY. Subject to Section (g) all job vacancies shall be permanent. When a vacancy is likely to last for less than six months it shall be so noted on the job posting. This notation is an estimate only and is subject to change. Subject to Section (b) a successful applicant on a permanent job vacancy will remain on such job for a period of at least six (6) months or the duration of the job, whichever is less. During the aforementioned period, such successful applicant may bid only for a higher permanent or higher temporary job vacancy, or for a permanent job vacancy caused by the death or retirement of an employee.
(i)	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT is an assignment that shall be limited to thirty (30) calendar days or less.
(i) Any employee temporarily assigned to
44
a higher rated classification shall receive for a minimum of four (4) hours the rate of the classification to which assigned and if assigned temporarily to a lower rated classification shall receive the rate of his permanent or temporary classification while assigned to such work.
(ii)	Temporary assignments to a higher rated job classification shall be in the order cf seniority within the department concerned, provided that the senior employee has the ability to do the job. An employee need not accept an assignment to a higher rated job classification provided another employee with less seniority in the department has the ability to do the jcb.
(iii)	Temporary assignments to a lower rated job classification shall be in inverse order of seniority within the department concerned.
(iv)	Interdepartmental assignments shall be in inverse order of seniority.
(j)	GENERAL HELP ASSIGNMENT
For the purposes of general help assignments for the Blending and Drain & Fill Departments
45
when general help is not available, assignments will be made from within the Maturing and Blending Division.
(k)	CLASSIFIED ASSIGNMENTS TO DEPARTMENTS OUTSIDE MATURING WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT
1.	Separate lists for job classifications which are most frequently available, are to be prepared in each cf the following areas:
(a)	Blending
(b)	Drain and Fill
Other job classifications will be treated similarly if the need arises.
2.	A posting is to be made notifying the employees of availability of such assignments and stating that if they desire to be on one or more lists, they should sign their names accordingly. Employees signing such lists must accept assignments when offered.
3.	Assignments to any job thereafter will be made from these lists according to seniority and ability. In the event that there are no names on a list, the lowest seniority employee within the Maturing Department with the ability to do the job will be assigned.
4.	Employees desiring to add or delete their names to and from these lists must
46
notify their immediate foreman and such addition or deletion will he effective on the Monday of the week following such notification, provided notice of such deletion or addition is received prior to noon Thursday cf each week.
(1)	AREA ASSIGNMENT WITHIN MATURING WAREHOUSE DEPARTMENT GENERAL HELP
1,	A separate list is to be prepared for Pike Creek upon which general help employees wishing to work in that area are to be listed.
2,	A posting is to be made notifying the employees of the above and stating that if they desire to work in the Pike Creek area they should sign the attached list.
3,	Assignments to that area thereafter will be made from this list in accordance with seniority and ability. Employees signing such list must accept assignments when offered.
4,	In the case of the situation where not enough employees can be assigned from the list, employees who can perform the assignment will be assigned to the area.
5,	Addition or deletion of names, will be effective on the Monday of the week following a request for addition or deletion, pro-
47
vided notice of deletion or addition has been received prior to noon Thursday c£ each week.
(m)	The Company agrees to a half day limit on stacking at the end of Line 8, it being understood that if an employee requests to stack for a whole day the Company may, at its option, so permit the employee to stack for a whole day.
(n)	Permanent leaders for the Trades Departments, when absent for vacation or short-term illness, will be replaced in accordance with the assignment clause when there are three (3) or more employees in the department working during regular hours.
CLAUSE 14 ■ SENIORITY
(a) Employees hired by the Employer shall be deemed temporary employees for a trial period of sixty (60) calendar days after hiring and during such period may be released by the Employer at any time without the necessity of specifying any cause therefor. Upon the request of the Union President the Employer will discuss the reasons for such release.If a temporary employee works for a period of less than sixty (60) calendar days and is laid off, and is later rehired, the first period worked will apply against the sixty (60) calendar days,
48
provided not more than one (1) year has elapsed between the date of layoff and the date he is subsequently rehired. On the day following the completion of this sixty (60) calendar-day period, the temporary employee shall become a regular employee, and his seniority shall date from his date of hire but not more than one (1) year prior to the date he completes his probationary period.
(b) (i) SHORTAGE OF WORK. If, due to a shortage of work, an employee does not have sufficient seniority to remain in his regular department, he may be transferred to another department and shall be paid the rate of the job to which transferred except for the provisions of Clause 21, paragraph (n), Any employee so transferred shall have the right to return to his regular department when it again adds to its staff; provided, however, said transfer has not been for a period exceeding four (4) months, senior employees to have preference in the return to said department.
(ii)	When the Manufacturing division is scheduled to cease its regular operations for a period of 90 days or less, classified employees transferred from Manufacturing to other departments, as
49
a result of aforesaid cessation of production, shall retain their classified rates until operations resume at which time said employees, (subject to the employee’s right to bid on anotherjob), shall return to their respective classifications.
(c)	LAYOFFS. If at any time fewer employees shall be needed, employees shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority considering also ability for the job.
When there is not sufficient work for forty (40) hours for all employees, the Employer agrees to lay off employees in inverse order of their seniority, considering also ability for the job, and arrange the work schedules so that senior employees have forty (40) hours of work. The Employer agrees to give as much notice as possible prior to any layoff. This section shall not affect the work guarantees under Clause 34 (G.W.F.),
(d)	RECALLS
(i)	When the Employer again adds to the number of employees, those laid off shall be recalled in order of their seniority, considering also ability for the job. An employee recalled must report for work within seven (7) calendar days after recall. If the employee
50
requests the Employer within such seven (7) calendar days in writing, he will be bypassed until the entire seniority list has been exhausted, at which time, if he still does not accept recall, he shall be considered to have left the employ of the Employer.
(ii)	Employees recalled but not able to return because of illness will notify the Employer when they are able to return to work and will be called back the beginning of the week following presentation of satisfactory evidence of recovery, if able to perform the duties as required, replacing an employee with less seniority.
(iii)	Employees must keep the Company advised of their current addresses and telephone numbers.
(e)	Subject to Section (f), seniority shall be determined in accordance with seniority number. Employees will be recalled in numerical order and laid off in inverse numerical order.
(f)	For the purpose of movement within the Trades Departments, trade seniority and ability will govern (subject to Clause 13 (a) [iii]). Employees of the Trades Departments shall not be eligible for
51
any openings in the plant or seniority rights outside the Trades Departments. In the case of shortage cf work within the Trades Departments, any transfer within the Trades Departments will be according to inverse order of trade seniority, considering also ability for the job. Layoff will, in all cases, be in inverse order of trade seniority, considering also, ability for the job (subject to Clause 14 (c),
Note: The intent is, that Trades personnel will not be eligible to perform production work and production workers will not be eligible to perform trades work.
Employees from other plant departments who successfully bid and qualify on a Trades Department job classification shall have their trade seniority start thirty (30) calendar days prior to their date of qualification.
(g)	The movement of an employee from one department to another shall not affect such employee’s basic seniority as an employee of the Employer.
(h)	LOSS OF SENIORITY.
An employee shall forfeit all seniority rights for the following reasons:
(i)	Discharge for proper cause (subject to Clause 16).
(ii)	Quitting (voluntarily leaving the
52
employ of the Employer).
(iii)	Failure to report for work on the workday following termination of a leave of absence or extension thereof (subject to (iv».
(iv)	Failure to report for work for four (4) successive working days without notifying the Employer. When this condition exists, the Employer undertakes to so advise the appropriate Union Steward at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the end of the fourth workday, so as to afford the Union the opportunity to advise such employee or employees of their obligation to the Employer in this regard.
(v)	Failure to report for work within seven (7) calendar days after recall, subject to Section (d) of this Clause (Recalls).
(vi)	For Employees whose seniority date is on or after January 1, 1978, layoff in excess of their recall rights as established by the following scale:
-	Seniority over 60 days and up to 2 years - recall rights equal 2 years
-	Seniority over 2 years and up to 10 years - recall rights equal 3 years
-	Seniority over 10 years - recall rights equal 4 years
Before any employee is discharged, or
53
when an employee loses his seniority for any of the other foregoing reasons, the Steward in his department will be notified.
(i)	Pertaining to non trades personnel - the employer will favour senior employees (with the ability) in the choice of shifts.
Qualified employees in the same classification may switch shifts once in a two week period.
(j)	SENIORITY LIST, The Employer will supply the Union with a seniority list twice a year.
CLAUSE 15 - LETTERS OF REPRIMAND
The Company agrees that it will not take into consideration letters of reprimand on the record of any employee for any purpose after eighteen (18) months from the date of such letter.
CLAUSE 16 • DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
An employee who feels that he or she has been unjustly discharged or suspended may enter a grievance at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) business days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. If the employee does not file such grievance within the five (5) business
54
days prescribed, the matter shall not be entitled to consideration. This clause does not apply to temporary employees. Before an employee is discharged or when an employee is suspended, the Steward in his department or, if unavailable an appropriate Union official will be notified. An employee discharged by the Employer for any cause shall be paid off as soon as possible thereafter. Any employee suspended shall retain and accumulate seniority.
When Management is contemplating disciplinary action after the normal working hours, the following Local 2027 officers are to be contacted:
1.	The initial person to be contacted is the Steward of the department where the incident occurred.
2.	In the event it is impossible to contact the Steward, the Area Representative of the department should be notified.
3.	If both the Steward and the Area Representative are not available, the Grievance Chairman is responsible for the handling of the action.
CLAUSE 17 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
(a) In the event that any employee or group of employees considers that he has a complaint which might result in a grievance or if either party shall be of the opinion that any provision cf this agree-
55
ment has been or is being violated, an earnest effort shall be made by the Union and the Employer to adjust such complaint as quickly as possible in the following manner and in accordance with the agreed upon procedure as set out in section (f) of this clause:
STEP 1. Before a written grievance is filed, an earnest effort will be made by the employee jointly with his Steward and his foreman to settle the complaint by discussion at a place and time mutually convenient.
STEP 2. If such discussion fails to settle the complaint, then the employee having a grievance against the Employer shall have same presented in writing, on forms provided to the Grievance Chairman by the Employer, to the Steward of the department within five (5) business days after occurrence of the alleged cause for grievance. Otherwise, unless there is a reasonable excuse, such grievance may not be heard or considered by the Employer or the Union. The written grievance shall first be presented by the Steward representing the aggrieved employee to the appropriateDivisional Superintendent with a copy of the grievance to the Industrial Relations Manager.
STEP 3. In the event that this procedure fails to produce a satisfactory settlement within five (5) business days, the matter shall be referred by the chairman of the Grievance Committee of the Union to the Industrial Relations Manager with copies cf
56
the appeal to the appropriate Divisional Superintendent.
A grievance will not be denied at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure until the Industrial Relations Manager or his designate and the grievance committee have met to discuss the matter.
(h) In the event that the last named procedure fails to produce a satisfactory settlement within five (5) business days, which period may be extended by mutual consent for the purposes of completing investigations by both parties, or seeking additional assistance and joint discussions of the grievance, it shall then be submitted to arbitration.
(c)	It is agreed that any grievance referred to arbitration shall be ruled on by a single arbitrator selected by agreement between the Company and the Union. If the parties are unable to select an arbitrator within thirty (30) calendar days of any first meeting held for such purpose, the matter may be referred to the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario, or the Arbitration Commission for the appointment of an arbitrator.
(d)	The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered within thirty (30) calendar days and the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties involved, and shall conclusively determine the matter. The arbitrator shall in respect
57
of a grievance involving suspension or discharge of an employee be entitled to modify or set aside such penalty if in his opinion it is just and equitable to so do, and to determine also the question of back pay cr compensation, if any, due any employee. Any expense involved in arbitration shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
(e)	The President or Vice-President of the Union may submit a policy grievance at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
(f)	The following procedure is subject to Clause 5 and other provisions of this clause and is meant to detail the general manner in which complaints and grievances are to be handled. It is subject to amendment by mutual consent as conditions warrant.
It is agreed that maximum effort will be expended by both parties in resolving complaints at Step 1 of the grievance procedure. Accordingly, the foreman of the complaining employee will arrange for the Steward to meet with such employee to investigate the complaint, If the Steward or the foreman request, a meeting will be arranged for joint discussion between the complaining employee, the Steward and the foreman. If this discussion does not resolve the problem, the Area Representative and the appropriate Department Head may be called in to the discussion, If there is still no
58
resolution of the problem, the complaint goes into ihe form of a formal written grievance at Step 2.
At Step 2, the Divisional Superintendent and the Grievance Chairman may arrange meetings to discuss the problem. At these meetings, any person who could add to the possible solution of the problem may be requested to attend and contribute.
At Step 3, the matter is in the hands of the Industrial Relations Manager and the Grievance Committee and every effort will be made to resolve the problem short of arbitration.
The above procedure is not intended to deprive either party from seeking any additional assistance they may require at any step in the procedure.
(g)	Neither the National Union nor the Local Union shall call or authorize, and no officer, official or agent of the National or Local Union shall counsel, procure, support or encourage a strike, sitdown strike, slow strike, boycott, jurisdictional strike, sympathetic strike, cessation of work or any other stoppage of work during the life of this contract or extension thereof. The Employer shall not engage in any lockout during the life of this contract or extension thereof.
In the event any employee or group of employees covered by this contract shall, during the life of this contract or extension thereof, participate in any strike, sitdown strike, slow strike, boycott,
59
jurisdictional strike, sympathetic strike, cessation of work or any other stoppage of work, upon the request of the Employer, both the National and the local Union and their officers and agents shall immediately direct such employees or group of employees to resume work. Any employee or group of employees who participate in the above types of strike activity shall be subject to immediate discharge or such other discipline as the Employer may impose.
If the National Union and the Local Union fulfil the obligations under this clause, they shall not be sued for damage arising out of the above stated actions of any employee or group of employees covered by this contract.
In the event of any strike, employees of the Employer not engaged therein, and particularly Powerhouse employees and the Plant Police, shall be permitted free access to the Employer's premises for plant maintenance and plant protection.
CLAUSE 18 ■ STRIKE BOUND GOODS
Employees shall have the right to refuse to handle for shipment merchandise destined to any employer who is engaged in a labour dispute with the National Union or any of its local unions.
Employees shall have the same right regarding merchandise emanating from any establishment involved in a labour dispute with the National
60
Union or its local unions, nor shall the Employer request any employee to perform any such work.
Written notice by registered mail from the National President of the National Union who shall outline the facts of the dispute and the parties involved shall constitute the necessary condition for the operation of this clause, and promptly upon settlement of the labour dispute the National President shall notify the Employer and Local Union No. 2027 thereof by telephone or telegraph. Upon receipt of such notice, the employees shall immediately resume handling of such merchandise.
The term "labour dispute" shall be applied only to a situation where the National Union or one of its local unions is the recognized bargaining agent cf the Employer's employees.
Employees shall also have the right to refuse to cross any picket lines established by any local union affiliated with The National Automobile, Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers Union cf Canada (CAW - CANADA) and/or an affiliate of the AFL-CIO.
CLAUSE 19 - NO PYRAMIDING
(a)	Hours worked by an employee in any work-week on which overtime or premium rates have once been allowed shall not be used again in any other overtime computation with the exception of hours worked on a holiday.
61
(b)	Overtime shall be paid on a weekly or daily basis, whichever is greater but not for both.
(c)	Overtime or premium rates may not be pyramided on any given day of work; if, for example, weekly overtime, daily overtime, holiday premium pay, and Saturday or Sunday premium pay occur on the same day, the employee shall receive only one such overtime or premium rate on a given day, whichever is higher.
(d)	A holiday that occurs on any day, Monday through Friday, and is not worked, but which the employee would have worked had it not been for such holiday, and for which the employee is eligible to receive holiday pay, shall be counted as a day worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime for hours actually worked. In no event will the holiday, if not worked, be paid for at other than the regular rate.
CLAUSE 20 ■ RECESS PERIODS
Employees in certain departments now receive a recess of 15 minutes in the morning and 10 minutes in the afternoon. This practice will be continued but not extended.
The Company shall not reschedule lunch and recess periods to excess.
Bottling direct labour and other related
62
designated personnel, will be eligible to receive an additional two prescheduled 10 minute relief breaks daily during the life of this agreement.
CLAUSE 21 - WAGES
(a)	The starting rate for new employees (excluding tradesmen) is $1,00 below job rate for 2080 hours worked. An employee shall be entitled to the maximum rate of pay provided for his classification after 2080 hours worked with the Employer, subject to Clause 13(f), Tradesmen will receive $1.00 below job rate during their 60-day probationary period. Except as later herein qualified, employees shall receive wages in accordance with the attached wage schedule.
(b)	COST-OF-LIVING, There will be a cost-of-living allowance calculated on hours worked as follows:
An increase of one (1) cent per hour worked for each rise of ,35 points in the Consumer Price Index or a decrease of one (1) cent per hour worked for each drop of ,35 points in the Consumer Price Index.
The cost-of-living allowance will be established in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1961=100) and hereinafter referred to as the Consumer Price Index which was 223,1 as of
63
January 1978 (December 1977).
In no event will a decrease in the Consumer Price Index reduce the contract rates listed in the attached wage schedule.
(c)	The amount of any cost-of-living allowance in effect at any time shall be included in computing overtime pay, holiday pay, call-in pay, vacation pay, jury duty pay and bereavement pay.
(d)	Index is to be reviewed each quarter commencing January, 1993. Revision in cost-of-living allowance will take effect the first of the pay period commencing after Index publication.
(e)	The continuance of the cost-of-living allowance shall be contingent upon the availability of the official monthly Statistics Canada Consumers Price Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index published January 1, 1978, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. In the event the form or basis of the Index is changed, the parties agree to request said Statistics Canada to continue to furnish, for the term of this agreement, the Index in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the Index published January 1, 1978.
(f)	Commencing with January 1993, the cost of living allowance will have alternate .010 (one cent) and .020 (two cent) diversions or deductions to the
64
company per quarter for each of the twelve quarters of the new collective agreement. This total diversion of .180 (eighteen cents) is non-retrievable.
PROCEDURES FOR PAYMENT OF HOURLY WAGES,
COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCES AND NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUMS
(g)	BASIC HOURLY RATES OF PAY are those noted in the Schedule cf Hourly Wage Rates for Classifications.
(h)	THE REGULAR HOURLY RATE OF PAY is a total of the above Basic Hourly Rate plus the current Cost-of-Living Allowance and is used in the computation of pay for hours worked, overtime pay, holiday pay, call-in pay, vacation pay, jury duty pay and bereavement pay. (Reference: paragraph (c) of Clause 21 - Wages).
(i)	PAYMENT OF NIGHT SHIFT PREMIUM. Employees on shift work, other than the day shift, shall receive a night shift premium of seventy (70) cents per hour for all hours worked on the second shift (4p,m. to midnight) and eighty (80) cents per hour for all hours worked on the third shift (12 midnight to 8 a.m.).
For the purpose of paying Night Shift Premium only, the shifts shall be 12 o’clock midnight
65
to 8 a.m. at .800 per hour, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at .00 per hour, and 4 p.m. to 12 midnight at .700 per hour; an employee shall be paid N.S.P, for all hours worked on that day on which the majority of his hours were worked. An employee who has an equal number of hours in two shifts shall be paid the higher N.S.P. rate for all hours worked.
(j)	OVERTIMEHOURS WORKED. Night Shift Premium for afternoon or night shifts is paid at the overtime rate of time and one-half for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period (Clause 8 (a)), or forty (40) hours in a week, and for hours worked on a scheduled day off.
Night Shift Premium is paid at straight time for scheduled hours of work on the premium paid days of Saturday, Sunday and Holidays and at the rate of time and one-half for overtime hours worked on these days.
(k)	Employees on a Permanent Afternoon or Night Shift receive the N.S.P. rate for their shift (.700 or ,800 per horn) in addition to their regular hourly rate of pay for holiday, vacation, bereavement time and jury duty compensation.
(l)	Employees Permanently on Continually Rotating Shifts receive the average N.S.P, rate of fifty (50) cents per hour in addition to their regular
66
hourly rate of pay for holiday, vacation, bereavement time and jury duty compensation. The Employer has included in the group of employees permanently on continuously rotating shifts any employee who rotates shifts at least one (1) week in each five (5) weeks.
(m)	Employees Temporarily Assigned to Afternoon or Night Shiftwork receive the N.S.P. (.100 or .800 per hour) of the shift they are working cn in addition to their regular hourly wage rate for funeral time, jury duty and holiday pay only occurring while they are so assigned.
(n)	SHORTAGE OF WORK. If an employee has held a permanent classification for twelve (12) consecutive months and is removed from such classification due to a shortage of work or if an employee is removed from his permanent classification as a result of technological change, he shall receive the rate of such permanent classification, if higher than the classification to which he was transferred, for a maximum of thirty (30) calendar days from date of transfer. This does not apply to a person who is laid off.
(o)	ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW RATE. The establishment, during the term of this Agreement, of a wage rate for a new job classification or for the operation of new equipment installed during
67
such term shall be subject to negotiation. If negotiation has failed to bring about an agreement on a rate therefore, it shall be referred to arbitration at the request of either party.
(p)	GENERAL HELP CLASSIFICATION, CONSTRUCTION DEPARTMENT, It is hereby agreed that an employee holding the classification of General Help in the Construction Department will receive an additional eight (8) cents per hour over and above the rate of job class (801) while assigned to a Tradesman working on Trades tasks.
General Help employees in the Construction Department will be given preference for such assignments in order of highest seniority in the department, with the exception, that those General Help employees in such department scheduled on a rotating basis for Janitorial duties on the afternoon shift will be ineligible for such assignments.
It is understood that the additional eight (8) cents per hour does not apply when Construction General Help employees are not assigned to Tradesmen and/or are assigned duties by the Group Leader in that department.
Effective January 04, 1993 classification 862 "Tradesmen's Helper" shall be eliminated. This section applies to incumbents who will be grandfathered while holding this classification.
(q)	PRACTICE OF PAYING THE INSPEC-
68
TOR/REPAIRS AND SUPERVISORS. An employee working for a period of time in the Inspector/Repair or Supervisory Classification,job class numbers 892, 890, and 893 will be paid the rate of such classifications to the nearest full hour in favour of the employee.
(r)	WEEKLY PAY. Employees will be paid
weekly.
(s)	There will be a bonus payable to eligible employees in the amount of $250.00 in July of each year of the collective agreement.
To be eligible an employee must be on the active payroll and have worked all or part of each of twenty-six (26) calendar weeks during the preceding calendar year.
69
-J
o
HOURLY WAGE RATES
Effective January 04, 1993 - January 02, 1996 Except as noted and subject to Contract Terms
DISTILLERY	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
802 Still Operator			20.84	20.94	21.09
803 Cooker Operator . 				20.45	20.55	20.70
804 Mill Operator			20.34	20.44	20.59
871 Special Utility Person			20.04	20.14	20.29
100 Fermentation Process Operator ....		20.45	20.55	20.70
801 General Help			19.72	19.82	19.97
C PRODUCTS			
810 Evaporator Operator 			20.45	20.55	20.70
878 Dryer Operator			20.45	20.55	20.70
801 General Help			19.72	19.82	19.97

GRAIN 723 Grain Control Operator	 801 General Help	 BLENDING & MATURING SERVICES	Jan. 4/93 . . 20.52 . . 19.72	Jan. 1/94 20.62 19.82	Jan. 1/95 20.77 19.97
801 General Help		. . 19.72	19.82	19.97
BLENDING			
816 Control Room Operator		. . 20.52	20.62	20.77
819 Process Operator ** 		. . 20.44	20.54	20.69
103 Deionizer		. . 20.52	20.62	20.77
105 Utility Operator - Surge		. . 20.52	20.62	20.77
801 General Help		. . 19.72	19.82	19.97
DRAIN & Fil l			
897 Control Room Operator		. . 20.38	20.48	20.63
-J
K>
	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
910 Group Leader			20.25	20.35	20.50
914 Detail Person			20.19	20.29	20.44
805 Utility Line Operator			 20.19	20.29	20.44
913 Barrel Marker *			19.83	19.93	20.08
919 Barrel Inspector Stacker 			20.22	20.32	20.47
801 General Help 			19.72	19.82	19.97
MATURING - PIKE CREEK			
853 Barrel Inspector Stacker 		.... 20.22	20.32	20.47
Plus .030 For Working in Warehouse (Special Rate)			
BOTTLING			
726 Group Leader - Whiskey Person . . . .		20.52	20.62	20.77
850 Group Leader			20.10	20.20	20.35
854 Whiskey Person			20.20	20.30	20.45
w
	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/91	Jan. 1/95
851 Spare Stock Person - Dry Supplies . . .	. . . 19.94	20.04	20.19
714 Stock Person - Dry Supplies 		. . . 20.42	20.52	20.67
824 Gift Wrap Stock Person		. . . 19.80	19.90	20.05
892 Group Leader - Lines		. . . 20.10	20.20	20.35
893 Inspector/Repair 		. . . 19.98	20.08	20.23
884 Bottling Machine Operator		. . . 19.89	19.99	20.14
890 Leaker Room - Matron		. . . 19.95	20.05	20.20
801 General Help		. . . 19.72	19.82	19.97
MATERIALS HANDLING			
713 Receiver (week)		. . 806.31	810.31	816.31
733 Cleric (week) 		. . 806.31	810.31	816.31
852 Group Leader - Checker Driver			20.26	20.36	20.51
836 Dispatcher			20.21	20.31	20.46
894 Group Leader Checker 		. . . 20.21	20.31	20.46
835 Palletizer Operator			20.10	20.20	20.35

833	Leaker Person 	 834	Folk Truck Driver 	 801 General Help	 DISTRIBUTION CENTRE - PIKE CREEK	Jan. 4/93 . 20.02 . 19.97 . 19.72	Jan. 1/94 20.12 20.07 19.82	Jan. 1/95 20.27 20.22 19.97
882 Utility Operator		. 20.52	20.62	20.77
BOTTLING MAINTENANCE			
875 Maintenance Leader		. 22.98	23.08	23.23
839 Machinist		. 22.53	22.63	22.78
870 Bottling Maint’ce Stock Person 		. 20.11	20.21	20.36
801 General Help		. 19.72	19.82	19.97
FINISHED GOODS JANITORIAL			
104 Group Leader		. 20.17	20.27	20.42
801 General Help		. 19.72	19.82	19.97
Ln
GARAGE/GROUNDS DEPARTMENT	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
875 Group Leader		. . . 22.98	23.08	23.23
832 Tractor Operator		. . . 20.11	20.21	20.36
879 Panel Truck Driver		. . . 20.34	20.44	20.59
828 Truck Driver		. . . 20.22	20.32	20.47
801 General Help		. . . 19.72	19.82	19.97
CENTRAL MAINTENANCE			
875 Maintenance Leader		. . . 22.98	23.08	23.23
841 Fitter/Welder ***		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
844 Sheet Metal		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
845 Pipe Insulator		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
842 Carpenter		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
839 Machinist		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
838 Electrician		. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
837 Instrument Mechanic 			. . . 22.53	22.63	22.78
-0
On
846 Storekeeper................
862 Construction General Help 801 General Help...............
Jan. 4/93
20.45
19.80
19.72
Jan. 1/94
20.55
19.90
19.82
Jan. 1/95
20.70
20.05
19.97
FIRE PROTECTION
841 Fitter/Welder
22.53	22.63	22.78
When the incumbents in the classifications of 913 -B arrel Marker and 862-Construction General Help leave such classifications after January 04, 1993 each such classification will revert to classification 801 General Help.
** Company to set aside the terms of the "Samuel Award.
*** Training will be provided and certain incumbents will be grandfathered.
Note: General Help classification while working with trades will receive an additional $.08.

CURRENTLY INACTIVE CLASSIFICATIONS HOURLY WAGE RATES
Effective January 04, 1993 - January 02, 1996 Except as noted and subject to Contract Terms
813 Process Man .................
707 Assistant Foreman (week) . . .
829 Pumpman .....................
910 Group Leader.................
919 Barrel Inspector Stacker
855	Hoop Driver Operator..........
856	Bung Borer Operator...........
848 Barrel Handler.................
801 General Help (Barrel Recond.) 724 Assistant Foreman (week) . . .
Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94
. $19.77	$19.87
. 821.82	825.82
. . 20.05	20.15
. . 20.15	20.25
. . 20.06	20.16
. . 19.99	20.09
. . 19.99	20.09
. . 19.86	19.96
. . 19.72	19.82
. 823.27	827.27
Jan. 1/95 $20.02 831.82
20.30 20.40
20.31
20.24
20.24 20.11 19.97
833.27
oo
	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
817 Utility Man - Whisky			20.00	20.10	20.25
715 Dry Supplies			20.00	20.10	20.25
885 Stamp Room Leader. 			19.84	19.94	20.09
815 Leaker Rocm Assistant			19.63	19.73	19.88
849 Stamp Room Helper.			19.51	19.61	19.76
705 Assistant Foreman (week) 			 823.27	827.27	833.27
708 Assistant Foreman (week)			 823.27	827.27	833.27
830 Advertising Clerk. 			19.98	20.08	20.23
725 Assistant Foreman (week)			 826.91	830.91	836.91
722 Weighmaster (week)			 823.27	827.27	833.27
861 Boat Supervisor			20.28	20.38	20.53
825 Cleaner Operator			19.94	20.04	20.19
882 Utility Man			19.94	20.04	20.19
823 Box Cbr Loader			20.00	20.10	20.25
843 Bricklayer			22.53	22.63	22.78
867 Millwright 				22.53	22.63	22.78

	Jan. 4/93	Jan. 1/94	Jan. 1/95
869 Maintenance Mechanic			22.53	22.63	22.78
704 Assistant Foreman (week) 			 826.91	830.91	836.91
831 Matron's Helper. 			19.77	19.87	20.02
860 Screen Cleaner			19.82	19.92	20.07
895 Set-Up Person.			19.82	19.92	20.07
859 Line Operator-Filler			20.09	20.19	20.34
886 Spare Line Operator.			20.09	20.19	20.34
866 Line Operator - Bung Remover . . .		20.09	20.19	20.34
881 Line Operator - Dump Trough ....		20.09	20.19	20.34
863 Line Operator. 			20.09	20.19	20.34
101 Line Operator			20.09	20.19	20.34
814 Filter Operator.			20.33	20.43	20.58
818 Pump Person			20.29	20.39	20.59
826 Stock Person 			19.94	20.04	20.19
862 Tradesman's Helper 			19.80	19.90	20.05
840 Welder 			22.53	22.63	22.78
oo
O
841 Plumber & Pipe Fitter 893 Clean-up & Inspectors
Jan. 4/93
22.53
19.93
Jan. 1/94
22.63
20.03
Jan. 1/95
22.78
20.18
It is understood and agreed that should any job classification listed above be reactivated during the fife of this agreement, such job classification will be covered by the provisions of this agreement and paid at the rate as stated.
CLAUSE 22 ■ REPORTING TO WORK AND
CALL-IN PAY
(a)	REPORTING TO WORK PAY. Employees reporting for work at the request of the Employer and not permitted to work and employees starting to work and working less than eight (8) hours shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at their regular straight time hourly rate unless the failure to give employment shall have been for a cause beyond the reasonable control of the Employer, in which case they shall receive four (4) hours’ pay at their regular straight time hourly rate. Reporting to work pay does not apply in cases of suspension, discharge and illness, other than illness due to a compensable accident under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
(b)	EMERGENCY CALL-IN PAY. An employee who is called in to do work which is not scheduled in advance shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay at time and one-half. Only emergency work will be done in this work period.
(c)	In all cases of employees scheduled to work on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, and on their regularly scheduled days off for employees not working a Monday through Friday work week, a minimum guarantee of six (6) hours at base hourly job classification rate will be paid.
81
CLAUSE 23 - MEAL ALLOWANCES
(a)	Any employee who is required to work continuously eleven (11) or more hours shall receive a meal up to the value of $8,50 during such shift. If he is required to work continuously fifteen (15) or more hours, he shall receive an additional meal up to the value of $8.50, If such meal or meals are not ordered and eaten on the shift the employee has worked, such meal or meals must be ordered and eaten before the end of the employee’s next scheduled shift.
(b)	Lunch breaks of up to one-half hour shall be given in certain departments for the purpose of eating such meal, but such lunch breaks will not be paid for by the Employer.
CLAUSE 24 - USE OF PRIVATE CARS
No employee shall be required to use his own automobile on Employer’s business; provided, however, the Employer will pay twenty-six (.260) cents per kilometre (.42 cents per mile) for all authorized kilometres (mileage) voluntarily driven by an employee in his own automobile cn Employer’s business, not including transportation to and from work.
82
CLAUSE 25 - UNIFORMS AND PROTECTIVE CLOTHING
Employer will supply uniforms (Perma Press).
All employees are issued three (3) uniforms.
Male Production - Three (3) shirts and three (3) trousers (blue).
Female Employees - Three (3) smocks (white).
Maintenance Employees - Three (3) shirts and three (3) trousers (green).
All employees are required to sign and be responsible for all personal clothing issued to them.
Replacement of worn-out clothing is made when authorized by the department foreman.
When employees are laid off, they are required to return their uniforms properly cleaned to the Finished Goods Matron who will issue them an Equipment Receipt enabling them to obtain their final pay cheque. Employees otherwise leaving our employ are to return their uniforms, etc., to their foreman.
PROTECTIVE CLOTHING. The Company provides certain safety equipment and clothing to employees to protect them from personal injury on their jobs, such as hairnets, hard hats, and gloves. To prevent face and eye injuries from welding or handling acids or caustics, face shields and prescription safety spectacles are provided to
83
employees requiring them. Air masks and safety harnesses for working in confined spaces are provided. Also provided is safety clothing for welding and for handling of acids and caustics. A sixty dollar ($60.00) refund per pair, maximum once per calendar year, of the cost of safety toe shoes is made to employees purchasing safety shoes to wear at work.
In addition to the above items Company policy further provides for issue of certain items cf protective clothing to employees when they are required to work in:
(a)	Wet Areas - Rubber boots are issued to employees in the Cereal Products, Distillery, and Grounds Department who regularly require them in the performance of their duties. Other departments have a few pair available for use when needed.
(b)	Inclement Weather - Parkas are available in the Grain and Manufacturing Departments for issue on a daily basis to employees who are required to work outdoors in stormy winter weather.
(c)	Cold Buildings Continuously, or Alternately in Warm and Cold Work Areas - Bush coats or nylon jackets are issued to each employee in the Rack Warehouses and Grain Elevator Departments and to plant maintenance tradesmen. (Such issues to employees in the Maintenance and Central Fill
84
and Dump Departments will be on the basis cf job need).
(d)	Particularly Dirty Assignments - Coveralls or smocks are also provided to employees to protect their personal clothing when working at particularly dirty assignments.
CLAUSE 26 - RETIREMENT
(a)	In consideration of the Employer’s contributions to the Pension Plan covering employees in the Local 2027, the Union recognizes the right of the Employer at its sole option to require the retirement of any employee when he or she reaches the retirement age of sixty-five (65) years or at such other ages as are set forth in said Pension Plan anytime thereafter.
(b)	The Employer shall not terminate or amend such Pension Plan for the duration of this agreement, subject to the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company and subject to obtaining and retaining acceptance for registration of this plan by the Minister of National Revenue and other required appropriate parties as the Company may find necessary to establish the deductibility for income tax purposes for any and all contributions made by the Company under the plan as being qualified for tax exemption under the provisions of
85
the applicable Income Tax Act or Acts.
CLAUSE 27 - BEREAVEMENT PAY
(a)	Paid bereavement leave shall be granted upon request to active employees ■ with seniority - upon the death of a member of their "immediate family". Such paid leave shall consist of three consecutive regularly scheduled (8 hr,) work days excluding Saturday, Sunday, Vacation, Holidays and Leave of Absences. "Immediate family" shall mean the employee's father, mother, step-father,step-mother, grandparents,father-in-law,mother-in-law, husband, wife, common-law spouse, son, daughter, brother or sister.
Common-law spouse, for purposes of this clause, is defined as a spouse of the opposite sex who has been co-habitating and residing publicly with the employee for two (2) years, as of the time the death occurred and was shown as the employee's spouse on company benefit plan records. In the event the employee has not declared a spouse within any of the benefit records, the company may require additional verification of the common-law relationship.
(b)	Bereavement pay of up to one (l)day, not to exceed eight (8) hours per day, will be paid for loss of scheduled work, to attend the funeral of grandchildren, stepbrothersand stepsisters, brother-
86
in-law or sister-in-law, or to mourn the death of a member of the “immediate family”,defined in (a) above, on the day of the funeral, if the funeral takes place in an area far removed from the employee’s home which prevents the employee’s attendance at the funeral.
(c)	The Employer shall be entitled at any time to demand that the employee produce adequate proof of death and relationship.
CLAUSE 28 - WORKERS’ COMPENSATION SUPPLEMENT
An employee who has an accepted claim under the Workers’ Compensation Act for medical benefits but not for lost-time benefits shall receive from the Employer eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for each scheduled workday missed but for not more than one (1) clay. If a holiday falls during the said waiting period, it shall be considered a regular scheduled workday if the employee is not eligible for holiday pay on such day.
It is the intention that this supplement shall apply only to those employees who qualify for Workers’ Compensation medical benefits due to injuries incurred while in the employ of the Employer, and the injury is minor and the employee loses one (1) workday, or any other
87
period which is too short to enable him to qualify for lost-time benefits.
CLAUSE 29 - WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN SUPPLEMENT
An employee who qualifies for weekly lost-time benefit payments under the Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan shall receive from the Employer eight (8) hours’ pay at his regular rate for each scheduled workday missed during the waiting period required before such weekly benefit payments commence but not for more than five (5) days, If a holiday falls during the said waiting period it shall be considered a regular scheduled workday if the employee is not eligible for holiday pay on such day. This provision shall not apply in pregnancy cases.
CLAUSE 30 - WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN
The Employer agrees, for the term of this Labour Agreement, to provide Weekly Indemnity Benefits for eligible employees as follows:
88
Clause 30 - WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JANUARY 04, 1993
Hourly Base	Weekly
Rate of	Benefit
less than $19.00 per hour............$473.00
$19.00 per hour to & including
$19.24 .................... 479.00
$19.25 per hour to & including
$19.49 .................... 485.00
$19.50 per hour to & including
$19.74 .................... 491.00
$19,75 per hour to & including
$19.99 .................... 497.00
$20.00 per hour to & including
$20.24 .................... 503.00
$20.25 per hour to & including
$20.49 .................... 509.00
89
$20.50 per hour to & including
$20.74 ..................... 515.00
$20.75 per hour to & including
$20.99 ..................... 521.00
$21.00 per hour to & including
$21.24 ..................... 527.00
$21.25 per hour to & including
$21.49 .................... 533.00
$21.50 per hour to & including
$21.74 ..................... 539.00
$21.75 per hour to & including
$21.99 .................... 545.00
$22.00 per hour to & including
$22.24 ..................... 551.00
$22.25 per hour to & including
$22.49 .................... 557.00
$22.50 per hour to & including
$22.74 .................... 563.00
$22.75 per hour to & including
$22.99 .................... 569.00
90
$23.00 per hour to & including
$23.24 ................... 575.00
$23.25 per hour to & including
$23,49 ................... 581.00
$23.50 per hour and over............ 587.00
Note:	Basic Hourly Rates of pay are those
rates noted in the schedule of hourly wage rates for classifications.
When vacation days are concurrent with days paid under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and/or Indemnity Plan Supplement, such vacation days will be deemed to be regular scheduled work days and an equal number of vacation days will be taken without pay at a time to be arranged with the affected employee’s immediate supervisor. The last vacation day prior to the first day of total disability (inability to work) will be regarded, for weekly indemnity purposes only, as the last day worked.
Maternity benefits under this plan will be payable only to those female employees who present proof to the Company prior to the payment of any Weekly Indemnity Maternity Benefit that they do not qualify for Unemployment Insurance Maternity Benefits.
91
CLAUSE 31 ■ LONG TERM DISABILITY ^ PLAN
The Employer will pay the cost of a Long Term Disability Plan for eligible employees who become totally disabled.
CLAUSE 32 ■ HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL BENEFITS
(a)	The Employer will pay the cost of employee and dependent coverage under the O.H.I.P, and the Prudential Semi-PrivatePlan. "Dependent" includes only spouse and eligible children as defined in the O.H.I.P. regulations.
(b)	The Employer will pay the cost cf employee and dependent coverage under the Green Shield Plan, "Dependent" includes only spouse and eligible children as defined in the Green Shield Plan regulations.
(c)	The Employer will pay the cost of a Life Insurance coverage benefit of $35,000.00, that has been extended to eligible employees covered by this agreement.
(d)	The Employer will pay the cost cf Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance coverage, up to a maximum benefit cf $15,000.00, that has been
92
extended to eligible employees covered by this agreement
(e)	The Employer will pay the cost of a Vision Care Plan for eligible employees and their eligible dependents and for retired employees and their eligible dependents.
(f)	The Employer will pay the cost of a Hearing Aid Plan for eligible employees and their eligible dependents and for retired employees and their eligible dependents.
g) The Employer will pay the cost of employee and dependent coverage under the O.H.I.P., Prudential Semi-Private Plan, Green Shield Plan, Weekly Indemnity Plan, Vision Care Plan, Hearing Aid Plan, Dental Plan, Life Insurance coverage and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance coverage for each month an employee is absent through illness or while he is on Workers’ Compensation as if the employee were at work but, in no event will the Employer pay such costs for more than one (1) year from the commencement of an illness or more than two (2) years from the commencement of a Workers’ Compensation injury.
(h)	(i) If an employee dies in service, and at the time of death was eligible for early retirement, the Employer will pay the
93
cost of spouse and eligible dependent coverage under the O.H.I.P., Prudential Semi-Private Plan and Green Shield Plan, Vision Care Plan, Hearing Aid Plan and Dental Plan, until the spouse reaches age sixty-five (65), and after age sixty-five (65) the Employer will pay the cost of coverage under the Prudential Semi-Private Plan and the Green Shield Plan, for the spouse and eligible dependents, exceptas otherwise provided under federal and/or provincial law.
(ii)	If an employee dies in service, and at the time of death had a minimum of five (5) years seniority, the Employer will pay the cost of spouse and eligible dependents coverage under the O.H.LP,, Prudential Semi-Private Han, Green Shield Plan, Vision Care Plan, Hearing Aid Plan and Dental Plan, for a period up to a maximum cf twenty-four (24) months.
(iii)	If a retired employee dies, the Employer will pay the cost of spouse and eligible dependent coverage under the O.H.I.P., Prudential Semi-Private Plan, Green Shield Plan, Vision Care
94
Plan, Hearing Aid Plan and Retiree Dental Plan, until the spouse reaches age sixty-five (65), and after age sixty-five (65), the Employer will pay the cost of the Prudential Semi-Private Plan and the Green Shield Plan for the spouse and eligible dependents except as otherwise provided under federal and/or provincial law.
(iv)	All such coverage as provided in (h)
(i), (ii), (iii) above will cease upon the death of the spouse or at such time as the spouse remarries or becomes employed.
(i)	None of the foregoing provisions apply to employees on leave of absence or layoff.
(j)	(i) The Employer will pay the cost of the
Prudential Semi-Private Plan and the Green Shield Plan for retired employees, their spouses and eligible dependents except as otherwise provided under federal and/or provincial law,
(ii)	The Employer will pay the cost of O.H.I.P. for employees who retired prior to age 65, and their spouses and
95
eligible dependents until the employee or spouse respectively, reaches age 65 or such earlier age as established by the Government of Ontario for O.H.I.P. retiree premium payments.
(iii)	The Employer will pay the cost of Life Insurance in the amount of $6,000. for all eligible current and future retirees.
(k)	The Employer will pay the cost of Life Insurance coverage, coverage under the O.H.I.P., Prudential Semi-Private Plan and the Green Shield Plan for employees who are receiving benefits under the Employer’s Long Term Disability Plan. Spouses and eligible dependents of such employees are also included in the aforementioned coverages except for Life Insurance coverage.
(l)	Benefits will be generally outlined in booklets to be supplied to employees covered by this agreement.
CLAUSE 33 ■ DENTAL PLAN
The Employer will pay the cost of the Company Dental Plan for the employee, the employee’s spouse and eligible children. The employee, the employee’s spouse and eligible children will be eligible for coverage under this plan upon the
96
employee attaining one (1) year of service (one year of service is equal to 2080 compensated hours).
The Company will provide coverage for retired employees and their eligible dependents under Section A - Basic Dental Expense and Section B - Major Dental Expense but not under Section C - Orthodontic Expense.
Unemployment Insurance Commission credit payments, the type which have previously been paid to employees, shall cease effective January 1, 1975 as a result of the installation of the Dental Plan as a negotiated employee benefit in lieu thereof.
CLAUSE 34 ■ GUARANTEED WORK FORCE
(a)	Subject to the right cf the Employer to discharge, suspend or discipline any employee, and subject to fire, lightning, sabotage, power failure, flood, earthquake, riot, catastrophe, enemy action, impact of aircraft, acts of God or other similar conditions beyond the reasonable control of the Employer.
(b)	The Employer agrees to establish for the life of this contract a work force of employees with a seniority date prior to January 01, 1978 to each of whom it will make available 52 weeks work of 40
97
hours each annually, including vacation pay, holiday pay and pay for any and all hours not worked.
(c)	The Employer shall establish a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan to provide Supplementary Unemployment Benefits for eligible employees whose seniority date is on or after January 01, 1978.
(d)	This clause does not give any employee any right to work longer than provided in Clause 26, Retirement.
CLAUSE 35 - CONTRACTING OUT
(a)	Employees of an outside contractor will not 'be utilized to replace employees in the current work force on production or maintenance work normally and historically performed by them when the performance of such work involves the use of Company-owned machines, tools or equipment operated or maintained by Company employees.
(b)	The foregoing paragraph shall not affect the right of the Employer to continue contracting out the type of work currently being contracted out or work that has historically been contracted out, nor shall it limit the fulfilment of warranty obligation by vendors, nor limit work which a vendor must perform to prove out the equipment.
98
(c)	In those cases where the Employer intends to contract out work not currently being contracted out or which has not been historically contracted out, except where time and circumstancesprevent it, the Employer will hold advance discussion with the Union Committee prior to letting such contracts. In this discussion the Employer will review its plans or purpose for letting a particular contract. The Union Committee will be advised of the nature, scope and approximate dates of the work to be performed and the reasons (equipment, manpower, etc.) why the Employer is contemplating contracting out the work.
(i)	At such time, the Employer representative will offer the Union Committee an opportunity to comment on the Employer’s plans and will give proper weight to these comments in the light cf all attendant circumstances.
(ii)	In no event shall an employee in the current work force who customarily performs the work in question be laid off as a direct and immediate result of work being performed by any outside contractor.
(d)	In those cases where the Employer intends to contract out work which is routine maintenance work of the type that is also performed on a regular basis by employees in the Central Maintenance
99
Division, except where time and circumstances prevent it, the Employer will hold advance discussion with a special Union Committee which shall consist of the area representative, the steward, and a representative from the Trades Department involved from the Central Maintenance Division prior to letting such contract. The Employer shall be represented by the Central Maintenance General Foreman or his designated representative, the Foreman of the department involved and a representative from the Industrial Relations Department. In this discussion, the Employer will review its plans or purpose for letting such maintenance work contract. The special Union Committee will be advised of the nature, scope, and approximate dates of the maintenance work to be performed and the reasons (equipment, manpower, etc.) why the Employer is contemplating contracting out the work. At such time, the Employer representatives will offer the Union Committee an opportunity to comment on the Employer’s plans and will give proper weight to these comments in the light of all attendant circumstances.
(e)	Further to and in conjunction with Sections (c) and (d), the company shall provide the union a
minimum of five days notification prior to the letting of non-emergency contracts.
(f)	It is the policy of the Company to perform
100
maintenance and production work with its own employees, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitivelyin quality, cost and performance and within the projected time limits. At times the Company does not deem advisable doing the work itself, and it must, as in the past, reserve to itself the right to decide whether it will do any particular work or let the work to outside contractors. This section is not to be regarded as impairing that right in any way.
The Company hereby assures the Union that it has no plans to change its policy and that it expects to continue its general operating policy of placing primary reliance on its own production and maintenance employees to perform maintenance and production work to the extent consistent with sound business practice, as in the past.
The Company is genuinely interested in maintaining maximum employment opportunities for Production and Maintenanceemployees consistent with the needs of the Company. Therefore, in making these determinations, the Company intends always to keep the interests of Huan Walker personnel in mind.
CLAUSE 36 ■ SAFETY COMMITTEE
(a)	The Union recognizes the responsibility of the Employer for all matters pertaining to safety.
101
The Employer and the Union also agree that the practice of safe working habits is the responsibility of each employee.
(b)	Therefore, for the purpose of promoting safety, the Employer and the Union have agreed to form a joint committee which shall be known as the Safety Committee with a membership of three (3) individuals, two (2) to be appointed by the Union and one (1) to be appointed by the Employer. The Safety Committee shall be provided with a copy of accident reports involving serious lost time accidents or fatal accidents. The Employer agrees to supply the Social Service Officer with a copy of the Workers’ Compensation Board‘s Form 7 (Employer’s Report of Accidental Injury cr Industrial Disease) on the same day it is being sent to the board.
(c)	The Safety Committee shall accompany the Safety Supervisor on a monthly safety inspection of the work place. At the end of such inspection the Safety Committee shall meet with the Safety Supervisor to discuss their findings and prepare a report, a copy cf which shall be given to the Union.
In addition to such monthly inspection and meeting, one (1) Union representative to the Safety Committee may accompany a government safety inspector on an inspection of the plant.
102
Time spent on such inspections and meetings shall be considered time worked and the members of the Safety Committee shall be compensated at their regular rate of pay therefor.
CLAUSE 37 - JURY DUTY
Employees will be given leave of absence when called for jury duty or to act as Crown witness, and earnings for necessary time lost during such leaves will be made up by the Employer at his regular rate, less any fees received for jury duty or as Crown witness.
When an employee is called for jury duty or to act as Crown witness, the following routine procedure is to be followed:
1.	The employee is to notify his foreman
immediately that he has been so
ordered and on what date he will first be absent from work.
2.	The foreman will immediately arrange an appointment for the employee with the Industrial Relations Department. The employee will be required to bring with him for this appointment the legal document with which he has been served. At this interview, arrangements will be made for the employee to notify the Industrial Relations Department in advance and on a daily basis of his
103
scheduled attendance at court or his reporting for work. The Industrial Relations Departmentwill advise the employee's foreman about such plans. On those days that the employee is not required to attend court, he must report to work at his regular starting time.
3.	An employee serving onjury duty or as a Crown witness will not be required to report to work on his shift that day. For each such day the Employer will pay the employee for regular time lost up to eight (8) hours at his regular rate less any fees received for jury duty or as Crown witness.
4.	To compute the amount of pay, the employee must present to the Industrial Relations Department a statement from the appropriate Court Officer showing dates cf attendance at court and fees received. This statement is readily available at the Courthouse.
CLAUSE 38 - TUITION-SHARING PROGRAM
The Employer agrees to grant to employees a job related tuition- sharing program for interested employees. The purpose of the tuition- sharing program is to assist employees in continuing their
104
education and in improving their job qualifications.
All employees who have worked all or a part of each of twenty-six calendar weeks during the preceding calendar year shall be considered eligible to participate in the program.
The course or courses of study must be related to the employee’s job in the Company. Employees who satisfactorily complete an approved course of study will receive a refund of 75 per cent of the cost of the approved course (tuition and textbooks but not travel). Each specific course taken must be approved in advance to qualify under the program.
Steps to be followed in making application under the tuition-sharing program:
1.	Once the employee has determined his course of study, he may obtain an application form from his supervisor. This must be completed in triplicate and the supervisor will submit the application for consideration. When and if approved, a copy of this form will be returned to the employee.
2.	If the application is approved as to course and school, the employee may then register for the course with the school indicated in the application.
3.	Upon successful completion cf the course, the employee must provide his supervisor with his official statement of
105
standing in the course and official receipts to support cost of tuition and textbooks, together with his copy of the original application. His supervisor will then arrange for whatever refund is due.
4.	The refunded portion of the tuition cost of the course only will be declared as employee income for taxation purposes. All receipts will be returned to the employee along with his refund.
5.	In the event a participating employee leaves the employ cf the Company for any reason after the course approval date, no refund will be made for any costs incurred in taking the course. If an employee is laid off before completing an approved course, a refund will be made upon successful completion of the course. No new course initiated by an employee while on layoff will be approved by the Company.
CLAUSE 39 - SEXUAL HARASSMENT
The union and the employer recognize the right of employees to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Harassment in the workplace is cruel and destructive behaviour against others that can have devastating effects.
106
Harassment can be defined as any unwelcome behaviour, verbal or physical, made on a repetitive or non-repetitive basis by any person - management or co-workers - which humiliates, insults or degrades another individual.
CLAUSE 40 - WORK AREA CLEANLINESS
It will be the responsibility of each employee to keep their own immediate work area clean and tidy.
CLAUSE 41 - SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM
Substance abuse is recognised to be a serious illness that is treatable.
The Union and the Company have a strong interest in encouraging early treatment and assisting employees towards full rehabilitation.
The company will continue to provide a comprehensive approach towards dealing with substance abuse and to related problems.
The company will provide all normal group insurance benefits while an employee is under a medically prescribed course of treatment that is acceptable to both parties.
A joint committee comprised of one union and one company representative will be established to administer the program. Such administrative
107
assistance will include referral of employees to appropriate counselling services or treatment and rehabilitation facilities such as Brentwood.
Union Representative on the joint Substance Abuse Committee will be provided such paid time as is necessary for the administration of the program.
It will also be the responsibility of the joint committee to engage in education and prevention activities from time to time as the joint committee deems appropriate, subject to the approval of the union and the company.
CLAUSE 42 - SEVERANCE PAY PLAN
(a)	In the event that an Employee’s employment is terminated due to the permanent closure of the plant at Walkerville, he/she shall receive from the Company:
- 1.5 weeks regular non-overtime pay per year of seniority up to a maximum of 52 weeks of pay.
(b)	Employees in the G.W.F, would receive the greater of the benefits outlined in subsection (a) above or those benefits provided under Clause 34.
(c)	Subsection a) and b) above would also apply should the employment of fifty or more employees be terminated as the result of a permanent partial
108
closure of the plant at Walkerville.
(d)	Should legislation be enacted providing benefits in excess of the above: said legislation shall supersede the benefits provided in this clause.
The intent is that there shall be no duplication of Legislative and company benefits.
CLAUSE 43 - TERM OF CONTRACT
This agreement shall remain in full effect from January 04, 1993, up to and including January 02, 1996. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless written notice by registered mail shall have been given by either party ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of this agreement or any annual extension thereof. Any proposed changes desired by such party shall accompany such notice.
The following Appendixes, Letters of Intent and Pension Plan Information shall form part of this collective agreement; pension plan is precluded from Clause 17 "Grievance Procedure".
109
APPENDIX NO. 1 - PROGRESSION AND
RETROGRESSION AGREEMENT
In March, 1965 the Employer and the Union agreed to a working arrangement to introduce job progression and retrogression amongst the employees of the Bottling Department, Finished Goods Division. This working arrangementhas now been implemented to the point where job progression and retrogression amongst these employees is an accomplished fact. The Employer and the Union, therefore, agree to the following working arrangement for progression and retrogression.
This arrangement is proposed in order to accomplish the following:
1.	To provide training and qualification opportunities for employees in order of their plant seniority.
2.	To	provide	for	senior	qualified
employees to progress to higher-rated classifications as production requirements dictate.
3.	To	provide	for	senior	qualified
employees to retrogress from their classification to lower-rated classifications, in inverse order of their plant seniority.
It is understood and agreed that -
110
1.	Employees now in a classification will not be forced to move up to a higher position unless they desire and make application to do so through job posting.
2.	Employees who have advanced as far as they desire will not be forced to advance further, but in order to fully exercise their seniority rights and take advantage of the full Progression & Retrogression system employees are encouraged to advance as far as possible.
3.	Employees covered in either of the above sections can change their minds and apply to advertisements when posted.
4.	All job openings are subject to the Seniority and Promotion provisions of the Contract.
5.	Successful applicants, as they advance from one classification to another, will be placed on the list for their highest classification in order of plant seniority.
6.	Names may appear on the lists for two classifications in order of plant seniority, e.g., Spare Inspector/Repair and Regular Machine Operator.
7.	On progression all applicants on trial will be paid the rate of the classifica-
111
tion provided they are performing the whole job or operation alone.
8.	The spare list will be posted every four (4) months. The Company shall move employees on the spare lists into and out of the regular classifications in accordance with its requirements.
9.	An employee on a spare list temporarily moved to a higher classification for one (1) hour or more shall receive, for a minimum of four (4) hours the rate of the classification to which he moved.
10.	If an employee has held a regular classification for twelve (12) consecutive months and is retrogressed, such employee shall receive the rate of such regular classification for a maximum of thirty (30) calendar days from date of retrogression. This does not apply to an employee who is laid off.
11.	When employees not required in their regular classification for temporary periods are not retrogressed such employees shall work as General Help 801.
112
PROGRESSION
SPARE MACHINE OPERATORS
We advertise for: Spare Machine Operators
(a)	Selected applicants will be trained on one machine only, e.g., packer, labeller, stamper.
(b)	After successfully completing training, selected applicants will be allowed up to 30 days trial period in which to qualify and be accepted.
(c)	Successful applicants will then be placed in the Spare Machine Operators classification but only on the list for the machine or group of like machines on which they were trained, successfully completed their trial period and were accepted.
(d)	An accepted Spare Machine Operator will be given training and a trial period on all machines. He/she must successfully complete his/her trial period, be accepted and able to replace operators on all machines before she can exercise his/her seniority rights to move from one machine or group of like machines to another. He/she cannot replace any Regular Machine Operators who are accepted to operate all machines until there is an opening, nor Regular Machine Operators "frozen" (F) on that particular machine or group of like machines.
113
(e)	An applicant accepted for one machine group who is in training on all other machines, and who fails to qualify on any one type of machine, will be designated as a Spare Machine Operator only for the one machine group on which she originally qualified. He/she may advance to the Regular Machine Operator classification only if there is an opening on the list for a Regular Machine Operator on the particular machine or machine group in which he/she qualified and when his/her seniority permits. He/she can only operate within his/her machine group, e.g., stamper.
(0 An accepted applicant will be paid the automatic machine operator’s rate during his/her training and/or trial period for the time when he/she is performing the whole job or operation alone.
REGULAR MACHINE OPERATORS
(a)	Regular Machine Operator’s openings are automatically filled from the Spare Machine Operators classification in order of plant seniority. Employees qualified on all machines in the Spare Machine Operators classification will fill any job when a vacancy occurs, provided they have more seniority than a Spare Machine Operator limited to that particular machine or group of like machines.
(b)	Regular Machine Operators will receive the
114
automatic machine operator's rate while holding the classification.
SPARE INSPECTOR/REPAIR
We advertise for: Spare Inspector/Repair
(a)	Applicants must be in the Regular Machine Operators classification and must have successfully completed their trial period, and be accepted on all machines.
(b)	Regular machine operators by not applying are indicating to us that they voluntarily want to remain "frozen" (F) as a Regular Machine Operator.
(c)	If at a future time these employees wish to progress to this classification, they must first notify the Employer in writing, so that if the employee has not been trained and accepted on all machines He/she may be given this opportunity, or if an employee has "frozen" (F) voluntarily on a machine for a period of time he/she can be retrained.
(d)	After successfully completing training as a Spare Inspector/Repair, selected applicants will be given up to a 30-day trial period in which to qualify and be accepted.
(e)	Selected applicants will receive In-
115
spector/Repair rate only while doing the whole job or operation alone, even while in training or on trial.
REGULAR INSPECTOR/REPAIR
(a)	Regular Inspector/Repair are automatically filled from the qualified Spare Inspector/Repair list only, in order of plant seniority.
(b)	Regular Inspector/Repair will receive the Inspector/Repair rate while holding the classification.
SPARE GROUP LEADERS
We advertise for: Spare Group Leaders
(a)	Applicants must be qualified Regular Inspector/Repair.
(b)	Qualified Regular Inspector/Repair by not applying indicate their wish to remain "frozen" (F) in the Regular Inspector/Repair classification.
(c)	By answering an advertisement for openings in this classification, a Regular Inspector/Repair automatically releases himself/herself from being "frozen" (F).
116
(d)	Selected applicants for Spare Group Leader will be trained on the job and will receive lectures on techniques of line operation, etc. They may be schooled on the method, use, reason and importance of certain paperwork, documents and supplies.
Answers to questions asked at the conclusion of the lectures will determine if the selected applicant understands and absorbs the material presented.
(e)	Selected applicants successfully completing the training will be given up to a 30-day trial period in which to qualify and be accepted.
REGULAR GROUP LEADERS
Vacancies in the Regular Group Leader classification will be filled automatically from the qualified Spare Group Leader classification in order of plant seniority. Regular Group Leaders will receive the Group Leader rate while holding the classification.
After we have advertised for Spare Machine Operators, Spare Inspector/Repair and Spare Group Leaders and there are still openings to be filled, we again start advertising at the lowest Spare classification with an opening to be filled.
117
RETROGRESSION
In all cases of retrogression, employees will retrogress in inverse order of plant seniority within their classification to the next lower classification in which their plant seniority and accepted qualifications will hold them.
Regular or Spare Group Leader and/or Regular or Spare Inspector/Repair will displace employees in any Regular or Spare classification below them if their plant seniority allows. Spare employees in a classification cannot displace Regular employees in the same classification regardless of seniority during Retrogression.
Employees who have retrogressed will receive the rate of the classification to which they have retrogressed.
Regular or Spare Machine Operators restricted to one machine or group of like machines, since they have not qualified on all machines, will not displace operators with less seniority on other types of machines.
Employees who are forced to retrogress and who are not yet fully trained will receive training in such lower classification as their seniority will hold them. They will receive the rate of the lower classification even while in training.
Lists for each classification are maintained and employees who are required to retrogress will automatically return to such higher classification as
118
their qualifications and plant seniority permits and as production requirements dictate.
Whenever the number of classified openings exceed the number of employees available from the Progression-Retrogression program, we will advertise temporary openings to fill the additional jobs, and if there are still not enough successful applicants to fill all the jobs, assignments will be made.
Regular or Spare Machine Operators restricted to one machine and who have, to the Company’s satisfaction, operated other machines may be assigned to such other machines as required, provided there are still openings after all Regular and Spare operators unrestricted or restricted to that particular machine are placed first.
119
N)
O
RETROGRESSION & PROGRESSION FLOW CHART
REGULAR INSPECTOR/REPAIR
t
E
All Machines Unloaders Only Fillers Only Labellers Only		
	Stampers Only Packers Only G.W. Only	
	t SPARE MACHINE OPERATORS 1	
All Machines Unloaders Only Fillers Only Labellers Only		
	Stampers Only Packers Only G.W. Only	
I
BOTTLING GENERAL//EXP (801) EMPLOYEES
APPENDIX NO. 2
Master No......
AUTHORIZATION FOR PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF LOCAL 2027 INITIATION FEE, LOCAL 2027 DUES AND ASSESSMENTS
"I, the undersigned employee of Hiram Walker & Sons Limited, Walkerville, Ontario, hereby authorize and direct Hiram Walker & Sons Limited to deduct from my wages such sum as may be chargeable under the Constitution and By-Laws of the Local and the C. A.W. and under the Labour Agreement between the C, AW, and its Local 2027 and Hiram Walker & Sons Limited, for initiation fees for membership in the C.A.W, Local 2027, provided that if I have already paid my initiation fees prior to this authorization, then this authorization shall be null and void as to the initiation fees."
"I further authorize and direct Hiram Walker & Sons Limited to deduct from my wages such sum as may from time to time be assessed by the C.A.W, Local 2027 from all of its members for monthly union dues and assessments authorized by the Constitution and By-Laws for the C.A.W, and its Local 2027, and to pay the amounts so deducted to the said Local 2027, subjectto any conditions of the labour agreement between the C.A.W. and its Local 2027 and Hiram Walker & Sons Limited."
122
Signature of Employee
Witness
For Payroll Department Only
Initiation Fee $.
Date
To Be Deducted
19
Dues $___________per month
Effective________________19
123
APPENDIX NO. 3
The following procedure will be used for calculating vacation pay for employees who have been assigned down to a lower rated job classification and for employees in the Retrogression and Progression system.
Note: Vacations for a given year are based on the previous year.
Example No.l
John Brown is a General Help employee in the Materials Handling Department. His previous
year’s work consisted of the following: 1,150 hours @ $7,81 per hour -
Fork Truck Driver		. 834
80 hours @ $8.00 per hour ■ Group Leader		. 894
950 hours @ $7,69 per hour -General Help 		, 801
Vacation is paid at job class 834 as he worked in excess of 1,040 hours in this classification during the previous year.	
ExampleNo. 2 Joe White is a Utility Mfen in	the Bottling
124	
Department. His previous year’s work was as follows:
1,200 hours @ $7,87 per hour -
Utility Man..............851
860 hours @ $8,00 per hour -
Group Leader.............850
40 hours @ $7,92 per hour -
Assistant Foreman........724
Vacation is paid at job class 851 as sufficient hours (more than 1,040) were not worked in a job higher than 851.
Example No. 3
Jane Green is classified as General Help in the Botding Department. Previous year’s work:
120 hours @ $7.53 per hour -
Matron’s Helper .........831
825 hours @ $7.62 per hour -
Machine Operator.........884
90 hours @ $7.48 per hour -
GeneralHelp .............891
96 hours @ $7.96 per hour -
Group Leader.............892
125
567 hours @ $7.68 per hour -
Inspector .................893
Vacation would be paid at job class 831 as she worked in excess of 1,040 hours in several classifications above General Help. This is arrived at as it is the lowest rate of the group totalling over 1,040.
All of the above are superseded if an employee’s gross earnings for the previous calendar year are sufficient that 2% of such earnings exceed 40 hours times the employee’s regular hourly rate including any C.O.L.A, or N.S.P
126
LETTER OF INTENT
No. 1
January 04, 1993
Local 2027, National Automobile, Aerospace &
Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (C.A.W. - Canada)
P.O. Box 2302 - Walkerville Stn.
Windsor, Ontario
The President, Local 2027, providing he qualifies, will perform the work of Special Utility Person,job classification no. 871 and have super seniority. It is understood and agreed that the Company will not maintain the President, Local 2027 in the aforementioned classification in the event there is no work in such classification or in the event the Company decides not to fill such classification. Except for having super seniority, the President, Local 2027 is subject to all other provisions of the Collective Agreement.
The Company will provide for the President, Local 2027, in a location satisfactory to the Company, a file cabinet and a telephone capable cf sending and receiving telephone messages both within and outside the Plant. Any long distance call charges incurred through the use of such telephone will be paid by Local 2027.
127
In the event the President, Local 2027, relinquishes such position, or at the duration cf his elected term,' he shall return to his last permanent job held prior to becoming President. Note: Should the President apply for another permanent position during his term he must upon leaving office return to the last permanent job for which he was the successful applicant. The incumbent- being replaced by the ex President - will revert to General Help. The same aforementioned terms and conditions will apply to the new President, who may work in the same or another job classification.
The Company grants, to the President and Vice President, Local 2027, the classification rate privileges currently extended to Area Representatives as stated in Letter of Intent No. 3,
The President, Vice President and Area Representatives of C.A.W, Local 2027 will normally work the day shift, except that the Company will not at any time add employees to any job classification in order to maintain any number of the aforementionedC. A,W,, Local 2027 officers on the day shift.
Yours very truly HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITED
Thomas A. Dillon Vice President, Human Resources
128
LETTER OF INTENT
NO. 2
December 16, 1974
Local No. 1, The Canadian Union of Distillery Workers 386 Devonshire Road Walkerville, Ontario
Gentlemen:
In connection with the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated January 1,1965, we wish to state:
1.	The Employer has presented to the Union on request manning tables for operation of the bottling lines. The Union has discussed and investigated these with the Employer and has initialled them.
2.	The Employer will extend to the Union the courtesy of informing the Union of new operations in the Plant.
Yours very truly HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITED
T,A, Dillon Vice President, Human Resources
Agreed:	Reaffirmed - November 12, 1992
Ron Dickson
National Representative CAW
Thomas A. Dillon
Vice President, Human Resources
129
LETTER OF INTENT
NO. 3
January 04, 1993
Local 2027, National Automobile, Aerospace &
Agricultural Implement Workers Union of Canada (C.A.W. - Canada)
P.O. Box 2302 - Walkerville Stn.
Windsor, Ontario
Area Representatives will work in the area they represent and hold one of the following classifications: 801 General Help - Distillery, 801 General Help -Finished Goods Janitorial and 801 General Help - Drain & Fill. It is understood and agreed that the Company will not maintain Area Representatives in the aforementioned classifications in the event there is no work in such classifications or in the event the Company decides not to fill such classifications. Area Representatives may rotate annually and be compensated at the Still Operator’s rate (802). Area Representatives shall have super seniority, with the exception of Area Representatives outside the G. W,F. who will be subject to layoff only after all other employees (excluding tradesmen) in the non-G.W.F. Group have been laid-off. An Area Representative will lose any such rate differential and super seniority immediately when he or she ceases to be an Area Representative and return to their last permanent classification.
130
Note: Should area representatives apply for other permanent positions during their respective terms they must upon leaving office return to the last permanentjob for which they were the successful applicant. The incumbent being replaced will revert to General Help.
Stewards shall have super seniority in their permanent job classifications. However, such super seniority, will not apply in cases of lay-off. Layoffs will continue to be in inverse order of seniority according to Clause 14 - Seniority.
Yours very truly HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITED
Thomas A. Dillon Vice President, Human Resources
131
Signed this 5th day of February, 1993
FOR THE COMPANY
HIRAM WALKER & SONS LIMITED T. A. DILLON
Vice President, Human Resources B. E. RUEL
Director, Industrial Relations
D.	MELOCHE Safety Supervisor
V. CIROVSKI
Industrial Relations Supervisor
E.	CAIN Plant Manager
132
FOR THE UNION
THE NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTWORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW - CANADA), AND ITS LOCAL 2027
SHIRLEY LAVOIE President
JEAN VAILLANCOURT Vice-President
GARY CHOPTIANY Executive Board Member
MIKE MADDEN Executive Board Member
MARY ANN ROBINSON Executive Board Member
PETE SMITH Executive Board Member
RON DICKSON Area Director
133
PENSION PLAN INFORMATION
The Hourly-Rated Pension Plan for C.A.W. Local 2027 is covered under the provisions of the Pension Agreement date the 29lh day of June, 1989 and is stated in Appendix "A"; Hiram Walker & Sons Limited Pension Plan for Hourly-Rated Employees at Walkerville, Ontario, amended January 01,1990.
For informationpurposes only, amendmentsinclude in part:
The Plan to cover the six year period as stipulated below with certain benefits effective as indicated during such period.
1/1/90	1/1/91	1/1/92	1/1/93	1/1/94	1/1/95
Basic Benefit
$29.50	31,00	32.50	34.00	36.00	38.00
Supplemental	Benefit
19.00	19.00	19.00	19.00	19.00	19.00
*Total Monthly Allowance
1575.00	1650.00	1725.00	1800.00	1900.00	200000
For Early Retirement of a member who has completed 30 or more years of credited service and includes a Special Early Retirement Allowance,
134
Basic Benefit, Supplemental Benefit and any Statutory Benefit. The Special Early Retirement Allowance ends at age 60 and unreduced Basic and Supplemental Benefits are reinstated.
135
	
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
JANUARY	JULY
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 456 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEBRUARY	AUGUST
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
MARCH	SEPTEMBER
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
APRIL	OCTOBER
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
MAY	NOVEMBER
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JUNE	DECEMBER
1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	12 3 4 5 67 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
136