COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called “The Company”
AND
BREWERY & SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 361,
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA hereinafter called “The Union”
HOV -g m
SUBJECT INDEX
Page
Bargaining Unit......................................5
Bargaining Unit Work.................................6
3eareavement Pay....................................34
Bulletin Boards.....................................36
Charge Hands.........................................6
Coffee Breaks. Rest Periods..........................9
Cost cf Living Allowance............................40
Disciplinary Records................................28
Dismissals .........................................28
Duration..........................................
Grievance Committee..................................7
Grievance Procedure.................................25
Guaranteed Wage Plan................................57
Holidays............................................10
Illness or Accident.................................35
Jury Duty ..........................................34
Labour Management Meetings...........................7.
Layoffs.............................................23
Leave cf Absence ...................................36
Line Haul...........................................74
Maintenance Classifications.........................19
Management Functions.................................8
Negotiating Pay ....................................36
Overtime ...........................................11
Overtime Equalization...............................70
Overtime Notice.....................................13
Paid Leave cf Absence — Union Officials.............40
Pay Week ...........................................20
Pension Plan........................................40
Picket Lines........................................35
Probationary Employees..............................21
Promotion ..........................................23
Purpose .............................................5
Recognition..........................................5
3
Retirement.................
Safety.....................
Seniority..................
Seniority Lists............
Seniority Broken...........
Separation Pay.............
Shift Premiums.............
Stewards...................
Strikes....................
Technological Change.......
Technological Change Bonus
Temporary Employees........
Transfer...................
Uniforms...................
Union Dues.................
Union Security.............
Vacations..................
Vacation Bonus.............
Vacation Schedule..........
Wages......................
Wages: New Classifications..
Welfare Program............
Work Week..................
Workers Compensation.......
36 28 20 23 22 63 18 .7 35
37
38 21 17
29 31
30
13 16
14 17 43
31 .9 34
4
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
-TWEEN:
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called “The Company”
— and —
BREWERY & SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 361,
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA hereinafter called “The Union”
PURPOSE
recognition cf their mutual interest, this Agreement is itered into for the purposes cf recording the hours, wage ites and terms or conditions of employment cf the ompany’s employees; to set up the means for settling nicably any differences or grievances which may possibly ise and for the general purpose cf promoting and improving dustrial relations between the Company and the Union.
RECOGNITION
01	The Company recognizes that the Union has been duly
certified by the Labour Relations Board as sole
representative to bargain with the Company for all employees, except hereinafter mentioned in Section
1.03	with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and terms or conditions cf employment during the Life cf this Agreement, and that it has all the rights inherent to such certification.
02	The Company agrees that the Union can conduct the following activities on Company time:
(a)	When the Grievance Committee, Officers or Stewards, are called upon by Management cf the Company to meet with them.
5
(b)	When the Grievance Committee, Officers o Stewards, are called upon by the terms cf thi Agreement to handle a grievance or other matter relating to the administration cf this agreement provided that prior permission cf the supervisor o department head, concerned is secured. Sue'1 prior permission shall not be unreasonabl withheld.
1.03	The term “employee” as used in this agreement sha not include office staff, chief engineer, all supervisor: watchmen, and those excluded by the certificatio: order.
1.04	(1) All work coming within the jurisdiction cf th
bargaining unit shall be reserved for employees i the bargaining unit. Notwithstanding anythin contained in this agreement, plant maintenanc work may be contracted out, as in the past, s long as it does not result in lay-offs.
(2)	The Company agrees not to use outside trucks fc delivery within a twenty-five mile radius so long a its own trucks and regular drivers are available t perform the work.
(3)	Supervisory personnel not members of th bargaining unit may work in emergency situation or train or demonstrate. Other supervisor personnel such as relieving supervisors and charg hands will be members of the bargaining unit an will perform the work of the bargaining unit.
(4)	Outside truck drivers and their helpers shall not b permitted to operate Company equipment or t direct Company employees and the Compan shall accordingly advise such drivers and the helpers. In addition, outside truck drivers shall b confined to the truck loading area only.
1.05	(1) The Company acknowledges the right cf th
6
Union to select employees who shall be stewards in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company. One Steward shall be recognized for each cf the following departments:
Brewing and Fermenting
Packaging Department (one per shift)
Warehousing
Transportation
Cellars Department
Plant Services Department
Each cf the aforementioned departments with the exception of Warehousing, which has two (2) alternate stewards, will be assigned one alternate steward who shall act in the absence cf regular stewards with respect to any grievance arising in his department. In addition, the Chief Steward elected by the Union will be recognized.
(2)	The Union shall appoint a Grievance Committee consisting of Shop Stewards, Chief Steward along with Officers cf the Union. Only the Shop Steward(s) or his (their) alternate(s) from the grievor's department will be on the Grievance Committee.
(3)	The Union shall keep the Plant Manager notified in writing of the names of all Shop Stewards, the Chief Steward, the Grievance Committee and the Officers of the Union.
1.06	Labour Management Meetings will be held on the second Tuesday cf each month.
1.07	The night of the Union meeting, two (2)employees from the Packaging Department shall be relieved to attend the Union Meeting and the Company shall pay those employees for such time spent at the meeting.
7
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
2.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusiv function cf the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote < discipline employees, provided that a claim that e employee has been discharged, transferred demoted or disciplined without just cause may! dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise which the Company is engaged and withoi restricting the generality cf the foregoing ' determine the products and by-products to 1 manufactured, processed, packaged, shipped ar distributed; the methods cf manufacturin processing, packaging, shipping and distributio the sources, quantities and kinds cf ingredient supplies and other materials used in tl manufacturing, processing and packaging cf tl Company’s products and by- products; tl schedules of manufacturing, processin! packaging, shipping and distribution and the kinc and locations of machinery, equipment and too used throughout the Company’s operations.
2.02	The Management further reserves the right to mal. rules and regulations to be observed by the employee and these rules shall not be inconsistent with the tern or spirit of this Agreement.
2.03	It is understood that in exercising these functions, tl Company must conform to all other clauses cf tl Agreement. When an employee is reprimanded disciplined, suspended or discharged, he may 1 accompanied by a Union Representative. The Unic will be given in writing two (2) copies cf the reasons f< such action within forty-eight hours (Saturday Sundays and holidays excluded).
8
WORKING HOURS
1.01	(a) For an employee engaged in day work, eight (8)
hours per day five (5) days a week, Monday through Friday, shall constitute the forty (40) hour
work week.
(b)	For an employee engaged in shift work, eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days a week, Monday through Friday, shall constitute the forty (40)hour work week.
(c)	For those employees involved with special shift arrangements, as outlined in Appendices “F” and “G”, “I”, the above provisions shall not apply.
1.02	A break period of fifteen (15) minutes duration shall be granted to each employee approximately half way through the first half cf the shift and approximately half way through the last half cf the shift, and these break periods will not be considered as an employee’s lunch period or part of his lunch period. Such breaks shall be from the time the employee leaves hisjob to the time he returns to his job. Any change in present practices by Brewhouse Personnel or Stationary Engineers will be by mutual agreement.
3.03	(a) When an employee is required to work overtime to
commence at the end of his shift, which is expected to be of at least two (2) hours duration, and the employee has not had a break or a lunch period at the end of his shift, he shall be granted a fifteen (15)minute break at the commencement of overtime.
(b) When an employee works overtime he shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute break after each full two (2) hours of overtime work unless he is leaving the job or going on lunch break.
9
PLANT HOLIDAYS
4.01
New Year’s Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Halifax Natal Day
An additional holiday will be granted if declared by th Provincial Government.
4.02	(a) The above are considered plant holidays for whic
employees will be paid without having to wor provided they fall on an employee’s norm, working day. If any cf the recognized holidays fe on a Sunday, they will be observed the followin Monday.
(b) If any cf the recognized plant holidays fall on Saturday, employees will receive by mutu; agreement another day df as the holiday.
4.03	To be eligible for holiday pay, employees must hav worked forty-five (45)days prior to the holiday, also th employee must have worked or have been available fc work the scheduled working day proceeding the holida and the scheduled working day immediately followin the holiday unless prior permission has been received, an employee is certified sick either the day before or th day after the holiday this shall not affect his holiday pa unless he is on weekly indemnity.
4.04	Any employee required to work on any of th aforementioned holidays shall be paid at the rate c double time for the first eight hours worked and doubl time and one-half for hours worked thereafter. This pa shall be in addition to the holiday pay to which he entitled under Article 4.02. In the event cf a plar
10
holiday that is received by the rest cf the plant falling on a rotating day off for those engaged in continuous process work, they will receive twelve (12) hours pay at straight time rate. In the event that any of the recognized plant holidays fall within an employee’s annual vacation period, such employee shall receive an extra days holiday or pay in lieu of such day.
105 Regular employees required to work on a plant holiday for less than a full eight (8)hours will receive pay forthe holiday plus a minimum of four (4)hours of work or four
(4)	hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
OVERTIME
5.01	All time worked by hourly rated employees in excess of eight (8)hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on a Saturday or a recognized Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on a Sunday or a recognized Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
5.02	Section 4.04, 4,05, 5.01 do not apply to work performed on a Saturday or recognized Saturday, a Sunday or a recognized Sunday, or a holiday or observed day in lieu cf holiday, where the work performed falls on that day by reason cf a presently established shift commencing in the period 10:00 o’clockp.m. to 12:00 o’clockmidnightorby reason cf a presently established shift terminating in the period 12:00 o’clock midnight to 2:00 o’clock a.m. Such shift spillover time shall be at straight time rates.
5.03	(a) When overtime is to be worked, it shall be
distributed as evenly as possible among regular employees within the department who are capable cf performing the work required, (see Appendix ‘H’). Priority will be givennext to regular employees from other departments who request to fill the job vacancies, and who are capable of performing the
11
job. An employee cannot be scheduled to work double shift or 16 hours in any one day, unless it due to unforeseen circumstances. Overtime wor shall be voluntary, provided that an employee ca be replaced by an employee capable cf doing th job. Anyone from another department performir the overtime work will work at the job rate.
(b)	Except in an emergency or other unforesee circumstances, notice shall be given the previoc day cf required overtime the following day. Notic cf Saturday and Sunday overtime will be given b Tuesday 12 (midnight) on a three shift operafio
- and by Wednesday 12 (noon) on a two shi operation. Employees shall be required to declar their intent to work by Thursday 12 (noon).
(c)	Employees who work over two (2) hours overtirr and have not been notified the previous day and ar not able to be given time df for their meal shall b granted a meal allowance cf $3.00.
5.04	Any employee who is called back to work in an emergency at any time outside his normal workin hours, that is to say, any unscheduled and unforesee work, shall be free to leave his job when theemergency over, but shall nevertheless receive a minimum cf four ft hours pay at his applicable overtime rate. This claus does not apply to overtime which is attached to a employee’s shift.
A paid lunch period cf thirty (30)minutes shall b granted to all employees approximately half wa through those employee’s regularly scheduled shif
Relief for the thirty (30)minute lunch period define shall only be provided for in Packaging. Thi provision shall apply in the Powerhouse during da shift operations only.
For the purposes cf Section (b), when th Company is running a stop-start operation i
5.05 a)
(b)
(c)
12
Packaging, this provision shall not apply. All other departments, not herein defined shall continue their current practices cf self relief for the life cf this Collective Agreement.
>.06 In the event of an employee working in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day at the overtime rate of time and one-half, this rate will apply to the first three (3) hours in excess of the regular eight (8)hours, after which double time rates will apply.
>.07 In the event of an employee working on a Saturday ora recognized Saturday, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first eight (8)hours and double time for all time worked in excess f the eight (8)hours in the same day.
>.08	(a) Employees will be notified by the end cf their shift
the previous day if they are not to report for work on their scheduled shift the next day. This clause will not apply in cases cf weather conditions or breakdown which occur after an employee has completed his shift. If anemployee reports for work on a scheduled shift without having been informed previously not to report and less than six (6)hours work is available to him he shall be given six (6) hours pay notwithstanding.
(b)	Employees who are absent from work the day prior to a lay-off and who have not been notified by the Company not to report, and who report to work, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
(c)	Employees who are told to report for work within ten (10) hours cf their last shift, will be paid at the rate of time and one-half their normal rate of pay for all hours worked within the ten (10) hour period.
VACATIONS
>.01 It is agreed that all employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to vacation with pay, thus:
13
Having continuous service with the Company of
If seniority is reached by June 30th in a year — one week of vacation. If seniority is reached after June 30th in £ year, the greater cf 4% or a cash amount equivalent tc one week cf vacation pro-rated according to the perioc of time worked during that year.
One Year Three Years Eight Years Fifteen Years Twenty Years Twenty-Five Years
Two (2) Weeks Vacation Three (3) Weeks Vacation Four (4) Weeks Vacation Five (5) Weeks Vacation Six (6) Weeks Vacation Seven (7) Weeks Vacation
6.02	(1) To be eligible for vacations employees must have
worked at least forty-four (44) weeks during thei; qualifying year and to have been available for work if required, except that time lost due toaccidentsir the performance cf their duties or a bona fide sickness shall not be counted so as to deprive ar employee from obtaining credit for the purpose o qualifying for vacation.
“Qualifying Year” under this heading “Vacations’ shall in each year for each employee be the anniversary date cf his employment, it beinc understood that the principle cf this clause is that; person earns his vacation in the qualifying year anc is entitled to it in the following year.
(2) If a person’s employment is terminated and he ha! not taken his vacation, he is entitled to his vacatior pay earned in the qualifying year and inaddition, h< shall be entitled to receive a percentage cf his pa! depending on the amount cf vacation to which he ii entitled from the end cf his qualifying year to thi date cf termination; the percentage shall be a: follows except in the case cf a person dischargee for cause not reversed by the grievance procedure
(a)	In the case cf a person with less than one yea 4%, as provided under the Vacation Pay Act
14
(b)	h the case cf a person entitled to one or two weeks vacation, 4%.
(c)	In the case cf a person entitled to three weeks vacation, 6%.
(d)	In the case cf a person entitled to four weeks vacation, 8%.
(e)	In the case cf a person entitled to five weeks vacation, 10%,
(!) In the case of a person entitled to six weeks vacation, 12%.
(g) In the case cf a person entitled to seven weeks vacation, 14%,
(3) If as a result cf lay-off an employee (who would otherwise have qualified) being unable to qualify because cf the 44 week requirement in Section 6,02, then the 44 week requirement shall be reduced in such cases for purposes cf qualification for vacation pay, by the amount necessary to quality but not to a lower requirement than 33 weeks. In the case cf an employee with three (3) or more years seniority the forty-four (44) week requirement shall be reduced for purposes of qualification for vacation pay by the amount necessary to qualify but not to a lower requirement than twenty-six (26) weeks.
6,03	Payment for vacation shall be based on an employee’s weekly earnings for each week’s vacation, exclusive of overtime.
6.04	Suitable dates for vacations shall be arranged mutually between the employees and their supervisor, with the interest of both the employee and his department taken into consideration. With this in mind, preference will be given to the senior man.
15
6.05	(a) Once an employee is on vacation, he shall not be
subject to recall except with mutual consent.
(b)	Once an employee’s vacation time has been agreec upon, it shall not be changed except with mutua consent.
(c)	In order to enable all employees to have at opportunity to arrange their vacations in an order!; fashion, the following procedure has been agreec upon:
(1)	Notice to be posted requiring employees tc file their choice cf dates. Such notice shall be posted on or before January 31st.
(2)	Each employee shall be given until March 31s to submit his choice cf dates for his vacation
(3)	If the employee has not submitted his choice cf dates by March 31st, he loses an! preference he may have had due to his seniority. The employee should submit his choice cf dates as soon as possible to facilitate the preparation of the vacation schedule.
(d)	For the purposes of the foregoing, employee: recognized as vacation relief operators ii another department for an employee or for i group of employees shall have last choice o vacation regardless of seniority within the Department that he/she is relieving.
VACATION BONUS
6.06	Regular employees with three (3)yearsormoreseniorit; shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash equal tc twenty (20%) percent of such employee’s norma vacation payment. This bonus to be paidasonepaymen at the time cf the employee’s summer vacation.
16
WAGES
7.01	The basic rates for all regular employees agreed to by the Company and the Union will be those rates established by this Agreement dated March 5, 1988 and which became effective January 1st, 1988, The minimum basic wage, after the probation period for employees will be that as shown in Appendix ‘A’, Classification Schedule.
7.02	(a) Probationary and temporary employees will be
paid in accordance with the wage schedule (Appendix ”A”).
(b)	The Company will place regular employees on skilled jobs prior to assigning temporary employees to the job when regular employees are able and willing to do the job and are not already employed in an equally paid skilled position.
7.03	All employees shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The Company may transfer employees from one position or department to another. No transfer shall involve any loss cf seniority, nor shall the employee suffer any decrease in his wage rate, providing that such transfer is not in the nature cf a demotion. An employee shall have the right to grieve his demotion.
(b)	Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higher ratedjob and not training under supervision, shall continue to be paid their usual rate unless the transfer continues for one or more working days, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked during the day, or for more than twenty (20)hours in a week, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for the job, for a minimum of forty (40) hours during the week. Any employee transferred to a lower ratedjob for the convenience of the Company shall not have his regular rate reduced.
17
(c)	Employees who are promoted and are later found to be unfit for the job, for reasons cf health or any other reasons, shall revert to their previous occupation and rate thereof.
(d)	If as a result cf a technological change in the Company ’ s operation an employee is assigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he formerly received, he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay until the job rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
7.04	(a) The regular day shift (B Shift) shall commence at
6:00 a.m. through 9:29 a.m. Any shift commencing at 9:30 a.m. through 5:59 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift (C Shift) and any shift commencing at6:00 p.m. through 5:59 a.m. shallbe considered the night shift (A Shift).
(b)	The shift premium on the afternoon shift is fifty-five (55) cents and on the midnight shift is seventy-five (75) cents per hour. Midnight shift premium will be eighty (80) cents per hour effectiveJanuary 1,1989. Midnight shift premium will be eighty-five(85)cents per hour effective January 1, 1990.
(c)	Hourly rates contained in schedule cf wages in this Agreement shall be paid for all regular or day shift work. These shift premiums constitute separate fixed items of pay and shall not be included in basic rates for the calculation of overtime or premium payments, neither shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays not worked.
(d)	Pay at a premium of fifteen cents (15) per hour over and above the regular rate will be paid to employees while performing the following services: waxing vats, scraping and painting the insides of pasteurizer tanks, and painting the inside of gas storage tanks.
18
7,05	(a) The status cf Maintenance Mechanic “B” and “C”
and Maintenance General, will be reviewed by the Company annually. Those qualified for progression to higher status will be promoted. Those not qualified will be given reasons for the decision and they shall have recourse to the grievance procedure, if they are not satisfied.
(b)	General Description of Maintenance Classification
Employees in the Maintenance Department must be willing to exercise job leadership with respect to work stabilization employees.
Maintenance Mechanic " A
This general description includes; welder, electrician, machinist, mechanic, pipe fitter and plumber all requiring some degree cf certification. It also refers to the highest trained men who shall have the proper training and experience capable cf skillfully doing any plant maintenance job within their respective skill without supervision and be regularly employed at such, and be capable cf directing the work of other plant services employees.
Maintenance Mechanic “B”
Includes the above trades. It refers to men who are so trained that they are capable of doing as good a job as a Class “A” man in certain types of work but will require more instruction and supervision in other types of work. They must be qualified to work without supervision and may be regularly assigned to work requiring the skill and experience of a qualified tradesman in their specified trades.
Maintenance Mechanic “C”
This classification includes greaser and lubricator.
19
Maintenance — General
Employees who primarily assist Maintenance Mechanics “A” and “B” and are semi-skilled who can regularly perform routine tasks: i.e., grounds and service, work stabilization, while working on equipment overhaul.
Chief Mechanic
He will be highly skilled in one or more of the above trades and have a working knowledge cf all the aforementioned trades. He will supervise the work of all maintenance mechanics and will report to the maintenance superintendent or his designate.
7.06	The regular pay week shall end Saturday at 12 midnight and the Company agrees to pay employees not later than noon on the following Wednesday or Thursday.
7.07 Any job created in the bargaining unit during the Life of this Agreement, which is not covered by a wage classification set out herein, will be classified and a job rate set at a meeting held between the Company and the Union.
In the event of failure to agree on a rate, the Company may set the rate and if the Union does not agree with the rate that is set, then it may proceed to arbitration for resolution of the matter. The decision of the Arbitrator, if in favour of the Union, will be retroactive to the date cf commencement of the new job. Nevertheless, the rate set shall not be less than the rate for general labour.
SENIORITY
8.01	Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee’s service with the Company calculated as the elapsed time from the day that the employee was first hired, unless his seniority was broken. In the event that seniority was broken for any of the following reasons, seniority shall
20
date from the time the employee returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
8.02	(a) At the time cf their being hired, new employees
shall be classifiedas either Probationary Employees or Temporary Employees and the Union shall be notified cf such.
(b)	Probationary Employees will be defined as those employees who are hired to become members of the permanent work force. They will achieve seniority after 90 days worked at which point they will become eligible to be enrolled in the Company’s Welfare Plan and Pension Plan as defined in this Agreement, and will be paid in accordance with their applicable job rate.
(c)	Temporary employees will be defined as those employees hired for seasonal peak periods, vacation and sick relief, and short term temporary requirements or, emergency situations. Temporary Employees may be employed for one hundred and thirty-two (132)days worked within a period cf one year before they achieve seniority. A year is defined in each particular case as twelve (12) months following the date on which he first commences work with the Company.
(d)	The Company agrees to recognize the seniority rights cf all employees who are members of the union. Seniority will be the determining factor in layoff as provided in Article 8.06 and choice cf annual vacation period.
(e)	Each employee will have seniority standing in the department in which he is employed. Except in the cases cf employees whose seniority rights have been established, Probationary Employees seniority will be dated one hundred and twenty-six (126) calendar days prior to the shift day on which he completes his probationary service, provided that such date will not be prior to his starting date.
21
(f)	An employee does not have seniority rights until he becomes permanent and his seniority date is established. Seniority dates will remain unchanged provided that an employee may, within one month of firstposting of his seniority date, submit evidence to the Company and the Union to have such date changed.
8.03	Seniority shall be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee quits his job voluntarily or ventures into other permanent employment.
(b)	If an employee is discharged for cause, not reversed by Grievance Procedure.
(c)	If an employee fails to return to work within seven (7) working days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mail at his last known address to do so. The employee shall within that period notify the Company by registered mail.
(d)	An employee shall cease to have seniority if he has been laid df for a period cf twelve (12)consecutive months or longer.
8.04	Seniority shall not be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee is granted leave cf absence provided such leave of absence does not exceed six (6) months. The Company shall notify the Secretary of the Union in writing of all leaves of absence granted.
(b)	If an employee is absent from work due to layoff, provided he is available for work on being recalled in order of his seniority.
(c)	If an employee is absent from work due to a certified sickness or injury.
(d)	Seasonal employee’s seniority shall not affect regular employee’s seniority; i.e., in case of a dispute, a regular employee’s seniority shall be considered first.
22
8.05	The Company shall post and maintain a seniority list on the plant bulletin boards and shall provide the Secretary cf the Union with a copy cf such list annually. Such lists shall be subject to review cf the Union Shop Committee. Any irregularities in the list not consistent with the seniority principles defined in this Agreement shall be corrected by the parties hereto within thirty (30) days.
8.06	Seniority shall apply in the event cf its becoming necessary to reduce staff. All lay-offs shall be made impartially and in strict order cf seniority, only if the senior employee is able and willing to efficiently perform the work required of him. Rehiring after lay-offs shall be in the reverse order of lay-offs, with the last man laid off being the first rehired, and so on.
8.07	(a) If an opportunity for promotion, preferred job or job
training occurs in the Plant, notice of such position shall be posted on the same day for ten (10)days on the bulletin boards of the Company, and all employees cf the Company shall have an opportunity to apply for such position. All particulars of such jobs shall be contained in such notice.
(b)	The name cf the applicants shall be posted on the bulletin board. The Union will be notified cf the employee selected and will be advised of the date on which he will commence his training. His training to start within two (2) months of his selection.
(c)	The Company may fill any position temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated to try out all applicants, nor is the Company obliged to fill all vacancies by promotion or transfers from within the bargaining unit <f the Company.
(d)	The Company agrees to make such promotions on the basis of (liability; (2) seniority and, providing the ability cf the applicants is equal, seniority shall apply.
23
(e)	The following summer jobs lasting more than eight (8) weeks continuously or collectively will be posted:
(a)	Utility man in the Warehouse,
(b)	Helper in the Keg Department,
(c)	Transportation.
Such other summer jobs will be posted, as may be agreed upon between the parties.
(f)	(i) When a regular employee is selected for a
regular or relief job position as a tractor trailer driver, the employee will not be considered for another job posting for a period cf twelve (12) months, unless a full-time opening becomes available in the Transportation Department.
(ii) Notwithstanding the above, any new job created and/or any day job becoming available during the life cf this Collective Agreement, all employees will be entitled to put in for these jobs.
(g)	A regular employee may hold one regular posted position and one relief position, provided that the relief position is not in his regular department.
For purposes of this clause only, the departments shall be defined as Warehouse & Transportation Department, and Brewing, Fermenting & Cellars Department.
(h)	Regular full time employees will be called back to their regular departments ahead cf relief personnel.
(i)	In January cf each year the Company will repost any job postings which were performed by temporaries in the previous twelve (12) months.
(j)	In January cf each year the Company will reviewall relief postings as to the reasons and length cf time employees are performing relieving duties. A decision will then be made as to whether these positions will remain relief postings or become full time postings.
24
8.08	When the Company requires an employee to train for a job where at that time there is no vacancy, this opportunity to train will be posted in the same manner as a vacancy would be. The Company agrees to select such
trainee on the same basis on which promotions are
made.
8.09	All employees on the Union Executive, and Shop Stewards designated by the Union in each department, shall be exempt from temporary lay-offs as long as there is work in their respective departments which they can perform satisfactorily.
8.10	Upon request by the Union at Union/Management Meetings, the Company will give a progress report on all new employees after two months’ employment.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	In the event cf any dispute oralleged dispute (hereinafter called a grievance) alleged violation or misinterpretation cf this Agreement, the subscribing parties agree to abide by the following procedure for arriving at a fair and binding settlement.
(a)	Whoever thegrievor orgrievors might be, they may first contact the Shop Steward and allow the Shop Steward or Grievance Committeeman, with or without the aggrieved, to take up the matter with the supervisor concerned in the very first step, and the supervisor shall be bound to render a decision within forty-eight (48) hours of having the matter placed before him.
(b)	If the employee, or majority of employees (if more than one is involved), are not satisfied with the decision of the supervisor, he or they, may appeal to the Grievance Committee who shall present the grievance to the Plant Manager or his designated representative within forty-eight (48)hours, who in turn must meet them and render a decision in writing within fortyeight (48)hours.
25
(c)	If the employee, or the majority cf the employees, (if more than one isinvolved),are not satisfied with the decision of the Plant Manager, or his designated representative, he or they, shall appeal to the Grievance Committee who shall meet with the Company and the Company shall grant them a fair hearing within four (4)days and before whom he, or they, shall be represented by the Grievance Committee of the Union and a representative cf the Union’s choice. A decision shall be rendered within forty-eight (48) hours after the hearing.
(d)	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the Union and the Company in (a),(b) and
(c), the dispute shall then be referred to a single arbitrator constituted in the following manner:
(1)	The matter may at the insistance cf either party, be submitted to a single arbitrator for his determination, provided that written notice is submitted to the other party within ten days cf the expiration cf the 48 hour period outlined in paragraph (c), above.
(2)	The party that provides the written notice referred to above shall include in that notice the names of at least three (3)persons for the consideration of the other party as candidates to act as the sole arbitrator. An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator.
(3)	In the event that the parties fail agreement on such an Arbitrator within 15 working days cf the date of notice of arbitration, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia shall be called upon to appoint such an Arbitrator.
(4)	The Arbitrator shall hear the grievance and shall issue a decision, within fifteen (15)days, or within such other period as the parties may
26
agree upon or the Arbitrator may reasonable require.
(5)	The decision cf the Arbitrator shall finally settle all differences between the parties or persons bound by this Agreement on whose behalf it was entered into, concerning its interpretation or violation.
(6)	The Arbitrator shall make any necessary orders to implement his award and restore any party to his or it’s rightful position, including lost wages, reinstatement, etc.
(7)	The Arbitrator shall have power to modify a penalty of discharge, suspension or discipline provided the Union establishes that there are just and reasonable grounds for such modification.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement nor to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement.
(f)	Pending arbitration there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement.
(g)	Each cf the parties hereto will bear one half of the expenses of the Arbitrator.
9.02	The disposition of complaints or questions in dispute shall be recorded in writing on a form supplied by the Union.
9.03	The Company will only consider grievances, the circumstances of which are alleged to have occurred not more than fifteen (15) working days prior to the presentation cf the grievances in writing, unless the employee is prevented from doing so by unusual circumstances.
27
9.04	Any place where the time <f twentyfour (24) hours or forty-eight (48) hours is involved in this Section, Saturdays, Sundays or holidays shall not be counted.
DISCIPLINARY RECORDS
9.05	In the imposition cf discipline, if an employee has not been formally disciplined for the same or a related offence for an interval of one (1) year, two (2) years in the case of suspension, his previous offences will not be referred to. But, in any event, discipline imposed will not be referred to after the expiry of two (2) years from the date of the discipline.
DISMISSALS
10.01	It is agreed that dismissals are to be made only by the Brewmaster or Plant Manager. Charges made against an employee as a basis for his removal for cause shall be acted upon only after such charges have been thoroughly investigated and the employee given an opportunity of stating his case.
10.02	If after investigation the employee or the Union believe that he has been unjustly discharged,a grievance may be submitted starting with Step No. 9.01(b) cf the Grievance Procedure, omitting Step 9.01(a).
10.03	Suspension of an employee, however, may be made by his supervisor or one of a higher rank. In such an event, the employee has the right of action described in the preceding paragraph.
HEALTH & SAFETY
11.01	It is mutually agreed that both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest possible extent in the prevention of accidents and the promotion cf safety and health.
11.02	An employee suffering an injury, no matter how trivial, or
28
becoming ill while at work, shall report to his supervisor and be allowed a reasonable time to secure proper treatment and shall report back to his supervisor either by telephone or in person after having received such treatment.
11.03	Sickness or accidents which necessitate absence from work, must be reported as soon as possible to the supervisor cf the department concerned, or to the Personnel Department. Such absences should be reported no later than two (2)hours prior to the start cf the employee’s normal shift.
11.04	All employees will submit to medical examination by the Company’s doctor whenever requested to do so.
11.05	Sickness or disability resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge in the case of regular employees. This clause also applies to probationary employees who have completed ninety (90) days worked, or to temporary employees who have completed one hundred and thirty-two (132) days worked. Upon recovery, the employee shall receive his former job if it is held by an employee with less seniority, or some other suitable job in his department if in each case the recovered employee is then capable of performing the job in a satisfactory manner, and provided his absence was due to such sickness or injury as certified by a doctor, satisfactoryto the Companyand provided he was not absent because cf sicknessor injury for more than 24 months.
11.06	There shall be a joint safety committee appointed to consist of one (1)member of the Company and one (1)of the Union.
UNIFORMS AND WEARING APPAREL
11.07	(a) The Company requires all employees on the
seniority list to wear a uniform or workclothingofa
29
type and colour mutually agreed upon, such uniforms or work clothing will be provided at no cost to the employee. Each employee shall keep the uniform and work clothing provided to him neat and clean at his own expense.
(b)	Rubber boots, aprons, gloves and goggles and safety glasses will be supplied to employees when engaged in work which in view cf the management, requires this protection. As to gloves, these will be supplied reasonably to those handling empty bottles. Other safety items recommended by the safety committee may be supplied under the terms of this Article.
(c)	Employees must wear protective hearing devices, safety footwear and safety glasses in areas so designated by the Company.
(d)	The Company shall provide to all seniority employees two (2)pairs of safety shoes or boots per year at a total cost to the Company not to exceed $75.00 per year.
(e)	The Company will pay the cost cf cleaning the Uniforms of regular transport drivers on the basis cf up to one cleaning per uniform per week.
(f)	The Company agrees to provide a lightjacket for grounds and service; rubber footwear for drivers and a spare set of rain wear and outer wear maintained in the Shipping Department for relief employees who are assigned as third person on the appropriate trucks
UNION SECURITY
12.01	(a) Each member of the Bargaining Unit shall be a member in good standing of the Brewery Workers Local No. 361 and shall continue to be a member cf the Union “as a condition of continued employment”.
30
1(b) The Union agrees that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the Bargaining Unit who is satisfactory to the Company will be allowed to make application for membership in the said Union on payment cf the regular initiation fees and monthly dues and will not be denied membership without just cause.
(c) The Company will only be required to discharge an employee for:
(i) Non-payment cf initiation fees.
(ii) Non-payment cf Union dues.
IRREVOCABLE CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
13.01	The Company shall automatically deduct Union dues from all employees coming within the established bargaining unit. Said dues shall be deducted on a weekly basis with new employees being required to pay dues starting with the first week of employment. Initiations fees will be deducted the first pay after having become a regular employee. The Company shall retain from each employee’s pay the amount of Union dues and initiation fees required by the Union. The Union shall inform the Company of the amount of Union dues and/or any assessment decided by the Union, and the Company shall remit to the authorized representative cf the Union the total deduction before the fifteenth (15) day of the month, following the month during which the deductions have been made, together with a statement of employee’s names and the amount so deducted and giving particulars of those whose employment has been terminated or who have been laid of since the previous statement was forwarded.
WELFARE
14.00 The following welfare benefits will be made available to regular employees. The Company will pay the premium cost for eligible employees.
31
(a)	The Company will provide the benefits available from time to time under the Company’s contract with Confederation Life. The Company will pay the premium costs for seniority employees and will pay the premium for coverage under the Confederation Life Contract for retiring employees.
(b)	The Company will provide a dental plan for eligible employees. Particulars cf the plan are explained in Appendix ‘E’.
(c)	Effective April 1, 1988 the Company will provide Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount cf $32,000 for employees actively at work on that day. Effective January 1, 1989 the amount cf insurance shall be increased to $33,000 for employees actively at work on that day. Effective January 1, 1990, the amount cf insurance shall be increased to $34,000 for employees actively at work on that day. Employees not actively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
(d)	Group Life Insurance to the amount cf $3,000 will be provided for eligibleemployees after age 65. For employees who retire on or after January 1st, 1988 the Company will provide Life Insurance Coverage cf $4,000.
(e)	The Company will provide, at no expense to the employee, a conventional sick pay plan administered by an insurance company and providing, subject to the rules of the plan, a weekly indemnity program providing a weekly benefit cf 70% of earnings, (applicable classification hourly rate x 40) for a period not exceeding twenty-six (26) weeks beginning with the first day of disability due to non-occupational injury and the fourth day of disability due tosickness. When a generalchange in wage rates takes effect under the terms of the Collective Agreement, the amount of weekly
32
indemnity benefit from the effective date cf such change will be 70% cf the basic weekly earnings rate to which the employee would be entitled if at work.
(f)	In addition, an employee with over six months service is eligible for a total cf six working days sick leave, non-accumulative, with pay per calendar year, but to receive this he must produce a doctor’s certificate certifying his illness on the first and any subsequent occasions sick leave is claimed. Any unused portion cf the sick leave will be paid to the employee prior to Christmas. An employee who retires from the Company under the provisions of the company Pension Plan will receive payment of pro-rated sick leave cash balance to an employee’s credit upon that employee’s retirement. Sick leave credits are established for each eligibleemployee as cf December 1st. Employees who acquire seniority after the commencement cf the new sick leave year are credited with sick leave days on a pro-rated basis. For example: If an employee acquires seniority on June 1, his sick leave entitlement will be 6/12 X 6 days = 3 days. A doctor’s certificate shall not be required under this clause (b) if (1) It is impracticable to obtain one; and (2)The Company Nurse is notified and she is satisfied that the employee was sick.
(g)	Should the illness be cf sufficient duration that the employee becomes eligible for benefits under the sick pay plan, he will not receive pay under this provision for any days he receives benefits under the sick pay plan. The balance cf sick leave remaining after such an occurrence may be claimed in the normal manner if the employee is subsequently sick during the balance of the calendar year.
(h)	The Company will provide at no expense to the employee a conventional long term disability plan administered by an insurance company providing, subject to the rules cf the plan, an indemnity cf 66 2/3% cf the monthly earnings.
33
(i)	If an employee returns to work and is again disabled
due to the same or related cause, his absence will be treated as a continuation cf disability under the LTD benefit unless he has been back to work for at least two (2) consecutive weeks.
WORKER’S COMPENSATION
14.01	The Company will make up the short fall between the employee’s regular wages and the amount paid to the employee under Worker’s Compensation from the first day for a period not exceeding twenty-six (26) weeks from the date cf compensable injury and in no event shall the Company be liable to pay under this clause after the employee becomes eligible for payments under the long term disability plan.
BEREAVEMENT
14.02	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, that is mother, father, brother, sister, wife, child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren, the Company will grant him time of with pay not more than three consecutive days, including Saturday and Sunday. However, if a fourth day is necessary in order to attend the burial, the employee shall be granted the burial day df without loss of pay. In the case cf other in-laws, aunts and uncles, the Company will allow one day off if the funeral is attended.
JURY DUTY
14.03	Any regular employee who is absent from his regularly scheduled work due to jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness in Nova Scotia shall receive the difference between the amount he receives asj ury or crown witness pay, including all other compensation from Government authority, and eight (8) hours pay at his straight time classification rate for each day cf jury service or as a crown witness while sitting on a jury or as a member cf
34
the jury panel during selection or required as a crown witness (Monday to Friday inclusive) provided satisfactory proof is submitted to the Company that he/she was called for such duty and sat as a member of the jury for the period claimed or required as a crown witness and provided that he/she returned to work within a reasonable time after the termination cf such service.
ILLNESS CR ACCIDENT
14.04	If because cf illness, a regular employee is not able to complete his shift after having worked at least two hours, he shall be sent home and shall be paid for the balance of his shift. In the case of an accident causing injury to a regular employee so severe that the employee is unable to continue work, he shall be paid for the balance cf the shift. No employee will leave work before first reporting to his supervisor. The Company may require proof <f illness by a doctor’s certificate to be obtained at Company’s expense, if any, by the employee whenever requested.
INTERRUPTION CF WORK
15.01	The Union undertakes that there shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage, or other interruptions of operations and the Company undertakes that there will be no lockout, each for the duration of the Agreement, it being understood that all differences between the parties shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
15.02	If an employee in the bargaining unit encounters a bona fide picket line in the course of his normal duties, there shall be an immediate conference between parties before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
GENERAL
16.01	(a) An employee may obtain a leave of absence for a
35
short period to perform legitimate duties on behalf cf Local 361 or to attend a trade union convention or a labour institute and shall not be prejudiced thereby provided sufficient prior notification is given to the Company and leave cf absence sought does not disrupt normal brewery operations.
(b) Leave of absence will be granted for a period of not more than twelve (12) months or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is longer, for any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official cf the International Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis.
16.02	The Company agrees that a copy of this Agreement may be placed in prominent places in the brewery, if deemed necessary, where it may be examined at any time by members of the Union. The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board in the canteen for use of the Union and will allow the Union to post notices of meetingsand other official Union notices duly signed by an officer <f the Union provided that prior approval is obtained from the Company.
16.03	The Company will grant time off without loss of pay during the employee’s regular working hours for not more than four employees who are members of the Union Negotiation Committee for the purpose tf attending negotiating meetings with the Company, for the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
16.04	Normal retirement for regular employees shall occur at age sixtyfive (65) except that the Company shall be given adequate time to secure a satisfactory replacement.
16.05	(j) f during the life cf this Agreement the Company
wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect cf
36
abolishing existing job classifications or creating newjob classifications, or which would result in the lay-off cf any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change.
(ii)	In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the permanent layoff cf ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes cf paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be permanently laid off.
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days cf the notice period and prior to affecting any layoffs or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (eligible employees) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a)in order of
37
seniority and, if they choose to take special early retiement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB), The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount cf the GWP separation pay entitlement cf all the employees designated for permanent layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number cf employees so designated. The number cf special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number tf jobs in that group which are to be permanently displace by the technological change and, if a greater number cf eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior cf them.
(iii)	(a) The number cf eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or if
(b) The Company did not anticipate the number cf layoffs but the introduction cf the major technological change actually directly results in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i) The employees ultimately designated for permanent layoff hereunder, who are eligible for participation in the GWP, will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff.Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation
38
payment calculated in accordance with Section 10 cf the Guaranteed Wage Plan. If any cf those employees who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees prior to March 6, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8)weeks of benefit entitlement for the purposes cf paragraph (b) of Section 10 cf the Guaranteed Wage Plan;
(ii)	Those employees designated for permanent kyoff hereunder who do not elect ot terminate from the Company pursant to the provisions cf the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under the Plan. In addition, if any employee who is eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to March 6, 1988, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks cf benefit entitlement under the Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(A)	An employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks cf entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 cf the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(B)	The additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
16.06 Persons hired as regular employees after March 6,1988 who have achieved seniority and who are not yet eligible
39
for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan will, upon permanent layoff, be eligible to receive an amount cf severance pay equal to one (1)week cf regular pay for each completed year of service as of the original date of his layoff. Upon receipt of such severance pay, the employee’s employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under this Agreement are cancelled.
PENSION PLAN
17.01	Regular employees shall be eligible for pension benefits as provided for in Appendix ‘B’ of this Agreement.
PAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION OFFICIALS
18.01	Upon written application by the President cf Local 361 cf the Union, the Company agrees to grant an education leave of absence, without loss of regular pay, not to exceed three (3)normal working days in any one year, to the Union President, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Chief Shop Steward, Sergeant atArms, Trustees,Union Plant Chairman, elected Department Stewards and Alternate Stewards. Such educational leave will be so arranged between the Union and the Company so as to minimize disruption of the Company’s operations.
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCES
19.01	A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January 1,1990 to December 31, 1990, the first pay period following publication cf the December, 1990 Consumer Price Index (1971= 100), on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100)in the period from January 1,1990 to December 31, 1990 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month cf December 1989, after adding thereto 6% cf the December 1989, Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the Month cf December 1990.
40
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REBATE
20.00	The employee’s share cf any Unemployment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion cf the cost cf the benefit improvements contained in this Agreement.
APPENDIXES
20.01	Appendix ‘A’,‘B’, ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’,‘F’, ‘G’/H’and Tshall form part cf the Collective Agreement.
Appendix ' A Wage Rates and Classifications Appendix ‘B’ Pension Plan Appendix ‘C’ Letter cf Intent re Guaranteed Wage Plan
Appendix ‘D’ Guaranteed Wage Plan Agreement Appendix ‘E’ Dental Plan Appendix ‘F’ Agreement with Operating Engineers
Appendix‘G’ Fermenting Room Operators’
Shifts
Appendix ‘H’ Overtime Equalization Appendix ‘I’ Line Haul
41
DURATION OF AGREEMENT

This Agreement and schedule cf working conditions shall become effective as cf January 1,1988 and continue in force ■untiL31st December. 1990 and thereafter from year to year unless or until either partyserves written notice on the other party to the contrary at least sixty (60) days prior to 31st December, 1990 or sixty (60) days prior to 31st December cf any subsequent year.
SIGNED AT HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, this 18th day cf November, 1988.
SIGNED
FOR THE COMPANY FOR THE UNION
Gerry Burke George Creelman Allan Castagne Gerry MacLeod George Organ Bob Harris
Gary Foran Paul Toner Larry Deal Robert Ells Merlin Barron
42
APPENDIX 'A
WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
Jan. 1/88 Jan. 1/89 Jan. 1/90
Supervisory Personnel Relieving Supervisor Charge Hand Brewery Workers Kettleman
Ferm. Room Attendent
Cellar Operator
Machine Operator
Warehousemen
Battery Maintenance/Cleaner
Receiver
Fork Lift Operator Janitor
Plant Cleaner
Engineering
Shift Engineer Transportation
Driver
Truck Helper
Tractor Trailer Driver/Line Haul Maintenance Chief Mechanic Maintenance ‘ A Maintenance ‘B!
Maintenance 'C1 Maintenance General Greaser/Utility Man Maintenance Helper (Posted) Grounds and Service Painter Van Driver All Departments
General Labour Probationary Employees Temporary Employees
$17.44	$18.21	$18.91
17.38	18.15	18.85
17.20	17.97	18.67
17.20	17.97	18.67
17.20	17.97	18.67
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.08	17.85	18.55
19.78	20.64	21.61
17.08	17.85	18.55
16.99	17.76	18.46
17.28	18.05	18.75
19.93	20.79	21.76
19.78	20.64	21.61
19.05	19.83	20.54
17.34	18.11	18.81
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.64	18.41	19.11
17.64	18.41	19.11
17.08	17.85	18.55
17.39	18.16	18.86
17.08	17.85	18.55
16.99	17.76	18.46
*10.81	11.20	11.62
*9.06	9.40	9.76
* Effective April 1, 1988
43
APPENDIX ‘B’
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED PENSION PLAN
Employees cf Oland Breweries Limited in Halifax,Nova Scotia will be entitled to benefits from the John Labatt Retirement Plan for Wage Employees, subject to the following provisions as amended effective January 1, 1988.
1.	Eligibility
Employees shall be eligible for membership on the later cf January 1, 1974 or on the lstcf the month following the date cf becoming a regular employee.
2.	Employee Contribution
No employee contributions will be required after January 1, 1974.
3.	Normal Retirement Date
First of the month following his sixty-fifth birthday
4.	Credited Service for January 1, 1974.
The employee will receive a credit of one year for eighteen hundred (1800) or more hours worked in a calendar year when a member <f the Plan, and including any periods during which he receives weekly indemnity or long term disability insurance benefits or Worker’s Compensation payments. For less than eighteen hundred (1800) hours, a partial year will be credited by prorating actual hours to 1800.
44
Pension Options at Retirement:
Four types cf pension are available to members for their retirement:
(a)	Normal retirement at age 65,
(b)	Special Early retirement at a minimum cf age 60 with at least 30 years cf credited service.
(c)	“85 Point” retirement at a minimum cf age 55 with the sum cf age plus the number of years cf credited service equalling 85 or more.
(d)	Other Early retirement at a minimum cf age 55.
Each of these alternatives are discussed in greater detail below.
5.	Calculation cf Pension Benefit Accrual
Your receive credit for a monthly basic pension payable from your normal retirement date (age 65) calculated as follows:
(a)	For service January 1, 1974 to December 31, 1979, a monthly pension payable from age sixty- five (65) equal to $7.50 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(b)	For service in 1980, a monthly pension equal to $13.00 multiplied by the number cf years of credited service.
(c)	For service in 1981, a monthly pension equal to $14.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(d)	For service in 1982, a monthly pension equal to $15.00 multiplied by the number cf years of credited service.
(e)	For service in 1983, a monthly pension equal to $16.50 multiplied by the number cf years of credited service.
(f)	For service in 1984, a monthly pension equal to $17.25 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
45
(g)	For service in 1985, a monthly pension equal to $19.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(h)	For service in 1986, a monthly pension equal to $19.50 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(i)	For service in 1987, a monthly pension equal to $20.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(j)	For service in 1988, a monthy pension equal to $26.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(k)	For service in 1989, a monthly pension equal to $27.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service.
(l)	For service after January 1, 1990, a monthly pension equal to $28.00 multiplied by the number cf years credited service.
6.	(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
(■) A member retiring at age 65 on or after January 1, 1988, with at least 30 years cf credited service, is entitled to a minimum monthly pension cf $1531 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combined.
Should the member’s accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension cf $1531, the member is further entitled to a Lifetime Supplement, being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit determined at the date cf his retirement to produce this minimum pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years cf credited service, the lifetime supplement
46
shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number cf years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(ii)	A member retiring at age 65, on or after January 1, 1989, with at least 30 years cf credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $1593 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combined.
Should the member’s accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan benefit combined not produce a minimum pension cf $1593, the member is further entitled to a lifetime supplement, being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit determined at the date of his retirement to produce this minimum pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years cf credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(iii)	A member retiring at age 65, on or after January 1, 1990, with at least 30 years cf credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $1655 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combined.
Should the member’s accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension of $1655, the member is further entitled to a lifetime supplement, being the amount required to be
47
added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit determined at the date cf his retirement to produce this minimum pension.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years cf credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years ofcredited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
Special Early Retirement
(i) A member retiring after having attained age 60 on or after January 1, 1988 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be temporarily supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension cf $1354 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (Age 65).
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required. to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1531; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1988 will be paid a further
48
supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as cf that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part cf the member’s lifetime supplement.
(ii) A member retiring after having attained age 60 on or after January 1, 1989 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be temporarily supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension cf $1400, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (Age 65).
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1593; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1989 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member
49
were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit both determined as cf that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
(iii)	A member retiring after having attained age 60 on or after January 1, 1990 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be temporarily supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension cf $1439, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (Age 65).
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension cf $1655, which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1990 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement
50
benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
(c)	85 Point Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years cf credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount cf accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date cf early retirement reduced by one-third (1/3) percent per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month retirement precedes the date the member would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or the normal retirement date, whichever first occurs.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date cf retirement by using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date cf retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by one-third (1/3) percent per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month retirement precedes the date the member would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or the normal retirement date, whichever first occurs.
(d)	Other Early Retirement
A member retiring on or after January 1, 1988 and after having attained age 55, with two years cf credited service, but prior to having qualified for
51
Special Early Retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date cf early retirement reduced by a factor cf one-third (1/3) percent for each month he is under Age 66 when his pension commences.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date cf retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then also be reduced by a factor cf one-third (1/3) percent for each month the member is under Age 65 when his pension commences.
7.	Termination of Employment
A member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
The pension benefits accrued for service from January 1, 1974 will be paid as a deferred pension commencing at normal retirement date, or;
Instead of the deferred pension entitlement, the member may elect to transfer the computed value of his pension to a Registered Retirement Saving Plan. Any amount so transferred may be subject to Provincial locking-in requirements.
8.	Joint and Survivor Pension
A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point or other Early Retirement on or after January 1, 1988, shall receive a joint and survivor pension unless the persons entitled to the joint and
52
survivor pension deliver to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period cf twelve months immediately preceeding the commencement cf payment cf the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10% during his lifetime. Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension cf 60% cf the member’s reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to actuarial reduction if such spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member).
9.	Death Before Retirement
If a member dies after having met the eligibility requirements (Age 55 and 10 years cf Service)for a preretirement spousal pension, his spouse shall receive an immediate pension equal to the amount payable had the member retired on the date cf his death with the Joint and Survivor Pension described in item 8 above, plus the same percentage cf his lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date cf death, but using his current unreduced accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of death.
If a member should die before his pension commences and does not have a spouse who is entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraphs, a death benefit shall be paid to the member’s beneficiary equal to the lump sum amount described in Item 7 above as if he had termined on the date cf his death.
53
10.	Escalation f Pension After Retirement
If a member retires from the service cf the Company pursuant to any cf the types cf retirement listed above, his pension will be reviewed from September 1st <f each year which follows his retirement date.
The accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased on each September 1st following his retirement by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year, with a maximum escalation cf 2%.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated applying the same formula, with the first increase occuring on the September 1st following death.
11.	Previous Plan Benefits
Benefits accrued by a member cf a previous Oland Breweries Limited Pension Plan have been determined and fixed to the credit cf the member for service to December 31, 1973 and will be payable in accordance with the provisions cf that plan except:
(a)	The death benefit provided in a previous plan will be deleted and the contributory pension accrued to December 31, 1973 will be subject to the Survival Benefits as described in Item 8 and 9 above.
(b)	On other early retirement described in Item 6 above, the contributory pension accrued for service to December31,1973 will be reduced by one-third (1/3) percent for each month that the member is under age sixtyfive (65)when pension commences.
12.	Disability Retirement (Before Age 65)
As long as a member is eligible to receive disability benefits under the Group Insurance Plan he will receive service and basic pension credits under the Retirement Plan and will not be retired. However, if a member becomes partially disabled and does not qualify for
54
insurance benefits he may qualify for Disability Retirement. Retirement under this provision requires that:
(a)	He is at least age 50 and has completed 10 years cf service, and
(b)	He is certified to be partially disabled and thereby prevented from performing any work available with the Company, and
(c)	It is mutually agreed by the member and by the Company that he be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
On retirement under the disability provision a member is entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount cf basic pension to his credit for service to his date cf disability retirement without reduction for his earlier age cf retirement. In addition, until he qualifies for the earlier cf receipt cf C.P.P. disability benefits or the attainment cf age 65, he will receive a monthly disability supplement equal to $7.00 multiplied by the number cf years cf credited service up to 30 years.
At age 65, he will then receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if he had reached age 65 on the date of his retirement, but using his current unreduced vested acccrued basic pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit and the Normal Retirement minimum pension determined as at his actual date of retirement.
13. No further amendments shall be made to this Plan which are to be effective prior to January 1, 1991.
55
APPENDIX ‘C’
LETTER OF INTENT RE: GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
March 6, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President Local 361
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 Negotiations in the matter of the implementation cf the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
The Plan will become effective on the date it receives UIC Registration approval and will continue for a period cf three (3) years from that date.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke,
Director cf Personnel
56
APPENDIX ‘D’
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called “The Company”
— and —
BREWERY & SOFT DRINK WORKERS, LOCAL 361,
hereinafter called “The Union”
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit described by the said Collective Agreement.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement, which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out cf the administration cf this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the implementation of a Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such implementation to become effective on the 15th day cf March, 1983, or on any later date o n which approval for implementation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classified as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
(c)	The receipt by employees cf the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
57
1. Purpose
The purpose cf this Plan is to provide a method cf guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and separation pay in certain cases.
2.	Eligibility for Participation in the Plan
Any regular hourly-rated employee having at least one year cf seniority determined as of the March 15th immediately preceding his layoff shall be eligible to participate in this plan. Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to March 6th, 1988, shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan until March 15th, cf the year following the employee’s attainment of three (3) years of seniority,
3.	Exceptions
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
1(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary
reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee’s status under the Plan.
(b) Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes of the International Union or by any local Union thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because cf specific direction or decree from any Governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations, unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the province.
58
(d)	Employees who have been laid cff because cf any act cf war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act cf sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave cf absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out cf the Plan for such period.
4. Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be
eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any
payments under the Plan for any week:
(i) In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for U.I. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(jj) In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.I, benefits or for reduction cf U.I. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment cf at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he is in receipt cf a benefit provided by the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vjj) In respect cf which he is qualified for compensation from the Worker’s Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
59
5. Definitions
For the purposes cf this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company’s payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice cf the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
“Week of layoff” means a week in which the employee’s compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions f the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid df from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week cf layoff calculated by determining the product cf items 1,2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum cf item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
60
(2)	The straight time hourly rate cf the employee in effect as cf time cf layoff.
(3)	The excess cf forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such
week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end cf the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end cf the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later.
Welfare Plan for the purpose (fthissection does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because cf illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
8.	Duration of Benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table "A". However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement willbe less than themaximum benefitsentitlementifhehasused any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks cf benefits are restored based upon the formula cf l/10th cf a week for each eight (8)full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table " A below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the
61
employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in
The maximum number of weeks cf benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing March 15th shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that March 15th in accordance with Table "A" above. Each eligible employee's weeks <f benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt cf benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths cf one weekforeach week in which he is on layoff and in receipt cf benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and 3/5ths cf one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt cf benefits formorethan sixteen (16)hours; and by 2/5ths cf one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt cf benefits for more than eight (8)hours; and by l/5th cf a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt cf benefits for eight (8)hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any cf the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) cf Section 4.
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
Table " A.
TABLE 'A'
Completed Years of Seniority Determined as cf March 15 immediately preceding his layoff.
Maximum
Benefit
Entitlement
9. Deductions
62
10. Separation Pay
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below if on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%)f normal full-time hours if he is not eligible for any Company or Government Pension or for benefits under the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
In special cases where a laid cf employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period f six months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefore, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above, if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid of as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six months’ period.
If an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to the sum of:
(a)	One week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	$95.00 multiplied by a number equal to the number cf unused weeks cf benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation. However, an eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefor shall have the $95.00 supplemented by an additional $30.00.
63
The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount cf any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
11. Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period f twelve (12)months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
12. Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall continue until March 14, 1991, During negotiations for renewal cf the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part cf such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this agreement will not take effect any earlier than March 15, 1991.
64
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 18th day cf November, 1988,
FOR THE COMPANY Gerry Burke George Creelman Allan Castagne Gerry MacLeod George Organ Bob Harris
FOR THE UNION Gary Foran Paul Toner Larry Deal Robert EDs Merlin Barron
65
APPENDIX ‘ E DENTAL PLAN Dental Care Benefit
Dental Care benefits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations and exclusions described below.
Eligible services are all reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or physician and for which a Treatment Plan has been submitted to and approved by the insurer before the services are rendered. The filing cf a Treatment Plan is not required if the total cost cf the proposed work is less than $200,00 or if treatment is rendered in emergency conditions, Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories:
(a)	Basic Services — examinations and cleaning cf teeth (once in any six month period), extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment for the relief cf dental pain.
(b)	Restorative Services — crowns and inlays, bridge work, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics), and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodontics).
(c)	Orthodontia — proper fitting cf natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities cf the teeth.
Effective April 1, 1988, you will be reimbursed for 100% cf the cost of Basic services, 75% of the cost cf Restorative services, 50% cf the cost cf Orthodontia for eligible services incurred by you or your eligible dependents, up to a maximum benefit for each insured person cf $650.00 in a calendar year for Basic services with a lifetime maximum benefit of; effective April 1, 1988, $3,250 effective January 1, 1989, $3,500;effectiveJanuary 1, 1990, $3,700 for each insured persons for Restorative services and Orthodontia combined. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current Dental Association Schedule of Fees in the province in which you reside. If optional procedures are possible, benefits
66
will be payable in accordance with the procedure involving the smallest fee. Expenses incurred for the replacement cf dentures are eligible for benefits except that if the replacement is for a denture for which benefits were payable under this plan, benefits for the replacement will be payable only if at least live (5) years have elapsed since the placement or replacement for which benefits were paid. In additon, benefits are payable for rebasing, relining or repairing of dentures. Benefits will not be paid for the replacement of dentures which have been lost or misplaced or stolen.
Dental care benefits are not payable for any services eligible for payment from another source such as provincial health insurance plans, Worker’s Compensation or other government plan, expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war, or any service for which an employee or dependent does not have to pay. Your dental care insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service and claims will not be accepted for any service performed after the date on which your insurance was cancelled.
How to Claim for Dental Care Benefit
Claims must be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred except that proof of claim must be submitted within ninety (90)days cf the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim. The dentist’s statement on this form, or any bills supporting your claim, must show the patient’s name, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. If the total cost associated with proposed dental work is $200,00 or more, a Treatment Plan must be submitted to the insurer as explained in the Dental Care Benefit explanation above. You should have your dentist complete a claim form setting out details as to the proposed treatment and cost.
Give this form to your Personnel or Medical Department to forward for review by the insurance company. You will then
67
be advised as to the charges, or portion thereof, which the insurer considers eligible for benefits. Upon completion <f the dental treatment you again submit a claim to receive payment cf the approved benefits.
Failure to see your dentist promptly or to submit your claim together with the dentist’s report or other itemized statements within the above time limits will result in the rejection of your claim.
APPENDIX “F”
AGREEMENT WITH OPERATING ENGINEERS JUNE 3, 1977
1.	Two twelve (12) hour shifts to commence May 12, 1974.
2.	Shifts will be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
3.	Shift commencing at 7:00 p.m. will be deemed to be worked on the following day — e.g. 7:00 p.m. Sunday will be Monday’s work.
4.	Pay will be as follows, on Class “A” Scale:
36 hours @ straight time on a 3 day week 44 hours @ straight time on a 4 day week Plus 4 hours @ overtime rate on a 4 day week.
5.	In a week in which a holiday falls, the two engineers who are on a shift each earn thirty-six (36)hours pay and the two engineers who are df shift each earn eighteen (18) hours pay.
6.	“B” shift or day shift 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., no shift premium will be paid. “A” Shift or night shift 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., the appropriate night shift premium willbe paid.
7.	1st day df after shift completion will be considered as Saturday or time and one-half day. 2nd day off after shift completion will be considered as Sunday or double time day. (Only one double time day can fall in any seven days, pay period Sunday a.m. to Saturday p.m.).
8.	Vacation period and pay will be on a 40 hour basis.
68
9,	Vacation bonus will be calculated on 40 hours, similar to
remainder cf plant personnel.
10.	Vacations — 1 week = 9 days 3-3-3
— 2 weeks = 15 days 3-3-3-3-3.
11.	Relief for dinner and breaks if possible on the day shift only.
APPENDIX ‘G’
FERMENTING ROOM OPERATORS’ SHIFTS
1.	Fermenting shifts will be based on a seven (7) day shift operation.
2.	Under a two-shift operation, the shifts will be 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
3.	The following shifts will outline the operator work week
(a)	Sunday to Thursday — 7:00 a.m. — 3:00 p.m.
(b)	Monday to Friday — 3:00 p.m. — 11:00 p.m.
(c)	Tuesday to Saturday — 7:00 a.m. — 3:00 p.m.
4.	For those operators required to work on a Saturday or Sunday, they will be paid the appropriate overtime rates, in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
5.	The second day shift fermenting room operator will only be used to relieve another fermenting room operator on the first day cf absence (if the fermenting room relief operator is unavailable), after which the fermenting room relief operator will be used.
6.	When there are two operators on one shift, the second operator will only be required to work in the Brewing Department and will not be required to perform relief duties, except as described in Item five (5).
7.	In the event cf a statutory holiday or a recognized statutory holiday falling on a day when two operators are scheduled to work on the same shift, then both operators are required to work on that day.
8.	Vacation period will be on a forty (40)hour week basis.
69
APPENDIX H’
OVERTIME EQUALIZATION
(1)	An overtime list will be posted departmentally and updated on a weekly basis. This list will show the name cf the employee and his/her overtime record for all departments.
(2)	The overtime record cf each employee will revert to zero at the end cf each calendaryear (January 1) withzero (0) hours charged against the overtime record.
(3)	All overtime hours recorded will be converted to a straight time equivalent. For example, if an employee works eight (8)hours at time and one-half, his/her record will reflect twelve (12) hours charged.
(4)	All overtime which is offered to an employee, will be charged against the overtime record with the following exceptions:
a)	An employee will not be charged with a refusal if he/she is given less than two (2) hours notice cf the overtime opportunity. Any overtime hours actually worked, regardless cf the length cf notice, will be charged to the overtime record.
b)	If an employee is called at home and offered weekend overtime without twenty-four (24) hours notice, he/she will not be charged with a refusal.
c)	The present practice of selection of employees to work overtime on the following jobs will be continued:
—	Track Cleaning
—	Pasteurizer Cleaning
—	Soaker Cleaning
—	Bottle Filler
The above jobs will continue to be posted and selection made from the applicants. Applicants who are not selected to work will not be charged. Applicants who are selected and subsequently refuse, will be charged the appropriate hours.
70
(5)	Overtime charged against the employee’s record will equal the amount cf hours the overtime opportunity actually turned out to be:
e.g. — If the overtime offer is made for four (4)hours and it actually turns out to be three (3) hours, the overtime record will reflect three (3) hours worked at the straight time equivalent.
Conversely, if three (3) hours overtime are offered and it turns out that four (4) hours were worked, then four (4) hours worked at the straight time equivalent will be charged against the overtime record of the employee that worked and/or any employee who was offered the opportunity and declined.
(6)	The original overtime lists posted at the beginning of the New Year will be posted in seniority order.
(7)	An employee who accepts an overtime opportunity and is absent for the assignment due to illness, will be charged with the unconverted overtime hours as if he/she had worked. An employee who has no sick leave remaining, will be charged with all converted hours as if he/she had worked.
(8)	If overtime becomes available at the end of a shift, it will first be offered to employees who are at work. Employees who are on off shifts will be contacted next.
(9)	When a particular group is completely canvassed and more employees are required, overtime selection can be made from another group. Subject to the employees ability to perform the work, selection will be on the basis of the employee with the least amount of total overtime hours worked or refused in all groups.
(10)	Employees who are absent and were not canvassed to work, will not be charged overtime opportunities missed. If an employee is on a long-term absence (expected absence to be 30 or more calendar days), he/she will be deleted from the overtime list and upon return, will be returned to the group at not less than the group average.
71
(11)	A permanent employee entering a new group will enter at not less than the group average. This will also apply to probationary employees who become permanent and successful applicants on job postings.
(12)	A) A regular employee may work overtime in another
group, providing he/she has not refused overtime in their base group.
B) A full time employee returning to his/her base group for a three (3) day or longer basis, will be offered (Saturday) overtime in his/her base group only.
(13)	A) For overtime purposes only, the vacation period
commences on the Saturday of the employee’s final work week prior to vacation and ends on theSunday or Statutory Holiday at the end f the employee’s vacation period.
B)	An employee under (A) above who wishes to work during an overtime opportunity on the first Saturday on his/her vacation, may do so by making a request to their supervisor f their desire to work. The employee would then be selected as any other employee. An employee who does not make such a request to work, will not be charged for a failure to accept the overtime opportunity.
C)	An employee returning from vacation will only be entitled to be selected for an overtime opportunity which falls on his/her first scheduled work day following their vacation. For example, an employee who is on vacation and scheduled to return to work on Tuesday because Monday is a recognized Statutory holiday, would not be entitled to any overtime opportunities on that statutory holiday Monday.
(14)	A) A relief operator who is relieving in his/her relief
group on a daily basis, will be offered overtime in their base group if there is no work available in his/her relief group after all scheduled employees in that group have been canvassed. However, when a relief
72
employee refuses overtime in their relief group, they can not accept overtime in another group.
B)	A relief operator who is relieving in his/her relief group for a three (3) day or longer basis, will be offered (Saturday)overtime in their relief group only.
C)	All overtime hours accumulated for relief personnel will be credited and added together to determine total overtime recorded.
D)	A relief operator under (B) will enter his/her relief group at not less than thegroupaverage for overtime sharing purposes. However, when relieving in another group expected to be 30 calendar days (or longer), the relief employee will bring back to his/her base group, all equivalent hours worked or refused, but will not be less than the group average.
15) Attendance at meetings which require an overtime premium to be paid, will not be charged against the employee’s overtime record.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director of Personnel
73
APPENDIX ‘I'
LINE HAUL
In the event that when the Company establishes the operatior cf line haul routes in the Province cf Nova Scotia, the worl necessary to the operation cf these routes will be performed b; members of Local 361, Brewery Workers and will be subject tc the following terms and conditions:
1)	Line haul delivery work will be performed by regula employees who have applied for and received tracto: trailer postings, and working in the department at the time.
2)	Line haul delivery shall be rotated on a weekly basis among those employees who satisfy the requirements o paragraph (1)above.
3)	A. Lor those employees performing line haul deliver!
work, the work week shall consist cf four (4)ten (10] hour days, Monday to Thursday 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. inclusive.
B.	Notwithstanding the above 3(A), the line hauldrivers work week can be changed to Tuesday to Eriday 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. inclusiveas long asthe Company gives the Union four (4)weeks advance notice in writing ol the change.
C.	Overtime shall be paid at the rate cf double time (2X) for hours worked in the excess of ten (10) hours in a day.
D.	Any line haul driver required to come in on his scheduled days cff will be paid at the applicable overtime rates.
4)	The provisions cf paragraph (3), above, shall not be construed as a guarantee cf forty (40)hours cf line haul delivery work in any one (1)week, and in the event that the Company is unable to schedule sufficient line haul deliveries to fill the entire forty (40) hour work week, employees scheduled to work line haul deliveries will be expected to perform any other duties which Tractor Trailer Drivers normally perform.
74
HOONER BEER
;rort*le jht beer -D SCOTIA »LE
(902)453 '867
PO BOX 8600 STATION A' HAURAX. CANADA 03K 5N4
March 3. 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361
U.F.C.W
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached at the 1988 Negotiations in the matter cf Banked Overtime for the plant, excluding plant services.
The intent cf the plan is to level off and reduce the number of permanent employees being laid df during slack production periods. The parties further agree that, the procedures following may be amended as mutually agreed between the parties.
Overtime:
Employees working overtime have an option of either getting paid for it, or banking all or part cf it, all at the applicable overtime rates.
Banked Time
1)	Overtime can be banked in no less than '/2 hour increments.
2)	Processing cf banked time (banking or drawing out banked time) is done by time sheets only. No processing will be done by special pay adjustments or manual cheques.
3)	The processing system will recalculate the overtime to
75
straight hour basis. (8hours overtime worked at the rate c time and a half will show 12 hours as to be banked).
4)	Banked time drawn out is paid at the hourly rate applicabl when banked.
Banked Time Maximums
1)	There is no limit as to how many hours an employee cai have in the bank at any time.
2)	No employee can take more than 80 hours worth c banked overtime as time off in a calendar year.
Withdrawl of Banked Time
1)	As a cash out in blocks of eight (8)hours
2)	As a time cff in blocks cf 40 hours only.
3)	Banked time cff will be granted, in accordance with thi rules for vacation scheduling. Vacations take priority ove banked time off in an event cf conflict.
4)	Once banked time cff is granted, it can not be bumped by < subsequent vacation request.
5)	Banked time off will not be granted for periods when temporary employees are scheduled to work.
6)	The banked overtime system will keep track cf al transactions and will display the status cf each account a the end cf the previous pay periods. The disposition cf the banked time in any form (i.e. — cash out, time off)will be done according to the last status report only.
7)	Time drawn from the bank will be paid on the employee’s regular cheque or on a separate cheque. If it isa cash out for eight (8) hours, it is to be included on the employee’: regular cheque. If it is a cash out for more than eight (8’ hours, a separate cheque is to be generated for the ful amount requested with income tax to be the onh, deduction. F the time drawn is time off, it will be paid on c regular cheque with all applicable deductions.
8)	The employee’s cheque stub is to show totals for the following:
A)	Banked Time Remaining
B)	Vacation Remaining
76
>) An employee can bank time during a whole calendar year and can have until April 30th cf the followingyear to take it, unless he/she is scheduled to take it cfE.
0)	On May 1st, all banked time from the previous year will be paid df with only the current year’s accumulated time showing.
1)	Banked time drawn out as time df will be authorized on first come, first served basis.
fours very truly,
77
SCHOONER BEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLD SCOTIA ALE
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1981 Negotiations regarding Banked Overtime for Maintenance Employees and Operating Engineers.
Where it becomes necessary for the company to schedule Maintenance work on overtime, such Maintenance employees who perform that work shall, at their own option, be entitled tc accumulate such overtime work hours to allowan option forthc time off. The accumulation cf “Banking” for time off shall be subject to the following conditions:
a)	Banked Time Maximums:
1)	There is no limit as to how many hours an employee can have in the bank at any time.
2)	No employee can take more than 80 hours worth ol banked overtime as time eff in a calendar year.
b)	That time off shall be as mutually arranged between the employee and his immediate supervisor.
c)	The banking cf overtime be limited to Maintenance employees and Operation Engineers in the following classifications:
78
Maintenance Mechanic A Maintenance Mechanic B Maintenance Mechanic C Maintenance General Shift Engineer
d)	That the principles contained herein are granted on the basis of the particular production requirements cf this plant cf the Company.
e)	Accumulated Banked time earned in one calendar year shall be used up by April 30th in the following year. An employee who does not use up accumulated time have the accumulated amount at April 30th paid to him by Company at the rate at which it was earned.
f)	Time off in exchange for overtime hours work shall not be granted for periods cf less than one (l)day. Employees who qualify for the accumulation of overtime shall have the following arrangements available to them for each period of overtime worked:
1.	Payment cf appropriate rates for all hours of overtime worked in lieu of banking for any time off.
2.	Payment of the appropriate job rate for all hours worked and banking the appropriate premium amount for such overtime work.
3.	Banking cf all hours worked and banking of all appropriate premium amount for such overtime work.
4.	Banking of all straight time as worked and payment for premium hours.
g)	The intent cf this plan is that Maintenance employees and Operation Engineers take significate blocks cf time offat any one time, (i.e., one week).Time off for periods asshort as one day will be granted where reasonable notice is given and shift change premium is not required for the man’s replacement.
h)	Banked time off should be taken outside the summer period. Time off shall be arranged by request to the immediate supervisor and will be granted in accordance with the normal rules for vacation scheduling. H is understood, that vacations take priority over banked time
79
cff in the event cf any conflict.
i)	Maintenance Department employees may not take the accumulated time cff during annual overhaul periods, bi their requests lor time cff duringthe summer period will b granted where and whenever possible.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director cf Personnel
80
larch 3, 1988
4r. Gary Foran ’resident
Irewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 J.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 'Jegotiations with respect to plant holiday pay for temporary •mployees.
\ temporary employee must have worked forty-five (45) days yithin the last six (6) months, in order to be eligible for paid alant holidays, in addition, the employee must have worked, or oeen available for work, the day before the plant holiday and the day following the plant holiday, unless prior permission to oe absent has been granted by his immediate supervisor. Absence due to legitimate sickness on the day before or the day after the plant holiday shall not affect his holiday pay.
G. J. Burke Director cf Personnel
81
SCHOONER SEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLO SCOTIA ALE
(9021 453* 1 P 0 BOX 8 STATION ' HALIFAX. CA B3K BN'
BREWERS SINCE 1867
I
HALIFAX Canada
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drir Workers — Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 191 Negotiations regarding selection cf alternate days cff for plai holidays that fell on Saturday, in accordance with Article 4.C cf the Collective Agreement.
At the first regular Labour/Management Committee Meetir following the ratification cf the Memorandum cf Agreemen the Committee will assign dates to such Saturday holiday similarly thereafter in each year by February 28th.
Such lists shall be posted.
Yours very truly,
G, J. Burke Director of Personnel
82
OONER8EER >RT ALE <TBEER SCOTIA ALE
(9021 453 1W7 PO BOX 8600 STATION "A" HALIFAX. CAKAO. B3K SNA
darch 3, 1988
dr. Gary Foran 'resident
3rewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 J.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 Negotiations in the matter cf scheduling cancelled summer vacations.
When an employee cancels his vacation during the months cf July and August, a notice must be put on the bulletin board for one week indicating the open periods. The successful applicant will be the employee who was not offered the opportunity to apply for the said week or weeks during the initial vacation scheduling. Only the original vacation period shall be posted and not the others caused by the completion of the first vacancy.
Yours very truly.
G. J, Burke Director of Personnel
83
SCHOONER SEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLD SCOTIA ALE
19021453 ' P 0 BOX f STATION HALIFAX. CA B3K BN
a
HALIFAX. CANADA
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 191 Negotiations, please consider this as the Company's Letter Intent with regard to "Weekly Indemnity Supplement". Employees drawing benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Pk shall receive a supplement up to full pay for statutory holida; falling within the 26 week Weekly Indemnity Period.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director f Personnel
84
iKER BEER T ALE SEER 10TIAAIE
19021*53-1667 P O SOX 8600 STATION "A" HALIFAX. CANADA B3K 5N4
larch 3, 1988
(r. Gary Foran resident
rewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361
i.F.C.W.
•ear Gary:
‘his will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 legotiations, please consider this as the Company’s Letter of itent with regard to “Illness on Vacation”.
I the event that an employee becomes ill or is injured after ommencing his vacation, he shall at that point have the emainder cf his vacation cancelled for that period and escheduled at a later date. In order to implement this clause he employee must first contact his supervisor immediately if le becomes ill or is injured, and he must be able to meet the Veekly Indemnity requirements.
{ours very turly,
Director cf Personnel
85
SCHOONER BEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLO SCOTIA ALE
(902)453 15 PO BOX B6 STATION "t HALIFAX, CAN B3K 5N4
Go/wew?ve<t
BREWERS SINCE 1367
£
March 3, 1988
Mr, Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 198 Negotiations, please consider this as the Company’s Letter c Intent with regards to “Weekly Payments for Sickness or Nor Occupational Accidents”.
Employees absent due to sickness or non-occupation; accident shall be paid every plant pay day. Employees will b required to submit completed Weekly Indemnity Claim forms as required by the Company to continue to receive the Weekl Indemnity pay in subsequent pay periods. It is understood tha Weekly Indemnity Benefit cheques will be endorsed by tb employees and turned over to the Company.
Yours veru turlv.
G. J. Burke Director cf Personnel
86
‘ONER BEER RT ALE BEER
iCOTIAALE
(902)453-1067 PO BOX 8600 STATION -A" HALIFAX. CANADA 03K 5N4
BREWERS SINCE 1867
i
HALIFAX. Canada
arch 3, 1988
r. Gary Foran esident
rewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 .F.C.W.
ear Gary:
his will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 'egotiations with respect to Sickness Benefits. n employee's eligibility for sick days and participation in the /eekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases nmediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recall to ork and completion cf eight (8)hours work in the bargaining nit.
otwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10)or more ;ars seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two I) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or Dri-occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in le Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans effective ie date cf his/her recall.
our very truly.
i. J. Burke 'hector cf Personnel
87
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1' Negotiations with regard to an employee's medical file.
The company shall continue with its present practice confidentiality with respect to such records and shall not ali their removal from the Company's premises without explicit consent cf the employee.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director of Personnel
88
-larch 3, 1988
wfr. Gary Foran resident
3rewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 J.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1988 Negotiations with respect to deferred retirement.
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1)	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date (the “Pension”), shall be frozen as cf the employee’s normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2)	The employee’s Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee’s seventy-first (71) birthday whichever shall first occur (The “Pension Date”).
3)	The employee’s Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his normal retirement date to his Pension Date.
89
4)	No contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after employee has reached his normal retirement date and service shall be credited after the aforementioned d<
5)	An employee’s Pension will not be affected by ; amendments made to the Pension Plan after employee’s normal retirement date.
6)	An employee’s Pension benefits will be actuari, reviewed effectiveas at the Pension Date having regarc the employee’s Pension having been deferred since normal retirement date.
7)	For purposes cf calculating any minimum pens supplement, the Canada Pension Plan and old t security benefits, where applicable, will be taken ir account at the level in effect at the employee’s norr retirement date.
8)	An employee who continues employment with t Company after his normal retirement date as defined the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to only the insur welfare benefits provided to employees on retirement at his normal retirement date.
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director of Personnel
90
1902)453.1687 P0 00X8601 STATION A HALIFAX CANADA 83K 5X4

BREWERS SINCE 1667
*
HALIFAX. CAHtOA
arch 3, 1988
r. Gary Foran esident
■ewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 .F.C.W.
ear Gary:
s discussed during the 1988 Negotiations, please consider iis asthe Company’s Letter cf Intent with regard to “Relieving upervisors”.
he Company agrees to continue its present practice cf not aving relieving supervisors perform the work cf the argaining unit, except in emergency situations or to train or amonstrate.
i addition, the Company agrees, that all future postings for Sieving supervisors will include the comments noted in the receding paragraph.
ours very turly,
I. J. Burke lirector cf Personnel
91
SCHOONER SEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLD SCOTIA ALE
STATION ' HALIFAX, CAI B3K SN4
BREWERS SINCE 1867
HALIFAX. Canada
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 198 Negotiations with regard to “Temporary Employees”.
When the Company decides not to rehire a temporar employee who has worked for the Company in excess cf sixl (60) working days duration, the Company shall advise th employee, as well as the Union, cf such, together with th reason(s).
Yours very truly,
G. J. Burke Director of Personnel
92
OONER BEER )RT ALE IT Bf£H SCOTIA ALE
larch 3, 1988
1r. Gary Foran ‘resident
irewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 J.F.C.W.
)ear Gary:
\s discussed during the 1988 Negotiations, please consider his as the Company’s Letter cf Intent with regard to Section .1.05 cf the Collective Agreement.
The term “24 months” referred to in Section 11.05 defines, specifically, the length cf time that an employee on sickness or Usability is entitled to his former job if held by an employee with less seniority, or some other suitable job in his iepartment, subject to his ability to perform the work in a satisfactory manner.
Beyond the “24 month” period, an employee who returns to work after being absent due to disability or sickness, will be antitied to perform w'ork in any other department, subject to the employee’s ability to perform such work in a satisfactory manner.
Yours very truly.
G. J. Burke Director cf Personnel
93
SCHOONER BEER EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLO SCOTIA ALE
(902)453-P O BOX l STATION HALIFAX. CJ B3K5K
£
HALIFAX, Canada
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 19
Negotiations.
Temporary Employees
1)	Temporaries will be granted regular job vacanci occuring in the future (by the order cf the names on t list).
2)	Temporaries will be granted preference for tempora work assignments (by the order cf the names on the lis if an employee cannot be contacted the Company v continue on the list for call-ins.
Guaranteed Wage Plan Administration
1)	Call-in times to be 6:30 — 7:30 a.m. and 1:30 — 2:30 p.i on telephone recorder.
2)	At time cf layoff employees will be advised cf the assignment to either the morning or afternoon call period.
3)	Work becoming available will be assigned to employe starting with the most senior employee on the total la df list. When unable to contact the most senior employ: the Company will move down the list.
94
One week cf vacation (for employees with over two weeks entitlement) will be scheduled by the Company, prior to the payment cf G.W.P., for laid-off employees.
Notice of the scheduling of this vacation to be provided one week in advance. Employees on scheduled vacation will not be required to call-in.
Work becoming available will be offered to employees on vacation and can be worked by mutual agreement cf employee and his supervisor. Supervisor and employee to agree to availability prior to the start of vacation.
) When all employees return from lay-off each employee will go back to his normal shift group.
ours very truly,
95
BREWERS SINCE 1867
HALIFAX Canada
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached in our recen' concluded negotiations concerning payment cf G.W.P.
If an employee is on G.W.P. he will have the normal amount I is eligible for advanced to him by way cf Company cheque < normal pay days. It is understood that the employee must si! over his U.I.C. cheque to the Company as soon as he is receipt cf it.
Yours truly,
G. J, Burke Director cf Personnel
96
MER BEER
TiU£
BEER
COTIAAlE
(902| 463-1647 P.0 BOX 6600 STATION A" HALIFAX. CANADA B3K6N4
BREWERS SINCE 1667
I
HALIFAX. Canada
arch 3, 1988
ir. Gary Foran resident
rewery and Soft Drink Workers — Local 361 i.F.C.W.
•ear Gary:
*s discussed during the 1988 Negotiations, please consider lis as the Company's Letter cf Intent with regard to "Benefits While laid Off.
'he Company agrees, that it will continue with its present ractice with respect to the payment cf premiums for benefits jr all permanent employees for a period cf one month Dllowing the month of layoff. This does not apply to sickness nd accident benefits and pension accruals.
'ours very truly,
3. J. Burke director cf Personnel
97
SCHOONER SEES EXPORT ALE LIGHT BEER OLO SCOTIA ALE
March 3, 1988
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers
U.F.C.W.
Local 361
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during 11 Negotiations in the matter of Maintenance Department si systems.
All Maintenance Department employees hired from March 1988 will work 8 hour rotating shifts. All mechanics a electricians, whether hired prior to or after March 5, 1988, i work 8 hour rotating shifts for three (3) trial periods cf four i months each from January to April in each cf the years, 191 1990 and 1991.
In 1988, and for the month’s ofMay to December in 1989, 19 and 1991, mechanics and electricians employed prior to Mar 5, 1988 will work the existing 12 hour shift system, togetf with the amendments previously agreed as per our letter dat November 3, 1986.
Where practicable, the Company will continue its prese practice of utilizing an eight hour day shift system f Maintenance Personnel during its annual plant overhaul. Any changes to the above must be mutually agreed by bo parties.
G. J. Burke Director cf Personnel
98
(902) 453-1667 P.O 30*6600 STATION “A" HALIFAX. CANADA B3X 5N4
HALIFAX. CANADA
rch 3, 1988
. Gary Foran jsident
ewery and Soft Drink Workers F.C.W.
Local 361
>ar Gary:
lis will confirm the understanding reached during 1988 =gotiations concerning Company coverage of the cost cf tiree's prescription drugs.
> is current practice, the cost cf prescriptions in these rcumstances if fully covered by the Provincial Government 'harmacare) or Confederation Life private carrier plan.
iould this situation change, the Company will maintain full iverage of these costs through placement cf the policy with rather insurer.
ours truly,
i. J. Burke frector of Personnel
99