COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called “The Company"
and
BREWERY& SOFT DRENK WORKERS
LOCAL 361
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA hereinafter called "TheUnion"
0
8-2001

This edition is prepared for purpose of convenience only, and for accurate reference recourse would be had to the Collective Agreement beating the original signatures of the principals. Hie official legally binding document is that which contains those aforementionedoriginal signatures.
For the putpose of this Agreement, the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to
include the feminine.
Subject
Bargaining Unit Bargaining Unit Work Bereavement Pay Bulletin Boards Charge Hands Coffee Breaks, Rest Periods Cost of Living Allowance Disciplinary Records Dismissals Duration
Employee Training & Education Fund Grievance Committee Grievance Procedure Group Insurance Plan Guaranteed Wage Plan Holidays
Eineai or Accident Jury Duty
Labour Management Meetings Layoffi
Leave of Absence List of Appendixes Maintenance Classifications Management Functions Negotiating Pay Overtime
Overtime Equalization Overtime Notice
Paid Leave of Absence • Union Officials
Pay Week
Pension Plan
Picket Lines
Probationary Employees
Promotion
Purpose
Racegmnon
Retirement
Safety
-2-
Stniority Seniority Lists Seniority Broken
Separation Pay Shift Preniums Soft Maintenance Stewards Strikes '
Technological Change
Technological Change Bonus
Tempore^ Employees
Transfer
Uniforms
Union Duus
Union Soeurity
Vacations
Vacation Bonus .
Vacation
Wafts
Wafts New Classifications Wdiart Program Work Wtck
17
19
19
37
IS
40
3
32
34
34
It
14
26
2S
27
9
12
11
13
13
21
S
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called "The Company" - and -
BREWERY L SOFT DRINK WORKERS
LOCAL 361
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA
hereinafter called "The Union"
PURPOSE
In recognition of their mutual interest. this Agreement is entered into for the purposes of recording the hours, wage rates and terms or conditions of employment of the Company's employees; to set up the means for settling amicably any differences or grievances which may possibly arise and for the general purpose of promoting and improving industrial relations between the Company and the Union.
RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes that the Union has been duly
certified by the Labour Relations Board as sole representative to bargain with the Ccnpany €or all employees, except hereinafter mentioned in Section 1.03 with respect to rates cf pay, wages, hours and terms or conditions of employment during the Lite of this Agreement, and that it has all the rights inherent to such certification.
l
1.02	The Company agrees that the Union can conduct the following
activities on Company time:
(a)	When the Grievance Committee, Officers or Stewards, are called upon by Management of the Company to meet with them.
(b)	When the Grievance Committee, Officers or Stewards, are called upon by the Terms of this Agreement to handle a grievance or other matters relating to the administration of this agreement. provided that prior permission of the supervisor or department head, concerned is secured. Such prior permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
1.03	The term "employee" as used in this agreement shall not include office staff, chief engineer, all supervisors, watchmen, and those excluded by the certification order.
1.04	(1) All work coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining
unit shall be reserved for employees in the bargaining unit. Notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement, plant maintenance work may be contracted out, as in the past, so long as it does not result in lay-offs.
(2)	The Company agrees not to use outside trucks for draught delivery, within an agreed to boundary of the Brewery (as per map on file) , so long as its own trucks and regular drivers are available to perform the required work.
(3)	Supervisory personnel not members of the bargaining unit may work in emergency situations or train or demonstrate. Other supervisory personnel such as relieving supervisors and charge hands will be members of the bargaining unit and will perform the work of Che bargaining unit.
(4)	Outside truck drivers and their helpers shall not be
permitted to operate Company equipment or to direct company employees and the Company shall accordingly advise such drivers and their helpers. In addition, outside truck drivers shall be confined to the truck loading area only.
2
1.05	(1) The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to select
employees who shall be stewards in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company. One Steward shall be recognized for each of the following departments:
Brewing and Fermenting
Packaging Department (one per shift)
Warehousing Transportation Cellars Department Plant Services Department
Each of the aforementioned departments with the exception of Warehousing, which has two (2) alternate stewards, Will be assigned one alternate steward who shall act in the absence of regular stewards with respect to any grievance arising in his department. In addition, the Chief Steward elected by the Union will be recognized.
(2)	The Union shall appoint a Grievance Committee consisting of Shop Stewards, Chief steward along with officers of the Union. Only the Shop Steward(g) or his (their) alternate (s) from the grievor'g department will be on the Grievance Committee.
(3)	The Union shall keep the Brewery Manager notified in writing of the names of all Shop Stewards, the Chief Steward, the Grievance Committee and the Officers of the Union.
3
1.06
1.07
1.06
2.01
2.02
2.03
Labour Management meetings will be held on the second Tuesday of each month.
The night of the Union meeting, two (2) employees from the packaging department shall be relieved to attend the Union meeting and the Company shall pay those employees for such time spent at the meeting.
The Company will provide an orientation program as agreed upon by both Management and Union for all new employees.
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
(a)	maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, transfer. promote, demote or discipline employees, provided that a claim that an employee has been discharged. transferred. demoted or disciplined without just cause may be dealt with as hereinafter provided;
(c)	generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing to determine the products and by-products to be manufactured. processed, packaged, shipped and distributed; the methods of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution; the sources, quantities and kinds of ingredients, supplies and other materials used in the manufacturing, processing and packaging of the Company's products and by-products; the schedules of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution and the kinds and locations of machineries, equipment and tools used throughout the Company's operations.
The management further reserves the right to make rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, and these rules shall not be inconsistent with the terms or spirit of this Agreement.
It is understood chat in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of the Agreement. When an employee is reprimanded, disciplined, suspended or discharged, he may be accompanied by a Union Representative. The Union will be given in writing two {2) copies of the reasons for such action within forty-eight hours (Saturdays,Sundays and holidays excluded).
4
WORKING HOURS
3.01	(a) For an employee engaged in daywork, eight (8} hours per
day five (5) days a week, Monday through Friday, shall constitute the forty (40) hour work week.
(b)	For an employee engaged in shifc work, eight (3) hours per day, five (5) days a week, Monday through Friday, shall constitute the forty (40) hour work week.
(c)	For those employees involved with special shift arrangements, as outlined in Appendices 'Fy and 'Gy the above provisions shall not apply.
3.02	A break period of fifteen (IS) minutes duration shall be granted to each employee approximately half way through the first half of the shift and approximately half way through the last half of the shift, and these break periods will not be considered as an employee's lunch period or part of his lunch period. Such breaks shall be from the time the employee leaves his job to the time he returns to his job. Any change in present practices by Brewhouse Personnel or Stationary Engineers will be by mutual agreement.
When an employee is required to work overtime to commenca at the end of his shift, which is expected to be of at least two (2) hours duration, and the employee l(us not had a break or a lunch period at the end of his shift, he shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute break at the commencement of overtime.
When an employee works overtime he shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute break after each full two (2) hours of overtime work unless he is leaving the job or going on lunch break.
3,03	(a)
<b)
PLANT HOLIDAYS
4.01	New Year's Day
Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day
An additional holiday will be granted if declared by the Provincial Government.
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Soxin-3 Day
Halifax Natal Day
5
4.02	(a) The above are considered plant holidays for which employees
will be paid without having to work provided they fall on an employee's normal working day. If any or the recognized holidays fall on a Sunday, they will be observed the following Monday.
(b)	If any of the recognized plant holidays fall on a Saturday, employees will receive by mutual agreement another day off as the holiday.
4.03	To be eligible for holiday pay, employees must have worked forty-five (4S) days prior to the holiday, also the employee must have worked or have been available for work the scheduled working day proceeding the holiday and the scheduled working day immediately following the holiday unless prior permission has been received. If an employee is certified sick either the day before or the day after the holiday this shall not affect his holiday pay unless he is on weekly indemnity.
4.04	Any employee required to work on any of the aforementioned
holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time for the first eight hours worked and double time and one-half for hours worked th«r *i i'\«r , This pay shall be in addition to the holiday pay to which he is entitled under Article 4,02, In the event of a plant holiday that is received by the rest of the plant falling on a rotating day off for those engaged in continuous process work, they will receive twelve (12) hours pay at straight time race. In the event that any of the recognized plant holidays fall within an employee's annual vacation period, such employee shall receive an extra days holiday or pay in lieu of such day.
4*05 Regular employees required to work on a plant holiday for less than a full eight (8) hours will receive pay for the holiday plus a minimum of four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
€
OVERTIME
5.01	All time worked by hourly rated employees in excess of eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, All work performed on a Saturday or a recognized Saturday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on a Sunday or a recognized Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
5.02	Section 4.04, 4.05, 5.01 do not apply to work performed on a Saturday, or a recognized Saturday, a Sunday or a recognized Sunday or a holiday or observed day in lieu of holiday where the work performed falls on that day by reason of a presently established shift commencing in the period 10:00 o'clock p.m. to 12:00 o'clock midnight or by reason of a presently established shift terminating in the period 12:00 o'clock midnight to 2:00 o'clock a.m. . Such shift spillover time shall be at straight time rates.
5.03	(a) When overtime is to be worked, it shall be distributed
as evenly as possible among regular employees within their posted department who are capable of performing the work required (see appendix H) . Priority will be given next to regular employees from other departments who request to fill the job vacancies and who are capable of performing the job that is available. An employee cannot be scheduled to work a double shift or 16 hours in any one day unless it is due to unforeseen circumstances. Overtime work shall be voluntary, provided that an employee can be replaced by an employee capable of doing the job. Anyone from another department performing the overtime work will work at the job rate.
(b)	Except in an emergency or other unforeseen circumstances, notice shall be given the previous day of required overtime the following day. Notice of Saturday and sunday overtime will be given by Tuesday 12 (midnight) on a three shift operation and by Wednesday 12 (noon) on a two shift Operation. Employees shall be required to declare their intent to work by Thursday 12 (noon) .
(c)	Employees who work over two (2) hours overtime and have not been notified the previous day and are not able to be given time off for their meal shall be granted a meal allowance of $3.00.
7
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
Any employee who is called back to work in any emergency at any time outside his normal working hours, that is to say. any unscheduled and unforeseen work, shall be free to leave his job when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless receive a minimum of four {4) hours pay at his applicable overtime rate. This clause does not apply to overtime which is attached to an employee’s shift.
(a)	A paid lunch period of thirty (30) minutes shall be granted to all employees approximately half way through those employee’s regularly scheduled shift.
(b} Relief for the thirty (30) minute lunch period defined
shall only be provided for in Packaging. This provisaon shall apply in the Powerhouse during day shift operations only.
(c)	For the purposes of Section (b) , when the Company is
running a stop-start operation in Packaging, this provision shall not apply. All other departments, not herein defined shall continue their current practices of self relief for the life of this Collective Agreement.
In the event of an employee working in excess of eight (6) hours in any one day at the overtime rate of time and one-half, this rate wall apply to the first three (3) hours m excess of the regular eight (6) hours, after which double time rates will apply.
In the event of an employee working on a Saturday or a recognized Saturday, he shall be paid time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours and double time for all tame worked in excess of the eight (8) hours in the same day
8
5.08
6.01
(a)	Employees will be notified by the end of their shift the previous day if they are not co report tor work on their scheduled shift the next day. This clause will not apply in cases of weather conditions or breakdown which occur after an employee has completed his shift. If an employee reports for work on a scheduled shift without having been informed previously not to report and less than six (€} hours work is available to him he shall be given six (6) hours pay notwithstanding.
(b)	Employees who are absent from work the day prior to a lay-off and who have not been notified by the company not to report, and who report to work, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
(c)	Employees who arc told to report for work within ten (10) hours of their last shift, will be paid the rate of time and one-half their normal rate of pay for all hours worked within the ten (10) hour period.
VACATIONS
It is agreed that a11 employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to vacation with pay, thus:
Having continuous service with the Company of:
One Year Three Years Eight Years Fifteen Years Twenty Years Twenty-Five Years
Two (2) Weeks Vacation Three (3) Weeks Vacation Four (4) Weeks Vacation Five (5) Weeks Vacation six (€) Weeks vacation Seven (7) Weeks Vacation
If seniority is reached by June 30th in a year • one week of vacation. If Seniority is reached after June 30th in a year, the greater of 4% or a cash amount equivalent to one week of vacation pro-rated according to the period of time worked during that year.
9
€.02	(11 To be eligible for vacations employees must have worked at
least forty-four (44) weeks during their qualifying year and to have been available for work, if required, except that time lost due to accidents in che performance of their duties or a bona fide sickness shall not be counted so as to deprive an employee from obtaining credit for che purpose of qualifying for vacation.
"Qualifying Year” under this heading "Vacations" shall in each year for each employee be the anniversary date of his employment. it being understood that the principle of this clause is that a person earns his vacation in the qualifying year and is entitled to it in the following year.
(2) If a person's employment is terminated and he has not taken his vacation, he is entitled to his vacation pay earned in the qualifying year and in addition, he shall be entitled to receive a percentage of his pay depending on the amount of vacation to which he is entitled from the end of his qualifying year to the date of termination; the percentage shall he as follows except in the case of a person discharged for cause not reversed by the grievance procedure :
(a)	In the case of a person with less than one year 44, as provided under the Vacation Pay Act.
(b)	In the case of a person entitled to one or two weeks vacation, 44.
(c)	In the case of a person entitled to three weeks vacation, 64.
(d)	In the case of a person entitled to four weeks vacation, 84.
(e)	In the case of a person entitled to five weeks vacation, 104,
(f)	In the case of a person entitled to six weeks vacation, 124,
(g)	In the case of a person entitled to seven weeks vacation, 144.
(3) if as a result of lay-off an employee (who would otherwise have qualifiedl being unable to qualify because of the 44 week requirement in Section 6.02, then the 4 4 week requirement shall be reduced in such cases for purposes of qualification for vacation pay, by the amount necessary Co qualify but not to a lower requirement than 33 weeks. In the case of an employee with three (3) or more years seniority the forty-four (44) week requirement shall be reduced for purposes of qualification for vacation pay by the amount necessary to qualify but not to a lower requirement than twenty-six (261 weeks.
10
6.03	Payment for vacation shall be based on an employee's weekly earnings for each week's vacation, exclusive of overtime.
6.04	Suitable dates for vacations shall be arranged mutually between the employees and their supervisor, with the interest of both the employee and his department taken into consideration. With this in mind, preference will be given to the senior man.
6.05	(a) Once an employee is on vacation. he shall not be subject
to recall except with mutual consent.
(b)	Once an enployee's vacation time has been agreed upon, it shall not be changed except with mutual consent.
(c)	In order to enable all employees to have an opportunity to arrange their vacations in an orderly fashion, the following procedure has been agreed upon:
(1)	Notice to be posted requiring employees to file their choice of dates. Such notice shall be posted on or before January 31st.
(2)	Each enployee shall be given until March 31st to submit his choice of dates for his vacation.
(3)	If the employee has not submitted his choice of dates by March 3lst, he loses any preference he may have had due to his seniority. The enployee should submit his choice of dates a8 soon as possible to facilitate the preparation of the vacation schedule.
(4)	Employees entitled to four (4) or more weeks vacation will be permitted to take up to one week vacation in one day allotments. In the case of such one day vacations, the enployee nust provide at least one week's notice of his/her desire to take vacation and all such vacation must be Scheduled prior to October 31 of the current year. Scheduling of one day vacations will be subject to all normal rules/practices.
(5)	A regular employee may request to carry over up to two (2) weeks vacation entitlement to be used no later than March 15 th of the following year. Carry-over vacation will be paid out at earned year rates only. It is understood that scheduling of carry-over vacation will not take precedence over current year entitlement, and that such carry-over may be taken in one week blocks only.
Carry-over vacation caused by employee illness or injury may be scheduled at any time the following year, subject to these same conditions. Carry-over in such circumstances will be allowed only as a last resort.
11
{d) For the purposes of the foregoing, employees recognized as vacation relief operators in another department for an employee or for a group of employees shall have last choice of vacation regardless of seniority within the Department that he/she i s relieving.
VACATION BONUS
6,06	Regular employees with three (3) years or more seniority shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash equal to twenty four (24*) percent of such employee’s normal vacation payment. This bonus to be paid as one payment at the time of the employee’s summer vacation.
12
WAGES
7.01	The basic rates for all regular employees agreed to by the
Company and the Union will be those rates established by this Agreement dated June 25, 1997 and which becomes effective January 1, 1993. The minimum basic wage, after the probation period for employees will be that as shown in Appendix 'A' , Classification Schedule.
In addition to the foregoing, all regular and temporary employees (havingworked in excess of 132 days) will receive "Lump Sum" wage adjustments as outlined below:
June 1. 1999
25 Cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of January 1, 1999 to May 31, 1999.
January 1. 2000
25 cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of June 1,
1999	to December 31, 1999.
June l, 2000
2 5 Cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of January 1, 2000 to May 31, 2000.
January 1, 2001
2 5 cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of June 1,
2000	to December 31, 2000.
June 1. 2001
25 cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of January 1, 2001 to May 31, 2001.
January l, 2002
25 cents per hour for all hours paid for the period of June 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001
If technically and legally possible, the Company will provide the opportunity to transfer one hundred (100%) percent of the above Lump Sum amounts into the current employee group RRSP Plan, assuming all employees agree to do so.
13
7.02	(a) Probationary and temporary employees will be paid in
accordance with the wage schedule (Appendix 'A').
(b) The Company will place regular employees on skilled jobs prior to assigning temporary employees to the job when regular employees are able and willing to do the job and are not already employed in an equally paid skilled position.
7.03	All employees shall be subject to the following provisions:
1(a) The company may transfer employees from one position or
department to another. No transfer shall involve any loss of seniority, nor shall the employee suffer any decrease in his wage rate, providing that such transfer is not in the nature of a demotion. An employee shall have the right. to grieve his demotion.
(b) Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higher rated job and not training under supervision. shall continue to be pard their usual rate unless the transfer continues for one or more working days, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for a11 hours worked during the day, or for more than twenty (20) hours in a week, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for the job, for a minimum of forty (40) hours during the week. Any employee transferred to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company shall not have his regular rate reduced.
(c) Employees who are promoted and are later found to be unfit for the job, for reasons of health or any other reasons, shall revert to their previous occupation and rate thereof.
14
7,03	(d) If, a5 a result of a technological change in the Company's
operation an employ** is hyrxd to a job having a lower rate of pay than ih* rate of pay he formerly received, he shall continue co be paid at his former rate of pay until the job rate for his new classification equals his former rate.
7,04	(a) The regular day shift (3 Shift) shall commence at 6:00 a.m.
through 9; 29 a.m.. Any shift commencing at 9:30 a.m. through s;59 p.m, shall be considered the afternoon shift (C Shift) and any shift coffiiMncin-g at 6:00 p.m, through 5;S9 a.m. shall be considered the night shift (A Shift).
(b)	For the life of this Collective Agreement the shift premium on the afternoon shift is sixty-five (65) cents and on the midnight shift one dollar and ten cents ($1,10),
(c)	Hourly rates contained in schedule of wages in this agreement shall be paid for all regular or day shift work. These shift premiums constitute separate fixed items of pay and shall not be included in basic rates for the calculation of overtime or premium payment, neither shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays not worked.
(d)	Pay at -4 premium of fifteen cents (1$ cents per hour over and above the regular rate) will be paid to employees while performing following services: waxing vats, scraping and painting ;:h-« insides of p-aot *ur i tar tanks, and painting the inside of gas storage tanks.
15
7,05	(a) The status of Maintenance Mechanic 'B' and 'C' and
Maintenance General, will be reviewed by the Company annually. Those qualified for progression to higher status will be promoted. Those not qualified will be given reasons for the decision and they shall have recourse to the grievance procedure, if they are not satisfied.
(b)	General Description of Maintenance Classification
Employees in the Maintenance Department must be willing to exercise job Leadership with respect to work stabilization employees.
Maintenance Mechanic ‘A‘
This general description includes; welder, electrician, machinist, mechanic, pipe fitter and plumber all requiring some degree of certification. It also refers to the highest trained men who shall have the proper training and experience capable of skillfully doing any plant maintenance job within their respective skill without supervision and be regularly employed at such, and be capable of directing the work of other plant services employees.
Maintenance Mechanic 'B'
Includes the above trades. It refers to men who are so trained that they are capable of doing as good a job as a Class ‘A1 man in certain types of work but will require more instruction and supervision in other types of work. They must be qualified to work without supervision and may be regularly assigned to work requiring the skill and experience of a qualified tradesman in their specified trades.
Maintenance Mechanic 'C'
This classification includes greaser and lubricator. Maintenance - General
Employees who primarily assist Maintenance Mechanics ‘A1 and 'B' and are semiskilled who can regularly perform routine tasks: i.e., grounds and service, work stabilization, while working on equipment overhaul.
Chief Mechanic
He will be highly skilled in one or more of the above trades and have a working knowledge of all the aforementioned trades. He will supervise the work of a11 maintenance mechanics and will report to the maintenance superintendent or his designate.
16
7.06	The regular pay week shall end Saturday at 12 midnight and the company agrees to pay employees not later than noon on the following Wednesday or Thursday.
7.07	Any job created in the bargaining unit during the life of this Agreement, which is not covered by a wage classification set out herein, will be classified and a job rate set at a meeting held between the Company and the Union.
In the event of failure to agree on a rate, the Company may set the rate and if the Union does not agree with the rate that is set, then it may proceed to arbitration for resolution of the matter. The decision of the Arbitrator, if in favour of the Union, will be retroactive to the date of commencement of the new job. Nevertheless, the rate set shall not be less than the rate for general labour.
SENIORITY
8.01 Seniority shall be defined as the length of an employee's
service with the Conpany calculated a5 the elapsed time from the day that the employee was first hired, unless his seniority was broken. In the event that seniority was broken for any of the following reasons, seniority shall date from the time the employee returned to work following the 1st break in has seniority.
17
B.02	(a) At the time of their being hired, new employees shall be
classified as either Probationary Employees or Temporary Employees and the Union shall be notified of such.
(b) probationary Employees will be defined as chose employees who are hired to become members of the permanent work force. They will achieve seniority after 90 days worked at which point they will become eligible to be enrolled in the Company's Welfare Plan and Pension Plan as defined in this Agreement, and will be paid in accordance with their applicable job rate.
{c) Temporary Employees will be defined as those employees hired for seasonal peak periods, vacation and sick relief, and short term temporary requirements or, emergency situations. Temporary Employees may be employed for one hundred and thirty-two (132) days worked within a period of one year before they achieve seniority. A year is defined in each particular case as twelve (12) months following the date on which he first commences work with the Company.
(d)	The Company agrees to recognize the seniority rights of all employees who are members of the Union. Seniority will be the determining factor in lay-off as provided in Article 8.06 and choice of annual vacation period.
<e) Each employee will have seniority standing in the department in which he is employed. Except in the cases of employees whose seniority rights have been established, Probationary Employees seniority will be dated one hundred and twenty-six (126) calendar days prior to the shift day on which he completes his probationary service, provided chat such date will not be prior to his starting date.
(f)	An employee does not have seniority rights until he becomes permanent and his seniority dace is established. Seniority dates will remain unchanged provided that an employee may, within one month of first posting of his seniority date, submit evidence to the Company and the Union to have such date changed.
18
8.03 seniority shall be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee quits his job voluntarily or ventures into other permanent employment.
(b)	If an employee is discharged for cause, not reversed by Grievance Procedure.
(c)	If an employee fails to return to work within seven (7) working days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mail at his/her last known address to do so. The employee shall within that period notify the Company by registered mail.
{d} An employee shall cease to have seniority if he has been laid off for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or longer.
8,04	Seniority shall not be considered broken:
(a)	If an employee is granted leave of absence provided such leave of absence does not exceed six (6) months. The Company shall notify the Secretary of the Union in writing of all leave of absence granted.
(b)	If an employee is absent from work due to lay-off, provided he is available for work on being recalled in order of his seniority,
(c)	If an employee is absent from work due to a certified sickness or injury.
(d)	Seasonal employee's seniority shall not affect regular employee's Seniority; i.e., in case of a dispute, a regular employee's seniority shall be considered first.
(e)	Upon application by a regular employee, and approval by the
Company, the employee will be granted an extended leave of absence to enrol in University or community college on a full-time basis.	If the employee opts to continue under the
Company's Group Insurance Coverage it will be at his/her expense. and the entire plan must be purchased (no Opting-out of any element of the plan). There will be no pension accrual. Guaranteed Wage Plan, Weekly Indemnity,
Long Term Disability, or Worker's Compensation entitlement. An employee's seniority will be frozen as of the date of the Leave of Absence and re-activated once he/she permanently returns to work.
Employees afforded opportunities to return to work for temporary periods during their leave will be entitled to regular wages, but only those benefits offered to temporary employees with the exception of pre-purchased group insurance coverage as described above.
8.05	The Company shall post and maintain a seniority list on the plant bulletin boards and ahall provide the Secretary of the Union with a copy of such list annually. Such lists shall be subject to review of the Union Shop Committee. Any irregularities in the list not consistent with the seniority principles defined in this Agreement shall be corrected by the parties hereto within thirty (30) days.
19
8,05	Seniority shall apply in the evanc of its bacomin-g necessary to reduce staff. All lay-offs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, only if the senior amployaa is able and walling to efficiently pa r t'^rm the work required of him/her, Rehiring after lay-offs shall be in the reverse order of lay-offs,with tha last person laid off being the first rehired, and so on.
8,07	(a) If an opportunity for promotion, praiarrad job or job
training occurs in the Plant, notice of such position shall be posted on the same day for ten (10) days on the bulletin boards of the Company, and all employees of the Company shall have an opportunity to apply for such position. All particulars of such jobs shall be contained in such notice.
(b) The name of the applicants shall be posted on the bulletin board. The Union will be notified of the employee selected and will be advised of the date on which he will commence his training. His training to start within two (2) months of his salsction,
(c)	The Company MY fill any position temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated to try out all applicants, nor is the Company obii-gad to fill all vacancies by promotion or transfers from within the bargaining unit of the Company.
(d)	The Company agrees to nuke such promotions on the basis of: (l) ability; (2) seniority and, providing the ability of the applicants is equal, seniority shall apply.
20
8 ,07
8.06
3,05
(a) (i } It is agreed that all full time truck drivers
will be selected from cha qualified drivers employed by the Company including the relief pool. Such employees will not be considered for another job posting Cor a period of thirty-six (03) months. The Company will continue the practice of posting for Relief Driver positions and provide training as required.
(ii) Notwithstanding the above, any new job created and/or any day job becoming available during the life of this Collective Agreement, all employees will be entitled to put in for these jobs.
(£> A regular employee may hold one regular posted position and one relief position, provided that the relief position is not in his regular department. For purposes of this clause only, the departments shall be defined as Warehouse 4 Transportation Department and Brewing, Fermenting & cellars Department.
(g)	Regular full time employees will be called back to their regular departments ahead of relief personnel.
(h)	In January of each year the Company will r a post any job postings which were pariormad by temporaries in the previous twelve (12) months.
(i)	In January of each year the Company will review all relief postings as to the reasons and length of time employees are par£orming relieving duties. A decision will then be made as to whether these positions will remain relief postings or become full time postings.
When the Company nairas an employee to train for a job where at that time there is no vacancy, this opportunity to train will be posted in the same iTAiwer as a vacancy would be. The Company agrees to salac: such trainee on the same basis on which promotions are mad a,
All employees on the Union Executive, and Shop Stewards designated by the Union in each department, shall be exempt from taiTfponry lay-offs as long as there is work in their respective departments which they can perform satisfactorily.
21
8.10 Upon request by the Union at Union/Management Meetings, the
Company will give a progress report on all new employees after two month's employment.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9,01	In the event of any dispute or alleged dispute (hereinafter
called a grievance), alleged violation or misinterpretation of this Agreement, the subscribing parties agree to abide by the following procedure for arriving at a fair and binding settlement.
(a)	Whoever the gnevor or grievors might be, they may first contact the Shop Steward and allow the Shop Steward or Grievance Committeeman, with or without the aggrieved, to ’ take up the matter with the supervisor concerned in the very first step, and the supervisor shall be bound to render a decision within forty-eight (48) hours of having the matter placed before him.
(b)	If the employee, or majority of employees (if more than one is involved), are not satisfied with the decision of the supervisor, he/she or they , may appeal to the Grievance Committee who shall present the grievance to the Brewery Manager or his designated representative within forty-eight
(481 hours, who in turn must meet them and render a decision in writing within forty-eight (48) hours.
(c)	If the employee, or the majority of the employees, (if more than one is involved) , are not satisfied with the decision of the Brewery Manager, or his designated representative, he/she or they, shall appeal to the Grievance Committee who shall meet with the Company and the Company shall grant them a fair hearing within four (4) days and before whom he/she, or they, shall be represented by the Grievance Committee of the Union and a representative of the Union's choice. A decision shall be rendered within forty-eight (48) hours after the hearing.
22
(d)	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the
Union and the Company in (a) ,	(b) and (c) , the dispute
shall be referred to a single arbitrator constituted in the
following manner:
(1) The natter nay at the insistence of either party, be submitted to a single arbitrator for his determination, provided that written notice is submitted to the other party within ten days of the expiration of the 4 8 hour period outlined in paragraph
(c), above.
{2) The party that provides the written notice referred to above shall include in that notice the names of at least three (3) persons for the consideration of the other party as candidates to act as the sole arbitrator. An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as arbitrator.
(3)	In the event that the parties fail agreement on such an Arbitrator within 15 working days of the date of notice of arbitration, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Nova Scotia shall be called upon to appoint such an Arbitrator.
(4)	The Arbitrator shall hear the grievance and shall issue a decision, within fifteen (15) days, or within such other period as the parties may agree upon or the Arbitrator may reasonably require.
(5)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall finally settle all differences between the parties or persons bound by this agreement on whose behalf it was entered into, concerning its interpretation or violation.
(6)	The Arbitrator shall make any necessary orders to implement his award and restore any party to his or its rightful position, including loot wages, ^reinstatement, etc.
(7)	The Arbitrator shall have power to modify a penalty of discharge, suspension. or discipline provided the Union establishes that there are just and reasonable grounds for such modification.
23
3,01	(e) The Arbitrator shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or
change any of the provisions of this agreement nor to substitute any new provisions an lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the t-«rrr\s and provisions of this agreement.
(f) Pending arbitration there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement.
(g) Each of the parties hereto will bear one half of the expenses of the Albitr-a tor ,
3.02	The disposition of complaints or questions in dispute shall be recorded in writing on a form supplied by ths Union.
3,03	The Company will only consider grievances, the circumstances of which are alleged to have occurred not more than fifteen (IS) working days prior to the seatatvon of the grievances in writing, unless the employee is prevented from doing so by unusual circumstances.
3,04	Any place where the time of twenty-four (24) hours or
forty-eight (43) hours is involved in this Section, Saturdays, Sundays or holidays shall not be counted.
DISCIPLINARY RICORTS
9,05	In the imposition of discipline, if a_r, employee has not been formally disciplined for the same or a related offence for an interval of one (l) year, two (2) years in the case of suspension. his previous offences will not be referred to. 3ut, in any event, discipline impend will not be referred to after the expiry of two (2) years from the date of the discipline.
24
DISMISSALS
10.01	It i s agreed that dismissals are to be made only by the Brewery Manager or, in his absence, a Department Manager Charges made against an employee as a basis for has removal for cause shall be acted upon only after such charges have been thoroughly investigated and the employee given an opportunity of stating has case.
10.02	If after investigation the employee or the Union believe that he has been unjustly discharged, a grievance may be submitted starting with Step No. 9 oi(b) of the Grievance Procedure, omitting Step 9.01(a).
10.03	Suspension of an employee, however, may be made by his
supervisor or one of a higher rank In such an event the	a
employee has the right of action described in the proceeding paragraph.
HEALTH 6 SAFETY
11.01	It as mutually agreed that both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest possible extent in the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health.
11.02	An employee suffering an injury, no matter how trivial, or becoming ill while at work, shall report to his supervisor and be allowed a reasonable time to secure proper treatment and shall report back to his supervisor either by telephone or in person after having received such treatment.
H.03 Sickness or accidents which necessitate absence from work, must be reported as soon as possible to the supervisor of the department concerned, or to the Health Services Department.
Such absences should be reported no later than two (2) hours prior to the start of the employee's normal shift.
25
11.04	All employees will submit to medical examination by the Company's doctor whenever requested to do so.
11.05	Sickness or disability resulting from an accident shall not be sufficient cause for discharge in the case of regular employees. This clause also applies to probationary employees who have completed ninety (90) days worked, or to temporary employees who have completed one hundred and thirty-two (132) days worked.
Upon recovery, the employee shall receive his former job if it is held by an employee with less seniority, or some other suitable job in his department if in each case the recovered employee is then capable of performing the job in a satisfactory manner, and provided his absence was due to such sickness or injury as certified by a doctor. satisfactory to the Company and provided he was not absent because of sickness or injury for more than 2 4 months.	*
11.06	There shall be a joint safety committee appointed to consist of one (l) member of the Company and one (1) of the Union.
UNIFORMS AMD WEARING APPAREL
The Company requires all employees on the Seniority List to wear a uniform or work clothing to be provided at no cost to the employee. The type and color of uniforms or work clothing wall be decided by a committee of union and management employees. Each employee shall keep the uniform and work clothing neat and clean at his/her own expense.
Rubber boots, aprons, gloves and goggles and safety glasses will be supplied to employees when engaged in work which in view of the management, requires this protection As to gloves, these will be supplied reasonably to those handling empty bottles. Ocher safety items recommended by the Safety Committee may be supplied under the terms of this Article.
11.07	(a)
(b)
26
ic)
(d)
(e)
(f)
12.01	(a)
(b)
(c)
Employ*** must vaar protective hearing device., safety footwear and safety glasses in areas so designated by the Company.
The Company shall provide to all seniority employees two
(2)	pair of safety shoes or boots per year at a cost to the Company not to axcaad one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125) par year.
The Company will pay the cost of cleaning the Uniforms of regular transport drivers on the basis of up to one cleaning par uniform per week.
The Company agrees to provide a light jacket for grounds and service; rubber footwear for drivers and a spare set of rain wear and outer wear maintained in the Shipping Department for relief employees who are assigned as third person on the appropriate trucks.
ORSON SECURITY
Each member of the Bargaining Unit shall be a member in good standing of the Brewery workers Local No. 361 and shall continue to be a monbcr of the Union "as a condition of continued arplcs/ment'.
The Union agrees that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the Bargaining Unit who is satisfactory to the Company will be allowed to make application for membership in the raid Union an payment of the regular initiation fees and monthly dues rad will not be denied membership without just cause.
The company will only be required to discharge an employ** for:
( i) Non-payment of initiation fees,
(ii)	Non-payment of Union dues.
27
xmvocASLS ante* off or oszom boss
13.01	The Company shall automatically daduct Won Dues from all
employees coming within the established bargaining unit. Said dues shall be deducted on a weekly basis with new employees king required to pay dues starting with the first week of employment. Initiation fees will be deducted the first pey after having become a regular employee. The Company shall retain from each enployee's pay the amount of Union dues and initiation fees required by the Union. The Union shall inform the Company of the amount of W o n dues and/or any assessment decided by the Won, urd the Company shall remit to the authorized representative of the Union the total deduction before the fifteenth (IS) day of the month, following the month during which the deductions have bsan made, together with • statement of employee's names and the amount so deducted urd giving particulars of those whose employment has been terminated or who have ken laid off since the previous statement vas forwarded.
mnoi
14.00	The following welfare benefits will be made available to regular employees. The Company will pay the premium cost for eligible employees.
(a)	The Company will provide the benefits available from time to time under the Company's contract with Manulife. The Company will pay the premium costs for seniority employees and will pay the premium for coverage under the Manulife Contract for retiring employees.
(b)	The Company will provide a dental plan for eligible employees. Particulars of the plan are explained in Appendix 'E'.
PI
(e)	Effective January lie, 1996 and for the life of thia
Collective Agreement, the Company will provide Croup Life Ineuranoe and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount of $65,000 for employees actively at vork on that day. Employee* not actively et work on the above named days shall only be provided increased ineuranoe coverage upon their return to active employment.
(d)	Croup Life Insurance to the amount of $6,500 will be provided for eligible employees after age 65.
(e)	The Company will provide, at no expense to the enployee. a conventional sick pay plan administered by an insurance company and providing, subject to the rules of the plan, a weekly indemnity program providing • weekly benefit of 70% of earnings, (applicableclassification hourly rate X 40) for a period not exceeding twenty-mix (26) weeks beginning with the first day of disability due to non-occupationel injury and the fourth day of disability due to sickness. When a general change in wage rates takes effect under the terms of the Collective Agreement, the amount of weekly indemnity benefit from the effective date of much change will be 70% of the basic weekly earnings rate to which the employee would be entitled if at work.
29
14.00	(f) An employee with over six months service is eligible for •
total Of six (4) working days sick lsave non-aceumulative,
with pay par calendar par, but to receive this he must produce e Doctor's certificate certifying his illness.
A Doctor's Certificate shall not be required under tbit clause if it is impracticable to obtain cne. or the Company Nurse is notified and she is satisfied that the employee
was sick.
Any unwed portion of the sick leave will be paid to the employee prior to Christmas. Sick leave credits are established for each eligible employee as of December let.
Employee* v\ho acquire seniority after the commencement of the new sick leave par are credited with sick leave days on a pro-rated basis. An employee who retires from the Company under the provisions of the Company Pension Plan will receive payment of the sick leave cash out on a pro-rated basis.
Pro-rating shall be calculated as follows:
Seniority employees shall accrue for eash out purposes Only, one-half day for each completed month of the current sick leave year (December 1 to November 30).
(g)	Should the illness be of sufficient duration that the employee becomes eligible for benefit* under the sick pay plan, be will not receive pay under this provision for any days he receives benefits under the sick pay plan. The balance of sick leave remaining after such an occurrence may be claimed in the normal mannar if the a-gpky.. is subsequently sick during the balance of the calendar year.
(h)	The Company will provide at no expense to the employee a conventional long term disability plan administered by an insurance company providing, subject to the rules Of the plan, an indemnity of 44 3/3% of the monthly earnings.
30
14.00	(1) If an employee neum to work and is again disabled due to
the sane or related cause, hit absence will be treated as a continuation of disability under the LTD benefit unless he has been back to work for at least tlx (4) consecutive Months.
(j)	Ac employee shall not receive wages or other allovaceas such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weakly indemnity, long term disability, workers' Compensation, or other similar benefits from mors than one source for the same day or part day.
(k)	The Company agrees to provide insurance coverage for the services of a Registered Psychologists for reasonable and customary charges of up to $55 per visit to a maximum of $750 par year, as an extension to the current Major Medical Plan for hourly employee. with Manulife Insurance Company.
(1)	The Company agrees to provide insurance coverage for the services of a Registered Chiropractor for reasonable and customary charges of up to $28 per visit to a maximum of $500 par year, as an extension to the current Major Medical Plan for hourly employees with Manulife Financial.
14.01	In the event of a death in the immediate family of an
employee, that i s mother, father, brother, sistar, wife, husband, child, nether-in-law, father-in-law. son-in-law, daughter-in-law, the Company will grant his/her time off with pay not mors than three consecutive working days and si the case of grandparents and grandchildren three eonsacutive days, including Saturday end Sunday, in the cess of other in-lam, aunts and uncles, the Company will allow ow day off if the funeral is attended.
31
14.02
14.03
15.01
JURY DOTY
JUty regular ea^loyes who i s absent from his regularly scheduled work due to jury duty or subpoenaed as • crown witness *i Hove scotia shall receive the difference between the amount he receives as jury or crown witness pay, including all other compensation from Gove mnenc authority, and eight (I) hours pay at his straight tin* classification rate for each day of jury service or as a erown witness while sitting on a jury or as a member of the jury panel during selection or required as a crown witness (Monday to Friday inclusive} provided satisfactory proof is submitted to the Company that he/she vas called for such duty and sat as a member of the jury for the period claimed or required as a crown witness and provided that bs/she rsturned to work within a reasonable time after the termination of such service.
XLLMSflS OR ACCXSim
In case of m accident causing injury to • regular smployee
so severe that the employes i s unable to continue work, he shall be paid for the balance of his shift. No employee will leave work before first reporting to his supervisor. The Cee^any may require proof of illness by a doctor's certificate to be obtained at Company's expense, if any, by the employee whenever requested.
XMTSRROmO* OF WORK
The Onion undertakes that thtrs shall be no strike, slowdown, work stoppage, or other interruptions of operations and the Ceopany undertakes that there Will be no lockout, each for the duration of the Agreement, it being understood that all diffarances between the parties shall be settled in aceordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
32
15.02	If an employee b~i the bargaining unit encounters a bona
fide picket line in the course of hie normal duties, there shall be an iraediate conference between partial before any dacision is made by aithar party as to whether the picket line should or should not ba raapaetad.
15.01	(a) An amployat may obtain a Leave of Absence for a short
period to perform legitimate duties on behalf of Local 351 or to attend a trade union convention or a labour institute and shall not be prejudiced thereby provided sufficient prior notification is given to the Company and leave of absence sought does not disrupt normal brewery operations.
(b)	Leave of Absence will be granted for a period of not more than twelve (12) months or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever i s longer, for any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the International Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require h i m to have leave of absence from his company duties on a full time basis.
(e) Upon application by a regular employee, and approval by the Company, the employee will be granted an extended Leave of Absence to enrol in University or Community collage on a full time basis subject to the guidelines expressed mi Section 6.04 (e).
16.02	The Company agrees that a copy of this Agreement may be
placed in prominent places in the brewery, if deemed aecesaary, where it may be examined et any time by the members of the Won. The Company agrees to provide a bulletin board in the canteen for w e of the Union and will allow the Union to post notices of meetings and other official Union notiees duly signed by an officer Of the Onion provided that prior approval is obtained from the Company.
33
1C .03
16.04
16.05
Til* Company will grant time off without loss of pay during the employ**'* regular working hours for not more than four employ*** who *r* m«mb*rs of tho Union Negotiation Committs* for the purpose of attending negotiating meetings with the Company, for the renewal of the Collective Agreement.
Normal retirement for regular employees shall occur at age sixty-five (65) except that the Company *hall be given adequate time to secure a satisfactory replacement.
(i)	"In the event that, during this collective Agreement, the Company plan* to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or mere regular employ***, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be •ff«ct*d. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification. the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet urd discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement urd the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GOT) ; urd. in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off.
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to affecting any layoffs or separations under the collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement ("eligible orplcyees') as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) day. thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB) . The TCS will be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who say receive the TCB will not exceed eh. number of jobs in that group which art to be permanently displaced by eh. technological change and, if a greater number of eligible amployaas in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
34
If
1C. OS Ui)
(«) Tht number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement i s less than the number of jobs m~t that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	The Company did not anticipate the number Of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinite layoff of tan (10) or more regular employees.
the following provisions shall apply:
( i) the employees ultimately designated for indefinite layoff hereunder will he permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those amployees so electing and terminating from the company shall he entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 19.01 hereof. If any of those employees were classified as probationary or regular employees prior to March 6, 1969, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional one thouaand Dollars ($1,000);
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Ouaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition such employees shall receive an additional eight (6) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
1)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) week's of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section $ of the Plan, the eight (6) weeks can never be restored;
2)	the additional eight (6) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks wed.
as
16.0*	Persons Und aa regular esployees aftar March «, ltss
who hava aehiavad seniority and who ara not yet eligible for participation in tha Guaranteed Wage Plan will, upon permanent layoff. Da aligibla to raeaiva an amount of aavaranca pay aqual to ona (1) week of ragular pay for aaeh convicted yaar of aarviea aa of tha original data of hia layoff. Open raeaipt of auch aavaranca pay, the employee's employment ia terminated and hia aaniority and other righta radar thia Agreement are cancelled.	.
ms ram
17.01	ksgultr employees I'caU be eligible for pension 'ceatdUi as
provided for in Appendix ’8' of this Agrstnant.
pass lsavi or Assures pop oaiom oppxcxals
18.01	Open written application by tha President of Local Id of
Che Onion, the Company agrees to grant an education leave of absence, without loss of regular pay, not to exceed three (1) normal working days in any ona yaar, to the Onion President, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, Chief Shop Steward, Sergeant at Arms, Trustees, Onion Plant Chairman, elected Department Stewards and Alternate Stewards. Such educational leave will be so arranged between the Onion and the Company ao as to minimize disruption of the Company'a operations.
is
SEPARATION ?AY
19.01	(i) A regular employee shall be entitled to separation pay as
a«t out in subsection .03 provided ha bat not bean excluded by aubeection .02 and provided ha meet* any of the following eligibility provisions i
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in aubeection .02;
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were laaa than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he is not eligible for any Company or Government Pension or for benefits under the company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if be/she is ultimately designated for indefinite lay off as a result of a major technological change as provided in Section 16.05 .02;
An employes eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for an shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six month's period.
37
19.01	{ ii) Kotwithstanding subsection .01, an employee shall be excluded firm separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he grit.,;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he is terminated under Section 8.03 (loss of seniority provision) of this Collective 'Agreement;
(d)	he has been terminated because of Specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing m y of the Company's operations; unless
(D the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the company or one of its representatives, or
(ii) the direction or decree purports to
change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the Province.
(e)	he has baan laid off because of any act of wax or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any aet of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without
pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is in receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indermity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Workers' Condensation Act;
(h)	he is entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
3ft
19.01	(iii) Tho amount of the aspiration payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to:
(a)	on« week's base aiming* (computed on the
basis of his hourly race in effect as of the time of layoff) multiplied by tha number of his completed years of seniority (as wed for vacation entitlement) as of the last day he actively worked s~i the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	for employees classified as probationary or
regular employees prior to March 6, 1988, an additional Three Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($375,001 multiplied by his completed years of seniority used i n
(a)	above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible amployaa who applied for separation pay at the time he first becoma* eligible therefor shall have hie separation pay under this part (b) calculated as Sevan Hundred urd Fifty Dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority wed in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. If there is a permanent closure of a brewery, the 15 year maximum i s replaced with a 22 years maximum.
19.01	( iv) The Company shall be authorised to deduct from
any separation pay payable to an smployee hereunder the amount of any Guarantied wage Flan payment made to such employee which tha employee was not entitled to receive.
19.01	( v} If an amployaa applies for and accepts a separation payment
hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCES
20.00	A Cost Of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worksd, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001, the first pay period following publication of the December, 2001 Consumer Price Index on the basis of 1 cent par hour for eaeh full .3 changs mt tho consumer Price Index, (1986»100) in tho period from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001 eelculeted by subtracting tho Consumer Price Index for the month of December, 2000, after adding thereto 4% of the December, 2000, Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for tho month of December, 2001.
39
wvLommT xvstnuurcs muti
21.00	The employee's share of any Employment Insurance premium Rabat# will be retained by the Comp-tay to offset a portion of the eost of tbs b-eaefit improvements contained in this A$re««aat.
EMPLOY*! TRAXHXWG AND KDUGJLTXOtf FOND
22,00	Commeaclag JA^uar/ 1, 13S$, the Company will remit an arrcunt of nine (9) ««-at« p-er hour for hours worked by bargaining unit employees into a stpsrAte aseabliabad effiploye* training and education fund Adaioistsred by the Union. This money shall be
remitted to the authorized representative of the Union no liter Chan the 15th of the month following the month in which the eoney waa deducted.
Sort MAZMTSKMfCS
23.00	The Ccmpaay will provide ta*houje treiath? on scft laLacehaACS for all operatore mt all depArttf-enti,	>-« exanpli*, soft
maintenance may Include; set-ups, change-overs, scrr* ccmpcnent replAceffia&t, lubrlCAtloa, prevAhtAtive aaLntaoaace larpactloa and Adjustments, It U uaderstc-od that trades peraennel will assist in the development, in-structicn, certification, and continuing support of Soft Maintenance av.i 11 a , soft Kiintsnaaoe will be part of all operators' responsibility.
fcsployees who successfully complete Ln*houjf training urd demohjtrete with a practical teat, the new skills, will be certified aa qualified "Soft Maintenance11 Operators. A training record will be aaiataLaed where the trainer(e) and trainee will note and acknowledge Che nature c£ eh. training and certification,
In the event aa employee is unsuccessful in oh be lal nq his/her certification after the initial training, the Company, Unioa and individual employee will meet to develop a specific training plAn, If Che developed training plan ie unsuccessful in assisting eh. employee mi achisviaq his/her csrbificACi.cn, the Coe^aay and Union will Afree on the text step, with consultation with eh. employee to either provide more training or reassignment of Che employee to Another job la eh. packaging departmsnt.
It le understood thee the Company may achadule operator* who
hold their Soft Maintenance certification to aasist with Maintenance during scheduled downtime work of his/her equipment.
40
AFPIKDXXSS
24.00	Appendix 'A, 'B', 'C'( 'D', *£', 'F'( 'O' and ’E' shall form part of the Collective Agreement,
Appendix 'A' Wage Rates end Classifications
Appendix 'S' Pension Plan
Appendix 'C' Latter of Intent re Guaranteed Wage Plan Appendix 'D' Guaranteed V\hgs Plan Agreement Appendix 'E* Dental Plan
Appendix 'F' Agreement with Operating Enginetr#
Appendix 'G' Fermenting Room Operators' shifts Appendix 'H' Overtime Equalization
41
This agreement sad schedule of working conditions shall bseoms effective as of January l, 1593 and rill continue in force until 3lst December, 2001 snd thereafter from year to year unless or until either party serves written notice on the other party to the contrary at least sixty (60) days prior to 31st December, 2001 or sixty (60) day. prior to 3ist December of any subsequent year.
SIGHED AT HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, THIS t ** DAY OF "Oftt . 1997.
SIGNED*
FOR THE CGHFANTt
FOR THE ONION:
Dcag Johnson Don Fogarty
42
MMXZON or M*XB«T
This agreement and schedule of working conditions shall bacons effective as of January 1, 1MI and will continue in fores until list Dscsmbsr. aaai ^SrpEauaissev	y.si urisw'aiTH."^ iwrrr-stn.T;
parey sarvss wrietan noties on ths other party to the contrary at Isaac sixty (CO) days prior to list Dscsmbsr, 2001 or sixty (CO) days prior to list Dacenber of any subsequent year.
SXONCD AT HALIFAX, HOVA SCOTIA, THIS l ** DAY OF t>S<-	. 1»»7.
ro» m mnoMi
41
Jan. 1/98	- Dec
Supervisory Peraonnel
Relieving Supervisor	$22.61
Charge Hand	22.55
rewerv
Kettleman
Farm Room Attendant Cellar Operator Machine Operator Rarehouseman Receiver
Fork Lift Operator Janitor
22.37
22.37
22.37
22.25
22.25
22.25
22.25
22.25
Enaln««rlna
Shift Engineer
25.97
«
in r :i He
Tractor Trailer Driver Linehaul
22.25
22.16
22.45
Maintenance Chief Mecl Maintenance 'A'
Mai	'B'
Maint	'C'
Maintenance General /	Man
Maintenance p (Potted) 0rounds and	v
Fainter
26.12
25.97
24.97 22.51
22.25 22.01 22.81
22.25 22.56
22.16
Probationary and Temporary Employees
Probationary Employee* 13.74 Temporaiy Employee* 11.68 Temporary Employe** (After 132 days) 11.93
44
31/01
Employees of Oland Breweries Limited in Halifax, Nova Scotia will be entitled to benefits from the John Labatc Retirement Plan for Wage Employees, subject to the following provisions as amandad effective
1 January l, 1998.
1.	Eligibility
Employees shall be eligible for membership on the later of January 1, 1974 or on the 1st of the month following the date of becoming e regular employee.
2.	Employes Contribution
No employee contributions will be required after January 1, 1974.
3.	Normal Retirement Data
First of the month following the employee's sixty-fifth birthday.
4. Credited Service from January 1, 1974
The employee will receive a credit of one year for eighteen hundred (1800) or more hours worked in a calendar year whan a member of the Plan, and including any periods during which he receives weekly indemnity or long term disability insurance benefits or Worker's Compensation payments. For less than eighteen hundred (1800) hours, a partial year will be credited by prorating actual hours to 1800.
Pension Options et Retirement!
Five types of pension are available to members for their retirement:
(a)	Normal retirement at age 85.
(b)	Special Early retirement at a minimum of age 80 with at least 30 years of credited service.
(c)	*85 Point, retirement at a minimum of age 55 with the sum of age plus the number of years of credited service equalling 85 or more.
(d)	"80 Point. Special Retirement Window at a minimum of age 55.
(a)	Other Early retirement at a minimum of ege 55.
Each of those alternatives are discussed in greater detail below
45
5, Calculation of fension Vtae ( i: Aearuel
Virti Motive cr-edi? for a monthly feeif; p-KAiion p4'/ihl«	your
dentil redirtacnt date (*•?# fS) -aelsuleMd a* follows:
(a]	For Mrviee -Jenyury i, 1974 to Deeember 31, 1979, e ninthly p-tneltn payable from ago sixty-five {651 equal to $7.50 multiplied by tha nuaber of yean of cr«4it*4 service.
(b)	For nrvlce in I960, a monthly pension equal to $ L3. 00 multiplied by the awsi-jr of yein of credited »#rvl<M.
(c)	For service in 1531, a monthly p-eajl$a equal to $14,00 ■Eultiplitd by th« nuaber of years cf credited service.
(d)	For itrvlo# in 1512, a monthly p-tniloa equal to $15.00 multiplied by the a'jrb-er of years of credited lervlct,
(a)	For MP/iee in 1913, a monthly p-eajioo equal to $14,50 multiplied by the number of yeeri of srid-ltsd nrvite,
(f)	For itrvtt* in 1984, a monthly pension equal to $17,2S multiplied by the number of years of credited itrvioe.
(9)	?or service in 1945, a monthly p-ea-*lca to $19,00 multiplied by the number of yeeri of or*did*4 servlci,
<h)	For Miviee in 19M, a monthly peajloa equAl to $19,50 multiplied by the number of ye-tri cf credited service.
(i)	?tr service in 1957, a monthly pension equal to $20,00 multiplied by the number cf yeeun of credited service,
(j)	For service in 1 94 4 , a ncnthly penjlcn equal to $24,00 multiplied by the number of years cf credited service.
00	For service in 1949, a monthly pen-S l« equal to $27,00 multiplied by the number of years of credited urdci,
(1)	?or itr .et io 1990, a monthly pension to $25,00 multiplied by the number of years of eredited service.
(m)	For service in 1991, a monthly pea-sica equal to (30.00 multiplied by the number of yeirs of credited eervice,
(n)	For sarviee in 1992, a monthly pension equal to $31.00 suit ip Lied by the number of years of credited service,
(o)	?or service in 1993, a monthly pension equal to $32,00 multiplied by the auaber of yetr* of credited sarviee.
4(
(p) For service in 1994, a nonthly	equal to $33,00
multiplied by the number of years of cr«dit*d service.
<q) For i»rvl4« in 1995, a monthly p-ta_iiori tqvuL to $34,00 multiplied by number of years of credited service.
(r)	For service in 1996, a monthly peajlca equal to $35,00 multiplied by tbs nuai-tr of years of credited service.
(s)	For service after January 1, 1997, a monthly p-«a-»lo>n equal to $36.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
<t) For service after January 1, 1996, a monthly pension equal to $37.00 multiplied by the nunfrer of ye*-ri of credited service.
(u)	For service after January 1, 1999, • monthly ptniion equal to $33,00 <xruitipli«d by the nunfoer of years of 'Sr^d-ltid service.
(v)	For ssrvics li'.tr January 1, 2000, a monthly puulea equal to
$39.00 multiplied by the number of yt4n of credited service.
<w) For service iff? January 1/ 2001, e monthly pension equal to $40,00 «ulsipli«d by the number of y«*r* of credited service.
47
C. (a)	tt MqmI Rstiramant
(i)	A member retiring at age 65 on or after January 1,
1996 with at least 30 yeara of credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $2406 from Company end Canada Pansion Plans combined.
Should the member's accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension of $2406, the member is further entitled to a Lifetime Supplement, baing the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit determined at the date of hie retirement to produce this irnruri pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pansion Plan Retirement benefits, proratad by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 pars end reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(ii)	A member retiring at age 65 on or after January 1,
1999	with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $2556 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combinad.
Should the member's accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension of $2556, the member is further entitled to a Lifetime Supplement, baing the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension rod the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit determined at the date of his retirement to produce this rrnrun pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the irrartrn pension at normal retlreoant axeeeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, proratad by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 pars and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
46
(iii)	A member retiring at age 65 on or after January 1,
2000	with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $2706 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combined.
Should the member's accrued pension and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension of $2706, the member is further entitled to a Lifetime Supplement, being the amount required to be added to the number's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit detarmisad at the date of his retirement to produce this minimum pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with lass than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal ratiramant exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(iv)	a member retiring at age €S an or after January 1,
2001	with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a minimum monthly pension of $2856 from Company and Canada Pension Plans combined.
Should the member's accrued pans ion and his full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Benefit combined not produce a minimum pension of $2856, the member is further entitled to a Lifetime Supplement, being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension end the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit determined at the data of his retirement to produce this minimum pension.
If a member retired at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension et normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. prorated by the ratio of the number of years c£ credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
49
(i) A member retiring after having attained age 60 on or iftir <J*mury 1, 1998 with et least 30 yuri of credited service is entitled to tn immediate accrued p-caiioa t^ual to the amount of accrued pansion to his credit for service to data of early retirement, without reduction for the nrltir datt of retiramant.
This pension will be temporarily lupplimantid by an Amount atceutr/ to provide a monthly pAAJion of $2066, from Comp-in y Plena payable until the member would haw flrit htccfiVi eligible to receive unreduced Cuud» Pention Plen Retirement benefit* (Age 65).
Thereafter, the lup-plim.-int shell hi recalculated as the amount required to hi added to the member's accrued pansion and the full unreduced Cuudi Pension Plus fcitireeseat heatfits determined at the date of his ritiriiTen* eo product e monthly pansion of $2406.; which luppleeeat shall become hie lifetime lupplemeat,
In addition to the recalculated lifetime eupplemat, a member whs retires before December 31, 1996 will be
paid e further lupplemeat, if necessary, to produce a total p-taeion from company Plane e^ual eo the p-uui-sn that would be payable if tlu member win thin retiring at asrsal reti reorient, band on the normal retirement minimum p-en-iion and full unreduced Caned-e Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined es of thst date, his accrued pansion including any eecalatton thereof end his related credited eerviee, This further * supplement thall then he added to end form part of the member's lifetime eupplement.
50
(ii) A member retiring after having attained age €0 on or after January 1, 1999 with at least 10 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pans ion equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier data of retirement.
This pan*ion will be temporarily supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $2218, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first beccme eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (Age 65).
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2556.; which supplement shall beocme his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1999 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension urd full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof urd his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to urd form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
51
(iii)	A unbtr rAbirL&$ *it*r having Att4i-B«R age CO on or
after January 1, 2000 with at luit 30 years of e?«di.£«4 aarvica is aabUltd to aa isreadiibA accrued p<a-il«s a^oa! to the Amount of accrued p-4h-it$n to hia credit for Mrvie« to	of a-acT1/ rAilri**^,
without reduction for tha AArliAr date of ratiramant.
roil pension will lea temporarily	rsaabA-i by La
uuduat a«-5«i#iry to provide a swathly p-Ah-iUa of $2366, it&n Company Plan* payable until the ffuiffiar Wild have hrit	eligible to receive unreduced
C4JU44 Pension fiisx R*PirA**h<: benefits (Age €5).
Thereafter, the iv?pl#£4hP ih-All be recalculated as the amount required to t-e 4dd«d to the member's Acsritd p-AAAi-ws «nd the full unreduced Canada Ptniion Plan R«ti.rrtH-a^ banafita datarminad at tha d±te ci hia rAPirraanP to produce a aonthly panaion of $2706.; which aupplamaat idall	his IUapIss* aupplamant.
In addition to the rt44-frii4*td lifetime i>j?pi4»*si, a manbo’ v\ho retires before December 3 1, 2000 will ha p-4ld a further	if cl*siult/, to produce a
total p-tAii'Sa from ■c-t^c^-a-ay Pluu A-quul to the p-teuii>7a hhii Wild be p-A'/tbU if tha mambar *tre then retiring at cereal rat 1 rtfeaht, b-Ai«d on th* normal ntirt^aat minimum p-Ah-ii® and full unreduced Canada Pension Rlih r«;:ibanafit both d4%ir%ih«d a-« of thAt Ra:t hia accrued p-truii® th'Rl'idih-j any t-i-s a 1 aRfsa thereof A.&4 his rtlttAd credited service. This further • up? 1 t*ca t I'&ill than ba added to and fonti p-Art of the member's lifetime «upp 1 R ,
52
(iv)	A member ratiring after having attained age €0 on or after January 1, 2001 with at lease 10 years of credited service is entitled to an iarvediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier data of retirement.
This pension will be ttmporarily supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $2516, from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (Age 65) .
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pansion urd the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2856.; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 2001 will be paid • further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then ratiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pansion : including any escalation thereof urd his related credited service. This further supplement shall than be added to and form parr of the member's lifetime supplement.
53
(e)	15 Point WefcireMnt
A member retiring after having attained age 55 urd whoae age plum pus of credited service total es or mere (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an irranediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement.'
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age €5 on his date of retirement but using hie current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
(d)	Special Early Retiresent Window
A member retiring on or after January 1, 1998, but before January 1, 2004, after having attained age 55 with 2S years of credited service (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement under aeetion (b) above) is entitled to an additional supplement, payable from general revenues. If the member has et least 30 years of credited service at his retirement date, the supplement will be calculated as if the employee had qualified for Special Early Retirement under the applicable section of (b) above. If the member h a at least 30 pars of credited service at retirement, the supplement ia calculated to be the difference between the amount available to the maober am the basis of the normal form of pension, reduced for early retirement, and the amount available to the member on the basis of the Special Early Retirement provisions of the plan if he had ao qualified. If the member h e lees than 30 pars of credited service at retirement, the supplement will be pro-rated by the number of years of credited service over 30 after calculating the difference between the amount available to the member on the basis of the normal form of pension, reduced for early retirement, and the amount available to the member on the basis of the Special Early Retirement provisions of the pension plan, if he had so qualified. The supplement will be coff^osed of two parts:
(1.) a supplement payable for Che lifetime of the member, end (2.) a bridge benefit which will be payable until the first day of the month in whieh the member's death occurs, or turns age 85, whichever first occurs.
S4
{•) other Sarly Retirement
A member retiring on or after January 1, 1998 and after having attained age 55, with two years of credited service, but prior to having qualified for Special Sarly Retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for serviee to date of early retirement reduced by a factor of one-third (1/3) percent for each month he is under Age €5 when hie pension cora&ences.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age €5 on his date of retirement but wing his current unreduced vested accrued pension urd his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member'a actual date c£ retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated w i 11 then also be reduced by a factor of one third (1/3) percent for each month the member is under Age €5 when liis pension commences.
55
7.	Termination of Boploymeat
A member's accrued pension and lifetime supplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
Hie pension benefits accrued for service from January 1, 1974 will be paid as a deferred pension commencing at normal retirement date, or;
Instead of the deferred pension entitlement, the member may elect to transfer the computed value of his pension to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan. Any amount so transferred may be subject to Provincial Locking-in requirement*.
8.	Joint and Survivor Pension
A number with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early.
85 Point, 80 Point Special Early Retirement Window or other Early Retirement on or after January 1, 1996, shall receive a joint and survivor pension unless the persons entitled to the joint and survivor pension deliver to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve months immediately preceding the commencement of payment of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member's accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by lot during his lifetime. Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension Of 60% Of ths member's reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to actuarial reduction if such spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member) •
56
$, Death Before lUtirout
If a manber dies after having mat the eligibility requirements (Age 55 and 10 Years of Service) for a pre-retirement spousal pension, his spouse shall receive an irrsnediate pension equal to the amount payable had the member retired on the date of his death with the Joint and Survivor Pension described in item 6 above, plus the same percentage of his lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of death, but using his current unreduced accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of death.
If a member should die before his pension commences end does not have a spouse who is entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraphs, a death bantfit shall be paid to the member'# beneficiary equal to the lump sum amount described in Item 7 above as if he had tarminated on the date of his death.
57
10.	Laeilatieo of	After Utlraia;
If a a**b*r retires from the lervice of the Company purauaat to any of the typei of retirement listed above, his pension will be reviewed from January lit of each yean which follows his retirement data.
The accrued balie p*niton rad LLdadt«-i luppleseeat, if my, shall be increased on each -January lie following his retirement by the percentage Increai* in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year, with a saxloum escalation of 2*.
Jkny tpouiil p-enelon will also be escalated applying the lame fonrtula. with the firit increase occurring on the -January 1st following death.
11.	Previous Slur Benefits
Senefiti accrued by a camber of a previous Olamd Srevtriej Limited ftnilon Han have been determined rad fined to the credit of the member for service to December 31, 1973 and will be payable in accordance with the provision* of that plan except;
(a)	The death benefit provided bi a previous plan will be deleted rad the contributory p-en-iion accrued to Decanber 3 1, 1973 will be subject to the Survival Senefiti ai described in Item 10 and 11 above.
(b)	On other early retirement described in Item 7 above, the contributory p-emion accrued for lervice to December 31, 1973 will be reduced by one-third 11/31 percent for each month that tie ©eni-er is under age aixty-five (65) when pen-lion commences.
98
12.	Dieability Retirement (Before Age 65)
As long as a member ii eligible to receive dieability benefits under the Croup Insurance Plan he will receive service and basic pension credits under the Retirement Plan and will not be retired. However, if a member becomes partially disabled and does not qualify for insurance benefits he may qualify for Dieability Retirement. Retirement under this provision requires that:
(a)	He is at least age SO and has completed 10 years of service, and
(b)	He is certified to be partially disabled and thereby prevented from performing any work available with the Company. and
(c)	It is mutually agreed by the member and by the Company that he be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
On retirement under the dieability provision a member is entitled to en immediate pension equal to the amount of basic pension to his credit for service to hie date of disability retirement without reduction for his earlier age of retirement. In addition, until he qualifies for the earlier of receipt of C.P.P. dieability benefit, or the attainment of age 65, he will receive a monthly disability supplemsnt equal to $14.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to 30 years.
At age €5, he will then receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if he had reached age 65 on the date of his retirement, but using his current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit end the Normal Retirement minimum pension determined as at hie actual date of retirement.
13.	No further aaendnents shall be Bade to this Plan which are to be effective prior to January 1, 2002.
59
tfHNDXX *C'
LETTER Or INTENT GUARANTEED MAGE FLAM
December 1, 1957
Mr. Gary Foran
President Local 361
Brewery and soft Drink Workers
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations rt eh. mattsr of eh. implementation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
The Plan will beeome effective on the date it receiver EX Registration approval and will continue for a period of four (4) years fran that date.
Yours very truly,
Eldon Elgie
Director of Human Resources
CO
APPENDIX »D*
GUARANTEED WAGE FJJUf AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
OLAND BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called "The Company"
- end *
BREWERY AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS LOCAL 361
hereinafter called "The Union'
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining unit described by the aaid Collective Agreement,
AMD WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement, which is to be e supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and m y grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the collective Agreement,
INCW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the implementation of a Guaranteed
Wage Flea as hereinafter set forth with such implementation to become effective on the fifteenth day of March 1983, or on m y later date on which approval for implementation has been received from the Federal government hording that;
(a)	The Flan meets the requirement of Eaploymeat and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Employment Benefit Plena;
(b)	Payments by the Coopany pursuant to this Plan will be classified as deductible expanses tor corporate income tax purposes; and
(c)	The receipt by employees of the bensfits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving m y part of the Employment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
ci
1. FllCpOSe
The purpose of thia Flan is to provide a aethod of guaranteeing income to certain employees who i-r« laid off.
2. HijLbility for Participation in the Flaa
Ary regular hourly-rated employee hiving at Ua»d one yaar of seniority determined ai of the March 15th ismediadtly preceding his layoff shall be eli-glhla to pirtioi^ada in this plan.
Notwithstanding the above, tnploytti not classified if regular etqployeee prior to march $, 1986, ihall not he eligible to participate in this Plan until March 15th of the year following the asrployet'a addtLn*«nt of three (3) yeara of seniority.
3 . fcx-sapUoa.1
This plan has no application to and provide! no benaflta for:
(a)	Employees who hiva ken laid off for disciplinary rtaaoci and if such lay-off is questioned under cht Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement flail disposition of any grievance will
determine the employee'a atituj under the Plan,
(b)	fcrpioyei* rho have ken laid off because of any itriXe, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employee* of this Company or by es^loyees of my other employer rho ar« reprelented for colieotive bargaining purpoiei of the isttnutionil Union or by any local Union thereof or successor Uaionj thereto.
(c)	Enployees who heve bets terminated beciuee of rp-ecific direction or decree free, any Governmental authority which iii the eff ted Gf curtailing any of the Compaay' i operation* unleee
< i) eh. direction or decree i s thi result of m illegal act
ccacdSded by the Company or one of its repreatntitlvea, or
(ii) the direction or decree purport! to charge eh. method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the province,
(d)	Bsployees rho here been laid off beciuae of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by my act of lihodifi or insurrection or by any act Of Qod.
(e)	Employees who a n laid off and who heve arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period In lieu of their layoff, These employees rill be deemed to have opted out of the Plan tor such period.
<2
<. Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off end who would otherwise be eligible
for participation in the Plan shall not receive my payments under the
Plan for any week:
( i) In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for E.I. Benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from E.I. Benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
( ii) In which he h a been on layoff and ha6 failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those eases where such registration is necessary to qualify for E.I. bsnefits or for reduction of £.1. waiting period.
(iii) in which he h a failed or refussd to accspt employment deemed suitable for him by the Employment Insurance Commission.
< iv) in which he has failed to accept and report for any
appropriate work assignmsnt of at lsast one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
( v) in which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the
Company's insured weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
( vi) After he has becctne entitled to receive m y pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
In respect of which ha is qualified for compensation from the Worker1 s Compensation board for any compensable accident or illness.
€3
5. Definitions
For the purposes of this Plan:
•Weges" shall man actual tamings for work performed and vacation pay, peyment for any leave of absence with pay granted e.g, jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for statutory holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" Shall mean the Company's payroll week.
"Compensated and available hours" means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee ;in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which ha has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for m y reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
"Week of layoff" means a week in which the employee's compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
64
6. Benefits Provided for Laid Off Uployees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from che Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of 1* 2 or 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
U) Seventy percent (70t) for eligible employees en hereinabove defined.
(2} The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any. for which such employee is eligible under the Employment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continue8 to participate in the Welfare Plan of the company applicable to employees in his Bargaining unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit uedar this Plan, whichever is the later,
Welfare Plan for the purpose of Chi8 section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or aceident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight <0) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
65
S. Duration of Beaafits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employme at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table "A". However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefits entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits ere restored based upon the formula of l/10th of a week for eaeh eight (6) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up co the employee's maximum benefit entitlement sat out in Table "A" below. No credit8 towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employme is already entitlad to the maximum benefits set out in Table -A".
TABLE 'A'
Completed Years of Seniority Determined as of the March 15 immediately preceding his layoff.
Maximum
Benefit
Entitlement
15 years or more 10 years or more 5 years or more 4 years or more 3 years or more
76 weeks of benefits €5 weeks of benefits 52 weeks of benefits 45 weeks of benefits 3 5 weeks of benefit.
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an empk^me may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing March 15th shall not axcaad his Maximum Banefit Entitlement determined as of that March 15th in accordance with Table "A" above. Each eligible employee's weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and i n receipt of benefits for more than thirty*two (22) hour.; and by 4/$th of one week for eaeh week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of banafits for mere than twenty-four (24) Ins:.; and 3/5ths of one week for each week in whieh he i s on layoff urd in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/Sths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for mere than eight (6) hours; and by l/5th of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (a) hours or leas; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i) , (ii), (ill) and (iv) of Section 4.
6C
*.	Ut-I
Any piytMGt ra4« uahtr this Plus ihall be *ubj*ot to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or tfuruotpil authority or by the provi t ions of the collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization froffi the errployee concerned.
i 0. Application*
SmployAes 4'ruiLl be required to o‘oi«r/e suoh rul«s and follow such proct-ium and make such rsports and Applications as ih-all be
prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful £*lsifiCAtion of tny fact mitsriAl to the dAt-ermiaAtion of an
erpLoyee'. benefit rights under the Plan shall mult in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he ruty Haya under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months lu^ie-^uent to the discovery of such falsification, and this Shall not preclude any other 4i icipl ifury action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
11> Reporting
The company will nuke periodic reports to the Union weekly while AiT^loytsi are laid off and receiving benefit, under th* Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of #rnploy«44 who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the psymsats made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, urd such other similar infornution as may be relevant.
€7
la. Duration of 6ha Agr*out
This Agreement aha.il continue until December 31, 2001. During negetiationa for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is fra* to request amendments to this Agreement which ahall alao be put of euch negotiations, but on the understanding■ that any amendments to this agreement will not take efface any marlier chan January i, 2002.
Qt WXTNSS8 tABUor the parties hereto have affixed their signatures Chia t >+	day of	» 1997.
APFBtDXX 'S'
DXHTAL PZJW
Dental Cara Benefit
Dental Cart bentfits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations urd exclusions described below,
Eligible services are all reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or physician and for which treatment Plan has been submitted to and approved by the insurer before the services are rendered. The filing of a Treatment Plan is not required if the total cost c£ the proposed work is leis than $500.00 or if treatment is rendered in emergency conditions. Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories:
(a)	Basic services - examination and cleaning of teeth (once in any six month period). extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment for the relief of dental pain.
(b)	Restorative Services - crowns and inlays, bridge work, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics) , and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodontics) ,
(c)	Orthodontia * proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth.
€$
Effective January 1st. 1996 and for the life of this agreement you will be reimbursed for 100% of the cost of Basic Services, 75% Of the coat of Restorative services, 50% of the cost of Orthodontia for eligible services incurred by you or your eligible dependents, up to * maximum benefit for each insurad person of $850.00 in a calendar year for Basic Services with a lifetime maximum benefit of $8,000. Thera will be a provision for en annual reinstatement of up to $700. At the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore such lifetime maximum to the level of $6,000. for each insured persons for Restorative Services end Orthodontia combined. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current Dental Association Schedule of Pees in the province in which you reside. If optional procedures are possible, benefits will be payable in accordance with the procedure involving the smallest fee. Expenses incurred for the replacement of dentures are eligible for benefits except that if the replacement is for a denture for which benefits were payable under this plan, benefits for the replacement will be payable only if at least five (5) years have elapsed since the placement or replacement for which benefits were paid. In addition, benefits are payable for rebasing, relining or repairing of dentures. Benefits will not be paid for the replacement of dentures which have been lost or misplaced or stolen.
Dental care benefits sure not payable for any services eligible for payment from mother source such as provincial health insurance plans, Worker's Compensation or other government plan, expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war. or any service for which en employee or dependent does not have to pay. Your dental care insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service and claims will not be accepted for any service performed after the date on which your insurance was cancelled.
70
Bow to Cl«i& tor Dental Car* Benefit
Claims nuit bo submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expanse was incurred except: that proof of claim must be submitted within ninety (90) days of the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each camber of your family for whom you are making claim. The dentist's statement on this form, or any bills supporting your claim, must show the patient's name, dates and nature of tho treatment and the charge. If the total cost associated with proposed dental work is $500.00 or core, a Treatment Plan must be submitted to the insurer an explained in the Dental Care Benefit explanation above. You should have your dentist complete a claim form setting out details as to the proposed treatment and cost.
Give this form to your Human Resources or Health Services Department to forward for review by the insurance company. You will then bo advised an to the charges, or portion thereof, which the insurer considers eligible for benefits. Upon completion of the dental treatment you again submit a claim to receive payment of the approved benefits.
Failure to see your dentist promptly or to submit your claim together With the dentist's report or other itemized statements within the above time limits will result in the rejection of your claim.
71
APPENDIX 'F'
AamaowT with opeaatxno enqxneexs JON* 3, 1977
1.	Two twelve (12) hour shifts to cotnmanct May 12, 1974.
2.	Shifts will be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
3.	Shift cowaancing at 7:00 p.m. will be deemed to be worked on she following day * a.g. 7:00 p.m. Sunday will be Monday's work.
4.	Pay will be at follows, on class "A" Scale:
36 hours a straight time on a 3 day week 44 hours • straight time on a 4 day weak Plus 4 hours • ovartitae rate on a 4 day week.
9.	in a week in which a holiday falls, the two anginaers who are on a shift each earn thirty-six (36) hours pay and the two engineers who are Off shift aach earn eighteen (18) hours pay.
6.	"B" shift or day shift 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., no shift premium Will be paid. "A" shift or night shift 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., the appropriate night shift pramium will be paid.
7.	1st day off after shift completion will be considered as Saturday or elms and ona-half day. 2nd day off aftar shift completion will be conaidarad as Sunday or double time day. (Only one double time day can fall in any seven days, pay period Sunday am. to Saturday p.m.).
8.	Vacation period and pay be on a 4 0 hour basis.
9.	Vacation bonus will be calculated on 40 hours, similar to ramaindar of plant personnel.
10.	Vacation - 1 weak - 9 days 3-3-3
- 2 waaka ■ 15 days 3-3-3-3-3
11.	Relief for dinnar and breaks if possible on the day shift only.
72
1.	Fermenting shift will be based on a seven (?) day shift operation.
2.	Under a two-shift operation, the shifts will be ?;00 a.m. to 3:00 p.ra. urd 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.tc.
3.	The following shifts will outline the operator work week:
(a) Sunday to Thursday - 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
(b) Monday to Friday - 3:00 p.m. • 11:00 p.m.
(c)	Tuesday to Saturday - 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
4.	For those operators required to work on a Saturday or Sunday, they will be paid the appropriate overtime rates, an accordance with the Collective Agreement.
5.	The second day shift fermenting room operator will only be used to relieve another fermenting rocm operator on the first day of absence (if the fermenting roam relief operator is unavailable), after which the fermenting room relief operator will be wed.
6.	When there are two operators on one shift, the second operator will only be required to work in the Brewing Department urd will not be required to perform relief duties, except as described in Item Five
(5).
7.	in the event of a statutory holiday or a recognized statutory
holiday falling on a day when two operators are scheduled to work on the same shift, then both operators are required to work on that day.
6. Vacation period will be on a forty (40) hour week basis.
73
A9JXHDXX E'
OVBTZICB IQtnUtXZATXOM
1.	An overtire* lilt will be poited departmentally and updated on a weekly baiW, Thii list will ihov the name of the employee and hi*/h*r ovarti** record for all dapartreenti,
2.	The overtire* record of each employee will revert to zero at the it art of each new year end will be poited in order of itniority,
3.	All overtim* hours recorded will be converted to a straight time equivalent. For example, if an employee work, eight (8) hour:. at time end one-half, hii/har record will reflect twelve (12) hoar* char-jed.
4. All overt!** which is offered to in employee, will be charged
*9*lost tin overtime record with the following exceptions;
(•) in employee will not be charged with a reiuaal if he/ihe ii piven less then two (2) hoar* notice of the overtime opportunity or if in employee ii called at home and offered weekend overtip. without twenty*iour (20 heur. notice,
(b)	The preient practice of lelectioa of employee* to work overtire* for cleanln-j of equipment in Packaging wi 11 continue to he poited and lelectioos made from the applicants, Applicant! who are not lelected to work will not be charged. Applicant! v\ho are lelected end lubiequently refuse will be charged with the appropriate hor..
(c)	Attendance at as-etlnpi which require an overtire* prerelun to be paid, will not be charged against the employee* overtime record; employee* relieving for employees to attend meetings alao will not be charged.
<d) Employe** who ere absent end were not canvassed to work, will net be charged overtime opportunities mined, If an employe* is on a longterm absence (expected absence to be 30 or more calendar days), ba/sh* will be deleted fren the overtime lilt and upon return, will be returned to the group at not lass than the group average.
S.	Overtime Charged against the employee's record will equal the
amount of hours the Overtime opportunity actually turned Out to be:
e.g. - If the overtime offer is made for four (4) hours and it actually cum* out to be three (3) hours, the overtime record will reflect three (3) hours worked at the straight time equivalent.
Conversely, if three <3) hours overtime are offered and it turns out that four (4) hour* were worked, then four (4) hours worked at the straight time equivalent will be charged against the overtime record of the employee that worked and/or any employee Who was offered the opportunity and declined.
€. An employee who accepts an overtime opportunity and is absent for the assignment due to illness, will be charged with the unconverted overtime hours as if be/she had worked. An employee who has no sick leave remaining, will be charged with all converted hours as if he/ahc had worked.
7.	if overtime becomes available at the end of a shift, it will first be offered to employees who are at work. Employees who are on off shifts will be contacted next.
8.	when a particular group is completely canvessad and scheduled, and more employees ere required, overtime selection can be made from another group, subject to the employees ability to perform the work that is available. Selection will be on the basis of the employee with the least amount of total overtime hours worked or refused in all groups.
75
9.	A permanent employee entering a new group will enter at not less than the group average. This will also apply to probationary employees who become permanent and successful applicants on job postings.
10.	(a> A regular employee may work ovartima in another group,
providing he/she has not refused ovartima in their base group.
(b)	A full time employee returning to his/her base group for a three (3) day or longer basis, will be offered (Saturday) overtime in his/her base group only.
11.	(a) For overtime purposes only, the vacation period commences on
the Saturday of the employee's final work week prior to vacation and ends on the Sunday or Statutory Holiday at the end of the employee's vacation period.
(b)	An employee under (a) above who wishes to work during an overtime opportunity on the first Saturday on his/her vacation, may do so by making a request to their supervisor of their desire to work. The employee would then bo selected as any other employee. An employee who does not make such i request to work, will not be charged for a failure to accept the overtime opportunity.
(c)	An employee returning from vacation rill only be ontitled to bo selected for on overtime opportunity which falls on his/hei first schedule work day following chair vacation. For example, an employee who is on vacation urd schedule to retun to work on Tuesday because Monday is a recognised Statutory holiday, would not be entitled to any overtime opportunities on that statutory holiday Monday.
76
12. (a) A relief operator who is relieving in hii/bar relief group or uwthtr relief group, will fc-e oiitrad	whan
available, on a dally beeie. If	is no wok available in
the relief group they are relieving in* they o-aaaot tat«r aaoth*r group until all esrep 1 <oy-s• s havt ken caavi»*#d in Uut group. When a relief employs* r*iUJ«i overtime in bA* group they are relieving in, they	accept ovartisn in Another
group.
(b)	A relief operator who ii relieving in hi*/her relief group for a three (3) da1/ or longer b-aiti, will Jc. offered (Saturday) ovirtim* in their raliaf group only.
(c)	All overtime hours accumulated for relief personnel will be credited And added together to dettr&ine total ovirtUv* recorded.
(d)	A relief operator under (b) will sneer hi*/ta*r relief group at act Ins than the group avsraj* for OYertia* ilurUg purpom, However, whai relieving in mother group sxpeoted to be 30 calendar day* (or longer), the relief employee will bring fee ok to iai*/her base group, all equivalent hour* worked or refund, but will not be leas than the fw-M? average.
Your* vary truly,
Sldon Sl-jt*
Director of Burran Reiouroe*
77
INDEX - LETTER OP INTENT
Page #
Banked Overtime Plant, Excluding Plant Services
Banked Overtime for Maintenance and operating Engineers
Plant Holidays for Temporary Employees
Plant Holidays Substitution
Scheduling Cancelled Summer Vacation
Weakly Indemnity Supplement
Illness on Vacation
weekly Payments for Employees on Sick Leave Sickness Benefits while on Layoff Employees Medical Pile Deferred Retirement at Age €5 Relieving supervisors *24 Month* Period/LTO Temporary Employees Not Rehired Temporary Employeea/GWP Administration OWP Advance
Benefits While on Layoff
Retiree's Prescription Drugs Closure of the Nova Scotia Plant Partial Plant Closure Wage Rates Preferred Temporaries Sevan Day Packaging Cycle Severance Plant Closure Banking of Vacation Technological Change Application of OWP Operation Flexibility Benefits for Surviving Beneficiary Wage Fate Temporary Enployees Eliminated Position Plant Relief Positions Croup Insurance Plan Distribution Map
79
81
83
04
B5
86
87
88 09
90
91
93
94
95
96 99
99
100 101 102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110 111 112
113
114
70
SCMOONCn MC* txnrrr ah
mu Aonieoo st
HALIFAX NS CANADA
•3K4CU
TCL (K3I 4tt-1S67
FAX |M2) IH M»
December 1, 199?
BREWERS SINCE 1667
Hr. Cary reran President
Brewery end Soft Drink Workers
Local 3fl
Dear Oary:
This will confirm the understanding reached at the 199? Negotiations in the natter of Banked Overtime for the plant, excluding plant services.
The intent of the plan is to level off and reduce the number of permanent employees that could be laid off during the slaek production periods. The parties also agree that, the procedures following may be amended as mutually agreed between the parties.
Overtime
Employees working overtime have an option of either getting paid for it. or banking all or part of it, all at the applicable overeime rates.
Banked_Time
1)	Overtime can be banked in no less than 1/2 hour increments.
2)	Processing of banked time (banking or drawing out banked time) is done by time sheets only. No processing will be done by special pay adjustments or manual cheques.
3)	The processing system will recalculate the overtime to straight hour basis. (9 hours overtime worked at the rate of time and a half will show 12 hours as to be banked.)
4)	Banked time drawn out is paid at the hourly rate applicable when banked.
Banked Time Maximum
1)	There is no limit as to how suny hours an employee can have in the bank at any time.
2)	No employee ean take more than SO hours worth of banked overtime as time off in a calendar year.
.....n
79
Withdraw! ef Bankad TliM
1) As a cash out in bloeks ef sight (!) hours.
2) As a tima off in bloeks of 40 hours only-.
3)	bankad tins off will b« granted, in accordance with ths rulos for vacation scheduling, Vacations tabs priority over banked tine off in an avast of conflict.
4)	Ones baakad tins off is granted, it can not bs bussed by a subsequent vacation raquast.
5)	baakad tins off will not bs granted for periods whart temporary employees ara sehsdulsd to work.
<> Ths baakad ovartina ayatotn will keep track ef all transactions and will display tbs status ef aseh account at the end of the previous pay period. The disposition of the beaked tine in any form (i.e. • cash out, tine off) will be done according to the last status report only.
7) Tina drawn from the beak will be paid on the employee's regular cheque or on a separate cheque. Z! it is s cash out for eight <l) hours, it is to be included on the employee's regular cheque- Xf it is s cash out for store than eight (!) hours, a separate cheque is to be geaereted for the full amount requested with ineene tax t< be the only deduction- If the time drawn is cine off, it will be paid on a regular cheque with all applicable deductions.
• ) The employee's cheque stub is to show totals for the following:
A) banked time Remaining, b) Vacation Remaining.
9)	An esployee ean beak tine during a whole calender year sad eea bavt until April 30th of the following year to take it, unless be/ahe ii scheduled to take it off.
10)	Om Nay 1st, all banked tine from tba previous year will be paid out with only the currant year's accumulated tine showing.
11)	banked tine drawn out as tins off will be authorised on first cone, first aarved basis.
Tours very truly,
III*,..
Director ef Hunan Rasources
SCMOONCM MIR fXSOKT ALE
mi aoricola it
HALIFAX NS CANADA
B3K40J
TfL (S02) 44J-1K'
A AX. | M3)
BREWERS SINCE 1BS7
December a, 1997
Mr. Gary reran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers - Local 3*1
U.F.C.W.
Dear Oary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations regarding Banked Overtime for Maintenance Employee! and Operating Engineers.
where it becomes necessary for the Company to schedule Maintenance work on overtime, aueh Maintenance employees, who perform that work shall, at their own option, be entitled to accumulate such overtime work hours to allow an option for the time off. The accumulation of "Banking” for time off shall be subject to the following conditions:
a)	Banked Time Maximum's:
1)	There is no limit as to bow many hours an employee can have in the bank at any tims.
2)	No employee can take sere than 10 hours worth of banked overtime as time off in a calendar year.
b)	That time off shall be ee mutually arranged between the employee and his immediate supervisor.
e)	The banking of evartime shall be limited to Maintenance employees and Oparating Enginatrs in tbs following classifications:
Malntananee Mechanic a Maintenance Mechanic B Maintenance Mechanic C Maintenance General Shift ingineer.
d) That the principles contained herein are granted on the basis of the particular production requirements of this plant of the Company.
.......n
si
- Pag* 2 •
• ) Accumulated banked date earned 1b on* calendar year aba 11 b« used up by April 30tb in the following year. An ee^loyee who does not uaa up accumulated tint aball havt cb« accumulated amount ae April 30th paid to hin by eba Coapany ae eba rata at which it waa aarnad.
f)	Tim* off is exchange for overtime boura work a hall not ba graatad for parioda of laaa than on* <1> day. employee* who qualify for eba aecuBulaeion of ovartiaa aball bava the following arrangaaant* availabla eo than for aaeh period of ovartiaa worked:
1.	Payment of appropriate raeaa for all hours of overtime worked 1b lieu of banking for any claw off.
2.	Payment of the appropriate job rata for all houra worked asd banking tha appropriate premium amount for auch overtime work.
3.	bank lag of all boura worked and banking of ell appropriate premium amount for eucb overtime work.
4.	banking of all straight time aa worked and payment for premium houra
g)	Tha intent of this plan ia that Maintenance employee* and operating engineers take significant blocks of time off at any ona tin*,
<i.«.. on* waak). Tim* off for parioda aa short aa on* day will b* granted whar* rsaeenabla notica ia given and shift change premium ia not required for the men's replacement.
h> banked time off should be taken euteida tha sumner period. Tim* off shall be arranged by requests to the imediate supervisor and will ba grancad in aecordane# with tb* normal rules for vacation scheduling. Zt ia understood, that vacations taka priority over banked time off in tha event of any conflict.
i) Maintenance Department employees may net taka their accumulated time off during annual overhaul periods, but eheir requests for time off during the summer period will be granted where and whenever possible.
Director of Human baeourcas
•2
KNOONfH HDt
sxsost als
BREWERS SINCE 1867
OieMbir 1, 1997
Mr. Qary Peru
Preaidant
Brewery and Soft Drink Norkara - Local }(i
u.r.c.w.
Dear Oary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during 1997 negotiation* with reapect to plant holiday pay for temporary employees.
A temporary esvloyee mute have worked sixty (CO) daya within the last aix (6) months, in order to toe eligible for paid plant holidays. In addition, the eoployee must have worked, or havt been available for work, the day before the plant holiday and the day following the plant holiday, unless prior permission to be absent has been granted by his iomediate supervisor. Absence due to legitimate sickness on the day before or the day after the plant holiday shall not affect his holiday
pay.
Yours very truly.
I.______...
Director of Human Resources
KHMNn HI* CXtOftT Mi
SOU AONICOLA ST HALIFAX N S CANAC
S3* 402
TtL- (K0l«U-1Mr FAX (S02) «4>da47
December X, 1997	BREWERS SINCE 1867
Hr. Gary reran president
Bravery and soft Brisk Worker* * Local 361 U.F.C.W,
Daar Gary:
This will confirm the understanding raachad during eh« 1997 Negotiations regarding aalaeeien of alternate days off for plane holidays chat fall on Saturday, in accordance with Article 4.01 of the Collective Agreement.
At the first regular Xmbour/Management Committee Heating following the ratification of the memorandum of Agreement, the coomttee will assign dates to sueh Saturday holidays, similarly ehareafear in each year by February 21th.
Such lists shall be posted.
Yours vary truly,
Pr
■?,.u
Eldon Elgie
Director of Human Hasourcas
Mr. Gary Peru Presidant
Brewery ud Soft Drink Workers - Local 161
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations in the Meter of scheduling cancelled summer vacations. .
when an employee cancels his vacation during the months of July ud August, a notice muse be put on the bulletin board for one week indicating the open period. The successful epplicue will be the employee who was not offered the opportunity to apply for the said week or weeks during the initial vacation scheduling. Only the original vacation period shall be posted ud not the others caused by the completion of the first vacucy.
•CMOOMCR MEM EXPORT AU
S06$ AOSICOLA ST
HAUPAXNS CANADA R3KAC2
TEl. (KDiA&S-IMT PAX. 1905) ASS-SMT
BREWERS SINCE 1467
December l. 1**7
Hr. Oary reran President
Brewery and Soft Prink workers - Local 361 U.F.C.V.
paar Oary;
This will eonfirm eha understanding raachad during cha 1*97 Negotiations, plaasa considar this as the coapany's Latter of Intent with regard to 'Weakly Indemnity Supplement'.
employees drawing benefits under the weekly indasnity Plan ahall receive a supplement up to full pay for statutory holidays falling within the 26 week Weekly Indemnity Period.
yours very truly.
Director of Human Resources
16
SOU AOAlCOLA ST HALIFAX N S.. CANADA UK 403
TtL. {KB) 4U-1M'
SAX (KB) 4U-MT
December 1, 1997
BREWERS SINCE 1867
Mr. Gary reran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers - Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 negotiations, plaaaa conaldar thia aa the Company's Latter of intent with regard to "Illness on Vacation*.
In the event that an employee becomes ill or ia injured after coesneneing hie vacation, he ahall at that point have the remainder of hie vacation cancelled for that period and rescheduled at a later date In order to inclement this clause the employee must first contact his supervisor iamdiataly if he becomes ill or is injured, and he oust be able to meet the Meekly Indemnity requirements.
Yours very truly.
director of Human Resources
• 7
•CHOONIR Ml" CWOftT AU
SMJAOAICOCAST HALIFAX N S CANADA
UK 40?
nL«U> 4*1-1167
*AA. (6031 4SMS47
BREWERS SINCE 1867
Mr. Gary Foran President
Bravery and soft Drink Worker* - Local JCl
Deer Oary:
Thit will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations, please consider chie as the Company* Letter of intent with regards to ‘Weekly payments for Sickness, Won-Occupational Accidents or Worker's Compensation Payments*.	.
employees absent due to siekneee. non-oceupational accident or Worker’s Compensation shall be paid every plant pay day. employees will be required to submit coexisted Weekly indemnity Claim forms or worker's Compensation Accident form* as required by the Company to continue to receive full Weekly Indemnity pay or Worker's Compensation in subsequent pay periods. It is understood that Weekly Indemnity Benefit and Worker's Compensation cheques will be endorsed by the employees and turned over to the company.
••
8CM00NC* Min
otnom al£
ms aouicola rr HALIFAX. N.S.. CANADA
B3K402 til; MB)
PAX: (*«>44»OS47
BREWERS SINCE 1B67
December 1, 1997
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Worker* - Local 311 U.F.C.W.
D«ar Gary:
This will confirm tbe understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations with respect to Sicknesa Banafica.
An employee's eligibility tor aiek day* and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plana caaaaa immediately upon his layoff and ia rainatated upon hia recall to work and completion of eight (8) hours work in the bargaining unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an en^loyee with tan (10) or eere years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or ieas, ia unable to report to work due to aicknass or non>occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans affective the date of hie/ber recall.
Yours vary truly.
C
Director of Human Resources
•9
SCMOONCH MCA 1XWCT AU
aouAomcocA st HALIFAX N.S CANAO* UK 403
TEt (K»| 401SS?
f« (M3) 40M47
BREWERS SINCE 1867
Otenbir i, i»9?
Mr. Gary Poran President
Brewery and Soft Drink workers - Local )C1
O.F.C.W.
Daar Gary:
This will confirm tha understanding raachad during tha i»»i Negotiations with regard to an esployee'a medical fila.
The company shall continue with ita praaane practice of confidentiality with raapaet to ouch records and shall net allow their removal free tha Coo^any's premises without tha explicit consent of tha employee.
Yours vary truly.
Eldon tilgia
Director of Human Resources
•e
KMOOMi* siem CXTOffT AU
3065 AORICOLA ST HAU*AX N S CANADA
UK 4Q3
m (WtAsa-iMT
BREWERS SINCE 1867
December l, 1997
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers • Local 3S1 U.F.C.V.
Daar Gary:
Thia will confirm the undaratandiag reached during tha 1997 Negotiations with raapacc to dafarrad retirement.
Should mandatory retirement at aga 45 be no longar permitted by law in thia provinca and a regular employee continual in employment beyond hia normal ratiramant date, tha following conditions shall govern such employment and ba added to the Collective Agreement.
1) Tha Pension to which tha employee has become entitled at hia normal retirement data <the "Pension1), shall be frotan as of the employee's normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
21 The employee's Pension shall becoma payable as of the first day of the month iamediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee'* seventy-first (?i) birthday whichever shall first occur (The "Pension Date").
3)	The employee's Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his normal retirement date to hi* Pension Date.
4)	No contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5)	An employee's Pension will not be effected by any amendments made to the Pension Plan after the employee's normal retirement data.
4) An employee's Pension benefits will be actuarially reviewed
effective as at tha Pension Date having regard to the employee's Pension having been deferred since his normal retirement date.
..../2
91
- Papa 3
7) For purpoaaa of calculating any minimum panaien aupplamaat, tba Canada panaion Plan and old apt aacurity banafita. vhara applicable, will ba taken weo account at tba laval In affact at tba employee'a noraal retirement data.
I) An aaployaa vbo continuaa ao^loynant with eha Company aftar hie normal retirement data aa dafinad in the Panaion Plan, ahall ba aaeielad to only the iaaurad welfare banafiea provided eo eaployaea on retirement aa at tua normal retirement data.
Youra vary truly.
Blden Ilgie
Diraetor of Human Rcaourcae
•2
tCMOONC* HI" OtfOMT AU
ms Aomcom rr
NALIfAX N 5 CANADA
93* *3J
m: me\ esmr
PAX <«») tfMMT
Decamber 1
Mr. Oary reran Preaident
Brewery and Soft Drink workera • l<ocal 361
C.F.C.W.
Daar Oary:
Ae diaeuaaad during the USf Negotiationa, pleaee eonaidar thia aa eta* Company'a Latter of Intent with regard to "Relieving Superviaore".
Tha company agraaa te continue ita preaent practice of net having relieving auperviaora perform the work of tha bargaining unit, except in eaiergency aituatione or to train or demonatrate.
In addition, tha Company agraaa, that all future poaeinga for relieving auperviaora will include the commence noted in the preceding paragraph.
Youra vary truly,
Eldon Elgie
Director of Hunan Reaourcea
BCHOONC* MfN CXPOST ALi
SMAOMICOLAST HALIFAX N S . CANAOA
BOX 403
TEL (SOS' 4M-1S47 PAX: (1031 <U-)N’
BREWERS SINCE 1867
Member 1, 1997
Hr. Gary reran President
Brewery end Soft Drink workers * Local 361 O.F.C.W.
Deer Gary:
A* diacuseed during the 1997 Negotiations, please consider this as the Company's Letter of Intent with regard to Section 11.05 of the Collective Agreement.
The earn "34 maths* referred to in Section 11.05 defines, specifically, the length of time that an es^loyee on siekness or disability is entitled to his former 30b if held by an employee with less seniority, or scow other suitable job m his department, subject to his ability to perform the work in e satisfactory stanner.
Beyond the *34 month* period, an employes who returns to work after being absent due to disability or siekness. will be entitled to perform work in any other department, subject to the employee's ability to perform such work in a aetisfaetory manner.
Yours very truly,
Director of Human Resources
94
MMAORICOLAST HALIFAX N S . CANADA
UK 4C?
TIL-WSI 4SHS67 PAX: (To)
December 1, 1*97
Mr. Cary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Horkara - Local 361
U.F.C.N.
Daar Cary:
This will confirm the understanding raachad during the 1997 Negotiations with regard to “Temporary employees*.
When the Company decides not to rehire a temporary employee who has worked for the Company in excess of sixty (60) working days duration,
SCHOONEM IXWT AL
aouAOHieocAST HALIFAX. N ft.. CANADi •3K402
TEL' IWl 1*3.19*?
SAA («8tlftMft*?
BREWERS SINCE 106?
December 1, 199?
Mr. Gary Foran
President
Brewery end Soft Drink Worker# - Local 361
O.F.C.W.
Dear Gary;
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 199?
Negotiation*.
CTMPORAHY EMPLOYEES
il Temporaries will be granted regular job vacancies occurring in the future (by the order of the names or. the list) .
2) Temporaries will be granted preference for temporary work
assignment* (by the order of the names on the list); if an employee cannot be contacted the Company will continue on the list for call>10*.
CaMAMTEED WAGE PLAN- ADMINISTRATION
1)	Call-in tines to be 6:30 - 7:30 a.m. and l;30 - 2:30 p.m. on telephone recorder.
2)	At time of layoff employees will be advised of their assignment to either the morning or afternoon call-in period.
3)	Work becoming available will be assigned to enployees starting with the most senior es^loyee on the total lay-off list, when unable to contact the most senior employee the company will move down the list.
4)	One week of vacation (for enployees with over two weeks entitlement) will be scheduled by the company, prior to the payment of G.W.P., for laid-off employees.
Notice of the scheduling of this vacation Co be provided one week in advance, employees on scheduled vacation will not be required to call-in.
• rag* 2
Work becoming available will ba offered to employees on vacation »i»i can ba worked by oucual agreement of employe# and hi* auparviaor. Supervisor and employee to agraa to availability prior to the start of vacation.
S)	Whan all employees return from ley-off each alloys* will go back to hia normal shift group.
Youra very truly,
Eldon Elgia
Director of Suau Jtesourcaa
»T
0KMT ALf
tCMOONCN IlfH
90UAOHICOO ST HALIFAX N 5 . CANADA
I3K 403
m (tc3i 4Smh7 FAX ISCO)A*M*A'
FAX (S03}4U-M4:
BREWERS SINCE 186?
December 1, XSS7
Mr. Gary Form President
Brewery md Soft Drink Worker* - Local 3<1 U.F.C.W.
Dur Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached during hit Negotiations concerning payment of G.W.p.
Zf in employee is on G.W.P. h* will hxv* tbs normal mount h« is eligible for advanced to bim by way of a Company cheque on normal pay days. £e is undarstood tbit tbs employee must sign ovar his U.i.c. chaqua to eha Company as soon as ba is in racaipt of it.
Yours truly.
tldon Elgie
Director of Human Hasoureas
M
SCMOONfH SSC*
Member 1, 199*7
BREWERS SINCE 1867
*
Mr. Gary reran President
Brewery end Soft Drink Workers - bocal 161
Dear Gary:
Am discussed during the 1997 Negotiations, please consider this as the Company's better of Intent with regard to 'Benefits While baid Off.
The Company agrees, that it will continue with its present practice with respect to the payment of premiums for benefits for all permanent employees for a period of one month following the month of layoff.
This does not apply to sickness and accident benefits and pension accruals■
Yours very truly,
Sldon Blgie
Director of Human Resources
•9
ISBli
SCHOOWV* BCC*
worn au
mu Aoncout $T Halifax n s. Canada 03* 4GJ
TCL (««)4&3>1M7 FAX fftt) UMU?
Mr. G*ry Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink worker* - Lbeal 3(1
o.r.c.w.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding raaehad during tb* i»§7 Negotiations concerning cee^any coverage of eb* eoae of raciraa' a prescription drugs.
A* ia currant practice, the eoat of prescriptions in tbeae circumstance* is fully covered by the Provincial Governaent (Pharmaeare) or Insurance carrier.
Should this situation change, the Company will maintain full coverage of these costs through placement of the policy with another insurer.
Yours truly,
tldon Elgie
Director of Hunan Resources
100
SCHOONE* Mf" DC«W*T ALE
aewAOMicoLAST
HALIFAX N S CANADA
R3K 4G2
TEL («8l 4S3-1M’
SAX. (EOS) HI Ml?
December 1. 1997
BREWERS SINCE 1867
*
Kr-. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers - Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Daar Gary:
This will confirm the understanding of eh* parties reached during eh* 1997 Negotiation* concerning closure of eh* Company's Nova Scotia Plant.
Zn such an event, eh* Company will ueilis* its best effores, as has been past practice, to secure positions for such displaced employees in other company brewing facilities in Canada.
The Company will give the Union six <6> months notice of its intention tc permanently close the brewery.
Yours very truly,
Eldon Elgie
Director of Hunan Resources
101
tCNOOMC* Mf*
offom au
9QUAOWCOOST HALIFAX N S. CANADA •9X40?
m (SOJ> *S>1»7 FAX (K2I4AMXT
BREWERS SINCE 1867
December 1, 199?
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Norkara - Local 361
Daar Gary:
Subject; Partial Plant Cloaura
Thia will coefinn tba understanding of tba partiaa raaebad during the 1997 Negotiation*.
Zn tha event of full or partial plant cloaura where tha Company is contemplating altamaca warehousing activity in Move Scotia, tha Company agree* to fully discuss thaaa matter*•
Your* vary truly.
^ T)f
Eltforv-Eigri
Director of Human Resources
103
KHOOtttM ME* CPOMT AU
MMAONCOLAST HALIFAX. CANADA UK 402
itL nosi 4&a-tar
Hr. Gary reran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Markers - local 3(1
Dear Oery;
This will confirm the understanding reached during the 1997 Negotiations concerning wage rates for preferred temporary wployees having worked 132 days.
As agreed, rates of pay will be as follows:
Yours truly.
Eldon Elgie
Director of Hunan Resources
103
SCHOOMIS NU
soaiAomcocArr
MAUFAX M.S.. CAMAJ
UK 402 TEi. f*02)
PAX
BREWERS SINCE 1867
December i, i»fJ
Hr. Oary Foren President
Brewery and Safe Drink Workers - tocel 3€l U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary.-
Tfcia will coni inn the understanding of ths partial rsaebad during 1»9 negotiations concerning atvan day operationa.
Should the Ccspsny ba daairoua of operating on a aavan day packaging cyela It was agraad that the departmental shift configuration would to aa follows:
Packaging:	Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday
2 ahifea of 10 hours each daily
or soma other shift configurations as agraad between the parties.
in the instance of the 3 day X ia hour shift configuration, it was agreed that applicable employee wages would toe the equivalent of 40 hours pay at the appropriate regular rate of pey. In addition, it waa agreed that employees called in on their scheduled days off would tos paid at double time races.
Ail employees would be required to rotete fully throughout the above ahift schedules. Also in this eeansetion it was agreed that positions integrally aligned with the peekaging function would have crewing arrangements appropriately aligned with the above configuration.
Friday. Saturday, Sunday 2 shifts of 12 hours each daily.
Maintenance: Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday, Thursday 3 shifts of 10 hours each daily
Friday, Saturday, Sunday
2 ahifea of 12 hours eaeb daily.
104
ftCMoottf* act*
txrom al£
aau*amcoc*ST
HALIFAX N S . CANADA
UK 4G2
TCi. (*»' 4SS-1M7 FAX <«»} 4&3-M47
Mr. Gary reran Preaident
Brewary and Soft Drink Norkara * Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
Thia will confirm the underatanding of the partiaa reached during 199? negotiation! concerning aaveraace with raapacc to potential plant cloaure.
In the event of plant cloaure after January l, 1998 the partiaa agree chat the following aeverance proviaiona will apply to regular employee*:
Two weeka' baaa earning* (computed on tha baaia of one'e hourly rate in affect a* of the time of cloaure) multiplied by the number of hia completed year* of eeniority (aa uaed for vacation entitlement) aa of the laat day actively worked in the Bargaining Unit to a maximum of 30 yeara.
Youra very truly,
Ildon Elgie
Director of Human Beaoureea
10 s
MftSAOMtCOlAST
HALIFAX K.$. CANADA
B3K4Q?
TtL- (902* ASSIST
FAX (1021 4ftM*4T
December 1. 199?
Hr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Yorkers • Local 351 U.F.C.W.
Daar Gary:
This will confir* the understanding of tba parties reached during 199? negotiations concerning banking of vacation.
Effective January l, 1994, any employee with sore than 4 weeks of vacation entitlement can bank vacation waaks in excess of 4 weeks to retirement. This banked vacation aust ba taken in tba period iasaediacaly preceding their retirement.
The company will provide the Union with an annual eusmary of employees availing of the above option.
Yours very truly.
Eldon Elgie
Direceor of Buaan Resources
SCHOONER KfR EXSONT ALE
SOU AOMCOUk ST
HALIFAX. N S. CANADA
B3K *02
TEL: (102) *43-118?
December 1. 1997
BREWERS SINCE 1867
I
Hr. Oary reran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Workers * Local 361 U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
This will confirm the understanding reached prior to ehe signing of the Collective Agreement that the following Technological. Change language, while deleted from Section 16.OS of the agreement would remain in effect in the form of this 'Letter of Understanding".
Zf during the life of this Agreement the Company wishea to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing job classifications or creating new job classifications, or which would result m the lay-off of any regular employee, the Company agrees that, before introducing such technological change, it will meet with the Union to discuss the matter and to attempt to resolve the problems created by such technological change.
Yours very truly,
Eldon tlgie
Director of Human Resources
107
•choowt* sets	sou aouicoia st
KXPOHT All	HALIFAX H $ . CAMAO*
B3K 402
til ieoe> us-iee?
FAX (103) 4U-W*r
Mr. Gary Feran President
Brewery end Soft Drink Workers * Decal 3S1
u.r.c.w.
Deer Gary.-
During the 1997 Negotiations, the parties diecussed certain arbitration awards concerning the application of the Guaranteed wage Plan.
It was agreed that the decisions rendered pertaining to the Newfoundland ('must take*), and the Alberta (*uae it or loae it*), GWP awards would not be applied in Nova Beotia.
Zt was further agreed that tbs Saskatchewan <*lee» than one week layoff*) GWP award would not be applied in Nova Scotia.
101
JOMAOmCOUkST HALIFAX N.S . CAHAOA UK 402
TEL (903) 4U-1S6? FAX: <*0a>44MA4T
December l, 1997
BREWERS SINCE 1867
Mr. Gary Poran President
Bravery and Soft Drink Workers
Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Dear Oary:
This laettr will confirm the understanding of the pardas reached during the 1997 negotiation! concerning operational flexibility.
Zt vae agreed that an employee may be aeaigned to do other duties during hie ehift, ao long ae he/ahe la capable and available ce do the work, and additional overtime in the department is not incurred as a reault of the assignment.
This provision is not meant eo create job loss but rather to operate the Brevery more efficiently and cost effectively.
The intent of this letter of understanding is:
>	To allov qualified personnel to perform "non regular" job duties
during his/her shift. Per Example:	(a Packaging Employee who is
capable can operate a forklift to assist in clean up or production, or a maintenance employee could receive parcels on the off shifts or Saturday).
>	To eliminate unnecessary overtime connected with "calling in* an esployee from a specific department when e qualified e^loyee is already onsite and available.
109
ICmoonc* tun
fXTOftT ALf
m»*omcoiAST HAL if AX M S . CAHAOA •JK tQS
4SJ-H8T f AX 1902)443-1*47
BR£WERS SINCE 1867
DteMbtr l, 1997
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery and Soft Drink Worker*
Local 361
U.F.C.W.
Dear Gary:
lattar will confirm tha understanding raaehad between tha partiaa during the 19*7 negotiation* concerning death of an employe# while in service.
it ia agreed, chat tha surviving beneficiary will ha entitled to receive eedical and dental benefit! Cor a period of eix t«) month* following the death of the employee.
Four* truly,
Eldon Elgie
Oireecor of Human Resources
90M AOAtCOCA IT HALIFAX NS. CANADA |3K 4Q2
Tit (toi) 4aa-iH7 fax («oai <13 wr
December X, 1917
BREWERS SINCE 1«7
Gary reran President
Brewery end Soft Drink Workers Local J61
u.r.c.w.
Deer Qery:
This will confirm the understanding of the parties reached during X9»7 negotiations concerning tesporary employees.
Xt is agreed that temporary employees may be employed for one hundred and thirty-two (132) days worked within a period of cne year prior to achieving a new race as outlined in Appendix A.
It is further agreed that e maximum number of ten (10) such employees may be hired for the term of this collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
?
lldon Ilgie
Director of Human Resources
1X1
tCMOOMIR M«K
cmMrr au
NSSAOMCOIA ST HALIFAX. N.S., CAHAQA
UK 402
tcl. laniAU-iOT PAX: <S»> 4U-3S*?
Dear Gary;
During eta* process of eh* lfS? Negotiation*, eta* subject of eliminating * e«re*in plant position was discussed. in that* discussions, it was sgrssd that eh* following position could b* eliminated with ssvsrane* pay to th* eurrsne «mpoy*« as outlined b*low.
Position eo b* eliminated:
Janitor
Applicable severance pay:	Calculation based Si.ooo per year of
service. This severance shall only be available during Che life of this agreement.
Your truly,
lldon Ilgie
Director of Human Resources
113
«0400Nfft Nfll W«T All
swAowcour
HALIFAX. NS-CANADA
B3K402
TEL MS) 4SS-1S67 FAX: (SH| AS3-M47
Mr. Gary Foran President
Brewery sad Soft Drink Markers
Local 3«1
U.F.C.M.
Dear oary:
This latter will serve to document the agreement reached during 1993 Negotiations on the issue of department staffing and plant rightsizing. In these discussions, it was agreed that to initiate this process, all relief postings will be re-posted January, 1994. Successful candidates will relieve in thalr respective positions for vacations and sickness. (It should be noted that during low productive periods, relief nay not be required.) It was further agreed that when a full time posted position becomes available, the most senior person holding the relief position moves into that position. This creates a natural flow from the relief position to the full time posted position. The vacant relief position would be posted as per our usual method.
Finally, it was agreed that the plant relief positions would be as follows:
tuun rslxbf nimcn
Belief	Warehouseman	1
Belief	Forklift	a
Belief	Receiver	i
Belief	Begging	i
Belief	Drivers	i
Belief	Cellars	l
Belief	Fermenting	l
Belief	Brewhouse	l
/a
113
2
ADDITIONAL NOTES«
1.	During calendar 1994, greaser relief will be covered by those individuals currently trained end capable of doing the job. With improved operator training and auto lub system, this short term requirement will be eliminated.
2.	Any additional relief for the plant will be supplied by students during the time period, of April 15 to September 15 and the month of December. {Assuming no regulars or preferred temporaries are on layoff.)
3.	Janitorial relief, when rquired, will be drawn from the distribtuion day shift relief pool, if there are available people. If not, m y available day shift employee will be used.
Yours truly,
Eldon Elgie
Director of Human Resources
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS PROM JANUARY 1, 1998 NA08 EMPLOYERS OP OLAMD BREWERIES LIMITED, HALIFAX
The Company's Group Insurance plan provides substantial protection for you and your dependents through contracts underwritten by insurance companies. The description in this appendix is intended to give you a general explanation of the insured benefits, but it should be understood that the master insurance contracts are the governing documents in any question of interpretation.
In addition to the benefits under this group insurance plan, hospital and medical benefits are available to you and your family under the government plans in effect in your province of residence and are payable in accordance with provincial regulations.
If you have any questions about your group insurance or if you require assistance in making claims, your Supervisor or Human Resources Department can give you the information you need.
X.--SCHEDULE OF INSURED BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES
From January 1, 1998 and for the life of this Collective Agreement, Life Insurance and Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance will be $65,000 respectfully.
NOTE!
Employees not actively at work on January 1, 1998, shall have their coverage increased only upon their date of return to active employment.
-	Weekly Indemnity benefit at 70% of your basic weekly earnings rate with benefits payable from first day of disability due to accident or fourth day due to illness, to a maximum of 26 weeks per disability.
-	Long Term Disability benefit at 66 2/3% of your basic earnings rate with benefits commencing when your Weekly Indemnity benefits cease.
For Employees and Dependents:
• Supplementary Hospital Benefits at 100% of eligible expenses .
-	Major Medical Expense benefit at 60% of eligible expenses.
-	Dental care benefits at 100% for basic services, 75% for restorative services and 50% for orthodontia.
These coverages are explained more fully in the following pages. All benefits except life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and long term disability apply only to those accidents and sicknesses which are not covered by Worker's Compensation or similar legislation.
Please refer to the description of each type of coverage for an explanation of what happens when you retire or terminate service.
2. WHO MAY BE INSURED
You are eligible to become insured on the date you are placed on the seniority list as a regular employee. Any employee absent from work on the date he becomes eligible will not be covered until the day he returns to work. Any dependent who is hospitalized on the effective date of your insurance will not be covered until the day after release from hospital.
Dependants eligible for insured benefits are your spouse and unmarried children under 21 years of age. Coverage will be continued for a dependent child beyond age 21 as long thereafter as the child is a full-time student attending an education institution or on vacation therefrom, it is your responsibility to notify your Human Resources Department or Supervisor immediately of any change in your dependents.
You will be given an application fomn to complete and sign when you become eligible for this insurance. The full coat of this group insurance plan ia paid by the Company.
3. LIFE INSURANCE
The amount of your life insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured SanWiSt. In the event of	death from M y cause, your life
will be paid to the toen-af Lciary you have ojuTvad, You may change your beneficiary at wy time within the limits i r: by law by completing a form which may be obtained from your Kuffjui Resources Department.
The full amount ot your life insurance will be continued during LP,y period for which you are eligible to receive Long Term Disability benefits. If you become totally and panruiA4A>:ly disabled, your Long Term Diaability b-an-afivs will continue until your aorrcul retirement date, at which time your life insurance will be reduced to the Him amount of insurance as is provided for employees who retire at the normal date, as explained in (a) below.
Whan you retire in a'ccoadjuv:* with the provision of the Company’s p-trtiioA plan, your life Lvjuj:■jum:e will be as follows:
{a) Normal Retirement • the amount of your life LfuuraB4-a will be reduced to $4,500 as of your date of normal retirement.
(b) Disability Retirement	*•;< 45) * the amount of your life
insurance will be reduced to $4,500 ii of the date of diiabiLlty retirement.
{«)	; Lr taai(before age 45) • If you have attained 4$»
6 0 i»n4 have 3 0 or more years of credited service under the terms of the John I*abatt Limited Retirement Plan, the amount of your life insurance will i-e reduced to $5,300 as of your date of early retirement. Otherwise your life la-iuriasa will cease as of your date of termination of service with the C-Mtpuny,
(d) 85-Point ftI >, t s a >. (b*d«r* age 45) • if you have attained the minimum age of 55, your combined and ytan of *t >4 i i-i Mrvi<« total 33 points or more under the tirw-s of the John Lju^4>, Limited Retirement Plan, the	of your life insurance will be
reduced to $5,500, Otherwise, your life insurance will cease as of your date of tarmimtion of service with the Company.
117
(e) other larly Retirement (before age $5) - if you have attained the minimum age of 55 years with two years of credited service under the terms of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan, the amount of your life insurance will be reduced to $6,500. Otherwise, your life insurance will cease an of your date of early retirement or termination of service with the Company.
You nay obtain an individual life insurance policy up to the amount of life insurance which is cancelled when you retire or terminate service. Insurance is available under this conversion privilege even though you are unable to pass a medical examination, but the premium rate will be basad on your attainad age at the date of conversion. Application for individual insurance must be made to the insurance company within 31 days of the date your group insurance is cancelled end during this 31 day period your group life insurance; is considered as in affect without charge. Your other insurance coverages cannot be Converted to individual policies.
The amount of your Accidental Death and Dismemberment (ADfcD) insurance is shows in the schedule of Insured Benefits, if within 365 days of and as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below, payment will be made as indicated.
iLPavahlc
200%
100%
75%
For Loss Of:
Quadriplegia, Paraplegia, Hemiplegia
Life, Both Hands, Both Feet, Sight of Both Byes, One Band urd One Foot. One Hand or One Foot and Sight of One Bye, Use of Both Hands or Both Feet, speech and Hearing in Both Ears.
One Ann or One Lag, Use of One Arm or One Lag.
66 2/3%
One Sand, One Foot, Sight of One Eye. Speech, Bearing in Both Bars.
lie
33 1/3% 25%
16 2/3%
Thumb and Index Finger, Four Fingers on One Hand.
Three Fingers on One Hand, Hearing In One Ear, All Toes of One Foot.
Thumb and One Finger of One Hand, Two Fingers of One Hand
Your AD&D Insurance includes coverage for injury Sustained while riding as e passenger in. or on boarding or alighting from, or being struck by a licensed aircraft. Benefits are not payable for any loss caused by suicide or self-destruction, war or service in the armed forces of any country, or injury arising out of or in the course of any occupation or employment for wage or profit.
In the event of your death, the ADfcD insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. This benefit is payable in addition to your life insurance. All other benefits under the ADfcD insurance ere payable to the insured person.
Your AD£D insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company.
5_,_ WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled and are prevented focm working due to a non-occupational accident or a sickness not covered by Worker's Compensation, you will receive Weakly Indemnity benefits provided you are under the care of a licensed physician.
If disability commences during a period of layoff, you will be eligible for Weekly Indemnity benefits from the date you ere recalled to work only if you have 10 or mere years of seniority and you are recalled within a period of two weeks from the date of layoff and you are totally disabled on that date.
119
The amount of your Weekly Indemnity benefit is 70% of your basic weekly earnings rate as of the date disability commences. When a general change in wage rates takes effect under the terms of the labour agreement, the amount of your Weekly Indemnity banefit from the effective date of such change will be 70% of the basic weekly earnings rate to which you would be entitled if you were at work. The benefit payment is based on a 7 day week. For each day of absence for which a benefit is payable, you will receive one-seventh of the weekly banefit. Benefits are payable from the first day of absence of disability due to accident, or from the fourth day of disability due to illness.
Payments continue as long as you are disabled, up to a maximum of 2 6 weeks for each period of disability. (Refer to tong Term Dieability insurance for benefits payable if disability continues for more than 26 weeks.)
A disability resulting from the same cause a8 a previous disability will be created as e continuation of the disability unless you have completely recovered m have been back at work for at least 14 days.
Your Weekly Indemnity insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company and your Weekly Indemnity benefits will cease as of that date.
6.. LOWS TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT
Long Term Disability (LTD) benefits become payable only after you have received Weekly Indemnity benefits for the maximum period, or when you have received Worker's Compensation payments for a continuous period of 26 weeks. Your LTD benefit will bo payable at the end of each month at 6 6 2/3% of your basic monthly earnings rate as of the date your LTD banefit commences. For example, if your hourly earnings rate in the 26th week after you become disabled i s $22.25 per hour:
(a)	Your Weekly earnings rate is 40 X $22.25	- $	890.00
(b)	Equivalent monthly earnings rate is
($890.00 X 52 weeks) divided by 12	- $3,856.67
(c)	Monthly LTD benefit is 66 2/3% of $3,856.67	• $2,570.85
Your LTD benefit payments will be reduced by M y disability payments you are eligible to receive from worker's Compensation, the Canada Pension Plan, or other government source.
120
In order to qualify for LTD benefits, you must be under the continuing care of a licensed physician, and during the first 2 years of LTD benefits, be unable to perfomn the duties of your normal occupation or any other job available in the bargaining unit; thereafter you must be unable to engage in any gainful occupation for any employer for which you are reasonably qualified by training, education or experience. If you are again disabled due to the same or a related cause, your absence will be treated as a continuation of disability under the LTD benefit unless you have been back at work for at least six (6) months.
Payment of benefits will require submission of such appropriate medical evidence as may be requested by the insurer from time to time. You will be entitled to benefits during the continuation of disability as defined above except that in no event will benefits be paid beyond your normal retirement date. If you should elect to retire early, LTD benefits will cease as of your date of early retirement. No benefits will be payable for absences due to disabilities caused by self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane, insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot, or during disabilities resulting from working for another employer.
If you engage in rehabilitative employment, your LTD benefits will continue for up to 24 months but will be reduced by 75% of what you earn from rehabilitative employment. for example, if you are receiving a monthly LTD benefit of $2,570.85 and you earn $800 in rehabilitative employment:
Monthly LTD Benefit Subtract 75% of $800 LTD benefit during rehabilitation Earnings from rehabilitative employment Monthly income during rehabilitation
Provided your employment with the Company has not been terminated, while you are in receipt of LTD benefits you will continue to be covered for all other group insurance benefits.
Your LTD insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the company.
NOTSi You may not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay. vacation pay. weekly indemnity, long term disability, worker's Compensation or similar benefits from more than once source for the same day or part day.
$2,570.85
600-00
$1,970.85
soo.oo
$2,770.85
121
7. StTPPLEMEHTARY HOSPITAL JEHEFITS
Your provincial hospital plan provides basic benefits for you urd your family but generally limits benefits for room charges to the amount payable for ward accommodation, Insured banefits under the Company's plan for you and your covered dependents supplement the provincial plan benefit urd provide payment for room charges up to semiprivate or private accommodation in a licensed hospital. If you or your dependents &re confined on the recommendation of a medical practitioner because of bodily injury, sickness or disease, benefits will be paid as follows:
(a)	Semiprivate Acconodation • if you or your dependants are confined in a semiprivate room, the plan provides for payment of an amount equal to the difference between the normal daily room and board charges made by the hospital for semiprivate accommodation and the daily room and board charges made by the hospital for standard ward care;
(b)	Privata Accommodation • if you or your dependents arm confined in a private rocm the plan provides for payment of an amount equal to the difference between the normal daily room and board charges made by the hospital for privata accommodation and the daily room and board charges made by the hospital for standard ward care;
In addition, the plan provides for payment of the cost of out-patient care, provided such coverage is not available under any provincial health insurance plan.
The plan provides for payment for the cost of licensed professional ambulance service tor transportation to urd from the nearest hospital as recommended by the attending physician in case of bodily injury, sickness or disease. Maternity benefits are payable under the insured plan only for female employees and dependent spouses whose coverage has been rt effect for at least nine months.
Your supplementary hospital inaurance will be cancelled as of the date you terminate service with the company.
However, when your insurance is cancelled:
(a)	If you are totally disabled, banefits will be axtandad tor up to ona yaar for expenses incurred during the continuation of that disability;
(b)	if ona of your dependants is in hospital, benefits will be extended for a maximum of one year while the dependent remains in hospital;
(c)	In tha ease c£ pregnancy which began while insurance was in force, coverage will be extended up to the date of childbirth or termination of pregnancy.
122
8.	PRESCRIPTION PRP<3 BENEFIT
The prescription drug baa*if It provides for	of 100* of all
eligible drug	«i ,
Expenses allowed under the pv• icriptdrug 'can«£ i^ are all drugs, ■era, medicines and i-Qj«ctlbl*3 requiring a written prescription by a physician or dentist. Diagnostic, experimental and res*4r:t drugs are not eligible t-vpta-MS, Your medical and prescription drug benefits will be cancelled on the date on which you tsrmlnat* service with the Company. However, the following extended benefits are provided:
(a)	If you are totally disabled when your insurance is cancelled, banefits will be sxteabid for up to one year provided such expanses are incurred during the continuance of that dilAbility,
(b)	If one of your dependants is in hospitil whan your insurance is cancelled, benefits will be extended for a <r.4-xiffiujn of one year provided the dependent remains in hospital.
(c) If a	a rep X y a a or dependant itouie is pregnant, aha will bo eatitl«4 to benefits up to the date of childbirth or t-«rmiMtion of pragnancy as if the insurance were itill in force.
3_,. .MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSE-BENEFIT
S-ilic medical benefits are provided for you and your family under the Provincial Medical Pirn in your province of residence. The Major Medical b-ta*fU 'in-it: the ^mp-jusy'# Croup Insurance Plan provides benefits for certain	not covered by the basic ffadisil aa4
hospital plana.
Sxp-iAA * i allowed under the Major Medical Sxpaa-i-* Benefit are listed balov, S-s_aai tb< are payable only if the »«rMcu a n ord«ri4 by a physician urd if provincial legislation doas not prohibit insurance of LP.y such axpanse.
123
The plan provides for 80% reimbursement of allowable expenses. However, chiropractic and psychological coverage will be reimburse at 80% of allowable expense*.
private duty nursing by registered graduate nurses or members of the Victorian Order of Nurses, who are not members Of your family and are not normally resident in your home. The maximum eligible expense is $5000 in any period of 3 consecutive years, charges for treatment by a licensed or registered physiotherapist if not related to you by blood or marriage, oxygen and its administration.
charges for artificial limbs, eyes or other prosthetic appliances, crutches, splints, casts, braces and trusses when required as a result of bodily injury occurring or disease commencing while insured under the plan. Replacement charges are applicable only in cases of pathologic change. Maximum charges for maintenance are $50.00 in any 12 Consecutive month period.
Charges for orthopaedic shoes and shoe modification supplies (maximum charge $50.00 in any 12 consecutive month period) .
Charges for rental of wheelchair, respirator/ventilattor, hospital bed or other durable equipment for therapmutic use, or at the insurer's option the purchase cost of such equipment. (Lifetime maximum of $5000 for each insured person) .
Charges for emergency transportation by air, rail or water to the nearest hospital able to provide the required care, including return expenses, if certified by the attending physician as medically necessary. (Maximum benefit is $500.00 per person during any 12 consecutive month period) .
Charges for blood and blood plasma.
Charges for the services of a duly licensed dental practitioner for necessary dental treatment, required as the result of an accident when natural teeth have been damaged, including the provision of up to one aet of artificial teeth provided that all such treatment is randared within mix (8) month, from the date of the accident. Diagnostic X-ray or laboratory tests, excluding any such tests performed while the insured is confined to hospital as an in-patient.
Chargee for X-ray therapy, radium end radioactive isotope therapy. Charges for hearing aids not exceeding $300.00 in any 3 consecutive year period. The aid or aids must be purchased subsequent to the date of a written recommendation by a physician certified as an otolaryngologist.
124
Charges for eye refractions by a person legally qualified to perform such services, limited to one every 24 consecutive months, or every 12 consecutive months if the insured is under 16 years of age. Excluded under this benefit are vision analysis or complete eye examination, charges for orthoptic procedures or vision training, refractions required by an employer as a condition of employment or which the employer is required to provided by virtue of a labour agreement, or those required by a government body. Charges for frames, lenses and contact lenses, not exceeding $160.00 for each person during a 24 consecutive month period, or 12 consecutive month period if the person is under 18.
Charges for contact lenses when prescribed by an opthalmologist for conditions such as:	keratoconus, severe corneal scarring or
aphakia, provided vision cannot be improved by spectacle lenses. (Maximum $200.00 in m y 24 consecutive month period, or 12 consecutive month period if under 18) .
Reasonable and customary charges for services of a registered chiropractor up to $28 per visit to a maximum of $S00 per par. Reasonable and customary charges for services of a registered psychologist up to $65 per visit to a maximum of $750 per year.
The following are excluded from the Vision Care benefit:
Duplicate or spare eye glasses or m y lenses not necessitated by a change in prescription.
Safety goggles, sun glasses (plain or prescription) and tinted glasses with a density other than number one or two. Anti-reflective coatings.
Replacement coat of lost, stolen or broken lenses or frames.
Charges for ostomy equipment including appliances, irrigating sets and bags but not including deodorants, pads, adhesives, akin creams or other supplies.
Diabetic supplies such as syringas, needles and testing supplies, but not including alcohol swabs, cotton balls, etc.
125
TRAVEL HEALTH BENEFITS FOR OUT OF PROVINCE
Charges for services which occur as a result of unforeseen illness or accidental injury while the insured is travelling outside the province of residence. Some charges may be considered eligible expenses if the insured is referred by a physician for services outside the province because such services are not available within the province of residence. Such charges are not eligible if services are obtained outside the province of residence solely at the election of the insured. The maximum charge allowed will be $10,000 per person for any one period of illness or injury.
Hospital in-patient charges not covered by Government Hospital Insurance for care in a licensed hospital up to the private room rate at the usual and customary fee of the hospital.
Hospital out-patient charges for services not covered under Government Hospital Insurance for out-patiant care in a licensed hospital at the usual and customary fee of the hospital.
Physician's services charges in excess of allowances provided under Government Medical Insurance at the usual rad customary fee of the area where the service is rendered.
Nursing service charges to a maximum of $2000 per period of illness or injury for services of a private duty nurse who is not related by blood or marriage, if the services are provided in a hospital or temporary residence, when medically necessary and ordered by the attending physician.
Transportation and ancillary expenses:
(a) extra cost to a maximum of $1000 for air transport from the place where injury or illness occurred to the home city in Canada, at the economy fare level of e commercial airline as result of:
-	Charges in excess of booked or prearranged charter fare as a result of change in the planned schedule.
-	Additional fare to accommodate transportation by stretcher.
-	Fare including return of Registered Nurse or other qualified person accompanying patient when ordered by physician.
126
(b)	Cost of transport (Maximum $500.00) for a member of the immediate family (spouse, parent, child) to attend at the side of the insured following critical injury or illness necessitating hospitalization.
(c)	Additional board and lodging or similar expense (Maximum $500.00) incurred by the insured or companion remaining with the Insured when related to a period of hospitalization, or up to 10 days following hospitalization.
(d)	If the insured during travel by automobile becomes totally disabled and unable to drive, an allowance (Maximum$200.00) will be made towards the actual cost incurred by a commercial agency for the return of private or rented vehicle to the insured's place of residence or rental agency.
(e)	In the event of loss of life, costs to a maximum of $1000 for transportation of the deceased insured to the ham city in Canada.
The following items are excluded for coverage:
~	Charges for dental treatment or supplies except as outlined above
*	Expenses or costs in respect of changes of domicile regardless or whether change is temporary or permanent or related to health requirements.
* Mileage, time involved by a medical practitioner in travelling or telephone advice.
Your Major Medical Insurance will be cancelled as of the date you
terminate service with the Company.
127
However, when your insurance is cancelled:
(a)	If you are totally disabled benefits will be extended for up to one year, provided such expenses are incurred during the continuation Of that disability;
(b)	If one of your dependents is in hospital, benefits will be extended for a maximum of one year provided the dependent remains in hospital;
(c)	If a female employee or dependent spouse is pregnant, she will be entitled to benefits up to the date of childbirth or termination of pregnancy as if the insurance were still in force.
10.	DENTAL CARE BENEFITS
Dental care benefits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations and exclusions described below:
Eligible expenses are all reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or physician, and for which a Treatment Plan has been submitted to and approved by the insurer before the services are rendered. The filing of a Treatment Plan is not required if the total cost of the proposes work is less than $500 or if treatment is rendered in emergency conditions. Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories;
(a)	Basic Services - examinations and cleaning of teeth (once in any six month period), extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment for the relief of dental pain.
(b)	Restorative Services - crowns and inlays, bridge work, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics), and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodonticsX
(c)	Orthodontia • proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth.
12 e
You will be reimbursed for 100V of the cost of eligible Basic services incurred by you or your eligible dependants up to a
benefit for each insured person of $-'350 in a calendar year. You will also be reimbursed for 75V of the cost of sSoTitive Services and 50 V of the cost of orthodontia to a life-time maximum benefit of 13,000 for «aoh insured person for Restorative Services and Orthodontia combined. An t£yv,ul reinstatement of up to $700 will be provided at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore the S.iie^tme iTJlxiimun to the level of $3,000,
At no time will the trjLximuffl t.xo*«'d the original amount. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current dental Association Schedule of Fees in the province in which you reside. If optional procedures are possible, benefits will be payable in accordance with the procedure involving the inulliSS fee.
Expanses incurred for the replacement of dentures are eligible for benefits, except if the replacement is for a denture for which benefits were payable under this plan. Banefits for the replacement will be payable only if at least 3 years have elapsed since the placement or replacement for which benefits were paid.
In addition, benefits are payable for	relining or
repairing of dentures. Banefits will not be paid for the raplacement of dentures which have been lost, misplaced or i so lea.
Dental care benefits are not payable for any service eligible for payment from another source such as provincial health lMurw«4 p IjUU, Worker's Comp-toi as ion or other 0-sv« ram* ns Agencies, expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war, or M y service for which an employee or dependant not have to pay.
Your	care feusuruvs-s will be cancelled 41 of the date you
nsir* or simieas* service and clairr-s will not be	for any
service	the date on which your insurance is
0HA041144,
129
11. HOW TO CLAIM
When you or any of your dependents are entitled to receive insured benefits/ you should obtain the necessary claim forma from your Human Resources or Medical Department. When you have completed the employee's portion of the claim form, you should have your physician o: dentist complete his section. Then give the completed form to your Human Resources or Medical Department.
In order to qualify for payment of benefits, claims must be submitted within the time limit set out below:
(a) Weekly Zndeaaity Benefit - Claim must he filed within 90 days of commencement of-disability. In case of illness, benefits will be paid es previously described only if you See a licensed physician no later than the fourth day of disability and remain under the doctor’s care until you are able to return to work. If you do not see a doctor by the fourth day, your benefits will be payable only from the day on which you first visit a doctor. In case of accident, you must see the doctor no later than the day following the accident in order to qualify for benefits from the first day; otherwise benefits will be payable am if the disability is due to illness. Diagnosis and prescription by telephone only does not constitute a 'visit* for this purpose.
1(b) long Term Disability Benefit • Claims must be filed within 6 months following the date from which LTD benefits become payable but the earlier the better in order to avoid any delay in eormencement of your LTD benefits.
(c) Bupplementery Hospital Benefit * You will he issued e Manulife Membership Certificate. Present this certificate to the member hospital of your choice. Manulife will make payment directly to the hospital.
130
Id) Preecriptioo Drug luae£it • Health Care Coverage to provide one hundred (100%) percent coverage for prescription drugs on a reimbursement Mill, Employ*** with c.ains exceeding three hundred ($300) dollars a month will be handled on an *xp«die*d basis effective January 1, 1558,
(*) Major Medical ferpe&te ft*a*£lt • CUi®J tpj;: b-e filed no later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expanse was incurred, except that, when your insurance i* cancelled
for any reason, proof of claim must be submitted within 50 day* of the termination of your insurance Itemized bills and statements should he submitted showing the patient's oama, daces Cf iervi.ee urd expenses, It is suggested that auch claim not be submitted until the total bills exceed $10.00-
(f)	Dental Care Benefit • Claim must he submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the exp-ans* ma incurred except that proof of claim must he submitted within SO days of the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim, The dentist's statement on this form, or any bills supporting your claim, trust show the patient's name, dates and nature Cf the treatment and th* charge.
If the total cost associated with the proposed dental work is $500 or wore, a Treatment Plan trait be submitted to the insurer as explained in Section 10. You should haw your dentist ocwplete a claim form setting out details as eo the proposed treatment and coat urd give this to your Medical or Human R*sourc** Department to forward fpr review by the insurance company, You will then be advised as to the charges, or portion thereof, which the iaaurer considers eligible for benefits, vp-on completion of the dental treatment, you again submit a claim to receive payment of the approved bane fits,
failure to see your doctor promptly or to submit your claim together with the doctor's or dentist's report or other itemized statamants within the above tie* limits, will result in the rejection of your claim,
The rajor medical h-anefite Cor which you are covered after retirement will be continued to your apoua* on your death.
Pl*a*« set your Human R«aourc«a Department for any further information,
131