BREWERIES LIMITED
LABOUR AGREEMENT between
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED
Saint John, N, B,
BREWERY AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS
2000-2008

INDEX
#
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
2.00
3.00
3.04
3.05
4.00
5.00
5.01
5.02
SUBJECT
Parties
Forward
Purpose
Statement of Shared Principles Recognition
Definition of “Employee” Contracting Out
Union Activities and Representation During Working Hours Negotiations
Labour Management Meetings Copies of Agreement Bulletin Board
Management Functions
Union Security
Leave of Absence Educational Leave
No Strikes or Lockouts
Grievance Procedure Individual Grievance Collective Grievance
PAGE
I
1
1
I
3
3
3
4
6
6
7
7
7
8
9
10
II
11 12 I 2
5.03
5.04
5.07
6.00
6.08
7.00
8.00
9.00
10.00 11.00 12.00
13.00
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07 13.12
13.14
13.15
Compatiy/Union Grievance Discipline, Suspension, Discharge Arbitration
Health & Safety
E.F.A.P. Program
Clothing & Equipment
Seniority, Vacancies, Promotions Postings, Temporary Employees
Training Assistance Adequate Manpower Wage & Job Classifications
12
13
14
16
15
18
20
28
31
31
32
Hours of Work- Overtime and Premiums
Shift Premiums
Rest Periods - Lunch Breaks
Schedule of Hours
Overtime
Assignment of Overtime Overtime Rest Periods and Meal Allowances Call-In
32
34
35
35
36 38 40
41
13.16	Reponing Allowance
13.17	"Banking* ofOvertime Pay
14.00	Special Allowance
15.00	Paid Holidays
16.00	Vacations
17.00	Paid Time Off
17.01	Sick Leave
17.02	Jury Duty
17.03	Bereavement Leave
18.00	_________________sation Supplement
19.00	Employee Benefits
20.00	General
20.02	Maternity Leave
21.00	Duration of Agreement Signature Page
Anoenriicfis A~ F
A	Wages and lob Classifications, Relieving
Foreman, COLA B	Guaranteed Wage Plan
41
42
42
42
45
48
48
49
49
50
51
52
52
54
55
56
60
C Employee Benefit Plan General Information How To Make Your Claim Schedule of Insurance Group Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Table of Losses Weekly Indemnity Insurance Long Term Disability Insurance Dental Care Insurance Supplementary Hospital Benefits Extended Health Benefits Vision Care Benefits Prescription Drug Coverage Group Travel Plan Co-ordination of Benefits D	Pension Plans
E	Letters of Understanding
1,	Preference to Contractors Employing Unionized Workers
2,	Deferred Retirement
3,	Pre-retirement Counseling Program
4,	Assignment of Overtime
5,	Shift Starting Times
6,	Rest Periods and Lunch Period for Kettlemen
7,	Call In From Call List
8,	Apprenticeship Program
9,	RetireeHealth & Dental F Separation Pay
68
69
71
72
74
75
75
78
79
83
87
87
90
91
91
94
95
99
100
101
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED, hereinaftercalled "the Company"
AND
BREWERY AND SOFT DRINK WORKERS LOCAL 362, hereinafterwiled“lhe Union"
FORWARD
Forthe purpose of this Agreement, the masculinepronounshall be deemed to i ndude the feminine,
PURPOSE
in recognition of their mutual interests, this Agreement is entered Into for the purposeof recording the hours, wage rates and terms or conditions of employment of the Company's employees: to set up the means for settling amicably any differencesor grievances which may possiblyarise and for the genera purposeof promoting and improving industrialrelations betweenthe Companyand the U nion.
Statement ofShared Principles
Moosehead BreweriesLimitedwill strive to become a profitable enterprise, which will help ensure that employees will have an expectationfora long-term career. Fortheir part,employeeswill work towards excellence in quality while delivering the highest degree of service to our customers; achievingthis through the talent and commitment of our people and the use of modern processes and practices
Moosehead will establish and maintain a healthy and safe workplace that fulfils individualneedsfor mutualtrust, personal growth and appreciation for results. We will be recognizedas having employees that are willing to learn, to change, and to act quickly, tomaintain and grow our market position
1
To realize the strategic goals of the company and therefore to benefit employees requires the combined efforts of Management, union leaders and all employees. Therefore ail employeeswithintheBreweryshallstriveto:
•	Meaningfully participateinthedecisions that affectthem.
•	Willingly do work and assume all tasks for which they are qualified in consideration of the relevant provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement.
•	Developand maintaina highleveloftechnical, administrative and relationshipskills.
•	PromoteQuality, Reliability, Efficiency and Waste Reduction.
•	Support and encourage initiative, new Ideas, trust, mutual respect, equitable andfairtreatment as well as cooperation.
•	Communicate information promptly, accurately and completely.
•	Assist intrainingotheremployees.
•	Take pride in their work and promote and adhere to the highest standards.
•	Provide support to those employees with difficultywithin the workplace.
•	Know, understand, respect and practice the intent of the CollectiveAgreement.
Both parties agree that their common objective isthe desireto ensurethe company is competitive, enhancingthejob security of employees. The parties believethat these objectives can be best met through good planning and monitoring;the Brewery Management/Union Executiveswill provide guidance to all the departments in their efforts to bring lasting changes end sustainable results.
Management and Union leadership agree that in order to manage change there is e commitment to on-going consultation, problem solving, and discussion between the company and the union. As part of these consultations, the company is committed to providing the union with the opportunity to pa rticipate in decisions relaled to cha nge as early as possible.
BARGAINING UNIT
1.01
Recognition
The company recognizes that the Union hasbeen duly certified by the Industrial Relations Board as sole representative to bargain with the Company for all employees, except hereinafter mentionedin 1.02 with respect to wages, rates of pay, hoursand terms or conditions of employment during the life of this Agreement and that it has all the rights inherent to such certification.
1,02
Definitionof ^Employee"
The term "employee", wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean all employees of the Company, save and except office staff, salesmen, public relations personnel, watchmen, chief engineer, supervisors and foremen and persons above the ranksof supervisorandforeman.
1.03
Workofthe Bargaining U nit-Contractino Out
(a)	All work coming within the jurisdictionof the bargaining unit shall be resewed for employees in the bargaining unit. Plant maintenancework may becontractedout, as in the past, provided it does not result in layoffs or continuation of layoffs. Truck Drivers and Helpers of outside firms, who are not employeesofthe Company shall be confined to the plantloadingarea.
(b)	Supervisors and foremen including Relieving Foremen and persons above those ranks, shall not perform workofthe bargainingunit.
(c)	Supervisors and foremen may, from time to time, perform work of the bargaining unit for the purposesof training and instructingemployeesandin emergency situations, ortemporarilyrelievingemployeesforshortperiodswhenother employees are not available
3
(d)	Emergency situations shall mean situations where employeesable and willing to do the work are unexpectedly unavailableon the shift or on an overtime basis,or where the delay in arranging their assignment or call-in to performthework, would resultin lostproductionandlorproduct. Workperformed in such situations shallnot continue beyond the time required to arrange for assignment or call-in of an employee.
(e)	The Company will advise all employees of the names of supervisors and foremen to be recognized In each department by posting such information on the bulletin boards. A copy of each such notice and revision shall be deliveredto the Union.
(f)	From time to time, the Company may appoint temporary Charge Hands, who while working with a crewof one(1) or more employees, are specificallycharged with the responsibility for the quality andlor quantity of work performed by such crew, provided however, that the temporary Charge Hand only performs work within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit. Such temporary Charge Hand shall be a memberofthe bargainingunitand shall bepaidthirtycents(.30) per hour above the highest rate being paid to employees under his direction or his classification, whichever is higher, while performingthe duties Of the Charge Hand.
1.04
UnionActivitiesand Reoresentation-Durina Working Hours No Discrimination
(a)	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any employee because of race, colour, creed, nationality, place of origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, language, religion, disability or membership in the Union,
All employees will refrain from comments, gestures, the display of material or physical contact of a sexual nature that may be construed as objectionable or' offensive. This includes deliberate, unsolicited and
A
non-consenting behaviour, either on a one time basis or a series of incidents.
Shoo Stewards and Grievance Committee
(b)	The Company shall recognize one(1) Shop Steward or alternatewho shall act in the absence of the regularShopSteward, appointed by the Union in each of the followingdepartments:
Production (on each shift)
ProductionMaintenance BrewhouseandCellars Shippingand Receiving Engineering QualityAssurance
(c)	There shall be no Union activities during working hours which interferewith the duties of any employee, unless permission is first obtained from the employee's immediatesupervisor.suchpermissionwill notbeunreasonably withheld at any time and all such time off during an employee's working hours shall be without loss of pay, Such activitiesshall be limited lo those required for the administration and applicationofthetermsofthis Agreement.
(d)	Union representatives and committee members shall be entitled to leave their work during hours to enable them to carry out their functions under the Agreement, including the investigation and processing of orievances. I) performing such functions interferes with "their duties, permission to leave work during working hours for such purposes shall first be obtainedfram their immediate supervisor, and such permissionshall not be unreasonably withheld at any time. All such time spent in performing Union duties during working hoursshallbewithout loss of pay.
Meetings with Management Personnel
(e)	Every Officer and Steward of the U nion who is an employee shall be allowed such time off as may be necessary to enable them lo attend those appointments with Management Personnel at which Iheir presence is required
5
under any provision of this Agreement, and every employee who is a necessary witness at a grievance or arbitration hearing established under this Agreement, shall be allowed such time off as may t le >si ry to enable them to give evidence at such a hearing. The allowing of such time off shall, however, be subject to the employee's having obtained permission from their immediate supervisor to leave theirwork. Such permission shal I not be unreasonably withheld and all such time off during an employee's working hours shall be without loss of pay.
At the request of the Union, the Company will grant time off, without loss of pay, during the employee's regular working hours, to the employee holding the highest ranking office in the Local Union and four (4) additional employees selected by the Union, to allow them to be members of the Union Negotiating Committee and to enable such employees to attend meetings with the Company representatives, a Conciliation B< d, or Mediata , for the purposes of negotiating this Agreement, a renewal, >i s nendme it during th life f this or any subsequent Agreement.
1.C
Labour-Management Meetings
Labour-Management meetings shall be held during tl e bird week of each month or a time mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union. Union representation at Labour-M ag it 1i igi shall consist of its Local Executive B( rd mb s and departmental SI St Is, tr a maximum of twelve(12).
The Company and the Union agree to discuss disability issues following completion of negotiations. The Labour-Management Ci littr e will be responsible for development of any joint programs dealing with such issues
6
1.07
The Company agrees to supplythe Unionwith sufficient copies of this Agreement in booklet form for all employees, and a reasonable number of additional copies forthe Union.
1.08
BulletinBoard
The company agrees to provide a bulletin board for the use of the Union and will allow the Unionto post notices of meetings and otherofficial Union notices duly signed by an Officer of the Union.
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
2,01
The Unionacknowledgesthat it isthe rightof the Company to:
(a)	maintainorder,disciplineand efficiency.
(b)	hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or disciplineemployees.
(c)	generallyto managethe industrialenterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the fore-going to determine the products and byproducts to be manufactured, processed, packaged, shipped and distributed, the methods of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shipping and distribution, the sources, quantities and kinds of ingredients,supplies, and other materialsused in the manufacturing, processing and packaging ofthe Company's products and by-products, the schedules of manufacturing, processing, packaging, shippinganddistributionand the kinds and locations of machinery, equipment and tools used throughoutthe Company's operations.
2.02
The Company has the right to make reasonable rules to be observed by the employees, and these rulesshall not be inconsistent with the terms or spirit of this Agreement.
7
2.03
The company agreesthat Itwll! not discharge or discipline any employeewithoutjustcause.
2.04
it is understood that in exercisingthesefunctionsthe Company mustconformto all other clauses of this Agreement.
2.05
There shall be a meeting between the representativesof the Company and the Union, at the request of either party, on any matter of interestor concern, which affectsthe administrationof thisAgreement.
ARTICLES
I INION SECURITY-ACTIVITIES
3,01
UnionSecurity
(a)	Every employeein the bargainingunit shall beamemberingoodstanding of the Union, and asa condition of his continued employment he shall continue to remain a memberingoodstandingoftheunion.
(b)	The Union agrees that it will not refuse membership to any employee without just cause. Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled from membership the Union will give the Company, in writing, the reasons for such action.
3.02
Check-off.UnionDues and initiationFee
(a)	Every employeeshali, as a conditionof his continued employment, authorize the Company in writing, to deductfrom each pay payableto himthereafter during the life of thisAgreement and during the life of any subsequent collective agreement containingsimilar provisions,such amount as may from time to time be certified in writing by the Union to the Company asbeingthe amount of U nion Dues and assessments currently payable.
a
(b)	The Company shall have no financial responsibility for fees or dues of anyemployeeunless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
(c)	Every new regular employee shall at his time of hiring, if he is not at such time a member in good standing, of the Union, complete and sign an application for membership in the Union and an authorization for deduction from his pay of such amount as may at that time be certified by the Union to the Company, in writing, as being the amount of the Union'sstandardlnitiationFee.
(d)	An Application fcr Membership and Authorization For Deduction of Initiation Fee shall have no application until such an employee attains regular employee status.
(e)	Authorization for Deduction of the Union initiation Fee, Union Dues and assessments shall be in the forms provided by the Union.
(f)	Initiation Fees, Union Dues and assessments deducted by the Company shall be remittedto the FinancialSecretsry of the Union prior lo the 15th day of the month following the month in which such deductions ware made, together with such detail and explanations as may be reasonablyrequired.
3.03
Union Dues. To Be Indicated on Statements of Income
The Companywillindicatethe amount of Union Dues deducted from each employee's pay, for each calendar year, on statements of income required for taxation purposes by any government agency, federalorprovincial.
3.04
Leaveof Absence-Union Activities
(a)	The Company will grants leaveofabsence for a short period to perform legitimate duties on behalf of the union or to attend a trade union convention or a labour 9
instituteand shall not be prejudiced thereby provided sufficient prior notificationis given to the Company and leave of absence soughtdoesnotdisruptnormalbrewery operations.
(b)	Leave of absence will be granted fora period of not more than twelve (12) months or for the balanceofthe duration of this Agreement, whichever is longer, for any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official of the National Union or of the Local Union, if such duties require himto haveleaveofabsence from his Company duties on a full timebasis.
(c)	Employees on such leave of absence will be continued as active members of the Employee Benefit Plan upon payment of total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. During such periodsof leave of absencethe employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he wereemployedat his regular postby the Company.
(d)	Upon the written request of the Union, the Company agrees to continueto payemployeesgranted leaves of absence under (a) or (b) above, their regular hourly rate while on such leave, subjecttobeing fully reimbursedbytheUnion. Billingwill beat$30.00 perhourforfull time employees,
3.05
FdiioationalLeave
(a)	Upon written application by the President of Local Union No. 362, the Company agrees to grant an educationalleaveofabsence,without loss of regular pay, uptoa total maximumof twenty-four (24)workingdaysinany calendar year, to the Union Executive Officers and elected Stewards. Sucheducationalleavewill bearranged betweenthe Union and the Company to minimize disruption of the Company's operations. Any unusededucationalleave shall beaccumulated fromyearto year.
10
(b)	Employee members of Company and Union joint commiuees esiaonsnea unaer ims Agreement snail ue provided reasonable opportunitiesthroughleaves of absence, without loss of regular pay, to attend conferences, seminars, workshops and training programs, approved by the Company and the Union, toenablethem to participate effectively on such committees.
ARTICLE4
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
4.01
The Unionunderlakesthatthereshall be no strikes, slowdowns or other interruptions of operations and the Company undertakesthatthere will be no lockouts, each for the duration of the Agreement, it being understood that all differences between the parties shall be settled in accordance with the provisionsof this Agreement.
4.02
if an employee in the bargaining unit encountersa bona fide picket line in the course of his normalduties,there shall be an immediate conferencebetween parties before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should notbe respected.
ARTICLES
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Any difference ordisputewhich may arise betweenthe parties duringthe life of this Agreement, concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, shall be dealt with as a grievance, as hereinafter provided.
Thereshall be anearnesteffortanthepartof both parties to this Agreement to deal promptly with grievances through the procedureprovided below.
11
5.01(a)
individualGrievances
An employee who has a grievance will ordinarily discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor and if the matter is not resolved in that discussion, he may refer the question to his Shop Steward forconsideration. However, should the nature of the grievance be such that the employee prefers to referit to his Shop Steward first, then he may do so.
5.01	(b)
If a grievance fs referred by an employee to his shop steward and if the shop steward considers that there Is a reasonable basis for the grievance, he or the chief shop steward may refer the matter in writing to the Vice President Human Resources. The Vice President Human Resources will within 10 working days arrange a meeting with all the principals to hear the grievance. The company's decision will be given to the union In writing within 10 working days aftersuch meeting.
5.02
Collective Grievance
Should a group of two (2) or more employees who have a grievance based upon the same provision or provisions of this Agreement, or upon similar facts, desire to have such matter dealt with collectively rather than as individual grievances, they may refer the matter to their Shop Steward or Chief Shop Steward if employees from more than one (1) department are involved, and if the Shop Steward or Chief Shop Steward considers that there is a reasonable basis for the grievance, the Shop Steward or Chief Shop Steward may present such matter, in wriling, forthe Grievance Procedure.
m.
Companv/Union Grievance
Should any grievance, or dispute arise directly between the Company and the Union, concerning the general policy of either the Company or the Union, which affects the orderly administration of this Agreement, either party may invoke the grievance and arbitration procedure.
12
5.04
Discipline. Suspension or Discharge
(a)	Should it become necessary to officially warn an employee that failure to improve his record with the Company may result in disciplinaryaction beingtaken, such an employee shallbe advised ofhis right to havehis Shop Steward present at such meeting.TheglvIngoflhe warning shallbe confirmed lotfre employeebythe Companyinwriting. A copy of such lettarwillbe given to the employee's Shop Steward on the same dale it is giventotheemployee.
(b)	When an employee is to be suspended or discharged, he shall be advised of his right to have his Shop Steward presentand if requested, shall have his Shop Steward present for such meeting. The reasons for his suspension or discharge will be given. In any event, an employee who is suspended or discharged will be given the opporfu nity to discuss thematterwith his Shop Steward during working hours and prior to leaving the Company's premises. Such suspension or discharge shall be confirmedto the employeeby the Company, in writing, and a copy of such letter will be given to the employee's Shop Steward on the date it is given or mailed to the employee.
(c)	The Company agrees that in the event an employee is disciplined for just cause, the records of such disciplinaryaction shallbe removed from such an employee's personnel files, and destroyed, after a period of twelve (12) months(two (2) years in the case of suspension) from the date the employeewas officially advised in writing to such discipline, providedtheemployee has not been subject to further discipline within such period. In any event, discipline imposedwiff not be referred to after the expiry of three (3) years from the date of discipline.
(d)	It is further understood and agreed that records relating to discipline reversed or withdrawn under the grievance or arbitration procedure shall not be kept or recorded in an employee's personnel files, The Company also agrees that any employee shall have the right to review their personnel files upon request In the presence of a representative of the Company, with a
Shop Steward present if requested by the employee, concerning information In such an employee's personnel files concerning hisapplicationfor employment, hiringdale, transfer, demotions, discipline (including written warnings), work performance and evaluation by supervisorsand others. Upon request,the Company will also provide an employee with a copy of any materialor documents in an employee's personnel files, which if Inaccurate, shallbe corrected,
(e)	The Company agrees that the dischargeof any employee shall only be made by the Vice President Human Resources, afterthegroundsupon whichthedischarge for just cause are based have been thoroughly investigated by the Company, and the employee has been given an opportunity, with his Shop Steward present, 10 respond to the reasons slated forthe discharge.
5.05
Saturdays, Sundays and observed holidaysshall not count as "working days" as referred to inthis Article 5,
5.06
The Company will only considergrievancesthe circumstances ofwhicharealleged to have occurred not more than fifteen (15) working days prior to the presentation of the grievance, in writing, unless the employee is prevented from doing so by unusualcircumstances.
5.07
Arbitration
(a) Should anygrievanceordisputearise which is not satisfactorilydetermined underthe foregoing provisions, and should the grieving party desire to carry the matterfurther, themattermaythen, bynoliceinwritinggiventotheotherparty withi n ten (10) working days from the date when a decision was given, or should have been given, as provided for above, be referred by the grieving party to arbitration as provided for below.
(b) Any matter referred to arbitration under this Agreement, shall besubmittedto a singleArbitrator.
14
(c)	The party giving notice of desire to refer a matter to arbitration shall include, in the written notice given to the other party, the names of at least three (3) persons for the consideration of the other party as an Arbitrator. An earnest effort will be made by both the Company and the Union to reach mutual agreement on the person to be requested to serve as Arbitrator.
(d)	In the event that the parties fail agreementon such an Arbitrator, the Minister of Labourand Manpowerforthe Province of NewBmnswick may, on the request ofthe grieving party,appoint an Arbitrator.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall hear the grievance and shall issue a decision, within fifteen (15) days, or within such other periodas th e parties may agree upon or the Arbitrator may reasonably require, following the hearing, which shall be final andbindinguponthe partiesandanyemployeeaffectedbyit.
(f)	The Arbitrator shall nothavethe powertoalter or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement.
(g)	Where an Arbitrator determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the employerforjust cause,the Arbitrator may substitute such other penalty for the dischargeor disciplineas to the Arbitrator seems just and reasonable inallthecircumstances.
(h)	The parties and the Arbitrator shall have access to the employer's premises to view working conditions, machinery, or operations, which may be relevant io the resolutionof a grievance.
(I) The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction to determine whether a grievance is arbitrable.
(j) Each of the parties to this Agreement shall pay one-half (1/2) of the remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator.
15
(k) Any of the time limits referredlo inthisArtide 5 may be extended by mutual agreement, In writing, between the partiesto this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTHAND SAFETY fl.01
The'Company agrees to mate all necessary and reasonable provisionsforthe healthand safety of all employeesduringtha working hours. The Company will furnish adequate facilities, equipment and devicesfor that purpose.The Company and the Union mutually agree that employees will be encouraged to cooperate in the maintenance of healthy and safe working conditions, in the proper use of protective clothing ana equipment, and in the observance of all safety rules and regulations.
6,02
Illness or Accident
(a)	While at work, an employee who suffersany injury, no matter how slight, or who, due to work related cause, becomes ill, shall report to his supervisor and be allowed reasonable time to secure proper treatment, with no loss of pay, during an employee’s regular working hours. In the event that suchanemployee is unable to complete the balance of his shift on that day due to such disability, the em ployee shall be paid for thebalance of his shift, athis regularhourly rate.
(b)	Illness or injury which results in an employee being absent from work, must be reported promptly by the employee to his department foreman or the Personnel Department.
(c)	It the event of a dispute between the Company and an employee's physician relating to any employee's claim or entitlement to benefits for a non-occupafitnallillness or iriury, the employee may be retaedlto an I ndependent specialist for an examination, at the expense of the Company,
6.03
Forthe bargaining unit a Join! Health and Safely Committeewill be established, consistingof six (6) members.Three{3) members will be appointed by the Union and three (3) members will
16
beappointedby the Company, each for a term of two (2) years. A numberof alternates, equal to their regular members shall be appointed by the Union and the Company, who will act in the absenceoftheregularCommitteemember(s),
6.04
The duties of the Committee will consist of making recommendations for the improvement of health and safety, Investigationof ail accidents, and working towards the eliminationofall healthand safety hazards.
6.05
The Committee, consisting of a majority of its membersshafl meetregularly.atleastonce in each month, oral the request of the Union or the Company's representatives, to discuss matters related to health and safety within the Company's operations, to review accident reports and plan health and safety programs. They shall also make regular i nspections of work sites and equipment to check all healthand safety conditions. A copy of the reports and recommendations of the Committee shall be forwarded, in writing, to the Company and the Union.
6.06
Whenanemployee has reason to believe that a joborworksite, equipment, oravehlde, is not in safeoperating condition or presents a danger to the health or safety of the employee personally or other persons, the employee shall promptly report the matter to the employees Supervisor for immediate attention. In the event that the employee is not satisfied with the action taken by the Supervisor or the Superviso rfailsto takeanyaction, theemptoyee may submitthe matter to a member of the Committee, who shall immediately take the matter up with the Department Head, and than if necessary, in consultation with the Company or Union counterpart on the Committee, investigate the matter end submit a written report, with recommendations, to the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee.
6.07
The Company, the Union, all employees, and the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall at all times in matters relating to occupational health and safety 17
be guided by the provisions of this Agreement, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Regulations and Codes of Practice made pursuant to that Act, New Brunswick WHMIS regulatlonsand procedures and common sense.
6,08
Employee and Family AsslstaoceProoram
The partiesagreethatthe Employeeand Family Assistance Program will be maintained and promoted by them.
ARTICLE 7
UNIFORMS.PROTECTIVECLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
7.01
Where the Company requires an employee to wear a uniform or specialwork clothing,such uniformsorwork clothing will be provided by the Company, at no cost to the employee. S uch employees are required to present a clean and neatappearanceatall limes.Those employees issued uniforms bythe Company mustwearthern at all limeswhileatwork.
7.02
All regular employees shall be Issued two (2) sets of uniforms each calendar year, consisting of two (2) trousersand two (2) shirts (long or short sleeves). The Company will continuetoissuelabcoals io Quality Control Technicians as it has in the past.
7.03
(a)	The Company agrees to supply vests to protect employees exposed to low temperatures while performingtheir work, such as employeesworking as Fork Lift Operators in Loading Docks during Winter, and Carbonating and Fermentingin cellars.
(b)	Employees requiring vests on a regularbasis will retain them. Those employees requiring vests on a part-time
18
or temporary basis shall returnthem to the Company when no longer required.
(c)	The Company shall also maintain two (2) clean heavy winter jackets and two (2) clean sets of heavy rainwear garments in the Storeroom, far use in emergencies and breakdowns occurring outside the plant, to be used on a sign-out and returnbasis.
7.04
Uniforms. Protective Clothing and Equipment
Employees who require coveralls shall be issuedtwo (2) sets percalendaryear. These coveralls shall be purchased and cleaned at Company expense. Maintenance menshaltbeissued3setsofcoverallspercalendaryear.
7.05
(e)	Effective January 1, 2000 the Company shall provideto all regular employees an allowance of $110 per calendaryear, towards the cost of safety shoes or boots per calendar year. EffectiveJan. 1, 2003 an allowance of $120.00 percalendaryeartowardsthemstof safetyshoesor boots.
(b)	Any unused amount of the allowance referred to in {a) above, maybe accumulated from year to year as a credit, to be used for the purchase of safety shoes.
(c)	Everytwo calendaryearsthe Company will pay a maximum of $60.00 for prescription safety glasses. Reimbursementwill be made on presentation of an approved receipt.
7.06
All employees shall be required to wear protectivehearingdevices and approved safetyglasses in work areas designated by the Company, The Company shall issue such devices to employees who requirethem, on a replacement basisdue to normalwearand use, at no cost lathe employee.
19
7.07
Rubberboots, aprons, gloves and goggles will be issued to employees engaged in work which requires this protection.
ARTICLES
SENIORITY
8.01
Definitionof Seniority
Seniority of an employee shall meanthe length of his unbroken service with the Company, inthebargaining unit.
A orobatlonarv emolovee is one who has been hired with a his	employee, but who
has not yet completed ninety (90) days of actual work. On completion of his probationary period, suchanemployeeshall be credited with seniority from a dale which is ninety (90) working days prior to the date on which he completed his probationaryperiod.
8.03
A regularemployee is one who
(a)	has actually worked for a period in excess of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a twelve-month periodas a temporary employeeunderdause8.04, or
(b)	has actually worked in excess of ninety (90) working days as a probationary employee, or
(c)	having been reclassified from temporary to probationary status, has actually worked in excess of a total of ninety (90) working days from the commencement of his last employmentwith the Company.
8.04
(a)	A "temporary employee" Is one who is hired by the Company to performwork of a temporary nature, which shall mean work during peak business periods and relieving when
20
regular employees are on vacation, or absentdue to Illness or injury.
(b)	Temporary employees shall be rehired to perform available work as temporary employees, in order of first dayhired.
8.05
Seniority List
(a)	A seniority list shall be established and maintainedby the Company for all employeesin the bargaining unit, showing the name and seniority date of each employee who hasacquiredseniority. Copiesoftheoriginatand all revised seniority lists shall be deliveredto the Union and posted on the plantbulletin boards, Such lists shall besubjectto review by the Union and any irregularitiesin the list not consistent with the seniority provisions defined in this Agreement shall be corrected.
(b)	The seniority list shall not be less than 148 employeesduring the term of the collectiveagreement, except as a result of the operation of Article 8.06(c), basedon achieving 1999business volumes.
(c)	If the numberof employeesonthe seniority list becomes less than 148 for any reason other than the operation of 8.06(c), the temporary employee with the earliest dateof hirewill be placedonthe seniority list. Thedafe onwhich such temporary employee is placed onthe seniority listshall be his/her senioriiydate.
(d)	if the number of temporary employees is greaterthan twenty percent (20%)of the seniority list of 148, the temporary employeewith the earliest date of hirewill be placed on the seniority list. The date on which such temporary employee is placed on the seniority shall be his/her seniority date. This is based on the working of reasonable overtime by employees on thesenlority list.
There will be a backfill forthe term of the collective agreement for any vacancy caused when an employee quits, dies, retires or is terminated from employment.
21
8.06
When Service Broken
An employee's service with the Company shall be broken if that employee:
(a)	quitsvoluntarily,
(b)	isdischargedforjust cause and not reinstated,
(c)	Is laidofffora periodinexcessoftwelve (12) consecutive monlhs or more, or for a period in excess of benefit entitlement under the Guaranteed Wage Plan, whichever is greater.
(d)	fails to return to work on the expiration of any periodof leavegranted by the Company, without just cause, or unlessexcused bythe Company.
(e)	fails to reply to a notice of recall, or report for work as required under clause 8.09, without just cause, or unlessexcused bytheCompany.
(f)	is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the Company and received permissioni nadvance, where that is possible, or
(g)	otherwise ceases to be employed by the
Company,
The Company will advise the Union, in writing of any leave of absence granted to any employee for any period of five (5) working daysor more, indudinganyextensionofsuchleave.
8.07
Application of Seniority -Vacancies. Promotions. Demotions. Transfers.etc.
(a)	In filling posted vacancies within the bargaining unit: seniority shall govern, provided the senior employeehas the ability to perform the job.
(b)	Employees selected under8.07 (a) above, shall be given an appropriate training and trial period, during
22
which they must demonstrate ability progressing towards satisfactorilyfulfillingthe normal requiremerrtsofthejob.
(c)	If within the training and trial period an employee is demoted or transferred back due to his inability to satisfactorily perform such new duties, he shall be permitted to revert to his former position and wage rate, without loss of seniority and the emnlnvee who has been nromofed nr transferred because re-arrangement of positions shall also be returned to his former position and wage rate without loss of seniority.
(d)	In the event that a job vacancy occurs or a new job is created or established, notice of such vacancy shall be posted on the Union bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) working days for the information of all employees in the bargaining unit. The notice shall set out the job description, qualifications required by the job, the classification and wage rate. All brewing department postings (brewhouse, carbonating, fermenting, kegging) both permanent and relief shall be held for aminimumofone(1)year.
(e)	During the period referred to in (d) above, any employee in the bargaining unit may make application for the job posted. All applicants shall receive consideration in accordance with the provisions of this clause £1.07. Employees n me oarga nng unt naj ng me ab ty to perform the |0D n accordance with tns da.se 807 wncn sha nc„ae inose . .	..	. reca orren .
r reive th job in	f ice t person: outside of the
t rg. ii ing unit. Th	l< mp ly may fill any job vacancy
temporarily, pending completion of the Job Posting procedures set out in this Agreement.
(f)	The Company will deliver to the Union a copy of each Job Posting, a list of all applicants, and will also advise the Union of the name of the successful applicant, in writing, prior to declaring and posting such information. The Company agrees to use a standard form, to be mutually agreed UDOn. for Job Postings.
(g)	The Company will select the successful applicant, if any, within ten (10} working daysofthecloseofthe
23
posting period and will advise the employees in the bargaining unit of its decision by posting that information on the Union bulletin boards. The successful applicant shall be assigned to the job forwhich he applied within thirty (30} working days of the close of the costing period.
(h)	Employees may be transferred temporarily from one position or department to another. An employee transferred to perform work on a temporaryjob shall revert to his regular j it rr d ciassificaiic upon compt tic of such temporary work assignment. The transferring of an employee to work outside of his regular classification and job or to another department may only be done by an employee's departmental supervisor.
(i)	An employee who holds a permanent job at present or who acquires such a position through the Job P stii g procedure, shall not at the same time hold a relief or temporary position with the exception of Relief Chief Operating Engineer. Employees who do not hold a permanent position may not hold more than two (2) relief or temporary positions at any one time, except for Brewhouse which shall be limited to one (1) position within that occupational group, other than training or upgrading positic . Employ e holding r> li if p i itl< through a job posting shall be assigned to perform work on such jobs i n order of seniority. Employees who must be replaced partway through any shift may be replaced for the remainder of that shift by the most readily available person who can do the job. Employees will be limited to two posting changes in anv twentv-four (24) month period. either relief or full time.
{j} The Company will assign regular employees to work on skilled jobs, prior to assigning temporary employees to such jobs, provided regular employees are able and willing to do the job and are not at that time assigned to an equally paid skilled position.
8.08
Layoff and Recall From Layoff
(a)	Inthe event that it becomes necessary to reduce staff, seniority shall govern. The Company shall first layoff all
24
temporary employees and then ail probationaryemployees, in order of first day hired. If further reduction of staff is required, it shall bemadeimpartiallyand in strictreverse order of seniority, provided the senior employee is able to perform the work available, in accordancewith the provisions of clause 8.07 of this Agreement. Any employeetransferredto anotherjob under these seniority provisions in order to avoid layoff shell immediately be paid at the rate of the job to which such an employeeis transferred.
When the working force is increased following a layoff, the employeeswill be recalled, in orderof seniority, in the case of regular employees, or intheorderof first day hired, inthe case of probationaryand temporary employees, to theirformer jobs, ortojobs whichthey areableand willingto perform.
(b)	The Local President, Vice President and Chief S hop Steward shall be exempt from temporary layoffsas longasthere is work intheir respectivedepartments, provided they can satisfactorilyfulfil the normal requirements of the job. Should one or more of these Union Officers be absent for any reason at any time during the layoff, the most senior steward otherwise on layoff will be recalled to work lor such period of absence,forthe purposeofmaintainingunion representation.
(c)	The minimumcall-in period will be tour (4) hours. Forthe purposes of page 114, appendix B 4(iv), the minimum call-in will constitute a normalworkingday.
(d)	Allernployeassubjectto callfromthecall list must be availablefor call-in as required, u nless prior notification has been provided. In the event that an employee refuses (exceptfor reasonable cause as per Letterof Understanding 7) or is unobtainable for three calls in any 12 month periodduring the hours of6:00 a.m. to 10:00a.m., 2:00 p.m, to6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. will be subjectto discipline up to and including dismissal. Two calls, 10 minutes apart, will be made foreachcall-tn
25
8.09
(a)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees laid off by it for the bargaining unit, and such lists shall show the seniority of such employees, or the first day hired in the case of temporary and probationary employees. When workers are required for the bargainingunit,the layoff list will be examined and, to the extent of the number of jobs available, the employeeswill be recalledfrom transferor layoff in accordancewith the applicable provisionsof Article 8, Such lists shall be revised regularly, with copies of each such list posted onthe plantbulletinboardsand deliveredto the union.
fb) If, following such recalls,there is still a deficiency of workers in the bargainingunit, probationary employees and then temporary employees on the lay-off list, in order of the first day hired, shall be offered such vacancies provided the employee can satisfactorily fulfil the normal requirements of the job. Probationary and temporary employees shall retain preferentialrights for recall after lay-off for a period of twelve (12) monthsfrom the date following the dateoftheirlastlay-off provided their previousemploymentwas satisfactory
(c)	If, at the time of recall, a regular employee is not in the active employment of the Company, a notice shall be sent to him by registered mail, addressed to the last address which he shall have recorded with the Company. Such notice shall indicate the job for which the individual is considered qualified, the proposed time and place of rehiring (whichshall not be less than seven (7) working days from the date of mailing such notice by the Company) and shall state that if the individualdesires to be rehired for such Job,he shall so notify the Company by telegram, or by registered mail, within five (5) working days of receipt of such notice from the Company. A copy of each such notice shall be deliveredto the Union.
(d)	The individuals lo whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and placeofrehiringassetout in such notices, oratsuchothertime as may be mutually agreed upon between the Company and such employees, shall, if they are then so qualified to fill thejobs 26
available, be rehired. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time, any individual who failed to notify the Company of his desire to be rehired, or who failed to report forrehiringinaccordancewithandatthetimestatedinanysuch notice sent to him. The oompany shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis, pending rehiringof those having preferential rights for rehiring. If the employee is not available when required, the Companymaythen recall the next employee on the recall list, but he is subject to being replaced if the employee first recalled does report within seven (7) working days. On such rehiring, there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee's service if the employee had acquired seniority rightspriortohislast layoff,
8,10
Illness or Disability
illness or disability, which qualifies under the Long Term Disability Plan or Worker's Compensation, will not be considered cause for discharge of a regular employee. An employee who has been continuously absent from work due to illness or disability, for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months, shall be allowed to returnto their former job and work, ifhe is capable of satisfactorily performing the work required. If after recovery such an employee is unable to perform his former duties, or in the event he has been continuously absent from work due to such illness or disabilityfor a period in excess of twenty-four (24) months, and ifthereisattbat time a regular job in the bargainingunit,which iseithervacantor hasbeencreated by mutualagreementbetween the Company and the Union, he shall be transferred to such position, if he is capable of satisfactorily performlngfhe required dulies.
8.11
Progress Report-NewEmplovees
The Company must advise the union in all case3 of unsatisfactoryprogressorperformanceof new employees.
27
8.12
GuaranteedWaae Plan
Employees on layoff under the provisions of this Agreement may claim supplementary income under the terms of the Guaranteed Wage Plan, attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement as Appendix "B" -Guaranteed Wage Plan. The Guaranteed Wage Plan is a supplement intended to provide assistance to eligibleemployeeswho are laid off as a result of the application of the layoff provisionsof this Agreement, but this is not to be Construed as altering the layoff provisions specified inthis Agreement.
ARTICLE9
TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE
9.01	(a) If, during the life of this Agreement, the Company wishes to make a technological change In its operations, which would have the effect of substantially altering or abolishing any existing classifications, orcreating newdassifications,orwhich wou Id resultin the layoff of any regularemployee,the Company agrees that itwill meetwlth the Union and engage in meaningful and constructivediscussionof the matterand attemptto resolve the problems created by such technological changes, as well as to attempt to lessen the impact of technologicalchange on the employees affected.
(b)	When the Company is considering the introduction of a technological change, the Company agrees to notify the Union as far as possible in advance of its intentionand to updatethe information provided as new developments arise and modifications are made. The Company shall provide the Union with a detailed description of the project it intendsto carryout, disclosing all foreseeable effects and repercussions on employees.
(c)	If, as a resuit of a technological change in the Company's operations, anemployee isassigned to a job having a lower rate of pay than the rate of pay he formerly received- he shall continue to be paid at his former rate of pay u ntil the iob rate for his newdassification equals hisformer rate.
9.02	If, during the life of this Agreement, the Company wishes to establish any new classification, it will advise the
28
Union in writing and negotiatethe classification and rate of pay with the Union.
9.03	in the event that, during this collective agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipateswill directly result in the permanent layoff of ten(10)ormoreregularemptoyees,thefollowingshellapply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the nu mber of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeploymentof the affected regularemployees in accordance with the provisions of the collective agreement and the provisions as set out i nthe Guaranteed Wage Pian (G WP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be permanently laidoff;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the collective agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (‘eligible employees’) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employeesshall be approachedwithin each groupdetermined in paragraph® in order of seniority and, if they choose to take spacial early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actuallyretirewithinthirty (30)daysthereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be
so designated.Thenumberof special early retirees inanygroup who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of Jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any g rou psoelecttotakespecial early retirement, theTC B will only be paidfothe mostseniorofthem.
29
determined by dividing the total amount of theGWP separatior layoff in paragraph(b) above, by thetotal number ofemployees
9.04	If (a) the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, oj
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the intraduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the permanent
layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	The employees ultimately designated for permanent layoff hereunder, who are eligible for participation in the GWP, will be lift J t elect separation and to t nlnati fo	tf
ip i) p ri r to tl sir scheduled date f 11> ft	o :e
employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be 'entitled t receive It amount if separalii i pay n I calculated in accordance with Section 10 of th uarantee I
W Qs Plan. If any of those employees who are eligible for participation In the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees prior to May 1, 1905, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlem it for Ihe purposes f paragraph (b) of Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan;
(li) those employees designated for permanent layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for F rtici ati1 in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the t efi provided for under that Plan. In addition, if any employee who is eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to May 1, 1985, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under the plan, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	An employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and not withstanding Seotior 8 of the Plan, the eight (8 weeks can neverbe restored;
(b)	the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be 1 he first
weeks used.
30
ARTICLE10
TRAININGASSISTANCE
10.01
Basedon itsoperationalneeds the Company shall maintainthe established practice of on-thejob and other training, which shall be sufficient to allow the employees reasonable opportunities to learn additional skills and to upgrade their knowledgeor skills,tothe extent requiredto performtheirjobs.
10.02
(a)	Where deemed necessary by the Company , assistance shall be given to employees who attend Company approved, off premises training programs at approved institutions outside of their regular working hours, where such training relates to their employment. Assistance shall be in the form of tuition fees and books uDon successful completion ofthe program
(b)	If such training is required by the Company and is outside the immediate area of the City of Saint John, the Company will reimburse the employee for legitimate expenses.
(c)	Wherethe training program is conducted bythe Company,time spentinsuchtrainingshallbe considered for the purposes of wages and benefits to be time worked and payableat the regularhourly rate.
(d)	A pint labour-management committee will be established to review training requirementsona regular basis.
ARTICLE11
ADEQUATE MANPOWER
11.01
The Company will supply adequatemanpoweron all operations in all departmentset all times SO that an employee will not be requiredtoperformmorethanafairday'swork.
11.02
Clause 11.01 shall not becanstruedtomean that the manning of all operations Is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly a fair
31
day's work and, accordingly, changes in the manning of crews and changes in an employee's workload may be made so long as the resulting situation Is not a violation of clause 11.01.
ARTICLE 12
WAGES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
12.01
The Company shall pay wages and a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) as set out In Appendix "A" -Wages and Job Classifications, attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement.
12.02
Job classifications are set out In Appendix "A" and they shall not be changed or deleted, nor shall the jobs themselves be substantially altered or amended, without the agreement of the Company and the Union.
12.03
Employees who are temporarily transferred to a higher ratedjob ana not training under supervision, shaTIcontinueto bepaid their regular rate unless the transfer continues for one (1) or moreworking days, in whichcase they shall be paid the higher rateforall hours worked during the day, or for more than twenty (20) hours In a week, in which case they shall be paid the higher rate for the job, for a minimum of forty (40) hours during such week. Any em loyee transferred to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company shall not have his regular rate reduced.
ARTICLE 13
HOURSOFWORK.OVERTIMEAND PREMIUMS
13.01
Definition of Work V\teek
For the purposes of this Agreement, the work week shall commence at m Idnight Saturday -Sunday.
13.02
ReaularWorkWesk
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement, the regular work week for all employees (other than Operati ng Engineers) shall consists of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) consecutive hours (including a
32
one-half hour paid lunch period) each day, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
(b) 12 Hour Shift Schedule for Operating
Engineers
Schedulefor4-12 hourshifts for Operating Engineers:
A Two 12 hourshiffs scheduled as follows:
(1) Normal paid hours of work shall be 12 hours per day. Hours of work shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(2)	Shift* commencing 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. ifiail.Be considered the day shiftforwhich no shift premium will be paid.
(3)	Shins commencing 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift for which the midnight shift premium will be paid.
(5)Shinscheduleof4days x 12 hours:
Sat.-Sun.-Mon.-Tue.-36 hours Sun.-Mon.-Tue.-Wed.-48 hours Mon.-Tue.-Wed.-Thur.-48 hours Tue.-Wed.-Thur.-Fri.-48 hours 48=44RT +40T(11/2)
8, The normalwork week for the relief man shall be 40 hours when not on relief, but shall be 44 regular hours if required on relief,e.g.:
Mon.	8RT	8	8	8
Tue.	8RT	8	8	8
Wed.	8RT	8	12	12
Thur.	8RT	12	12	12
Fri.	12RT	12	-	12
44RT 48 40RT 52 (44/4 OT) (44/8 OT)
C.	Overtime
e.g.-15 hours* 12RT +30T
33
-16 hours = 12RT +30T + 1DT Only overtime afterl 2 hourscan be banked.
D.	Holiday falling on day off paid as 12 hours. Holidayfailing on workingdaypaidas 12 hours x 2 times rate. The holiday shall be considered to begin at 7:00 a.m, on the day of the holiday and extend to 7:00 a.m. on the day immediately following the holiday for only those persons working the 12 hourshift.
E.	1 st day off shall be considered a Saturday. 2nd day off shall be considered a Sunday. 3rd and 4th days off shall be considered timeandone haifdays.
F.	Sick leave based on 56 hours per year (maximum).
G.	Bereavementor leave based on one(1)dayor12 hourshift.
H.	Bankfimetaken inblocks of12hoursonly. 48 hours maximum accumulationat any one time.
I.	Vacation pay to be on a 40 hour basis. Vacation bonus to be on 40hourbasis.
General
Theavailabilityof relief personnelto coverabsenteeism iscriticai and it is understood that those people on time off must show a willingness when requested to report for relief work.
13.03
Regular PavShifts
Theregularday shift shallcommencebetweenthe hoursof 6:00 a.m.and9:30a.m.
13.04
Shift Premium
(a) Any shift commencing after9:30 a,m, uptoand including6:Q0 p.m. shall be consideredthe afternoon shift and a premium of $.65 perhourshall be paid. Any shift cornmencingafter6:Q0p.m.
34
and before 6:00 a.m,,shallbeconsideredthe midnightsWftand effective January 1, 2004 a premium of $1.07 per hour will be paid, (51.10 per houreffective January 1,2005; $1.14 per hour effective January 1,2006; $ 1.17 per hou r effective January 1, 2007: and $1.21 per hour effective January 1, 2008 shall be paid.
(b) Such shift premiums shall notbe deemed to be part of an employee's regular hourly rate In the calculation of overtime, holidayor vacationpay.
13.05
Rest Periods and LunchPeriods
(a)	Every employee will be allowed one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each one-half (112) shift. Rest periods will be arranged as near the mid-point of each one-half (112) shift as possible. Every employee shall be granted, and the Company Shall arrange, a lunch period one. half (112)hourto be scheduled to commence nearthe mid-point of each shift. Such restand lunch periods shall befromthetime the employee leavesh isjob to the time he returnsto thejob.
(b)	Any change in the rest and lunch periods presently existing for employees working in Brewhouse, Cellars and Operating Engineers shall be mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, in writing.
13.06
Schedule of Hours
(a) The schedule of hours to be worked each day shall be posted by 12:00 noon on Thursday of the previous weekforthefollowingweek.The scheduling shall providefor at least twelve (12) hou rs elapsed time between thecompletionof any employee's shift and the commencement of his next shift, except when an employee isscheduledto changefrom one (1) group of consecutive shifts to another, in which case the elapsedtime maybe reducedto eight (8) hours.
35
Chanoas in Schedules of Hours
(b)	Without changing schedules posted pursuant to clause (a) above, an employee may be requested to take over a work assignment different from that which was posted tor him, and the Company will endeavour wherever possible to give at least twelve (12) hours notice of such change, and provide at least twelve (12) hours elapsed time from the end of his posted assignment to that of his new assignment.
(c)	In the event of an employee being transferred, for the purposes of relieving for vacations, fromone (1) group of consecutive shifts in a week to another in the followingweek, and thelastdayworked In that week connects, without a scheduled day off, with thefirst day to beworked inthe followingweek, such day or shin shell not be recognizedas a Saturday or first scheduled day off, or Sunday or second scheduled day off, In such cases. When scheduled to perform such work an employee shall be sched uled for two (2) days off during the week in which he is relievingfor vacation purposes. Suchasemployeeshall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times hishouriy rate for all work performed and required by the company on the first of his two (2)scheduled days off and at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed and required by the Company on the second of his two (2) scheduled daysoff.
(d)	In the event a Quality Control Technician is scheduled to return to the brewery after completion of his regular shin he shall receive ai least one (1) hour pay at the appropriate overtime rate for each time he returns to the Breweryfor any reason.
13.07
Overtime
Every employee having performed eight (8) hours work in any day or shin, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) limes hishourly rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company in excess of eight (8) hours, and two (2) times his hourly rate for all such work performedbyhim In excess of eleven (11) hours.
36
13.08
Overtime on Saturdavor First Scheduled Day Off
(a)	Every employee (other than Operating Engineers)shallbe paid at the rateofoneand one-half (1 112) limes his hourly rate for all work performedand required by the Company on a Saturday and two (2) times his hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of the first eight (8). In the course of accumulating a forty-hour week, shifts which commence on Friday will be at regular rate.
(b)	An OperatingEngineer shall be paid at the rateofoneand one-half (11/2) times hishouriy rale for all work performedand required by the Companyon the first of his two
(2)	weekly scheduled days off.
/ct Weekend Bonus
An Operating E ngineen/vho is regularly scheduled to work on a Saturday and/or Sunday shall, while so scheduled, be paid a weekend bonusasshown below: for Saturday-$1.00 per hour For Sunday-$1.50 per hour
for work performed by him and required by the Company, unless he is entitled underthe other provisionsof this Article to be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2), two (2) or two and one-half (2 112) times his hourly rate. Such weekend bonusshallbe payable in additionto the shift premiumspayableunder clause 13,04. Forthe purposesof this Agreement, such bonusesshall not beconsidered as forming part of anemployee'shourly rate.
13.09
Overtime onSundauor Second Scheduled Day Off
(a)	Every employee (other than Operating Engineers)shallbe paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly ratefor all work performed by him and requiredby the Company on a Sunday or onthe second of his two (2) weekly scheduled days off.
(b)	An Operating Engineershall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed
37
byhim and required by the Company on the second of histwo (2) weekly scheduled days off.
-13.10
OvertimeonPaidHoliday
Every employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his hourly rate for all work performed and requiredby the Company on a day which is observed as a paid holiday under the provisions of Article 15, inadditionto payforthe holidayandtwo and one-half (2 7'/2J>times hisregular rate for all hours worked in excessofthefirsteight(8).
13.11
NoDu plication of Prem iums or Overtime Payments
Except as provided for in clause 13.08 (c) above, thereshall not be any duplicationof the variousforms of premiumand overtime pay providedforinthis Agreement
13.12
Assignment ofOverflme
(a)	The Company agrees todistributeovertime as equally as possible among regular employees who normally performthe work required.
(b)	The Company will assign overtime work on the followingbasis:
(t) Such opportunity will fust be made available on a least overtime hours" basisto those regularemployees in the department inthe occupational group who normally perform the work on which such overtime is required. NOTE: OCCUPATIONAL GROUP SHALL MEAN ALL POSTED FULL TIMEANDPQSTED RELIEF OPERATORS.
(ii)	in the event that the Company's needs cannot be entirely satisfied in that manner, the overtime opportunity will then be made available on a "least overtime basis" to regular employees in thebargaining unit in the occupational group who ere able to perform the work required, and then to
38
regularemployees inthebargainingunlt who are able to perform thework required.
(ill) it is furtherunderstoodthat intheeventthat all overtime requirements cannot be satisfied on a voluntary basis, such work may then be assigned on a reverse-seniority basistothoseemployeesinthe bargaining unitwhoareable to performthe work required,
(iv)	except in the case of equipment breakdown or emergency, all overtime shall be voSuntary, provided the employee can be replaced by an employee who is able to perform the work required, and
(v)	except In the case of equipmentbreakdown or emergency, notice of planned overtime shall begivenpriorto the end of an employee's regular shift on the day prior to which the work is required.
Notice of overtime planned for Saturday shall be given priorto the end of an employee's shift on Thursday of any such week.
NOTE:
The Company and the Union agree that the above provisions are intended to provide reasonable provisionsfor lessening of the problemscreatedby overtime work for employees, however, it Is anticipated that all employees will continue to cooperatei n sharing requiredovertime assignments, particularlyinsituations where the least senior employees request to be relieved from suchwork, duetopersonal or other reasons.
(c)	It is further agreed that overtime will not be assigned to temporary or probationary employees white regular employees are available and able and willing lo perform the work required.
(d)	It is understood that to facilitate the equitable distribution of overtime work, the Company shall maintain departmental list of overtime hours worked and offered.Copies of such lists shall be postedonthe plant bulletin boards and be madeavailabletothe Unionupon request.
39
(e)	Overtime hours offered to employees within their department which are refused, will be recorded and consideredas overtime hoursactually worked, for the purposes of satisfying the requirements of (a) above. Union representatives shall not be recordedas overtime hours offered and refusedwhenunable toacceptdue to Unionbusiness.
(f)	Forthe purposeof “Weekly overtimework”, overtime occurring due to production overruns shall not be recorded and considered as overtime hours actually worked unless it
(g)	A change from one series of clean up shifts to a different series of clean up shifts i n the same calendar day will bepaidattimeandone-half.
13.13
RestPeriods Before Overtime
When an employee is requiredto work at least two (2) hours overtime immediately following his normal work period in any day or shift, he shall be granted a rest period of fifteen (15) minuteswithpay,beforecommencingsuchaddlt!onalwork.
13.14
Overtime Rest Periods and Meal Allowances
In the case of unplanned overtime (employee not notified on the day prior), the employee shall, after having worked two (2) hours be given a paid one-half (1/2) hour lunch period. Ai employee working such unplannedovertime shall be granted a meal allowance of $7.00.
If such additional work continues for more than two (2) consecutive hours following resumptionof work after the meal break, theemployee shall begranted anadditional rest periodof fifteen (15) minutes, with pay, for such period and each additionaltwo (2) hour period.
40
13.15
Call-In
(a)	When an employee, after leaving the Company's premises, is called by the Company and requested to returnto work due to an equipment breakdown, emergency, or other urgent situation followingcompletion of his day's work and before the commencement of his next scheduled day's work and is assigned to less than four (4) hours work outside of regular scheduled working hours, he shallbe paid at least four
(4)hours pay at hisappropriateovertimerate. Call-in-e.g. (1) 4 hrs. call-in and total time not worked =4 hrs. X11/2 rate. (2) 4 hrs. call-in and totaf time worked = 3 hrs. k 11/2,1 hr. x 2 limes rate.
(b)	I n the event that work on a call-in continues to be required up to or beyond the time such an employee's regularly scheduled shift commences, such an amployeawifl ceaseto be on call-in status at such time and shall be paid for the call-in without being requiredto perform four (4) hours work onthecall-in.
(c)	An amployea called in on a call-in shall be free to leave the plant when the equipment breakdown, emergency,orother urgentsituation has been satisfied,and be paid for the call-in without beingrequiredtoperformatieastfour (4) hours work.
(d)	An employee on call-inwho has worked for four(4) hoursshallbe paida mealallowanceinaccordancewith Article 13.14.
13.16
ReportingAllowance
(a)	i nthe event an employeereports for work at his scheduled time, without having been previously notified not to report, unless hisfailureto receive notice notto reportisdue to absence without just cause from his shift, and lessthanfour (4) hours work is available for him, he shall be paid four (4) hours at hisregularhourly rate.
(b)	It shall be the responsibility of an employee who has been absent from work for any reason, to check with his departmental supervisor or the personnel department
41
on the day prior to returning to work, so that ha may beadvised of his shift schedule.
(c)	The company is only required to make a concerted effort to call employees at their last known listed phone number, confirmedbya unionrepresentative.
13,17
"Banking" of Overtime Pay
An employee in Maintenance (including Oiler, Maintenance Helper/Painter, Welder, Electrician and Stationary Engineer) who performs work on an overlime basis may, at the option of the employee, receive payment for the time worked at the appropriate overlime rate, or "bank" such overtime hours calculated on the basis of the regularhouriy rateequivalentfor such time. Such "banked" time may betakenaspaidlimeoff at a time or times to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and his immediate supervisor, payable at the employee'sregularhourlyrateatthetimethelimeoffisgranted. Banked overtime may be accumulated to a maximum of forty (40) hours, at any one time. Such time off shall be taken in minimumperlodsofeight(8) hours.
ARTICLE14
SPECIALALLOWANCES
14.01
The Company agrees to pay the annual renewal fee for the licenses of operatingengineers, electriciansand welders
ARTICLE15
PAIDHOLIDAYS
15.01
The expression "Holiday" wherever used in this Agreement, shall meananyoneofthe following:
New Year's Day LabourDay GoodFriday ThanksgivingDay EasterMonday
Remembrance Day (November 11)
Victoria Day Christmas Day Canada Day Boxing Day New Brunswick Day
in the event that the Provincialor FederalGovernment declares an additional holiday duringthe term of this Agreement, It will be recognized as one of the above holidays.
15.02	(a) Should any of the holidays mentioned above fall on a Sunday, the regular working day which next follows will normally be designated as the holiday.
(b)	Should any of the holidays referredto abovefall on a Saturday, the holiday will, by mutual agreement, be rescheduled within thirty (30) calendar days of the day which would have otherwise been the holiday. Such lieu day shall be recognized asthe halidayforthe purpose of the Agreement.
(c)	Should any of the above holidays fall on the scheduled day off of an Operating Engineer, while on an eight (8) hour shift, such an employee shall be paid for such holiday in an amount equal to his regularhourly rate, multipliedby twelve (12).
15.03	(a) Employeeson the seniority list shall receive pay for each such holiday, provided the employee worked or was availableforwork onthe scheduled working day precedingthe holiday and the scheduled working day following the holiday. Any employee's pay for each such holiday shall be an amount equalto his regularhourly rate, multiplied by eight (8). Effective January 1,2002, employeeswho have exhausted their GWP would not receive holiday pay unless they work the day immediatelypreceding andfollowingthe holiday.
(b) Temporaryemployeesand probationaryemployees (who have worked five (5) working days in the twenty (20) working days prior to the holiday) shall receive pay for each such holiday, provided the employee worked on (he working day precedingtheholiday andtheworking dayfollowingthe holiday. An employee's pay for each such holiday shall be an amount 43
equalto hisregularhourly rate, multipliedby eight (B).
15.04
An employee who is absent on his last regularwork day before and/or hisflrst regularwork day afterthe holiday will qualify for holiday pay (as set out in 15.03 above) if such absenceis paid for under Article 17 - Paid Time Off, has been approved by the Company, or is for just cause, provided, however, that holiday pay shall not be payable ifthe employee is eligibletor payment for the day on which the holiday Is observed under Worker's Compensation, the tong Term Disability Plan or the Guaranteed Wage Pian. An employee who is eligible for paymentforthedayon which the holiday isobserved under the Weekly Indemnity Plan, shall receiveas pay for the holiday an amount equalto the holiday pay set out in clause 15.03, less the amount he received for that day underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan
15.05
In the event that an employee is req uired or called in to work on any of the holidays referred to above and he is assigned less thaneight (8) hours work, he wl receive pay for at least four (4) hours inanamount equalto two (2) times his regularhourly rate.
15.06
Should an employee agree to work on any of the holidays mentioned above, if requested to do so by the Company, the Company shall, at the option of the employee, pay such an employee at the appropriate overtime rate for all work performed by him and required by the Company on such holiday,inadditionto:
(a)	payfor the holiday, or
(b)	allowingthe employeeto retain the holiday with pay as a "floater" to be granted to the employee at his request,with pay, in lieuofsuch holiday.
15.07
Where bereavement leave occurs on a paid holiday. such holiday may be rescheduledwith mutual agreement between theemployeeandthepersonneldepartment.
44
ARTICLE 16 VACATIONS
16.01
Every regular employeewho, during Ihe life of this Agreement, completes a year of continuousservice with the Company, will qualify fora vacation with pay.
16.02
Tne lengtn of vacaton ft An cn eacn employees beent leo u it oe governed oy tne tota engtn of n e cont n.ois serv ce u th the Company ana a be aeterm nea from the schedule n clause16.04 below.
16.03
The amount of vacation pay to which each employee Is entitled inrespectto hisvacationentitlementunder clause 16.04 below, shall be an amount equal 1o his regular hourly rate, multiplied by forty (40) hours,foreach week ofvacation.
16,04
Schedule of Vacation With Pay Entitlement During The Life of
ThisAareement
LENGTH OF	LENGTH OF
SERVICE	VACATION
1 butlessthan 3years	2weeks
3 but lessthan Byears	3 weeks
8 butlessthan 15 years	4 weeks
15 butlessthan 20 years	5 weeks
20butfessthan25yeers	6 weeks
25buttessthan3Syears	7weeks
35 or more years	8 weeks
Employees with lessthan one (1) year of continuousservice in any calendar year shall be granted e vacation with pay on the following basis:
(I)	if seniority attained by June 30th - one (1) week,
fit) if seniority attained after June 30th -a pro-rated vacation entitlement based on time worked during that year, with pay in an amount equalto one (1) week pro-ratedat his regular hourly rate,whichever isgreater.
45
(iii)	Iftheemployeeduringthatyearof service in respect of which vacation, vacation bonus and sick days granted Is absent due to lay off, maternity leave or other approved absence other than Short or Longterm Disability or W.C.B.jthenentitlementwill be pro-rated.
e.g. (sickdays)
#ofdavsworked	or 80davsworke i ;7
# of working days	250 working days	a ays
e. g. (vacation)
#	of days worked x Normal Vacation Entitlement
#	of working days
or
150 davs worked x 10 =5.6 days 264working days
When pro-rating, .6 and higher will be rounded up, ,5 and lower will be rounded down.
16,05	(a) When an employee has commenced his
vacation, he shall not be requiredto work during his vacation, except by mutual agreement.
(b)	In the eventthat an employee becomes ill or is injured, or a bereavement occurs, after having commenced his vacation, he shall at that time have the remainder of that period of his scheduled vacation postponedand rescheduledat anothertimetobemutuallyagreeduponbetweentheemployee and his immediate supervisor. To qualify under this clause for such a postponed vacation,the employee must, at the time of such disability or bereavement, Immediately contact his immediate supervisoror the personneldepartment, and qualify for benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan or Bereavement Leave.
16.06
Should one or more of the holidays referred to in dause15.01 fallwithinthe period of an employee's vacation, he may request an additionalday off, with pay, in lieu of each such holiday. If an employee does not elect time off in lieu of vacation containing 46
such holiday(s), his vacation pay shall be increased by an amount equal to his regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8), for each such holiday.
16.07
Everyemployee will, upon request, be paid immediately prior io going on vacation, by separate cheque for each week of vacationwith pay,thevacationpaytowhich heisentitled.
16.08	(a) Employees who are entitled to two (2) or more weeks of vacation may take up to two (2) consecutive weeksvacationduringthe period betweenthe second Monday in Juneand thesecond Friday in September.
(b)	Employees who are entitled to seven (7) or moreweeksofvacationmaytakeanadditionalweekofvacation during the period betweenthe second MondayinJune and the second Friday in September.
(c)	To provide employees with reasonable opportunitiesto plan and arrange their vacation periods, the followingprocedureshall apply:
(i) On or before January 31st of each calendar year, the Company shall post a notice requesting all employees to submit their choice of dates to the Personnel Department.
(li) Employees shall be allowed until March 31st to submit their choice of dates for vacation during that calendaryear.
(lii) If an employee fails to submit his choice of dates by March 31st, he shall lose any preference In choice of dates based on seniority. Such an employee shall submit his choice of datesas soon as possibletofacilitatethe preparation and completion ofthevacation schedule.
(iv)	All vacation time must be scheduled by Octoberl of each year or it will be scheduled by the Company,
(d)	Subject to the limitations of clauses 16.08
(a)	and (b) above, preference in regard to the available Vacation dates will be given, in order of seniority, to
47
employeeswithineachoccupationalgroupanddepartment.
16.09
VacationPavon Termination
Every employee, whose employment with the Company is terminated during the life Of this Agreement, shell be entitled to a vacation payallowancebased on thelengthofhiscontinuous employment with the Company, in respect of which he hasnot received a paid vacation, in accordance with clause 16,04 above. Such payment shall be as provided for in clause 16,03 for any vacation earned but not taken prior to his last anniversary cf employment, plus a pro-rated payment for vacation earned since his last anniversary to his termination date. Employeeswho retire during the calendaryear shall also be entitled to receive their full vacation pay bonus, based on theirvacationentitlementthatyear, upon retirement.
16.10
Vacation Pay Bonus
Employees who have three (3) or more years of continuous service will be paida Vacation Bonus of 20% ofthelractual (prorated) vacation pay entitlement. Such bonus will be paid to all employees in a lump sum payment on thesecond pay period of Juneineachyear.
16.11
Employeeswho are absent from work for the entire calendar yearforany reasonshall not accruevacation, vacation bonusor sickdays.
ARTICLE17 PAID TIME OFF
17.01
Sick Leave
(a)	On January 1st of each calendaryear, all regular employees will be credited with seven (7) days of sick leave (pro-rated) for that year at their regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8) for each such day. These days are to be used to offset loss of pay caused by occasional illnesses or injury of upto three (3) working days which are not
48
covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Any unused portion of sick leave will be paid to eligible employees in the first pay of December. Sick days must be taken as full days only. Unused sick days can be cashed out at any time for full unused balance only.
(b)	Employees who attain seniority during the calendar year shall be credited with four (4) hours at their regular hou rly rate for each full month worked from the date they attained seniority.
(c)	Employees who terminate their employment or retire during the calendar year shall receive any unused sick leave benefits pro-rated at one-half (1/2) day (at their regular hourly rate then in effect) for each full month worked from January 1 to their termination date. In the event of the death of a employee such payment shall be made to his named beneficiary, ifany, orto his estate.
17.02
An employee who is called for Jury Duty.orwho issubpoenaed to appear in court as a Crown witness, or who is required to appear before any court commission, board or tribunal in the Province of New Brunswick in any matter relating io his employment with the Company, will receive for each day of necessary absence on that account, the difference betweenhis regular earnings for that day and the amount of any fee received,providedtheemployeefurnishes the Companywitha certificateof service and satisfactory evidenceastothe amount offee received.
17.03
(a)	In the event of a death of the wife, husband or child, the employee will be gra nted time off by the Company, without loss of regular earnings, for not more than five (5) consecutive working days in total. In the event of a death of the mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-lawor daughter-in-law, which shall include step-relatives (child, mother, father, sister, or brother) and common-law spouse of an employee, that employee will be granted time off by the
49
Company, without loss of regular earnings, for not more than three (3) consecutive working days. If an additional day is necessary to enable the employee to attend the funeral, the employee will be granted the day, without loss of regular earnings. In the event of the death of the brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle or aunt of an employee, that employeewill be grantedone(1)day,withoutloss of regular earnings,forthepurposeofattendingthefuneral.
Permanent employees who serve as Active Pallbearers at the funeral of a fellow employee shall be paid up to four (4) hours regular pay for time not worked on a scheduled shift.
(b)	On advance notice to the Company one executive member ofthelocal will begivenlimeoffwith paytoattend the funeralof a pastorpresent member.
ARTICLE18
WORKER'S COMPENSATION SUPPLEMENT
18.01
(a)	The company will pay a supplement to any regular employee, who is unable to work due to a disability that entitles himto Worker's Compensation benefits, resultingfrom an illness or injury while at work. The amount of such supplement shall be in an amount equal to seventy-fivepercent (75%) of such an employee's regular hourly rate, multiplied by eight (8) for each day of such absence, lessany compensation received under a Workeh Compensation claim. Such supplement will be paid while the employee is receiving his benefits from the Worker's Compensation Board or until the employee becomes eligible for benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan. The Company will continue to pay such an employeesuch supplement, subjectto theemployee endorsing paymentsreceivedfromWorker'sCompensation payabletothe Company, or arrangingwith the Wo rke h Compensation Board to have such payments sent directly to the Company.
(b)	The above (a) "Top-up" Is prohibitedas long asBIII55is ineffect.
50
ARTICLE19
EMPLOYEEBENEFITS
19.01
The Company shallcontinuetheexistingEmpioyee Benefit and Pension Plan, with the improvementsto such plans, which are summarized in Appendix "C" -Employee Benefit Plans and Appendix "D" -Pension Plan,attached hereto andforming part of this Agreement and which shall not be changed without the agreement of the ynion. Details of these benefits and plans shall b e as set forth in the MasterPolicies and Plan referredto in Appendices "C" and"D". Shouldthere be any dispute inrelation to these Plans, the terms of the Master Policy or Plan shall govern. The Company is responsible for the application and administration of these plans.
19.02
The employee benefits and pension pian referredto in clause
19.01	above, shall be the following:
Weekly IndemnityPlan LongTermDisability Plan GroupLife Insurance Plan Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan ExtendedHealth Care Plan (Blue Cross)(which indudesmajor medical. Drescrlofion drugs, hearingandvisioncare,etc.)
Dental Care Plan
Annendix "D" -Pension Plan
MoosaheadBreweriesLimitedPensionPian
19.03
Weekly Indemnify Pay
(a)	Employees absent due to illness or non-occupafional Injury ana entitled to Weekly Indemnity Benefits, shall be paid an amount equal to fneir weekly benefit entitlemenreach pay day during their disability.
(b)	Such employees will be requiredto submit completed Weekly Indemnity claim forms as required by the
51
insurer to continue to receive full Weekly Indemnity pay in su bsequent pay periods. It is understood that Weekly Indemnity Benefit cheques will be endorsed by the employee Davable to the Companyand returned to the Company.
ARTICLE20
GENERAL
20.01
Local UnionPresident
The Company and the Union agree that the employee holding the office of President of the Local union shall be granted paid time off on the basis of two (2) days, sixteen (16) hours each month, at his regular hourly rate, to enable him to attend 1o matters related to the administration of this Agreement and his duties as President. The employee holding the office of President, shall also be paid a premium of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour above his regular hourly rate, for all hours paid for each week, to a maximum of forty (40) hours.
20.02
Maternity Leave
(a)	The Employer shall not terminate the employmentof an employee who has been an employee for one (1) year or longer because of the employee's pregnancy, but the Employer, before or after the commencement of the period referred to in Article (b), may require the employee to commence leave without pay at a time when the duties of the employee's position cannot reasonably be performed by a pregnant woman or the performanceof the employee's work is materiallyaffected by the pregnancy.
(b)	The Employershall, at any time from a date ten (10) weeks before the specified date of delivery to the date of actual delivery, upon request of a pregnant employee made through the employer and receipt of a certificate by a legally qualified medical practitioner, stating that the employee is pregnant and specifying the date upon which delivery will occu r in his/her opinion, grant to the emplovee a leave of absence withoutpay:
(1) of seventeen (17) weeks; or
52
(2)	to a date of seven (7)weeks afterthedateofactual delivery; or
(3)	forany shorterperiod
at the option of the employee, except that an employee shall not work and the Employer shall not cause or permittheemployee to work for at least seven (7) weeks after the date of delivery or far a shorter period that, in the written opinion of a legally qualifiedmedical practitioner, issufficient.
(c)	Where an employeereportsforworkuponthe expiration of the period referred to in Article (b), the employee shall resume work in the same position she held prior to the commencementof the maternity leave, with no loss of seniority or benefits accrued to the commencement of the maternity leave.
(d)	While an employee Ison maternity leave, the Employershallmaintaincoveragefor medical, extended health, graup life and any other employee benefit plan and shall continue to pay its share of premiumcosts for maintaining such coverage during the periodof maternity leave.
(e)	Whilean maternityleave, anemployeeshall continue to accrueand accumulateservice and seniority credits for the duration of her leave, and her service and seniority shall be deemed to be continuous. However, service accumulated during maternity leave shall not be used for the purposes of calculatingvacation leavecredits
(f)	For the purposesof Article (a), an employee shall produce when so requested by the Employer, the Certificate referredto in Article (b).
(g)	leaveforillnessofanemployeearisingOUtof or associatedwith her pregnancy priorto the commencement of, or the ending of, maternity leave granted in accordance with Article (b) may be granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 17.01.
53
ARTICLE 21
DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
RENEWALANDAMENDMENT
21.01
(a)	This Agreement shall beeffectivefrom January 1,2000 and shall remain in full force and effective through December 31, 2003. Either partytothis Agreement desiring to negotiate a new Agreementshall give noticeto the other party, in writing, at any limewithin the sixty (60) day period priortotheexpiration date. Unless such notice of desire to negotiate is given, the Agreement shall automatically be renewed, without change, from year lo year thereafter, until such lime as notice is given, within the sixty (60) day period prior to the annual expiration date. Following receipt of such notice, by either party, of intention to renegotiate or modify the existing Agreement, a joint conference will be held for the purpose of commencing negotiationsfor a newAgreement.
(b)	Following receipt of noticeof desire to negotiate, within the period referred to above, or within such further period as the parties may agree upon, the parties shall meet, bargainingood faith and make every reasonable effort to conclude an Agreement.
(c)	it is agreed and understood between the parties to this Agreement that all provisionsofthisAgreementareto remain in full force and effect until negotiations are comoleted and/or conci liatlon proceedings exhausted.
In Witness Whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representativesaltheCItyof Saint John, inthe ProvinceofNew Brunswick, this 13th day of September, 2000.
54
, ,i Furthermore, the Company and the Union do hereby enter into a Collective Agreement to be effective January 1, 2004, which will remain in effect until December 31 st, 2008, the terms nf which shall be identical to the terms of the Current Collective Agreement, subjectoniy to the additions, deletions, alterations, amendments or other modifications hereinafter set forth:
FORTHE UNION	FORTHE COMPANY
Gerald Stack Anne Barrett
b tEd thenW He
Mike Lee Kevin Hooper
55
APPEND1XW
Wages and Jnh Classifications
CJl
o>
Production Dent
BalerOperator Carton Makeup Operator Depatlefeer Operator Filler Operator LabellerOperator PackerOperator Palletizer Operator Saw Operator UncaserOperator Production Maintenance Oiler
Maintenanceman"B"
Maintenanceman“A"
Jan.1 2000	Jan.1 20D1	Jan.1 . 2002	Jan.1Jan.1 2003 2004		Jan.1 2005	Jan.1 7006	Jan.1 2007	|||
22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.6?	26.44	2733	28.05
22.58	22.58	2326	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	2432	2567	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	23-26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	2326	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	2723	28.05
22.58	2258	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
22.63	22.63	23.31	24.01	24.97	25.72	26.49	27.28	28.10
23.86	23.86	24.68	25.32 26.33		27.12	27.93	28.77	29.63
25.78	25.79	26.56	27.36 28.45		29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Brewing Department
Carbonating Man	22.65	22.65	23.33	24.03	24.99	25.74	26.51	27.31	28.13
Fermenting Room Man	22.65	22.65	23.33	24.03 24.99		25.74	26.51	27.31	28.13
Keg FillerOperator	22.58	22.58	2326	24.03 24.99		25.74	26.51	27.31	28.13
KetUeman	22.65	22.65	23.33	24.03	24.99	25.74	26.51	27.31	28.13
Hospitality Steward	22.58	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.23	28.05
	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1	Jan.1
Enoineerino Deot.	2000	2001	2002	2003	2004	2005	2006	2007	2008
3 Class Stationary Engineer 25.79		25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Electrician (Journeyman)	25.79	25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Instrumentation Mechanic									
(Journeyman)	25.79	25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
MaintenancemanU”	23.86	23.86	24.58	25.31	26.33	27.12	27.93	28.77	29.63
Maintenanceman“A"	25.79	25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Welder'A’	25.79	25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Maintenance Hefper/Painter	22.44	22.44	23.11	23.81	24.76	25.50	26.27	27.05	27.87
Shiooinoand Receivino									
Checker	22.58	22.58	23.27	23.97	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.24	28.05
Stores Clerk	22.58	22.5S	23.27	23.97	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.24	28.05
Fork Lift Meehan icA	25.79	25.79	26.56	27.36	28.45	29.30	30.18	31.09	32.02
Fork Lift Operator General Labour Temporary Employee Probationary Employee SludentRate
Quality Control Technician Supervisory Personnel Relieving Foreman
12.00
13.45
9.11
22.58	23.27	23.97	24.92	25.67	26.44	27.24	28.05
22.44	23.11	23.81	24.76	25.50	26.27	27.05	27.87
12.00	1236	1273	13.24	13.64	14.05	14.47	14.90
13.45	13.85	14.27	14.84	1529	15.74	1622	16.70
9.11	9.38	9.66	10.05	10.35	10.66	10.98	11.31
22.63	23.31	24.01	24.97	25.72	26.49	27.28	28.10
22.89	23.58	24.28	25.26	26.01	26.79	27.60	28.43
Wanes
•	S750lumpsumforallemployeesactivelyemployedatdateoFratifioation.
•	250/hour lump sum eatfiyearofAgreementibryeaTs2and 3.
•	,25iyhourtD base rate inyear4.
Hew Hires
•	Employees who are hired after January 1,2000 will receive theappropriate rate ofpayas per Appendix A.
•	NoBenefits
1.	Cost of Living Allowance fCOLAI
A Cost of LivingAllowancein a lump sum paymentwillbe paidto regularemployeesforallhoursworkedpincludingvacationsand statutory holidays, in the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31,2003, the first pay period following publication of the December,2003 Consumer Price Index (198$ = 100}, on the basis of Jf.OI per hour for each Ml ,3 change in the Consumer Price I ndex, (1986 = 100) in the period from January 1,2003 to December31,2003, calculated by subtractingthe Consumer Price Index for the month of December 2002, after adding thereto 7% of the December,2003 ConsumerPricelndexfrom the ConsumerPrlcO Index for the month of December2002.
2.	Retroactivity
There is no retroactivity to any of the matters referredto in this agreement exceptwherespadfically indicated.
3.	Tool Allowance
The Company agrees to replace all tools for tradesmen, requiredto performtheirwork, which need replacementdueto breakage, unusability due to normal wear and tear, or theft.
4.	Hospitality Steward
The Company and the Unionagreethat,intheevenla vacancy occurs in the job of Hospitality Steward, the prime consideralionsforcandidatesforthejob will be, (1) ability to do the job, (2)disability causing difficulty to perform work in any otherjobinthe bargaining unit, (3) seniority. In caseswhere an employee requires the job due to (2) above, these three (3) factors will be given equal value points and the employee with greaterpoints and seniorityshall be giventhejob, where there is a choiceto be made betweentwo (2) or more applicants.
59
5.	Progression Within Maintenanceman "A" Classification
Employees qualified for progression to Maintenanceman "A status will be reviewed annually. If not considered qualified, Ihey will be given the reasons for the decision and shall have recoursetothegrievanceprocedureifthey are not satisfied with the review, or the reasons given. If qualified, (hey wilt be reclassified as Maintenanceman" A.
6.	Relieving Foreman -Premium
An employee, while performing work as a Relieving Foreman, whose regular rate is $0,36 per hour or more above the differentialapplicableto a Relieving ForemanunderAppendix "A", shall be paid a premium of $0.36 per hour above the highest rate paid to the employees under his direction or his classification,whichever is greater.
7.	ProbatlonaruTradesmen
Probationary tradesmen shall be paid ten cents ($0.10) per hour lessthan their classification ratewhen hired and untilthey becomea regularemployee.
8.	If an employee is hired or promoted on the express understandingthatheattain and maintainacertaineducational standard, failure to secure and maintain those qualifications would providethe company with groundslor demotion.
APPENDIX 'B'
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
AGREEMENT between Moosehead Breweries Limited and Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Local362.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the BargainingUnitinSaintJohn, NewBrunswick.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplementto the 60
said CollectiveAgreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedureof the CollectiveAgreement,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuationto become effective on the 1st day of May, 1991 or on any later date on which approval for continuationhas been receivedfromtheFederalGovernmentholdingthat:
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemploy me ntBenefit Plans,
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes,and,
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employeesfrom receivingany part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1,	Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income tocertainemployeeswho are laidoff temporarily.
2.	Elioibilitv for Participation in the Plan
Any regular hourly-rated employee havingat least three years of seniority (After April 1,1994) at the date of his lay-off from the bargaining unitwill beeligible to participate in this Plan.
i.	Exceptions
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a) Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off Is questioned under the employees
61
of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status underthe Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout si c «n, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the National U nion or by any local Union thereof, or successors thereof-
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations, unless:
(i) the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(i \) the d Irection or decree purports to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing withir the province of New Brunswick; or
(d)	Employeeswho have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign powerorbyanyact of sabotage or Insurrection or by any act of God,
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period i n lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such Deriod
4.	Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and whowould otherwise be eligible for participation In the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan forany week:
(i) in which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for E, I. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled f i E. I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting perioo
62
(ii) in which he has been on layoff and has failed to Keep himsell registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for E. I. benefits or for reduction of E. I. waiti ng period.
{(ii) in which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for hir by ie Employment Insurance Commission.
(iv) in which he h is faili d to a ;c q t i t for any approprial	>rk assignment of at least one normal working
day u nless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	in which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's insured weekly indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect ofwhich he is qualified for compensation from the Work 0 itic B 3i i f any i| 3l It lid it orillness.
5.	Definitions
For the purpose of this Plan:
"Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any teave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
"Week" shall mean the Company's payrollweek.
"Compensatedand available hours" means as applied to any particularweekforanyemployee:
(a) All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus Grievance Procedure
63
(b)	Ail hours notworked by the employee in such week but for which he received wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hou rs scheduled in such week for an employee who is not onlayoffandwhich he has not worked for any reason other than
lackofwork, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an e mployee who is on
layoff and which he has notworked for any reason other than lackofwork after beinggiven reasonablenotice accordingtothe establishedpracticeoftheCompanythatsuchscheduledhours wereavailableto beworkedbyhim.
"Week of layoff means a week in which the employee's compensatedand availablehours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided tor Laid Off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as hereinsetout each eligible employee who is laid off from the BargainingUnit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determiningtheproductofitems 1,2 arid 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabovedeflned.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of limeoflayoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (^0) over thn onmnensatari anri ava ilahla hoursof the employee
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Employment tnsu ranee Act for such week.
64
7.	Employee Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Employee Benefit Pianofthe Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month followingthe last month in which he hasworked inthe Bargaining Unit, or untilthe end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Employee Benefit Plan for the purposeofthissectiondoesnotindudethe Pension Planorthe Company's insuredWeekly Indemnity and tong Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illnessoraccident.
An employee on layoffwho, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Employee Benefit Plans are restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (6) hours work inthe Bargaining Unit.
8.	DurationofBenefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table "A". However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restoredthem.
Weeksofbenefitsarerestoredbasedupontheformulaof1/10of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee's maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table "A" below. No creditstowardsfuture benefitentitlementsare allowedfor wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitledto the maximumbenefits set out in Table "A".
65
TABLE'A'
CompletedYears ofSeniority Determined at thedateof first layoffin anytwelve month period iSYearsorMore 10YearsorMore SYearsorMore 4 Years or More 3 Years or More 2 Years or More 1 Year or More
Maximum Benefit
78Weeksof0enefits 65 Weeks of Benefits 52 Weeks of Benefits 45WeeksofBenefits 35 Weeks of Benefits 25WeeksofBenefits 15WeeksofBenefits
(a)The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing at the date of first layoff shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined at the date of first layoff in any twelve month period in accordance with Table "A" above.
(b) All employees attaining seniority after April 1,1994 and with 3 years of seniority will be eligible.
Each eligible employee's weeks of benefitsshall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; end by 4/5th of one week for each week in which heisonlayoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hou re; and by3/5thof one week for each week in which heisonlayoff and in receipt of benefitsformorethansixteen (16) hours; end by 2/5th of one week for each week in which heisonlayoffand in receipt of benefits for mane than eight (8) hours; and by 1/5th of e week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor eight (8) hours or less: and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections(i), (ii), (iii) and(iv) of Section4.
66
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisionsof the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorizatiorfrom theemployeeconcerned.
10.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Companyafter consultationwith the Union. The wilful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have underthe Planfora periodof twelve (12) months subsequentto thedtscovery ofsuch falsi fi cation, and thisshall not predudeany other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedureof the CollectiveAgreement.
11.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union while employeesare laidofland receivingbenefitsunderthe Planand quarterly if no employees are on layoff giving the Union complete information as to the number of employeeswho have been laid off, the deration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
12.	Durationof Agreement
This AgreementshallcontinueuntilDecember 31,2003. During negotiationsfor renewal of the relevant CollectiveAgreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendmentsto this Agreement will not take effectany earlier than January 1,2004,
67
Furthermore, the Company and the Union do hereby enter into a collective agreement to be in effect January 1,2004, which will e nain in effect until December 31,2008 tt I n 4 which if nil l identical t the t< is of tf 3 current collective agreement, subject to only the additions, deletions, alterations, amendments orother modifications hereinafter set forth:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 13th dayofSeptember, 2000,
FORTHE UNION Geraid Stack Anne tt t TEd
Stephen Wallace
FORTHE COMPANY Mike Lee Kevin Hooper
APPENDIX 'C
MQOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED SAINT JOHN, NEWBRUNSWICK OutlrneoflnsuredEmDloveeBenefiis:
The terms and conditionsoithe benefits setout below shall be governed by the Master Policies with the insurers. The effective dates for the improved coverage are indicated appropriately. The full premium cost of the benefits referredto below shall bepaidbythe Company.
ee
GENERAL INFORMATION
1.	Definition of Dependant
Your spouse (legal or common-law, provided the common-law relationshiphas existed for one year or more) for health and dental insurance;
Your unmarried children or your spouse's unmarried children (including adopted, foster or stepchildren) who are chiefly dependent on you for support and maintenance and for whom you are entitledto an incometax deduction, and provided they are u pto 19 years of age. Under certain conditions as outlined below, coverage for dependent children may be extended:
up to age 21 if qualified as a dependent according to the Federal IncomeTax Act; or
upto age 25 if qualified as a dependent and is a full time student atan accreditedschool,college oruniversity or
up to age25 if qualified as a dependent and is incapableof selfsustaining support or employment by reason of mental or physicaldisability.
2.	Co-ordination of Benefits
In addition to the benefits payable underthis plan, sometimes an employee or dependent is entitled to benefits for the same expenses under an automobile insurance plan or another groupinsuranceplan.
Should this type of duplication occur, the benefits under this plan will be co-ordinated so that the total benefits for all plans will not exceedtheexpensesactually incurred.
3.	Termination oflnsurance
Unless otherwise specified in the booklet, insurance coverage foryoursalfand/oryourdependentsceasewhen:
you leave your job;
69
the group policy expires;
you stop making contributionswhen required;or
attainmentofage65.
4.	General Limitations
Yoursupplementary health insurance and vision care insurance doesnotcoverservicesand suppliesin thefollowlng situations:
-con valescent.custodialor rehabilitation services;
-conditions notdetrimentalto health:
-services or supplies normally provided without cost or at nominalcost by the participant's government health pian;
-benefits that you receive or are entitled to received from WorkersCompensation;
-mileage or delivery charges;
-Insurrectlonofwar;
-participatiortn the commission of a criminal offence
5.	Eligibility forEmnlovee Benefits
-all regularemployeeswill haveEmployeeBenefitsandGWP as per Appendices B and C of the current collective agreement.
Commencing inyear 2002, employees who have lessthan 20 weeks remaining in their GWP bankwilf be subfect to a 50% co-pay for any month following a month in which the employeehasworkedtessthan48 regulartime hours.
-If an employee opts out of paying the premium, he will serve awaiting period for re-enrollment of 6 months unless he re-
70
HOWTO MAKE YOUR CLAIM
Life. Accidental Death and Dismemberment and Long Term Disability Insurance
*	the employer mustbe contacted.
Extended HealthInsurance
‘save your receipts forcovered expenses;
‘complete the claims form which is available from your employer, attach supporting receipts and return lo your employer; and
‘besureeach bill shows:
(1)	patient’s name
(2)	dates of services
(3)	nature of service
(4)	complete itemizationofthe charges.
GroupTravel Insurance
•you must payfor services rendered
‘obtain receiptsinduplicate
*	submit one copy of the receipts to the provincial health plant or payment.
‘forward receiptsandthe original proofof payment made by the provinciahealthplantoyouremployer.
*	be suTBthat each receiptfordrug expenses shows the nameof thedrugandtheprescriptionnumber.
Dentalinsurance
*	ask your dentist to complete Part 1 of the Standard Dental Claims Form;
*	Part 2 of this form is to be completed bytheemployee;
71
* malldErectlyta;
Blue Cross of Atlantic Canada
P.O.BOX220
Moncton, N. B
EIC8L3
SCHEDULE OF INSURANCE /HOURLY)
Yourgroupinsurancebenefitsare underwrittenby the following insurancecompanies:
GroupLife Insurance BlueCrossofAtlantic Canada
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance -Unum Life InsuranceCompany
LongTerm DisabilityInsurance. BlueCrossofAtlantic Canada
Weekly Indemnity .Supplemental Health and Dental Insurance -BlueCrossofAtlantic Canada
FOR EMPLOYEES
GROUPLIFE INSURANCE Classification
Active hourly-rated employees
Amount of Benefit at ratification -Effective January 1/96 -$70,000.
All employeesshall havethe option of purchasingadditional life insurance through the Group Life Insurance Plan. It is agreed that 100% of the cost of this optional life insurancewill be the responsibilityof the employee.
EmployeesRetiredAfterMayl, 1991 -$5,000 Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment
An amount equal to your group life insuranceunderthis plan -the principal sum.
72
WeeKIvIndemnity Insurance
All full-time union employees -70% of weekly salary to a maximum benefit. Benefits are based on a normal work week (Monday through Friday) and payments commence on the fourth working day of disability if due to an accident and the fourth working day of disability if due to sickness and are payablefor a maximumof 26 weeks.
Long Term Disability Insu ranee
Hourly-ratedEmployees-66 2/3% of monthly insured earnings to a maximummonthlybenefit of $3,500 (taxable)
FOR EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS Supplementary Health Insurance There is no deductible;
Reimbursement is at 100% of eligible expenses, unless otherwise stated in the policy. Effective Jan. 1, 2004 other medicalpractioners are at 80% of eligibleexpense. There is a co-pay for prescription drug items based on thefollowing table:
January 1,2003	$ 6.00
January 1,2005	$8,00
January 1,2008	$10.00
Drugs must require a prescription (no over the counter medications). For certain prescriptions(such as "drugsoflast resort') BlueCrossreviews to ensure appropriate medication.
Overall maximum isunlimited;
Coverage for, prescription drugs, vision care and extended healthcare benefits.
DentalInsurance
Annual deductible -nit.
73
Basic-no annual maximum
AdditionalannualVlaximums-$1,000.
Orthodontics 50% to a $2,500. lifetime maximum. Covers medically necessary treatmentsonly.
Co-Insurance -basic -100%, additional-70%, arthodantics-50%.
Basic. AdditionalandOrthorionticServices
Reimbursement based on the current Dental Fee Schedule of your provinceofresidence.
Eligibility
If you are an hourly-rated employee, you are eligible to participateinthisgroupinsurance planonthe first ofthe month following the daleofbecomingapermanentfull-timeemployee.
Participations the plan is a condition of employment and you and your dependents will be covered automatically as soon as you becomeeligible.
Be sure to report any changes in dependent status to your employer within 31 daysof this change so that the appropriate coveragemay be obtai ned.
Any Increase in benefit amounts become effectivethe first day ofthe monthfollowingdate of ratification.
Temporary Employees All temporary employees hired beforeJune12,1999 areeligibleforoptional BlueCrosson a 50/50 premiumcostsharingbasis,
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
In the event of your death from any cause whatsoever, your designated beneficiary will be paid the amount of you; group life insurance (see Schedule of Benefits section of this booklet for tl s nount). You may change your beneficiary at any time, subject to applicable laws.
74
If you become totally disabled prior to your 65th birthday, the amount of your group life insurance will be continued in force, without payment of fu rther premiums, provided that evidence of disability is submitted at least once a year. The amount of group life insurance continued under the waiver of premium provision will be subject to any reduction due to age prior to age 65 and to termination at age 65.
Life insurance reducesto $5,000at retirement
If any or alt of your insurance terminates prior to your 65th birthday, you may apply for an Individual life policy without taking a medical examination. See your employer for complele details about the types of conversic p oli i< sthatareavaih bli
Application for an individual policy must be made, and the first premium paid, within 31 days of termination of employment. If you die during this 31 day period, the amount of the cancelled grouplife insurance will neverthelessbe paid to the beneficiary.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE.
Should you suffer paralysis or loss of life, limb, sight, speech or hearing as the result of an accident, the insurance company will pay up to the "principal sum" (the principal sum is listed in the Schedule of Benefits section of this booklet). If multiple losses occur as the result of any one accident, benefits will be paid for only one of the losses specified in fh f flc ii TABLE OF LOSSES, the la rgest specified.
TABLE OF LOSSES
FOR LOSS OF: THE AMOUNT PAYABLE WILL BE:
Life-The Principal Sum Both Hands or Both Feet -The Principal Sum Sight of Both Eyes-The Principal Sum One Hand and One Foot -The Principal Sum
75
One Hand orFootand Sight ofOne Eye-The Principal Sum
Speechand Hearing-The Principal Sum
OneLeg or One Arm -3/4 of the Principal Sum
EitherHandorFoot-2/3ofthe PrincipalSum
Speech or Hearing -2/3 of the Principal Sum
Sightof One Eye -2/3 ofthe PrincipalSum
Thumb a nd Index Finger ofthe Same Hand ■ 1 /3 of the Principal
Sum
Quadriplegia (totaland irreversible paralysisof all four limbs}-2 times The PrincipalSum
Paraplegia (total and irreversible paralysis of both lowerlimbs)-2 timesThe Principal Sum
Hemiplegia (totaland irreversible paralysis of one arm and one legonthesame sideofthe body)-2 times The PrincipalSum Loss of Use of;
Both hands orarms-ThePrincipalSum Onearmorone leg-3/4 The Principal Sum One handoronefoal-213The PrincipalSum.
Points to note about Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance:
Your basic accidental death and d ismemberment Insurance will be continued without further premium payment after a six month period of continuous disability from either accident or sickness for any further period of continuous total disability up to age 65. termination of employment or termination of the*Master Policy withthe insurer, whicheveroccurs first,
In the event you suffer inju ries as a result of an accident,you will be paid$1,500.00 for special training ifsuchtraining is required foryouto be qualified to engage in an occupation inwhichyou would not otherwise have been engaged. Expenses must be incurred within two years from the date of your accident but would not include ordinary living, travelling or clothing expenses.
Not more than the Maximum Limit of Indemnity as defined in the Master Policy ($750,000) would be paid for ail covered losses sustained by members of this group plan as a result of any one accident. If nne than the Maximum Limit of Indemnity In losses is sustained, the amount which would otherwise be payableto each insuredmemberwill be reduced
proportionately so that the total amount payable by the insurance company in respect of all insured members of the plan who have sustained losses in the accident equals the Maximum Limit of Indemnity.
Accidental death and dismemberment insurancewould not be paid in the event of injury or death resulting from:
.intentionally self-inflicted injuries, suicideor attempted suicide whilesaneorinsane;
.declared or undeclared war, or while serving on full-timeactive duty in the Armed Forces of any country or international authority;
-illness,disease, bodily infirmity or any bacterialinfectionother than bacterial infection occurring in consequence of an accidental cut or wound;
-travel or flight in any vehicle or device for aerial navigation, including boarding or alighting therefrom while being used for any test of experimental purpose, orwhile operating, learning to operate or serving as a crew member while being operated by or for or u nder the direction of any military authority, other than the transport type aircraft operated by the Armed Forces Air Transport Group of Canada or similar air transport service of any country, or travel in aircraft owned, teased or operated by theemolovr
Accidental death and dismemberment insurance will not be paid if paralysis, loss of limb, sight, speech or hearing occurs more than 365 days after the accident.
For the purposes of this accidental death and dismemberment insurance, "loss" shall mean with regard to hands orfeet, actual severance through or above wrist or ankle joints; with regard to eyes, entire and irrecoverable loss of sight, with regard to leg or arm, actual severance through or above knee or elbow joints, with regard to thu mb and index finger, actual severance through or above metacarpophalangeal joints; with regard to speech,
77
hearing, entire and irrecoverable loss, with regard to paralysis, (quadriplegia, paraplegia, hemiplegia) toss must be complete and Irreversible recovery of the use of suchlimbs,
Accidental death and dismemberment insurance will also be paid if loss is presumed to have occurred due to an accident resulting in the sinking of, or disappearance of, a conveyance and if the body has not been found within 365 days of the accident.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE
The weekly income benefit specified In the Schedule of Benefits is payable f, 1 the 4th working day of illness or nonoccupational accident for a period of twenty-six weeks. Regular medical attendance is required throughout the benefit period. Employees who are receiving weekly indemnity benefits due to a non-occupational accident will have the three-day waiting period paid following 20working days of continuous disability.
Successive disabilities are considered to be different periods if they are separated by fourteen consecutive days of active, fulltime work or the disability is due to wholly different causes,
Disabilities arising from pregnancy are covered, however, no benefits are payable during any period:
(a)	for which benefits are paid under the Employment Insu ranee
Act.
(b)	of maternity leave taken pursuant to provincial or federal law or pursuant to mutual agreement between the employee and the employer, or
(c)	which commences with the tenth week prior to the expected week of confinement for pregnancy and which ends with the sixth week of confinement
Limitations
No weekly Indemnity benefits shall be payable if:
7S
-you are disabled as the result of sickness or bodily injury for which you are entitledto any indemnity or compensation under any Workers' CompensationAct.
-during any period of disability during which you are not under the treatment of a physician legally licensed to practice medicine.
-during any period of disability resultingfrom intentionally self-inflicted injury.
Your weekly income benefits will be reduced by an amount payableundera government automobile insurance plan which isapprovedas a reductionby the Employment Insura nee Act.
CollectiveBaraainingAgreement
ifyou are receivingbenefits undertheweekly indemnity plan as provided for under the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, you shall be entitled to receive increases in the weekly indemnity benefit relativeto increases in the hourly rate of pay providedinthe CollectiveBargainingAgreement.
LONGTERM DISABILITYINSURANCE EliminationPeriod
The monthly income benefits specified in the Schedule of Benefits is payable after 26 weeks of total disability through to recovery,age65 or retirement,whichaver occurs first
Fora period of total disability which is a result of pregnancy, the elimination period commences on the date the pregnancy terminates, or, if earlier, the date the employee is totally disabled. Ceasing to be actively at work with the employer does not, by itself, meanthan an employee istotally disabled.
79
Definition of Disability
An insured employee is not considered totally disabled during the first 24 months following the elimination period if he/she is deemed able by the Company, to do the substantial (60%) portion of the regular duties of his own occupation for any employer.
Thereafter, an insured employee Is not considered totally disabled forthe periodfollowing the first24 months of benefits if he/she Is deemed able, by the company, to perform at least 60% of the regular duties of any occupation for any employer for which he/she is reasonably fitted, or could become, by education,trainingor experience.
Regulardutiesaredefined as those work relatedacttvifies which are considered essential to the employee's performance of the occupation and which proportionately take the majority of time to complete.
Successive Periods of Disability
If you return to work after a period of total disability, any subsequent period of total disability will be considered a continualionofthe previous one, unless the two periods of total disability are separated byanintervalof full-time employment of less than:
-one day, iftheiwo periodsof totaldfsabilily are due to unrelated causes: or
-six continuous months, if the two periodsof total disabilityare due to the same or related causes.
if the period of total disability is considered to be a continuation ofa previousperiod of total disability, benefits will be resumed in the same amount but without the application of another elimination period. Unless you ha ye been at workforatleast two weeks, your monthly indemnity will be based on the amount of your basicearningspriorto your originaldisability
80
Benefit Reduction
The purposeof this insurance is to extend to you a reasonable level of incomewhen you are disabled, but it is not designed to give you income which would exceed or even equal you r normal take-home pay when you are working. For this reason, the benefits that you receive from the plan will be reduced by any incomefrom the following sources.
Direct Offsets.
1.	any amountof income provided foryou and your dependents by reason of your Same or subsequent disability under the legislation of any government or emanation thereof, other than Employment Insurance. However, any increase in the disability under the Quebec/Canada Pension Pian because of an automatic adjustment in the cost-of-livingindex occurringwhile you are receiving monthly indemnity of monthly rehabilitative income is not consideredincome for the purpose ofdetermining theamount payable.
2,	any amount of income provided to you under any Workers' Compensation Lawor similar legislation.
In addition, if your monthly indemnity exceeds85% of monthly basicearnings, your monthly indemnity will be further reduced bythe amounts receivedfrom the followingsources. IndirectOffsets
1,	any amount of income provided for you from any employer by reason of the same or subsequent disability;
2,	any amount ofincome provided foryou underanyothergroup insurance or group pre-payment plan, including any policy issuedtoyouasa resultofyourmembershipinan associationof any kind;
3,	anyamountofincome provided for you under any retirement orpensionplanofyouremployer;
81
4.	where permitted by law, any amount of income provided for you for the same disability under a contract of motor vehicle Insurance which provides mandatory disability income benefits under the leg Islatlon of any government;
5.	when permitted by law, any amount of income provided for you under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act or similar legislation.
Rehabilitation
If, after having received payments, you are unable to return to your former full-time position but can engage In some work (approved by the insurer) for remuneration, the benefits will continue but will t reduced by 50% of your rehabilitative li igi provided your total income during a rehabilitative program does not exceed 100% of your pre-disability income. The benefits will cease once you are no longer classified as being totally disabled or on attainment of age 65.
Umitaiions
Your long term disability income continuance benefit does not Include coverage during which;
-you are not underfhe regular care of a doctor; or
-you engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit, other than rehabilitative employment; or
-beyond your 65th birthday,
Exclusions
Payment will not be made for any period of disability:
-in respect of pregnancy;
-if you are on a pregnancy leave ofabsencemutuallyagreeableto both you and youremployer; or
-if you are on a pregnancy leave ofabsencetowhlchyouare
82
entitledunder applicable provincialstatute:
-due to or resulting from any of the following;
-intentionally self-inflicted injuries, orattempted suicide;
.commission orattempted commissionof a criminaloffence by you;
-war,declared or undeclared, or active duty in any armedservice during atimeofwar; or
-participation nanyriot, rebellionor insurrection.
The company will make weekly payments equal to L.T.D. benefit until actual payments are received at which time the company will be reimbursed by the employee
DENTAL CARE INSURANCE
Dental care insurance has been designed to help you pay for your family dental expenses, both for routine care and for expensesforunforeseentreatment.
To be considered as e "covered expense", the charge for a particular service must be reasonable and customary for me service provided inthe area when theexpenseisincurred.
The pian covers necessary dental treatment by a dentist, physician or other qualified personnel under the direct supelvision of the dental or medical profession, (e.g., dental assistants, dental hygienists) and will also cover services rendered by specialists, dental mechanics, denturologists, denturists, therapists, etc. where permitted by law to deal directly with the public. If there is no fee schedule for these practitioners in your province, payment will be based on the appropriate GeneralPractitioners1 schedule.
83
Treatment Plan
-before your dentist starts a course of treatment, he will, upon request, prepare a "treatment plan" -a written report describing his recommendationsastonecessarytreatment and cost.
-you will be required to submit a "treatment plan" to the insurance company before treatment commences for any Routine Treatment expected to cost more than $200, This enables the insurance company to determine in advance the shareofthecastofthe proposed treatment and thus allows you to knowthe extentof any part of the costsyouwiN haveto pay.
-If you do not submit a "treatment plan" where required, you may findthatyeurdalm, oraportionof it, maynotbe covered.
(reimbursementat100%)
Diagnostic:
-clinical recalloralexamination adults and children dependents - one every six months. Effective January 1,2004 benefit goes to one recall per year for adults and two for children. No annual maximum
-x-rayexaminatlons-fufl mouthor panoramic films(f setofeach in12 months);
-single film {up to 4);
-occlusal, posteriorbitewingorextraoralfilms(2 of each type in 6 months).
Preventalive:
-cleaning and polishing,fluoridetreatments -adults, 1 peryear, anddependantchildren2 peryear
Restorative:
-fillings and otherspecific restorations.
84
Surgical:
.extraction of teeth.
General:
-emergency treatment of pain and consultation with another dentist.
Additional Benefits
(reimbursement at 70% up to $1000./ calendar year)
This program provides for a denture replacementafter you have been enrolled under this program for one year.
;th idontii
-complete dentures, partial dentures, denture adjustments I repairs, crowns and fix i bridges. This program excludes the replacement of the denture unless it is at least five years old and cannot be made serviceable and the replacement of dentures which may have been lost, mislaid or stolen. One denture rebasing will be covered for a denture or ili t which ai	J by this plan.
Endodontic'.
■diagnosis and treatment of the pulp (nerve) and tissues which supports the end of the root, root canal therapy and emergencv procedures
Periodontic:
-diagnosis and treatment c disease which :s the supporting tissue of the teeth, such as the gums anc bones surrounding the teeth.
OrthodonticBenefits:
(reimbursement at 50% to $2,500 lifetimecoverage. (Covers Medically necessary treatments only.)
-proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth.
85
Exclusions:
The dental plan does notcover:
-services for which you or your dependents are entitled to indemnity from any government 'plan, or any plan or arrangement.
■dental treatment required as the result of self-inflicted Injuries, insurrection.war orengagingina riot.
-services for which the Government prohibits the payment of benefit;
-services provided without charge or paidforby the employer;
-services performedby an unqualified practitioner;
.charges for missed appointments or the completion of claim forms;
-services not listed as a covered benefit.
Supplementary health insurance providesa supplement to the GovernmentMedicare.HospitalizationorPharmacare Plans.
Expensesare reimbursedat 100% of the actual cost or to the maximumspecifiedinthe listofeligibleexpenses.
CoveredExoenses
Thefollowingcovered expensesare payable while insured and as tie result of a non-occupational injury or disease. The plan covers medlcally-necessary expanses for the service provided inthe area where the expenses are Incurred.
86
A SUPPLEMENTARYHOSPITALBENEFITS
The supplementary hospital benefit provides for full coverage for the following expenses incurred by you or your eligible dependent
Out-natientServices
-diagnostic and out-patient services in a participating hospitaler privatefacility inthe AtlanticPfovinoes;
-diagnostic and aut-patient sewices in a general hospital outside the Atlantic Provinces up to the amount payable for similarservicesinthe Atlantic provinces.
Ancillary Services
-an amount up lo $1,000 for hospitalization will be provided toward thecostofanciliary hospitalserviceswhen suchcharges are not fully coveredbya governmentinsuranceplan
B,	EXTENDEDHEALThBENEFITS
Ward Room Accommodation
-When confined in a licensed general hospital outside Canada, the ward room charge in excessofthat paid by the government hospitalcareprogramofthe normal province of residence.
PrivateDutv Nursing
-charges for home nursing care by a registered nurse, registeredor certified nursing assistant (but nota relative) to a maximum of 50 eight-hour shifts per calendar year, based on the current NursingAssociation FeeGuide.
Physician Services Out of Province
-customary charges of a physician licensed to practice where sewices are rendered, less the amount equal to the charges allowedunderthe provincial governmentmedicalplan.
87
ProfessionalAmbulance
-charges for professional ambulance, including air ambulance for a stretcher patient, on a regularly scheduled flight, to and from the nearest hospital able to provide the type of care essential to the patient, to a maximum eligible expense G $500.00 per calendar year.
SpecialAmbulance Attendant
.charges for travel expenses of an accompanying registered nurse, when medically necessarvand approved by Blue Cross to a maximum eligible expense ofS300.00 i n a calendar year
AccidentalDental
-charges for dental treatment when natural teeth have been damaged by a direct accidental blow to the mouth, or when a fractured or dislocatedjaw requires setting. Treatment must be rendered or reportedand approvedfor payment by Blue Cross within 180 days of the accident. Eligible expenses will be !he dentist's usual and customary fee up to the Dental Fee Guide where services are rendered.
-charges fordiagnosticend x-ray services, including laboratory services, x-ray examinations, x-ray therapy and radium and isotopetherapy treatment by a certified radiologist,of a hospital or private facility where such services are not eligible under governmentprograms
Oxygen and Blood
-charges for oxygen and blood or blood products when not providedforbythe CanadianRedCross or other agencies.
DiabeticSupplies
charges for needles, syringes, swabs, test tapes and lancets prescribed by a physician.
88
Ostomv Supplies
-chargesforessentialostomy supplies. BurnPressureGarmenis
-special made-to-measure garments when prescribed by a physician to a maximum eligible expense of $500.00 per calendaryear.
Speech Aids
-speech aid equipment, approved by a qualified speech therapist and the attending physician, for persons who do not have normal oral communication ability, limited to a lifetime maximumeligibleexpenseof$500.00.
Other PractitionersfeffectiveJan. 1,2004 reimbursement is at 80%)
■charges fortreatment,exceptwhen performed in a hospital, by a licensed speech therapist, masseur, clinical psychologist, chiropractor, osteopath, chiropodist/podiatrist, physiotherapist, acupuncturist or naturopath. The maximum eligible reimbursement for each type of practitioner is $500.per calendaryear. Theoverall maximumreimbursedforthis benefit is $1,500. The maximum eligible expense toward X-rays per calendaryear is $35.perpractitioner.
ProstheticAppliances
-charges for remedial prosthetic appliances, such as artificial limbs oreyesand indudingcnitches, splints,casts, trusses and braces when required due to sickness or accident. Replacement of these items will not be a benefit except for pathologicalchange. Repairsand/or adjustments are limitedto a maximumeligible expense of $50.00 in a calendaryear.
Equipment Rental
-charges for rental {or purchase) if approved by Blue Cross of a wheelchair, hospital bed and equipment for the administration ofoxygen.
89
-charges lor orthopaedic shoes, moulded arch supports and shoe modification supplies prescribed by an orthopaedic surgeon, podiatrist, rheumatologist,orthe attending physician to a maximum eligible expense of $75.00 per calendaryear.
Hearing Aids
-charges lor hearing aids (excluding batteries) up to a total eligible expense of $300.00 per person in any five consecutive year period when prescribed by an otologist, and/or clinical audiologistand accompaniedbyan audiogram.
C.	VISION CARE BENEFIT Health Wise Pian
Charges lor the Mowing will be covered when prescribed or performedbya licensedoptometristorophthalmologist:
Eve Examinations.Lensesand Frames
-charges for cataract lenses, laser surgery and for eye examinations, lenses and frames when prescribed or performedbya licensedoptometristorophthalmologist, -Frequency. Adultsevery4years childreneverytwoyears. Waiting periods are waived if prescription changes by the prescribed amount
-Lenses are paid at 100% of Blue Cross fee guide.
■Frames are paid at $100.00 for combined frames and exams everyfouryearsforadultsandevery years for children.
-Eye Exams. $100 for combined frames and exam every fouryearsforadultsand every two years forchildren,
Contact lenses
■When medically necessary for ulcerated keratitis, severe cornealscarring, keratoconusor aphakia, providedsightcan be improvedto at least the 20/40 level. The maximum eligible expense in any two consecutive calendar year period is $200.00.
90
Visual Training
■visual training and remedial eye exercises up to a maximum lifetimeeligibleexpenseof$150,00,
D,	PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE Blue Cross Health Plan
Eligible drug expenses include medically-necessary items which bylaw can only be obtained with awritten prescription of a physicianor dentist, and dispensedbya licensed pharmacist, excluding over the counter medications. For certain prescriptions {such as "drugs of last resort")Blue Cross reviews to ensure appropriate medication. These items include prescription drugs, allergy serums, insulin and oral contraceptives. Some prescriptiondrugs may require "Special Authorization"
The pian pays the full cost of a member pharmacy's usual, customary and reasonable charges (as agreed upon with the memberpharmacies)basedon the followingco-pay schedule:
January 1,2003 $6,00 perprescription January 1,2005 $8.00 per prescription January 1,2008 $ 10.00 per prescription
E.	GROUPTRAVELPLAN
The group travel plan covers a wide range of services which may be a result of an accident or unexpected illness incurred outside the participant's province of residence while cn business or vacation. Subject to the maximum amounts indicated below, the plan pays 100% of the eligible expense with no overall maximum, less the amount allowed under any government health plan.
Hospital Charges
■room accommodation (not a suite) and medically necessary inpatient-outpatientservices.
91
eons
-customary charges by physician and surgeons for services rendered.
Ambulance
-licensed ambulance service to and from the nearest hospital able to provideessentialcaretothepatient.
AirTransport
-on the written authorization of a physician, charges for air transportation of a stretcher patient from the place where the illness or accident occurred to the home city in Canada, if a stretcheris required, the maximum benefitwlll bethecostoftwo economy seats, and where medically necessary, the cost of one additional economy seat (including return fare) for any accompanying registered private duty nurse or other qualified person.
PrivateDutv Nursing
-registered nurses' care ordered by a physician, up to a maximumof2Q nursingshiftsperillneSS,
DiaanosticsandX-Ravs
-laboratory services for diagnostics and x-rays
Accidental Dental
-dental treatment when naturalteeth have been damaged by a directblow tothemouthorjaw. The maximumeligible expense is $1,000. Dental treatment must be rendered or reported and payment approved by Blue Cross within 180 days of the accident.
Other Services
-treatment by a licensed chiropractor, chiropodist, osteopath, podiatrist and physiotherapist, up lo a maximum eligible expense of $10 pervisit.
92
Equipment Renial
-chargesfor the rentalof a wheel chair, crutches, bracesor other medica appliance.
Prescription Drugs
-charges for prescription drugs, allergy serums, insulinandoral contraceptives in a quantity sufficient for the period of travel, purchased on a written prescription of a physician and dispensed by a pharmacist, physicianor hospital. Oral vitamins and patent or proprietory drugs are excluded.
Return of Vehicle Allowance
an allowance of up to $250 per travel period payable to a commercial agency, for the return of a private vehicle to the subscriber's place of residence, or in the event of a rented vehicle, to the nearest rental agency. Authorization must be obtained from a physician stating that the participant's unable to drive the vehicle.
HomewardCarriaae
-an eligible expense of up to $1,000 towards the actual cost incurredfortransportingadeceased participant to his/her place ofresidencein Canada.
Boardand Lodging expense
-additional boardand lodgingexpensesincurredbya relativeor friend remaining with the participant during his/her hospitalizationasan inpatient. The maximumamount payable forthisbenefit is $500. To be eligible for coverage, the friend or relative must betravellingwith the participant, be covered by a Blue Cross Travel Pian, and the return of the participant (patient) must be unavoidably delayed beyond the expected date of return. Only expenses incurred beyond the expected returndateofthe participant will beconsideredas benefitsand
93
these expenses must be supported by official receipts from commercialorganizations.
CO-ORDINATIONOFBENEFITS
Benefit payments will be co-ordinatedwith any other pian or arrangement, including any government health program, so that the total amount received from all sources will not be greaterthantheactual expenses incurred
94
APPENDIX "D"
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED PENSION PLAN
EffectiveDate Ratification of the contract.
Servicemeansservicecreditedundertheold StandardLife Plan plusail service since July 1,1974.1800 hours is necessaryfor creditforafullyearwith fractionalyearscomputed as at present.
Normal Retirement Date
The first day of the month foliowing the month in which a memberattainsage65.
Optional RetirementOate
A member may elect to retire after age 55 and receive the pension benefits accrued to the dale of his retirement (not includingthe bridge benefit) butreducedby 1/4 of 1% per month of early retirement.
He may also defer his retirement date but no period of service after age 65 counts for pension purposes. Participants may retire after having both completed 30 years of service and attained the age of 58 without reduction of their accrued pension.
Contributions
Effective July 1, 2003 employees contribute 2% of the base labourerrate.
Effective July 1, 2005 employees contribute 4% of the base labourerrate.
95
PensionBenefit
A member retiring at age 65 on or after January 1,2002 will receivea pension of $60.00 per month for eachyear of service to a maximumof40 years.
Future pension accrual rates will be as follows:
Year	Accrual
2003	$60.00
2004	$60.00
2005	$75.00
2006	$76.00
2007	$77.00
Employee Contribution* 20%(Ju iyl)
2.0%
4.0% (July 1)
4.0%
4.0%
'Employee contributions are tax deductible and would start on July 1,2003. They will be basedonthehourly labourer rate.
The Company will form a Joint Pension Committee to reviewthe financial statusofthe Plan.
Bridge Pension
(a) Effective January 1, 1996 each memberwho retireson or after his 58th birthday, having completed at least 30 years of credited service, shall receive a supplementary bridge pension payment from his retirement date to the first of the month following his 65th birthday of $20.00 per month for each year of service fo a maximum of 40 years Only for the term of this agreement, the rule of 80 will be incorporated for bridge pension. (Minimum of 55 years of age with 25 years of service requiredto reach 80.)
Effective January 1, 1989 and each January 1 thereafter, all pensions payable under this plan and the old Standard Life planWill be increased by 75% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index, minus 1%, subject to a maximum increase of 6%, This escalation also applies to all existing pensioners. This escalation will apply only to those already
96
retired, and to those who retire during the term of the present CollectiveAgreement.
DisabilitvPension
Amembarwho has attained age 50 and completed ten years of service, who hasexhaustedthebenefits underany short or long term disability plan arranged by the Company, and who istotally and permanently disabled such as to prevent him from continuinginactiveemployment.with such disability certified by a medical practitioner,will receivethe basic pension (but not the $20.00 bridge) based on service to the date of disability retirement.
TerminationBenefits
Ifatthe date of termination a memberhascompleted at least ten years of service, and has left his contributions in the previous plans, he will receivethe pension, commencing at his Normal Retirement Date, which had been credited to him up to the date ofterminationof employment.
Formof Pension
The normal form of pension is for life only. Sixty percent of the pension being paid will continue to the member'sspouseforthe remainderof his/her life,except the 60% of the bridge pension is only payable until the month in which the member would have attained age 65
DeathBenefits
(a)	If a member dies in service after having attained age 55 and having completed at least ten years of continuous service, his surviving spouse (if any) will receives pension determined as if he had retired as of his date of death but excluding the bridge pension. This implies a 60% spousal pension, and an actuarial reduction if the member is underage 60 at the date of death, or if the member has less than 30 years of serviceatthedateof death
(b)	Spouses of those employees who have been in tne current Moosehead pension plan for 10
97
years will be entitled to 60% of the commuted value of the employees pension which will be eligible lor roll over to an approvedlocked-in RRSP on the death of the member.
85 PointRetirement
Fortheterm of the collective agreement, a member retiring after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 80 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediateaccrued pension equal to the amount of accruedvested pensionto his credit for service to date of early retirement. This will be reviewed at the expirationoftheextendedcollectiveagreement
98
APPENDIX "E"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
The Letters of Understanding referred to below have been made in relation to the Collective Agreement between the parties referred to, dated this 14th day of January 1999 are attached andcontinueto form part of this Appendix "E".
1.	Preference to Contractors Employing Unionized
Workers.
2.	Deferred Retirement.
3.	Pre-Retirement.
4.	Assignment of Overtime.
5.	ShiftStarting Times.
6.	Rest periods and lunchperiodsforKetfleman.
7.	Call in from Call List
8.	Apprenticeship Program
9.	Retiree Health& Dental
FOR THE UNION Gerald Stack RobEdgecombe SteveWallace Anne Barrette
FOR THE COMPANY Mike tee KevinHooper
99
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIESLIMITED, hereinafter celled
"the Company
and
BREWERYWORKERS LOCAL362 hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re: Preference to Contractors Employing Unionized Workers
Where the Company contracts out work to be done within its premises for construction to a non-union contractor, it shall advisethe Union as to the nature of the work and the name of the contractors.Where price, availability, experience and quality of work are equal, preference shall be given to contractors employing union personnel. The foregoing shall not apply to outsidepersonnelwho periodically service equipment.
100
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD breweries limited hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERY WORKERS LOCAL 362 hereinafter called
"the Union"
Re: Deferred Retirement
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement:
1 .The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his n el itirr snt date (the "Pension”) shall be frozen as of tf e il 's lormal retir t date as defined in the P sionf
2.The employee's Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee’s seventy-first (71 st) birthday whichever shall first occur (the "Pension Date").
101
3.	The employee's Pensionwill include any escalation benefits which occur from his normal retirement dale to his Pension Date.
4.	No contributions to the Pension Pianwill be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no serviceshall becreditedaftertheaforementioneddate.
5.	An employee's Pension will not be affected by any amendments made to the Pension Plan after the employee's normalretirementdate.
6.	An employee's Pension benefitswill be actuarially reviewed effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the employee's Pension having been deferred since his normal retirementdate.
7.	For purposes of calculation any minimum pension supplement, the Canada Pension Pian and old age security benefits,where applicable, will be taken into accountatthe level in effect at the employee's normal retirementdate.
8.	An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Pian, shall be entitledio only the insuredwelfare benefits provided to employeeson retiremeniasat hisnormalretiremenidate.
102
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDINGNO, 3
BETWEEN
MQGSEHEAD BREWERIESLIMITED hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERY WORKERS LOCAL 362 hereinafter called
"the Union"
RE: Employee Benefits Committee -Pre-retirement Counselling Program
Duringthe life of the CollectiveAgreement the Joint Employee Benefits Committee shall also review and bring forth recommendations, indudinga policy and program design for use in establishing on an on-going basis, a pre-retirement counselling program. The primary objective of the preretirement counselling program shall be to provide assistance to employees in planning for retirement and continued financial security.
103
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGNO.4
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERY WORKERS LOCAL 362 hereinafter called
"the Union"
PF' Assignment of Overtime -When Continuation of Work in
The Company and the Union have agreed that, in relation to clause 13,12 (b) {i}, when overtime is requiredon en operation, and such work is "a continuation of work in progress" and was unforeseen or beyond (decontrol of the Company, the Company may assign such overtime work to the regular employee performing the work onwhichthe overtime is required, subject to the other provisions of clause 13.12, and provided such assignment of overtime does not result,ona co ntinuingbasis, in the unequal distribution of overtime.
104
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
BETWEEN:
MOQSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERYWORKERS LOCAL 362 hereinaftercalled
"the Union"
RE:ShiftStartinaTimes Under Clauses13.03and13.04
The Company and the Union have agreed that, in relation to clauses 13.03 and 13.04, notwithstanding the express provisions of these clauses, the regular shift startingtimes for employeeson certain operations shallforthe life of the current Collective Agreement continue to be deemed to have been worked in the calendar day in which the majority of such scheduled hoursareactually wo rkedasfollows:
Brewing Dept, midnight shift-Commences on Sunday at 11:00 p.m.
Carbonating Man -On late cleanup when cleaning filler line -Friday evening into Saturday when on 2nd shift -6:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Production Dept. -Afternoon Shift
Engineering Dept. (OperatingEngineers) .Midnight Shift -On a calendarSunday, commences at 11:00 p.m.
105
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO 6
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED Hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERYWORKERS LOCAL362 Hereinafter called
"the Union"
RE: Rest PeriodsandLunch Periods forKettleman
TheKettleman shall receive one{1) hour credit regulartimefor any afternoon and midnight shift worked when we are in full Brewhouse Operation ana you are notable io leave the area for your lunch period. In other words, the time will not be accumulated for clean-up shifts or shifts that we are shut down waiting for Fermenters, etc. The Brewhouse Supervisorwill keep track and post the accumulated time. “In Lieu” time shall be taken in periods that don't require replacement personnel. The time taken will beat the end ofthe Brewing week at the discretionof the Brewmaster. i.e. you can't lake a full week of "lieu" lime. Vacationshalllake preference to "lieu" time.
This arrangement shall be considered null and void when Brewhouseautomaiionallows the appropriatelunch time to be taken.
106
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDINGNO. 7
BETWEEN
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED Hereinafter called
"the Company"
and
BREWERYWORKERS LOCAL362 Hereinaftercalled
"the Union"
RE: Call In From Call List
Prior notificationfo mean no later than 4:00 p.m. of the previous working day, or inthe event ofillness, prior to beingcontacted by the employer foi call in on the working day on which the employeeisill
Reasonable cause to mean personal sickness, confinement to hospital, illness of spouse or child or any other time off es approved by the Company.
In the event of unavailability due to personal sickness without prior notice,medicalcertificationmay be requested.
107
LETTEROFUNDERSTANDING NO. 8
BETWEEN:
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED Hereinaner called
"the Company"
and
BREWERYWORKERS LOCAL362 Hereinaner called
"the Union"
R EApprentlceship Program
The company will undertake to hold meaningful discussions regardingthe issuesassociatedwith establishinga Mechanical Apprentice. This would be without prejudice on a one person one time basis only.
108
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO.9
BETWEEN
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED Hereinafter called
"thecompany
and
BREWERY WORKERS, LOCAL 362 Hereinafter called "the union"
Re: RetireeHealth& Dental Benefits
It is agreed that retireesandtheirspouseareeligiblefor dental coverage until the retiree reaches the age of 65 years It is further agreed that retirees and their spouse are eligible for
health benefits until death.
109
APPENDIXT"
MOOSEHEAD BREWERIES LIMITED SEPARATION PAY
.01 ■ A Regular employee shall be entitledto separation pay as set out in subsection ,03 provided he has not beenexduded by subsection .02 and provided he meets any of the following eligibilityprovisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection .02
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for himduringthe previoustwelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal hill time hours provided he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or lor benefits under the Company's insuredWsakly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Pians:
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility of clause in (b) above;
(6) if he is ultimately designated forindefinitelayoff as a resultof a majortechnologicabhangeas provided inSection 8.02;
An employee eligibleforaseparationpaymenthereundermust apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible thereof, otherwise his right lo such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a
110
resultthereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to whichhe is entitled withoutwaitingthe sixmonth’speriod.
,02 - Notwithstanding subsection .01, an employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he isterminated for just cause;
(c)	he is terminated under section 8,06 (loss of seniority provisionjofthiscollectiveagreement:
(d)	he has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailingany oftheCompany'soperatfons; unless
(t) the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company oroneoftts representatives,or
(ii)the directionor decree purportsto changethe method of beer retailingwithinthe Province:
(e)	he has beenlaidoffbecauseofanyactofwarorthehostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrectionorbyanyactofGod:
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the Company io take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff
(g)	he is i n receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Worker's CompensationAct:
(h)	he is entitledto receive any pension underthe Company or Government PensionPian.
.03 ■ The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employeeshallbe equal to:
(a) one week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effedas of time of layoff) multipliedby the number of his completed years of seniority (as used for vacation
111
entitlement) as of the last day he actively worked in the BargainingUnit.pl us
(b) for employees classified as probationary or regular employees prior to May 1,1988, an additional Three Hundred and Seventy-five Dollars ($375.00) multipliedby hiscompleted years of seniority used in (a] above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomeseligible thereof shalt have his separation payunderthispart (b) calculated as seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximumof 15 years, if there is a permanent closure of the brewery the 15 year maximum is replacedwith a 22 year maximum.
.04 - The company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunderthe amount of any Guaranteed Wage Pian payment made to such employeewhichtheemployeewas notentitledto receive
.05 .If an employee applied for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreemerrtare cancelled