Memorandum of Agreement made the 5th dag of April, 1991
source
EFF.
iirjA.____
N*. Of
mnmut
mKffM'ClFS “ ii
iRuumww- ]	v	l
0>. f
(Vs. (Xm cino M ' fV 0 V
cJZ. , 5 c-ki, )
Between:	Moosehead Breweries Limited (hereinafter
called the "Company")
And:	Brewery and Soft Drink Workers Local 361,
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia (hereinafter called the "Union")
The parties hereto do hereby agree to the following in full and complete settlement of all matters outstanding between them and do further agree to forthwith and do hereby unanimously recommend the following settlement to their respective principals for ratification and adoption.
The Collective Agreement between the above named parties, which expired December 31, 1990, is hereby renewed until December 31, 1993, with those appropriate additions, deletions, alterations, amendments or changes as the case may be, that are necessary to incorporate the following:
Term of Collective Agreement Three years.
2. Wages
The various wage schedules to the Collective Agreement will be amended as provided below:
Across-the-Board Increases:
Regular Employees -Effective the first of month following ratification Effective January 1, 1992 Effective January 1, 1993
Temporary Employees -Effective the first of month following ratification Effective January 1, 1992 Effective January 1, 1993
Probationary Employees -Effective the first of month following ratification Effective January 1, 1992 Effective January 1, 1993
Super-Temporary Employees -Effective first of month following ratification Effective January 1, 1992 Effective January 1, 1993
£1.00
.52(t .49ft .57#
. 60ft
.57ft
. 66ft
'i
. 73gt

lb
Regular Employees Trades "A" Differential:
In addition to the across-the-board increase, another .17ft per hour effective the first day of the month following ratification, another .16# effective January 1, 1992, and another .19ft effective January 1, 1993.
3. Retroactivity
For the period from January 1, 1991, until the day preceeding the effective date of the new rates, the across-the-hoard increase will be payable to all regular employees who are still employed on date of ratification, or who have retired during that period. Such payment will be made as soon as practical following ratification for all hours worked during that period.
PENSIONS -
The parties hereby agree to amend their respective Pension Plans to reflect the following changes. It is farther agreed and understood that no other negotiations shall take place with respect to the Plans prior to January 1,1994 nor shall any amendments resulting therefrom be effective prior to January 1, 1994.
I. For members who retire on or after January 1,1991 the following shall apply:
( a ) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service
is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be
added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced- Canada
Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his
' ‘ \
retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1j685.
if a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(B)	Calculation nf Pension Ban ft fit Accrual:
For service after January 1,1991: a monthly pension equal to $30,00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service;
For service to December 31, 1990, the, penSl0a b en e fits accrued to each member remain unchanged.
(C)	Special. Early Retirement!
A member retiring after having attained 3ge 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the am ount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,537. from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required, to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,685.; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31,1991 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce, a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if, the member were then, retiring at normal, retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement’ benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
II. For members who retire on or after January 1,1992 the following shall apply:
(A)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be •added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada
v
Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined, at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,740.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited sex-vice, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced 'Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by. the member's accrued pension.
(B)	Calculation of Pension Benefit Accrual:
For service after January 1, 1992: a monthly pension equal to $31.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited
service;
(C)	Special Earlv Retirement;
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of SI,562. from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required .to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,740.; which supnlement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement,, a member who retires before December 31,1992 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
For members who retire oh or after January 1,1993 the following shall, apply:
(A) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement!
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be
added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of -^2.000 .
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(B)	Caiculation of Pension Benefit Accrual:
For service after January 1, 1993: a monthly pension equal to $32.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
(C)	Special Early Retirement;
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,695. from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter the supplement shall bo recalculated as the amount required to be added' to the member’s accrued pension and the full em-educed Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of ^hoooj which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31, 1993 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime,, supplement.
Disability Retirement (Effective January 1, 1991).
For employees having attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become disabled, and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plans, a supplementary benefit of $14-00 per month multiplied by the number of years of Credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The supplement is payable until the employee is eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employees! full accrued pension at time of disability retirement.
85 Point Retirement
A member retiring On or after January 1,1991 and after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited s-+-vice total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued ‘vested pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement.
In addition, such member shall be &titled to a lifetime supplement .calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement, but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full mu-educed Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the’ normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement.
5. COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from January I, 1993 (o December 31, 1993, the first pay period following publication of the December,’ 1993 Consumer Price Index, on the basis of 1« per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) in the period from January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1993 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index for the month of December, 1992, after adding thereto 1% of the December, 1992 Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for the month of December, 1993.
6.	T.TFF, INSURANCE
Effective the first day of the month following ratification amend Life Insurance provisions so as to provide $36,000. insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day. Effective January 1,1992 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $37,000. for employees actively at work on that day. Effective January 1, 1993 the amount of insurance shall be increased ta $39,000. for employees actively at work on that day. Employees not actively at work on the above-named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
7.	ACCIDENTAL'DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
Effective the first day of the mouth following ratification amend Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance provisions so as to provide $36,000. insurance coverage for employees actively at work on that day. Effective January 1, 1992 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $37,000. for employees actively at work on that day, Effective January 1,1993 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $39,000. for employees actively at work on that day. Employees not actively at work on the above-named days shall only be provided, increased insurance coverage’ upon their return to active employment.
8.
Separation Pay
Add New Section 19 (Drop followins Articles in Collective Agreement bv one number) .
01	A regular employee shall be entitled to separation pay as
set out in subsection .03 provided he has not been excluded by subsection .02 and provided he meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection .02;
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he is not eligible for any Company or Government Pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite lay off
as a result of a major technological change	as	provided in
Section	Nb-gV. \\	;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes	eligible	therefor, otherwise his	right	to	such
payment	shall be	cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues a operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six month's period.
.02
Notwithstanding subsection .01, an employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he is terminated under Section	(loss of seniority
provision) of this Collective Agreement;
(d)	he has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations; unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the
method of beer retailing within the Province.
(e)	he has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is in receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Worker's Compensation Act;
(h)	he is entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
.03
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to:
04
. 05
(a) one week's base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of the time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority (as used for vaction entitlement) as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
<b) for employees classified a's probationary or regular employees prior to Uai&oh—&, 1988, an additional Three Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies » for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefor shall have his separation pay under this part (b) calculated as Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years.	If there is a permanent
closure of a brewery, the 15 year maximum is replaced with a 22 year maximum.
The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payble to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
If an employee applies for and accepts a 'separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
9. Guaranteed Wage Plan
I	Amend Section 8, Table "A" of G.W.P. by
deleting the lines beginning "2 years or more" and "1 year or more".
II	Amend Section 1 by deleting "and
separation pay in certain circumstances".
Ill	Delete Section 10.
IV	Renumber Section 11, 12 and 13.
10. Dental
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, amend the existing provisions in Collective Agreement to increase the maximum per year for basic
expenses incurred after the above date.
Effective the first day of the month following ratification, amend existing provisions in the Collective Agreement to increase the combined lifetime maximum for
increase shall only apply to eligible expenses incurred after the date of ratification. Effective January 1, 1992, the lifetime maximum will increase to $4,500.00, and effective January 1,	1993, the lifetime maximum will
increase to Srr	for Restorative and Orthodontic
services to $700.00. The increase shall only apply to
Restorative and Orthodontic services to $4,000.00. The
services.
\l. SHIFT PREMIUM
Effective the first day of the month following/ ratification amend shift premium provisions such that the afternoon shift premium payable shall be 60e per hour and the midnight shift premium payable shall be 90a per hour.
Effective January 1,1992 the midnight shift premium payable shall be 95a per hour.
Effective January 1,1993 the midnight shift premium payable shall be $1.00 per hour.
12. Paid Educational Leave
Increase number of paid educational leave days to 38 days per year.
13. Meal Allowance
Increase meal allowance to §7.00 In Section 5:02(c) of the Collective Agreement.
15)
Job Postings
The company agrees that they will post within ten working days the successful candidate(s) of any job posting notice coming down.
16)
Bereavement Leave
The company agrees that employees who are on bereavement leave (Article 1408) will not be charged for refused overtime opportunities.
The company agrees that during double shifts (packaging) that they will keep one door on each of the North and South sides of the warehouse open during operations.
18)
Vacation Scheduling
The Union agrees that the company has until April 21 to finalize and approve vacation scheduling due to vacation scheduling conflict to confirm their March 31 selections.
Any departments that do not have the above problem will have their vacation scheduling finalized and approved by the end of the first week in April.
The company agrees that regular employees in operator positions on shift to train temporary students or probationaries for that position when training is required.
This requirement does not apply when a regular employee is not in the position on shift.
The company agrees to conduct bi-annual hearing tests for employees as scheduled in .the past. Notices of these tests will be posted as soon as the dates are finalized.
There shall be no retroactive application of any of the provisions of this settlement and the resulting amendments to the Collective Agreement except as expressly provided herein.
dated at
The foregoing Memorandum of Agreement is Dartmouth, Nova Scotia this ^^ay of April, 1991.