SOURCE	Co.		
EFF.		'5jo ... ,L_.	aii 3i
TER.M.	c(		
No. OF EMP1.0 VIES NOMiRE D'EMPIOYES		So	
			
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
PEPSI-COLA CANADA BEVERAGES (OTTAWA), a division of Pepsi-Cola CanadaLtd.
- and
SOFT ERINK WORKERS JOINT LOCAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF ONTARIO, OF THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 387.
Effective:	February 1, 1995
Expiry:	January 31, 1998
Table of Contents
Clause
Page Kb,
Address & Telephone No.
Benefits
Benefits
Bereavement Leave Bulletin Board Disciplinary Record Gender
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure Hours of Work jury Duty
Labour/Management Meetings
Lead Person
Leave of Absence
Management Fights
Non-Discrimination
Paid Holidays
Pension
ProbationaryEmployees
ProbationaryPeriod
Purpose
Retroactivity
Safety
Scope
SeasonalEmployees
Seniority
Severance
Sick Leave
Strike/Lockout
Supervisors Performing Bargaining Unit Work
Technological Change Temporary Employees Term of Agreement Uniforms
Union Representatives Union Security & Check-Off Vacations Wages
Article 8 Annex 5 Article 27 Article 20 Article 9 Article 26 Articles Article 11 Article 16 Article 19 Annex 2 Article 22 Article 25 Article 3 Article 7 Article 17 Annex 4 Annex 7 Article 10 Article 1 Annex 4 Article 23 Article 2 Annex 3 Article 12 Article 28 Article 21 Article 13
Article 15 Article 14 Annex 6 Article 29 Annex 1 Articles Article 4 Article 18 Article 24
8
31 25 20 8
25 8 9 16
19 30 21 24
4 8
17 30
32 9 3
30
22
3
30 11
26
20 15
15
15
31 26 28 6
5
18 22
2
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
PEPSI-COLA CANADABEVERAGES (Ottawa)
a divisionof PEPSI-COLA CANADALTD (hereinafter referred to as "the Company")
and
SOFT EKENK WORKERS JOINT LOCAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL CF ONTARIO, OF THE UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 387,
(hereinafter referred to as "theUnion")
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of the parties to set forth herein their agreement with
respect to rates of pay, hours ofwork, and conditionsof employment to be observed by the Company, the Union, and the employees covered by this Agreement; to provide procedures for equitable adjustment of grievances; to assure the development a£ efficiency forthe profitable operation of the Company's business; and to promote harmonious relations between the Company, its employees and the Union.
ARTICLE 2
SCOPE
2.01	lhe Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for
hours, wages,and other conditions of employment for all regular fiill-time production, warehouse, flsst, vending, sales, delivery, and employees at its Ottawa,, Ontario plant located at 869 Belfast Road, excluding tel-seU, supervisors, clerical or office employees, professionals, quality control technicians, security guards, syrup room employees, seasonal employees, salaried employees, and all other employees not covered by this Agreement.
This RaragiLtim clause shall be construed to apply to employees and not to work. It saall not be construed to mean that any employee or classification of employee has an exclusive right to any work. No regular full-time employees shall lose their employment because of the Company contracting out the work being done by the employees.
3
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Company retains the sole right to manage the affairs of the business and to dirart. the working force. The following enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to exclude other rights of management not specifically set forth. The Company, therefore, retains all rights not otherwise specifically restricted by this Agreement.
Such functions of management include, but are not limited to: the right to determine all methods of sailing, marketing, producing, warehousing, distributing, merchandising, and advertising of products including pricing of products; the tight to introduce or test new or improved sales, distribution, production methods; the right to establish, assign, alter, changes, adjust, discontinue and combine sales territories and routes; the right to add new products or cancel existing products and to adjust territories and routes due to the additionor subtractionof such products; the right to determine the location and number of production and distribution facilities; the right to determine the sales areas the Company will service and the customers in such areas where it wi 11 serve; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work out of the bargaining unit; the right to allocate and assign work or transfer work from one departmentto another, the right to establish standards and to maintain the efficiency of employees; the right to introduce new or improved production methods, or facilities; the right to reduce the workforce; the ricfitto determine the number of employees required to performjob or function; the right to assign employeesto aj ob or shift and to rearrangej obs and functions to eliminate slack and idle time; the right to determine the amount of overtime and the assignment of overtime to the employees; the right to plan and schedule production; the right to schedule shifts, work hours and work week; the right to abolish past work customs and practices; the right to hire, fire, transfer, promote or demote employees; the right to lay off terminate or otherwise relieve employeesfrom duty; the right to make and enforce rules for tfe maintenance of discipline; the right to suspend, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for cause and to take such other measures as the Company may determine to be necessary to the orderly, efficient or economical operation of its business; the right to subcontract work; the right to establish and administer tests; the right to require medical examination; the right to change ad adjust scheduling cf territories and routes; the right to change and eliminate geographical sectors; the right to curfaLZ,sell or lease the business or any part thereof; the right to discontinue or merge departments; the right to adjust, reduce or increase machine speeds; the right to introducenewjobs and the rates to paid with respect to them during the contract term; the right to determine the processes and materials to be employed; the right to discontinue processes or operationscr to discontinue their performance by employees of the Company; the right to determine the number of cases and the number of customers' that Delivery Merchandiser is to deliver and call on, on a daily basis with or without a helper; the right to assign vehicles; the right to deduct for settlementsheet shortagesfrom any employee who has been assigned responsibilities r a route and who has signed an issue slip accepting responsibility of the merchandises;
4
the right to deduct from any employee who has accepted a not-sufficient fund cheque where it has been specified that not cheques should be accepted from an account; the right to deduct from any employee who has extended credit where it has been speri fieri that no credit should be given to an account; the right to estabfishHouse Amounts or dock pick-up accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will not be the leqcnsihiiLty of the presales rep and for which he will not receive commissions; the right to establish House Accounts or dock pick-up accounts-direct warehouse accounts which will be delivered by employees selected by the Company or Agents of the purchaser, the right to have delivery personnel sort erpty bottles returned to plant; the right to cut off all employee benefit plans in the event of a strike; the right to determine financial and administrativepolicies, including general accounting procedures and customer relations; the right to determine qualificationsrequired by an employee to perform any particular jcb.
The listing of specificrights in this Agreement is not intended to be, nor shall be restrictive of or a waiver of any of the rights of management not listed and specifically surrendered herein whether or not such rights have been exercised by the Company in the past.
The Company agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with any article or section of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF
4.01	UNION MEMBERSHIP
Every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of his continued employment, become and remain a member of the Union in good standing. Employees hired after the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, join the Union at the end of their probationary period.
4.02	CHECK-OFF
The Company agrees to deduct weekly fern the earnings of regular and probationary employees, regular Union dues and to remit the amount so deducted monthly to the designated officer of the Union.
In order that the Company have definite instructdms as to what amount is to be deducted for monthly dues, it is agreed that the Union shall promptly notify the Company, in writing, over the signature of its designated Gffioar, the amount of the deductionto be made by the Company for regular monthly dues, and the Company shall have the right to continue to rely on such written notification from the Union signed with the same formality.
5
4,03	INDEMNIFICATION
The Union agrees to hold the Company harmless against all claims, demands and expenses should any person, at any time, contend or claim the Company has acted wrongfully in making such dues deductions.
ARTICLES
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
5.01	ACCESS TO PLANT
TheRepresentativeof the Union may visit the plant in accordance with the Company’s procedure to conduct Union business with the Company and/or to assist in adjusting grievances. TheRepresentativewill be accompanied by the Designated Company Representative while on the premises. This privilege shall be so exercised that no time is lost unnecessarily to the Company or the employees.
5.02	SHOP STEWARDS
The Company recognizes the right of the Union to designate a reasonable number of Shop Stewards, not to exceed Twelve (12) Stewardsto handle such Union business as may from time to time be delegated to them by the Union, which shall not interfere with any employee’s regular work, unless prior approval has been granted by the Company. The Company will not recognize an employee as a Steward unless it has received such notification from the Union. Shop Stewards have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Company’s business or the efficiency of the operation in violation of this Agreement or any action in violation of the law.
The Company, in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge without recovery, to such Shop Steward, in the vent the Shop Steward has taken unauthorized strike action, slow-down, sit-down, picketing, boycott, concerted activity, refusal to work or work stoppagein violation of this Agreement. A Shop Steward shall be an employee of the Company and must have completed one (I) year of employmentunless mutually agreed between the Company and the Union. Grievance meetings will ordinarily be held before or after the working hours of the aggrieved employee. However, when the Company and the Union agree to schedule a grievance meeting during the working hours of a Union Representative authorizedto process the grievance or the aggrieved employee, or a witness whose presence is mutually agreed to be necessary, such employees will be paid for the actual time lost.
The Company shall not be required to meet with more than one (1) Steward at any one time except as provided for in the Agreement- i.e, committees.
6
Shop Stewardsshall not deal with a grievance during working hours without the prior permission of their Supervisorand in return for this, shall be paid their regular rate for time lest during such investigation.
5.03	UNION ACTTVmES
There shall be no solicitation of membership in the Union or any other Union activity during employees’working hours unless the activity is specifically authorized by this Agreement:
5.04	PAY FOR UNION REPRESENTATIVES WHKN AUTHORIZED TO BE ABSENT
A Union Representative who requests to be absent from work to attend Union conventions or seminars, must present He request in writing to the Company at least five (5) working days in advance of the meeting, and the Company will give due consideration to the request. The Union will reimburse the Company for the wages and fiinges to be paid to the Union Representative while absent from work.
5.05	UNION NEGOTIATING C 0 MMTTTBI1
The Union shall have the right to select a Negotiating Committee consisting of the local Union President and one (1) representative each fern Warehouse, Production and Distribution aims, for a total of four (4). 131 members mast have seniority with the Company and committeemembers who are absentfrom work for the sole purpose of labour negotiations shall be paid fortime lost limited to eight (8) hours per day on scheduled negotiation days. The Union shall reimburse the Company at 5 0% of such cost.
The Union shall notify the Company, in writing, of the names of its cfEcas, stewards and ocraiittee members. The Company shall not be required to recognize any officer, steward or caimittee member util such notification from the Union has been received,
S.06	UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
The Union recognizes the responsibilities imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining agent of the uiit, and will cooperate and support the Company’s efforts to assure a fUll day's work on the part of its members; actively combat absenteeism and any other practices which restrict optimum efficiency; improve the quality of workmanship and service; prevent accidents and strengthen goodwill between the Company and with the employees, the customer and the public.
7
ARTICLE 6 GENDER
6.01	The Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to refer to persons of both sexes.
ARTICLE 7
NON-DISCRIMINATION
7.01	There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed (religion), sex, sexual orientation, handicap or disability, age, marital status, family status, record of offenses or membership in the Union.
The Company recognizes its commitment and obligati on to ensure that all employees, in accordancewith the Ontario Human Rights Code, work in an environment based upon mutual respect and cooperation and free from harassment of any kind,
ARTICLE 8
ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER
8.01	Each employee, whether active or inactive, shall keep the Company advised of his current address and telephone number, or contact, if a telephone is not available. The mailing of a notice to the address furnished to the Company fcy each employee shall be deemed to be compliance by the Company with any provision in this Agreement which require written notice to an employee.
ARTICLE 9 BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	The Company shall provide a Bulletin Board at locations to be designated by the
Company for the purpose of allowing the Union Steward to post official Union notices only. These notices must be duly signed by an officer of the Union and previously approved by management and restricted to:
(1)	notices	of Union recreational and social affairs;
(2)	notices	ofUnion elections;
(3)	notices	ofUnion appointments and results ofUnion elections;
(4)	notices	ofUnion meetings;
8
(5)	other notices concerning bona fide Union activity such as: Credit
Unions
There shall be not general distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices, or any kind of literature upon Company property other than as herein provided.
ARTICLE 10
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
10.01	An employee shall be considered to be on probation and shall not be entitled to any seniority rights util after completing sixty-five (65) work days within a period of six (6) consecutive months from the date of last hire. If such employee shall be continued in the employ of the Company after the expiration of the probationary period, the length of service shall be computed from the date of last hire. Part-time and temporary employeeswho are hired on a full-time basis and have worked sixty-five (65) days in the immediately previous six (6) months, shall be credited with completing their probationary period and their last date of hire for seniority list purposes shall date sixty-five (65) days prior to the change to full-time basis.
An employee on probation may be discharged at the sole discretion of management an without just cause.
ARTICLE 11
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
11.01	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should differences arise between the Company and an employee, or between the Company and the Union, as to the meaning or application of the provisions of this Agreement only, there shall be no suspension or stoppage of work The employee or the Union shall present all grievanceswLthinfive(5) working days from the occurrence, situation, condition, or action of management giving rise to the grievance, or the grievance shall be considered waived.
Step 1: The employee shall discuss the grievance with supervisorinvolved.
The supervisor will attempt to settlethe grievance within twenty-four (24) hours after the discussion with the aggrieved employee. If not settled at Step 1, the employee may take the grievance to Step!
Step 2: The employee or Steward shall submitthe grievance in writing to the Department Manager within three (3) working days following notification of the Company's first step decision. The Department
9
Manager, or his designee, shall attemptto resolve the griev three (3) working days. If not settled at Step 2 the written may be submitted to Step 3, The written grievance shall identify:
(1)	the facts giving rise to the grievance;
(2)	the Article and Section of the Agreement the Union alleges that the
Employer violated;
(3)	the relief requested, and the grievance shall be signed by the
employee and countersigned by the Steward.
Step 3: The employee or Union shall notify the Regional Manager or his designee within three (3) working days after receipt of the Department Manager's second step decision of its intent to pursue the grievance. The Regional Manager, or his designee will meet with the Union's Business Representative, or his designee, to resolve the matter. In the event a settlement is not reached wiftinfive (5) working days, a dispute shall exist, and the resolution of the dispute shall be subjectto arbitration. Grievances involving the suspension or discharge of an employee may begin at Step 3,
Those parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the processing of grievances, and that if at any step the Company fails to give its answer within the time lifnit set forth, the Union may ap ped the grievance to the next step. If at any step the employee Ms to require the grievance to be submitted to the next step within three (3) working days followingthe expiration of the time limit aa set forth in the step procedure, the grievance will be deemed by both parties to be settled
The Company and the Union may extend the time limit set forth in the grievance procedure by mitral agreement. The party requesting the extension must db so in writing. Only a single grievance may be heard by the arbitrator at one time, except by mutual agreement.
It is understood that the Company may bring forward and give to the Union at any time any grievance:
(1)	with respect to the conduct of the Union, its officers or committeemen;
(2)	with respect to the conduct of the employees generally;
(3)	with respect to the application or interpretationof any provision of this
The Company wi 11 first discuss with the Union the circumstancesgiving rise to the grievance before submitting a formal grievance herein.
Agreement.
10
The grievance will be presented in writing to the officials of the Union and meeting will be held within seven(7) calendardaysvAhthetiiicnanditsRepresentative. Failure to agree within a period of four (4) calendar days subsequentto the meeting will permit the Company to refer the matter to a Board ofArbitration as hereinafter described, within thirty (30) calendar days.
11.02 ARBITRATION
A dispute shall be deemed settled unless a written notification requesting arbitration is received by the Company from thelliimBusinessRepresentativewithin ten (10) w'orking days of the Union's receipt of the Company's Step 3 decision under the grievance procedure. The written notifimhim must state the issue to be arbitrated. If the Union submits a written request, the Company and the Union shall attempt to agree upon a naitral person whom they shall designate as the arbitrator. If they ate unable to agree upon tfe saLaotim of such an arbitrator, they shall request the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint an arbitrator.
Employees, including Union Stewards,Representatives, and committeemenrequested by the Union to attend a hearing during working hours, shall not be paid for the time lost.
The Company has the rightto insist that the grieverbe present during the hearing.
Any arbitrator selected under the provisions of this Article shall have the authority to render a decision which shall be final and binding on the parties to the extent provided by the law1. Such decisions must be rendered within thirty (30) days of the hearing, unless otherwise agreed to by both the Company and the Union. The arbitrator shall have no pow'erto alter or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, cc to impose on any party a limitation or obligation not explicitly provided for in this Agreement. The professional fees of the Arbitrator pi us any other related expenses over and above those fees, shall be borne equally by both the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY
12.01	As outlined in Article 2.01, senioritys/)a//nBencontinuousemploymentinthebargaining unit covered by this agreement.
Benefit eligibility will startwhen the employee obtains full time status pursuant to the Benefits contract coverage.
In all other instances, seniority shallnean continuous employment in the production, warehouse, vending, flat, sales and delivery departments.
11
For those employeeswho are hired on the same date, surname alphabetical seniority shall govern.
12.02	LAYOFF AND RECALL
In any layoff or recall situation anticipated to be of five (5) consecutiveworking days or less, and subjectto the Employer's right to retain employees with the necessary skills, ability and qualificationsto do the availablework, the Employer will lay off the most junior employee in a department.
In all cases of layoff or recall which are anticipated to be greater than five (5) consecutive work days, and abject to the skill, ability and qualificationsto perform the work, any such laid off employee will have the right to bump the mostj unior employee on the applicable (inside or outside) seniority list at the rate of pay for the position replaced,
If a regular full-time employee is to be laid off for in excess of one (1) day of work, he shall have the right to displace any temporary or seasonal employee in any department at the rate of pay for such seasonal or temporary employee provided they possess the necessary skills, ability, and qualificationsto do the availablework. In the caseof a layoff due to a total or partial plant shutdown, an employee will have the opportunityto exercise any available earned vacation during the timeframe.
Employees will be recalled in reverse order to that in which they were laid ofi£ subject to their still, ability and qualifications to perform the availablework.
In all cases of manpower changes, the rate for the position replaced will apply.
12.03	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee will lose seniority and will no longer be in the Company's employ if the employee:
(1)	quits;
(2)	is discharged, and such discharge is not reversed through the grievance procedure herein;
(3)	retires;
(4)	is laid offfor a period of the lesser of twelve (12) months or the length of the employee's seniority.
(5)	fails to notify the Company of his intention to return to work within three (3) days after being notified by the Company of his recall in writing by telegram or registered mail, at his last address on record with the Company.
12
(6)	has a non-occupational sickness or disability exceeding eighteen (18) calendar months,
(7)	works anotherjob while absent from the Company except in case c£layoff;
(8)	is absent from work for two (2) days without prior notification to, and approval of, the Company.
12.04	JOB POSTING
The Company will provide the union with notice writing prior of any permanentjob posting.
In the event of a permanentj ob vacancy in a classification on the inside seniority list (Production, Warehouse, or Fleet Departments), any employee in another inside classificationmay bid forthejob. Where the skill, ability and qualifications of bidding employees are relatively equal, thenost senior employee will be awarded thejob.
Postings shall be forthree (3) days. The original and first successive vacancies (i.e, the successful applicant) will be posted and any subsequentvacanciesmay be filled at the Company’s discretion. Alljob posting shall indicate thejob classification,rate of pay, and the department. The current shift will also be indicated.
NOTE:	This does not create any restrictions on the
Company right to alter shifts,
There shall be two (2) seniority lists: one(I) senioritylist for outside employeesand one
(1)	list for inside employees which would include Production, Warehouse and Elaat.
In the event of ajob posting forthe lowest rated classification in either seniority group, such a position will be opened to al I employees finnthe Bargaining Unit. Should the successful applicant be femanother seniority list, his full Bargaining Unit senioritywill be recognized.
In the event of a permanent job vacancy in a classification the outside seniority list (Sales, Delivery and Vending Departments), any employee in another outside classification may bid forthejob. Where the skill, ability and qualifications are relatively equal, thenost senior employee will be awarded thejob.
In the event of a permanentjob vacancy in the delivery merohandiser/regular or delivery merchandiser/chain store or delivery merchandiser/Premix-Postmix or delivery merchandiser/fuli servkein any one of the geographical sacbasestablished by the Company, any employees on the outside list including delivery merchandiser, in other sectorsmay bid forthe vacancy. The original and first successivevacancieswillbe
13
posted. Where the skill, ability and qualifications of applicants are relatively equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the job.
The Company will select and advise the successful applicant within five (5) working days. Ifthis cannot be done, the Union will be advised. Additionally, the Company will attempt to post an approved vacancy within 5 working days. Ifthis cannot be done, the Union will be advised.
12.05
jiULBlil
ASSIG EMPLOYEES
OP DAILY OVERTIME WORK FOR HOURLY-RATED
Whenever there is a need for hourly rated employees to work daily overtime within a department, the overtime will be offered to:
(1)	the employee(s) within the department who normally perform the work;
(2)	if the employees) within the department are unable to perform the requested overtime, then the overtime will be offered by seniority to other employee(s) within the department who have the ability to perform the work;
(3)	ifthe Company is unable to find employee© within the departmentto perform the overtime, then the overtime will be assigned to the least senior employee© within the department who has the ability to perform the work required.
Each employee is expected to cooperate with the Company in the performance of such work.
12,06	ASSIGNMENT OF SCHEDIJI ED0 VERTIMB WORK
Wheneverthere is a need for scheduled overtime wiihin a department on the employee© sixthor seventh working day (or overtime which is scheduled at least 24 hours in advance), the overtime will be offered to:
(1)	the employee© who normally perform the jcb and, ifthe employee© or not enough employees are available to perform the work the Company will;
(2)	offer the overtime work to the most qualified senior employee within the department and, ifthe employee© or not enough employees are availableto perform the work, the Company will;
(3)	offer the work to the most qualified employee outside the department capable of performing the available overtimework. If none or not enough employees are availableto perform the work, the Company will require the least senior qualified employee© to perform the work.
14
12.07	An employee who is or has been transferred from the bargaining unit to ajob with the Company outside of the bargaining reit, wil continue to accumulate seniority for a period of up to one (1) year.
12.08	In the event that there is an increase or decrease in the compliment of Deli very MerchandisersorDelivery Assistant this v\^l be accomplished recognizing seniority and qualifications.
ARTICLE 13
NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
13.01	The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees, and the Union agrees that there wi 11 be no strike, slow down, sit-down or other interference with work or the Company's operations while the Agreement is in force.
The Company will continue all employee benefit plans in the event of a strike at the expense of the Union.
ARTICLE 14
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
14.01	1^ during the life of the Agreement, the Company wishes to make a technological change in its operations which would have the effect of abolishing existing classifications or creating a new classification, or which would result in the permanent layoff of any employee, the Company will meet the Union, thirty (30) days in advance of such changes, to discuss the matter and to attempt to lessen the impact of such technological change on the employees affected.
14.02	If a regular employee should be displaced from his job fcy reason of a technological changein the Company’s operations, and provided the employee has the necessary qualifications to perform the work available after a reasonable training period, the Company shall arrange for hin to receive such training and the employee shall have the opportunity to exercise his senioritywithinthe bargaining unit.
ARTICLE IS
SUPER VISORSPERFORMINGBARGAINING-UNIT WORK
15.01	Supervisorswill not normally perform work customarily performed by the employees in the bargaining unit, except:
(1)	as a result of an urgent or emergency condition;
15
for the purpose of demonstration training; to occasionally relieve an employee for a short period; or
(2)
(3)
(4)	when a regular employee is not available due to being late for work or absent from work.
Such work by supervisorswi II not result in the layoff of any regular full-time employees falling within the scope of this Agreement.
Sales supervisors shall continue to perform their normal sales and merchandising activities.
ARTICLE 16
HOURS AND WORK WEEK FOR HOURLY-PAID,BASE AND/OR COMMISSION AND/ORWEEKLY SALARY EMPLOYEES
16.01	The normal work week shall be four (4) consecutive ten (10) hourdaysorfive(5J consecutive eight (8) hour days ccrarencing on or after Saturday midnight and ending on or before the following Saturday midnight.
Every employee will have at least two (2) consecutive days off Including a Saturday or a Sunday.
This provision shall not be construed as an obligation on the part of the Company to provide employee, with any specified number of hours during a work day or work week.
16.02	The Company reserves the sole right to establish the number of shifts, the start and stoppingtime of each shift, and to cancel shifts as necessary to assure the efficient operation of the business. Provided skill ability and qaliELcatimsare equal, seniority shall determinework week assignments.
16.03	For eligible inside employee's, overtime will be paid at time and one half( 1 1/2) at the regular straight time base rate for all authorized work performed:
(a)	In excess of eight/ten (8/10) hours daily as appropriate.
(b)	on a holiday;
(c)	on a day not part of the regular work schedule.
16.04	Eligible outside employees shall receive daily overtime based on one and one half (1 1/2) times their regular weekly or daily rate- i.e. Ebrty(40) hoursweekly or eight/ten (8/10)
16
hours daily as appropriate, for all authorized work performed in excess of eight (8) or ten (10) hours daily based on the respective shift.
Overtime will be paid on the greater of the weekly or daily overtime but not both - i.e. There will not be any pyramiding of overtime, one half (1/2) hour V\^l be allowed daily for meals and breaks.
Pre-Sellers shall have one (1) hour unpaid meal with daily overtime at time and one half (1 1/2) for all authorized work over eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours daily based on the respective daft, calculated from 8:00 a.m.
16.05 The Company will not pay premium pay on premium pay, nor will there be any pyramiding of premium pay.
16.06	In the event the Company introduces a new work week schedule, prior to the implementation, the Company agrees to meet with the Union to discuss and document the number of employees that will be assigned to the work schedule.
Any changes to the work week from four (4) to five (5) days or five (5) to four (4) days will require one week's notice except in the case of an event outside the control of the Company.
16.07	An employee who rqportsto work at his scheduled time at the request of the company, shall be entitled to a irinirum of three (3) hours pay at the rate of pay to which he would be entitled.
ARTICLE 17
PAID HOLIDAYS
17.01	RT.TcaBn.mr
To qualify for a paid holiday, an employee mast have completed the probationary period, worked on the last regular work day, except on an approved leave of absence, preceding or following the holiday if requested by managementto do so, and must have been on the active payroll for a four (4) week period immediately preceding the holiday.
17.02	NUMBER OF HOLIDAYS
New Ifear'sDay............................................Civic Holiday
Working Day After New Ifegr'dhiay...............................Labour	Day
Good Friday...............................................Thanksgiving	Day
VictoriaDay.....................................%-Day at ChristmasEve
Canada Day...................................................Christmas	Day
Boxing Day
* -One-half ('A) day on ChristmasEve when falling on a regular work day.
17
17.03	HOLIDAY PAY FOR HOURLY PAID EMPLOYEES
Holiday pay will be computed by multiplying an employee's regular hourly base rate by eight (8) hours or ten (10) hours depending on his scheduled shift,
17.04	HOT .IDA Y PAYFOR WEEKLYPAID EMPLOYEES
Holiday pay will be computed as one-fifth (l/5th) of an eligible employee's weekly earnings. For Pre-Sellers the Company will add 12% (twelve percent) of such amount in recognition of bonus.
ARTICLE 18 VACATIONS
18.01	ELIGIBILITY
Vacation entitlement shall be based on full years of continuous service as a permanent fiill-time regular employee as of December 31 of the vacation year.
18.02	SCHEDULING OF VACATION
Employees will be solicited for their vacation preference during the period March 1 to April 15, Vacation schedule sslsrtiaiwill be determined byj ob classification sanctity. Should an employee fail to make the vacation selection(s) by April 15, the Company will assign the employee's vacation weeks.
The vacation schedule shall be posted by May 1st.
Employees will schedule vacation in each calendar year. The Company will consider an employee's request to either change his previously scheduled vacation week, or to schedule a vacation week outside of the eligible periods, but the Unit Manager, Plant Manager and Territory Manager reserves the sole right to approve or disapprove the request ofwhich will not be unreasonably withheld. Due to the seasonal nature of the business, management will determine the number of employees who will be allowed schedule a particular vacation week.
Vacation time must be used in the year credited, as vacation time cannot be accumulated or carried overto the next year. No more than two (2) weeks' vacation can be scheduled and/or taken consecutively unless agreed to by the Regional Manager. No vacations are to be scheduled and/or taken the week prior to a week in which a statutory holiday occurs unless agreed to by theRegionalManager.
18
An employee's first two (2) weeks of vacation entitlement shall be as set out above and any remaining vacation entitlement shall be selected after all employees inthe appropriate classification have selected their first two (2) weeks.
18.03	ENTITLEMENT
Annual vacations will be paid on the following basis:
Id)	one (1) day for each Completed month of service to a ireedirun of ten (10) days, if
completed less than one (l)year of continuous service by December 31st;
(2)	two (2) weeks after one (1) year of continuous service if completed by December 31st;
(3)	three (3) ve^cs after five (5) years of continuous service if completed by December 31st;
(4)	four (4) weeks after ten (10) years of continuous service if completed by December 3 1st;
(5)	five (5) weeks after twenty-five (25) years of continuous service if completed by
December 31st.
18.04	VACATION AMOUNT
Vacation pay shall be paid at the time employeestake vacation as follows:
1.	4% of earnings from date of hire to December 31st for employees with less than
one (1) year of continuous service as of December 31st;
2.	2 % of earnings for the previous period January 1st through to December 31 st, for
each week of vacation entitlementfor employees with one (1) year or more of continuous service as of December 31st;
3.	if an employee's vacation is split, payment shall be made on a pro-rated basis.
ARTICLE 19
JURY DUTY AND CROWN WITNESS LEAVE
19.01	A permanent full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period and who is subpoenaedto appear in Court as a Crown witness, or who is ca//ed for jury duty, will receive the differencebetween his regular eamingsfor each day of necessary absence, and the fee received from the Court, provided the employee fumishesthe Company with a certificateof service and satisfactory evidence as to the amount offee received.
19
19.02	For the purpose of this Article, the regular earnings of an employee for a day shall be
deemed to be the eamhgs to which he would be entitled and by virtue of Article 17. Pair Holiday, or any portion thereof Upon receipt ofthejury duty summons or subpoena, the employee shall immediately notify the Employer.
Upon release from jury duty or Crown witness duty, the employee shall immediately notify the Company ofhis availability to return to work.
ARTICLE 20 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
20.01	Should an employee be absent because of death in his immediate family, he shall be entitled to be absent with pay, provided the employee has completed his probationary period, for not more than three (3) (five (5) for wife, husband or child) ofthe employee's regular scheduled normal work days.
20.02	The term, "immediate family" shall be understood to mean wife, husband, children, common-law spouse and children, father, mother, brother and sister.
20.03	Up to one (1) day's pay will be paid for time lost caused by attendance at the funeral of the employee's grandparents, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,mother-in-lawor father-in-law.
20.04	Bereavement pay shallbe computed using the employees regular hourly base rate by eight (8) hours or one-fifth (l/5th) of an employees weekly earnings.
20.05	The Company reserves the right to require satisfactory proof of death and the employee's attendanceat the funeral.
ARTICLE2I SICK LEAVE
21.01	AMOUNT OF ELIGIBILITY
All regular full-time employees haviig one (1) or more years of service with the Company shall be allowed up to six (6) days of sick leave per calendaryear.
The employee who is absent under the provision of this sectim must personally advise his immediate supervisor of such illness prior to the start ofthe shift. Failure to do so will renderthe absence unexcused and unpaid unless it can be shown that it was impossible for the employee to give or cause such notice to be given to his supervisor. Family illne: does not qualify for payment under the provisions of this section.
20
The Company may require proof of illness and/or a doctor's certificate, after an employee has been absent for illness or accident for three (3) days in a calendaryear.
21.02	STCK LEAVE PAYMENT
Sick days will be paid to eligible employees at two-thirds (2/3 rds) of the employees regular hourly base rate times eight (8) hours or one-fifth (1/5 th) of an employees weekly earnings.
21.03	STCK LEAVE BONUS
After each year without being absent for any reason other than illness or leave under the provisions of this Collective Agreement, the employee is entitled to receive the credit, payment he has not used for sick leave, up to a maximum of six (6) days per calendar year, at the employees regular hourly base rate times eight (E) hours or one-fifth (115th) of an employees weekly earnings.
An employee who, at the end of a calendar year, has unused credit of five (5) days or more is entitled to a leave of absence of one (1) complete work week, provided he has not been absent during the calendar year, other than illness or authorized leave of absence.
For each incident ofunexcused absence, there will be a one day reductionin sick leave bonus eligibility up to the maximum bonus eligibility of 6 days. Special considerations may be granted in emergency situations out of the employee's control. The employee and the union will be notified in writing of each instance of unexcused absence.
An employee absent for more than one (1) month fcy reason of Workers' Compensation leave or layoffwill have any bonus paymentto which he might otherwise be entitled, pro-rated over the course of the calendar year.
ARTICLE 22 LEAD PERSON
22.01	The Company reserves the right to appoint any bargaining-unit employee as a Lead person, without regard for seniority, for any length of period and at any time it deems appropriate.
Ai employee who is appointed to a lead person position, and works at least one (1) hours as a lead person, w i 11 be paid a minimum of fifty cents (5 0 f) an hour above the highest classificationof that work group.
21
Lead person shall be responsible to organize and direct the work force in work procedures under a supervisor's instructions. Lead person shall not issue disciplinary notations.
ARTICLE 23
SAFETY
23.01	The Company and the Union nutrBUy agree that employees should be encouraged to cooperate m the maintenance of health and safe working conditions, and in the observance of the OccupationalHealth and Safety Act.
The Company will provide at no cost to the employees, any protective equipment or clothing as specified by the OccupationalHealth and Safety Act. This will be done on a replacement system. A copy of Form 7 v\^l be givento the appropriate Safety committee.
23.02	The Company and the Union mutually agree to continue and improve its modified work program,
ARTICLE 24 WAGES
24.01	HOURLY. BASE PLUS COMMISSION AND WEEKLY RATES
JCB CLASSIFICATION
Department - Production
Maintenance I / Electrician Maintenance II Attendant I Attendant II Etridift
General Labour
EFFECTIVE
02/01/94	02/01/97
$19.29	19.64
17.84	18.19
17.84	18.19
16.61	16.96
16.55	16.90
16.32	16.67
Department - Warehouse
Checker
Shlpper/Receiver
P.C.L.
Ffcddift
General Warehouse Labour
17.84	18.19
17.05	17.39
16.73	17.08
16.55	16.90
16.32	16.67
22
Department-Fleet
Mechanic • Qaas A / Forklift Tech.	19,29
Painter	18,56
Mechanical Labour	16,61
GeneralLabour	16,32
19.64
18.91
16.96
16.67
Department - Vending
Service Tech. A	19.29	19.64
Service Tech. B	18,56	18.91
Service Tech. Trainee	13,94	14.29
Special Delivery Driver	701,81	715.81
SpecialDelivery Assistant	645.60	659.60
HU Service	701.81	715.81
Department - Delivery
Delivery / Merchandiser	701.81	715.81
Delivery / Merchandiser Assistant	645.60	659.60
Interplant Shipper	701.81	715.81
* Tractor Trailer routes get $28.00 weekly allowance
Department - Sales
Pre-Sellers
750.74	764.74
All Pre-Sellers will have eligibility for performance against specific sales, marketing and merchandising dojectives. Bonuses wi 11 be in periods cmsistirg afthirteen (13) weeks (quarterly), and will be administered through the existing Company PerformancePlanning and Appraisal (PP&A) format. Bonuses will be based as percentage of base earnings during the four month period. Bonuses w i 11 be paid on a trimester basis.
Significantly Below Target Below Target On Target Above Target Significantly Above Target
12%
13.5%
15%
16.5%
18%
Qualified delivery persons temporarily promoted to Pre-Seller shall receive $14.58 for each day worked.
EffectiveMay 11, 1995 allpermanent lull-time employees will receive alump sum payment of $650.00.
23
Effective February 1,1996 all permanent full-time employees will receive a lump sum payment of $700.00.
24.02	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Shift differential of .500 per hour worked, shall paid to all employees assigned to a shift starting at or after 11:00 am. They will receive the shift premium for all hours worked after 4:00 p.m,
24.03	S___________________________________
Employees whose normal five (5) day work week includes a Saturday or Sunday will be paid a 750 premium for each hour worked on Saturday, and $1,00 premium for each hour worked on Sunday. There will be no premium on the Saturday or Sunday premiums.
24.04	VENDING
For Vending employees recalled to work on any day they shall be paid time and one-half (1V2) for all hours actually worked, or 3 hours at his regular straight time hourly rate, whichever is greater.
Servicaperson will be given three dollars ($3.00) per week for phone calls and parking meters.
Servicaparsons will be reimbursed for tool expenses up to One Hundred and fifty Dollars ($150.00) per year when a receipt is provided.
ARTICLE25
APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
25.01	PERSONAL LEAVE
A permanent Ill-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period may apply fora leave of absence without pay for legitimate personal reasonsby completing the (Request for PersonalLeave) form at least one (1) week in advance. Such request shall state the reasons for the leave. The Company will not unreasonably withhold granting personal leave. If the Company grants such leave it shall confirm the terms of the leave in writing. If an employee's approved leave of absence exceeds one (1) month, he must arrange to prepay the premiums for all benefits; in any event, an employee on a leave of absence cannot be covered by Weekly Disability and Long Term Disability.
24
25.02	UNION LEAVE
The Company agrees to grant upon the written request of the Union, leave of absence for a period of not more than twelve (12) months to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an official ofthelH±raL Union or of the local Union, if suchduties require hrn to have leave of absence from his Company duties. The Company will consider an extension of such leave for up to an adfttknal twelve (12) months or the duration of the Collective Agreement, whichever is longer, ifrequested by the Union.
25.03	TRATNTNGLEAVE
If the Company sends an employee on a training course during working hours, the employeewill be paid his regular eamingsforthe period. Tb qualify, training course content mast, in the Company's opinion, be of direct benefit to the Company's operations.
In the event an employee amis in a night school course that will benefit himself and the Company in relation to his respectivejob, the employee may apply in writing describing the course that he wishes to enrol in and explain the benefits to himselfand the Company. Upon acceptance of the cou rse by the Company it will pay 50% of the cost of the course to a maximum eighty dollars ($80.00) upon the successful completion of the course.
25.04	PATERNITY LEAVE
The Company will grant a leave of absenceto a permanent full-time regular employee who has completed his probationary period for a period of one (1) day with pay for the purposes of attending the birth ofhis child orthe adoption of his child-to-be.
ARTICLE2 6
DISCIPLINARY RECORD
26,01	JSH. disciplinary notations in an employee's work record dell be removed from the file,
provided the employee has had a clear disciplinary record during the immediately previous twelve (12) months. Suspensions shall be removed after twenty-four (24) mcnthis.
ARTICLE 27 BENEFITS
27.01	BENEFIT PLAN
The Company agreesto provide all full-time employees benefit coverage as outlined in "Group Insurance Plan Booklet".
25
EffectiveJuly 1, 1995 employees wil transfer to the Company’s FlexibleBenefit Plan. Effective July 1, 1995 Annex VI will no longer apply.
ARTICLE 28 SEVERANCE
28,01	In the event of the Company totally discontinues any of its current operations at the Ottawa facility it is agreed that the Company will provide the following severance;
Termination and Severance Pay:
1.	Employeeswith one(l) year of serviceto four(4)years eleven(l l)months of service will receive one(l) weeks notice per completeyear of service, or pay in lieu of such notice.
2.	Employeeswith five{5) years of serviceto nineteen(19)years eleven (11) months of service will receiveone(l) weeks notice per completeyear of serviceto a maximum of eight(8) weeks of pay in lieu of such notice, plus 1.5 weeks pay per complete year of service.
3.	Employeeswith twenty(20) years of serviceor more will receive eight(8) weeks notice or pay in lieu of such notice, plus 1,5 weeks pay per completeyear of service, up to a maximumo! 48 weeks.
The employee’s regular hourly rate of pay will be utilized for the purposes of severance
calculations.
Benefits:
Employees will receive benefit coverage during the period of notice only. Employees will receive
a lump sun benefit payment equivalentto the company’s cost of benefit coverage for the balance
of the employee’s severance period.
ARTICLE29 TERM OF AGREEMENT
29.01 This Agreement shall become effective February 1, 1995 and shall remain in full force and effect through midnight, January31, 1998, and shall be renewed automaticallythereafter for a period of one (1) year each unless either party gives notice in writing ofthe desire to change or of termination at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the current expirationdate of this Agreement. VUlhii thirty (30) days ofthe expiration of this Agreement, both the Company and the tftim, upon receipt of written notice, shall confer and the Company and the Him, upon receipt of written notice, shall confer and attempt to negotiate as to the proposed changes or a renewal Agreement.
26
The parties hereto. by written agreement, may extend said period for the purpose of reaching a new agreement.
-J-N
SIGNED BY THEPARTIES ON THE _Afl_ DAY OF -
FOR THE UNION

27
ANNEX 1-UNIFORM
The uniform allowance for employees) wil I be provided on the following basis:
A full, clean uniform, or suitable work clothing as specified by the Employer, shall be worn at a 11 times while performing services on behalf of the Company. UifrmB are required so that employees will present a neat, professional appearance and image of the Company. The Company agrees to furnish uniforms and the employees are responsible for maintaininguniforms.
Employees are not to wear their uniforms in places that would reflect negatively on the OnparY's image, during non-working hours. RriJnreto adhere to the uniform code at all times shall result in discipline, up to and including discharge.
DELIVERY MRR CEf ANDTSER S HE.T PER S WNDTNPt SCR VtCCnCPARTMENT -FULL-TIME
Each employee is entitled to: A summer issue consisting of two (2) pairs of lightweight pants and two (2) shirts, a Winter issue consisting to two (2) jackets, two (2) shirts and two (2) pairs of pants; one (1) tie and one (1) cap. Inaddition, each employee is required to wear safely boots. If an employee does not wish to drawthe full allotment as indicated above, he will be able to drawthe articleshe requires as long as the cost for the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue as indicated below. If the amount acsedsthe cost of the normal issue, the employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted fern his subsequent payroll cheque. The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount o f the fund will be $3 5 5,0 0
As indicated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund is not exceeded. Uniforms shall be and remain the property of the Company at dl tires. However, if an employee leaves the Company, he will be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance ofthe return of pants andjackets if they aredry-cleanedand in reusable condition. No credit will be given for shirts, caps or ties.
PRESALES REP/EOUIPMENT SALESPERSON
Each salespersonis required to wear, on a daily basis, the prescribed uniform consisting of ajacket, pants, tie and overcoat. The Company will absorb a percentage ofthe cost of the uniform up to a maximum amount per year. The salesperson is therefore able to purchase any article of clothing or safety footwear and the Company will contribute to the maximum of the year's fund towards this cost with the balance being paid by the salesperson, to the Company by way of weekly payroll deduction. The payroll deduction v\dl be made at the rate of $5,00 per week util the balance has been paid.
28
The amount of the fund will be $425.00
Under no circumstanceswi 11 the balance be carried forward in the employee's accounts receivable from one fiscal year to the next.
PRODUCTION- WAREHOUSE - FULL-TIME
Each employee is entitled to surrrer issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two (2) pants and a winter issue consisting of three (3) shirts and two (2) pants. In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots and protective hearing devices. If an employee does not wish to draw his Ml allotment as indicated above, he will be able to draw the articleshe required as long as the cost of the articles requested does not exceed the total cost of the normal issue. The employee will be charged the difference and this amount will be immediately deducted from his subsequent payroll cheque.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots.
The amount of the fund will be $170,00.
As indicated above, the uniform issues are on a no-charge basis as long as the total fund is not exceeded, However, if an employee leaves the Company, he will be charged on the basis of the unamortized balance of the value of the uniform.
__________________________________AN E AND FLEET M UNTENANCE
EMPLOYEES - FULL-TIME
The Company will provide each full-time.employee in the above departmentswith a proper uniform and will also provide for the cleaning of this uniform at not cost to the employee. The employee is responsible for the normal care of thisuniform and i£ through employee negligence, a uniform is damaged or lost, the employee will be held financially responsible for the replacement cost.
In addition, each employee is required to wear safety boots.
The Company will provide a maximum of two (2) pairs of safety boots
29
ANNEX n - LABOUR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
This annex will se~ 'e to confirm our understanding reached during negotiations with regard to monthly Labour/Management meetings.
It was agreadto by both parties that, when required, monthly meetingswill be held to discuss and hopefully resolve issues that pertain to good relations.
It was also agreed that each party would submit an agenda at least two (2) days in advance of the meeting in order that both parties have an opportunity to research possible resolutions.
The Company and the Union agree to continue and review its cross-trainingrequirement in the production department.
Labour/Management meetings shall be scheduled on the third Wednesday of each month. ANNEX HI - SEASONS EMPLOYEES
The Company and the Union agree by way of letter of understanding that any employees who are hired as seasonal employees during the periods April 15 to September 15, or December 1 to December 31, and who are continued as filll-time employees beyond September 15 or December 31 as the case may be, shall have all days worked as seasonal employees credited towards their probationary period.
ANNEX TV-PENSION
The Company current pension plan Shall continue as it currently is.
EffectiveFebruary 1,1991 all members of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, shall participate in the Canadian Commercial WorkersIndustrial Pension Plan (C.C.W.I.P.P.), This shallbeinaccordancewiththeParticipationAgreementletter signed by the Company, dated April 20,1990. In addition, the following specific arrangements shall apply.
(1)	EffectiveFebruary 1, 1993, the Company will contribute$.41 (forty one ch±s) per hour for all hours paid by the employer as outlined in Agreement Letter of April 20, 1990.
(2)	Eligible employees may continue in the Company Pension Plan at their option, but a pension committee shall be setup to review all alternatives concerning funds in the Company Pension Plan, including any buy-back possibility.
30
1(3) The Company agrees to sign a "Participation Agreement" and supply other documents, forms, reports or informationrequired by the T rustees of the C.C.WJ.P.P,
(4) The contributions shall be for the purposes of providing such pension benefits for eligible employees as shall be determined form time to time, hy the trusteesof the "C. C.W.I.P.P,", pursuantto the terms of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry PensionPlan and trust fund,
(5) Contributions, along with a list of employees for whom they have been made, and the number of hours paid, will be raiitbadto the CCWIPP, by the Company, within the fifteen (15) days after the close of the Company'sfour (4) or five (5) wade accounting period. The Company agrees to pay interest and liquidated damages&t a reasonable rate established by the trustees on all contributionsnot iHtLtfcd as stipulated above.
(6) Effective January 1, 1996 the Company will contribute $.47(forty-seven) cents for all hours paid. Effective January 1, 1997 theCompany will contributes, 52 (fifty-two) cents per hour for all hours paid.
ANNEX V-BENEFITS
The tuil-time employees are covered by a group insurance. The Company added the actual coverage listed below
- Life Insurance
• Additional coveragewill be available through payroll deduction - Weekly Disability
• Effective at the ratification date, the ve&ly disability benefit maximumwill be theU.I.C, maximumbenefit. Also, the employee will be covered for the total duration of 41 weeks instead ofthe firstweekto the 15thand30thto the 41st,
- Dental Plan
• At the rat-ifirnt-im date. the 1991 O.D. A schedule will be in effect. Effective February 1, 1994 the 1992 O.D. A will be in effect
ANNEX VI - TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
The Company and Union agree to establish a temporary labour pool not to exceed 10 employees. Employees within the temporary labour pool shallbe assigned to perform work on the outside. Temporary employees may be nHliraH on the inside to fill vacancies as result of an inside employee working on the outside.
Temporary employees will be required to pay union dues upon date of hire.
31
ANNEX Vn - PROBATIONARYEMPLOYEES
Employees selected to fill a vacancy as a result of a j ob posting fora permanent full time pceitim will be defined as probationary employees. Probationary employees will be required to fiilfil clause 10.01.
32