TilM.	aioi		ED 21
m. or who ms		7T7*	
vh		- ^	
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MOLSON BREWERIES
BARRIE, ONTARIO AND
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE TRANSPORTATION
AND GENERAL WORKERS UNION OF CANADA
MOLSON BREWERIES
Barrie, Ontario
INDEX
PAGE
Adequate Manpower.............................. 41
Bereavement Allowance.............................37
Break Periods - Plant............................ 24
Break Periods Tractor Trailer Drivers.............29
Call Back Allowance..,.....,...................40
Check-Off....................................4,82,83
Cost of Living Allowance.......................,. 44
Discipline ....................................-4-1-
Duration of Agreement.,...................('51,80,89
Establishment of Classifications.......
Grievance Procedure............................... 8
Groundskeepers Agreement......................... 84
Guaranteed Wage Plan..............................72
Applications..............,.............. 80
Benefits for Laid Off Employees.............76
Deductions .................................79
Definitions . .	   75
Disqualification for Benefits...............74
Duration of G. W.P, Agreement...............80
Duration of Benefits....................... 78
Eligibility ................................73
Exceptions................................. 73
Purpose...................................  73
Reporting ................................  80
Welfare Benefits During Layoff..............77
Health and Safety................................. 7
Hours of Work and Pay Practices -
(except Tractor Trailer Drivers)............22
Hours of Work and Pay Practices -
(Tractor Trailer Drivers)...................25
Injury or Illness .......,....................
Reporting...............................
During Working Hours....................
Job Posting..........,........................
Jury Duty . . . , . ,.........................
Leave of Absence.. . . ,......................
Management Grievances.........................
Management Functions .........................
Maternity/Paternity ....., ...................
Meal Allowance - Plant........................
Meal Allowance - Tractor Trailer Driver
No Discrimination ............................
No Strikes or Lockouts ............, .........
Non-Discrimination/Non Harassment.............
Notice Boards.. , . . . ,...,.................
Pension Plan..................................
Summary of the Pension Plan.............
Picket Line ........., .......................
Plant Committee ..............................
Probationary Employees .......................
Plant Holidays ...............................
Protective Clothing . . . , ..................
Recall to Work ...............................
Regular Employees ............................
Schedules of Work.............................
Scope of Bargaining Unit......................
Seniority.....................................
Definitions ......., ............., ....
Job Posting.............................
Layoffs and Recalls.....................
Retention & Accumulation................
Termination of..........................
Seniority Lists.............,.................,
Separation Pay , ...., .......................
41
. .7
.7
18
44
7
12
2
7
25
28
5
21
3
21
42 .59 21
8
13
30
8
16
13
22
1
13
1
18
16
14
15 14 47
Shift Premiums ..........................
Shunters ................................I.
Sick leave . . , . . . . ,........,......,
Stewards.................................
Technological Change . . . ,.............
Temporary Employees . . ,................
Tool Allowance . . . . ,.,...............
Transfers................................
Union Activities & Leave of Absence ..
Union Security...........................
Vacation Plan................,...........
Vacation Bonus.. . . ,...................
Vacation Pay on Termination..............
Wage Bates and Classifications...........
Welfare Plan.......,.....................
Outline of Benefits................
LETTERS:
Health & Safety..........,.,.............
Warehouse Area . . , . . . . ,...........
Drivers’ Hours of Work...................
Eligibility For Sick Days/W.I./L.T.D.
Following Layoff..,.,..............
Skilled Trades.., . . . . ,.............., .
Tradesman “A”. . . , . . . . ,....,......
Christmas/New Year Shutdown..............
Employment Equity........................
Maintenance Effectiveness.. . . , . ,....
Learning and Skill Enhancement......., . .
Maintenance and Quality Control..........
Driver Accountability....................
W.I./W.C.B. Advances.....................
Purpose and Values Agreement.............
G.W.P. Industry Letter...................
39 25 43 ' 8 45 14 42 19
. 5 4
33
35
35
37
42
53
91-93 94 . . 95
96
97
98
99
99
100 101 102
’ 104
105
106 107
Plant Closure.. ,.......
Modified Work...........
Weekend Crew.. . , . . . Temporary Employees Deferred Retirement Plant Chairperson.. . . , Paid Education Leave . Social Justice Fund.. . .
108
108
109
113
.114
116
117
118
1
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MOLSON BREWERIES, a Corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, and having a plant in the City of Barrie, Province of Ontario, hereinafter called “The Company”.
The Party of the First Part
and
C.A.W. - CANADA and its LOCAL 306, hereinafter called “The Union”.
The Party of the Second Part
SECTION 1
Scope of Bargaining Unit
1:01 The Union shall be the exclusive collective bargaining representative of all employees in the bargaining unit which consists of all employees of the Company’s Plant at Barrie, Ontario, except:
(a)	Supervisor, persons above the rank
of Supervisor;
(b)	office and clerical staff;
(c)	hospitality room personnel;
(d)	cafeteria personnel;
(e)	control personnel;
(f)	personnel engaged in a confidential capacity;
(g)	Molson’s at Barrie park personnel;
(h)	and persons covered by a certificate issued by the Board dated February 8th, 1972, to the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 796;
(i)	groundskeepers.
1:02 The Company will supply to the Union a list of the Supervisory personnel who are classified as Supervisor and who may perform work as follows:
(a)	to introduce, demonstrate and test, new processes or procedures;
(b)	to demonstrate proper work procedures:
(c)	to determine proper speeds or work loads by operating the equipment;
(d)	in emergencies.
1:03 When the Retail Store operation has one, but less than four (4) “regular, probationary and
temporary” employees (excluding the Manager), the Manager shall be free to perform any duties which may be necessary to maintain the Store operation.
SECTION 2 Management Function
2:01 The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Company to:
3
(a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	Hire, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline employees provided that the claim that an employee has been discharged, transferred, demoted or disciplined without just cause, may be dealt with as provided in Section 8 (Grievance Procedure).
(c)	All matters concerning the operation of the Company’s business not specifically dealt with herein shall be reserved to the Management and be its sole responsibility.
2:02 It is understood that in exercising these functions the Company must conform to all other clauses of this agreement. When an employee is disciplined or discharged, the appropriate Steward and the Local Union Secretary will be given in writing reasons for such action.
SECTION 3
Non-Discrimination and Non-Harassment
3 :01 The Company and Union agree that there shall be no discrimination against, or harassment of, any employee as outlined in the Ontario Human Rights Code.
The parties also agree that each employee has a right to freedom from sexual harassment in the workplace by the Company, the Union, or by another employee.
SECTION 4 Union Security
4:01 All probationary and regular employees shall become and remain members in good standing of the Union for the duration of this Agreement, as a condition of employment.
4:02 All temporary employees hired to fill seasonal or emergency requirements shall obtain a Permit Card from the Union and pay the normal fee to the Union for the same. Should a temporary employee wish to become a probationary employee, and apply for such, and be accepted by the Company as such, then Paragraph 4:01 of this clause will apply from the date of his/her acceptance as a probationary employee.
4:03 The Union will not unreasonably refuse membership to any probationary or regular employee, nor unreasonably refuse to issue Permit Cards to temporary employees. Should the Union refuse membership or Permit Cards it will state its reason for so doing in writing.
SECTION 5 Check-Off
5:01 Upon receipt of written authorization on a form supplied by the Company (Appendix A), the Company will deduct the Union dues of each employee on the second full week of the month. The amount so deducted shall be such uniformally assessed dues as may from time to time be assessed by the Union
on its membership in accordance with the Constitution and/or By-Laws of the National and Local Union.
In case of any conflict, the By-Laws or Constitution of the National Union shall govern.
5:02 The Company shall deduct such current dues from the employee’s wages and will also deduct initiation fees from the employee’s wages, provided that such written request and authorization is received by the Company prior to the first day of the period so specified.
5:03 The Company agrees to forward to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union by cheque no later than the last day of the month in which the deductions were made, the total amount deducted and a list of the employees from whom the deductions were made and who were not checked-off and the reasons. The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless from any and all liability arising from any deductions made.
SECTION 6
Union Activities and Leave of Absence
6:01 No employee shall be discriminated against or discharged for his/her activity as a Union member or for doing committee or other work for the Union. If such activities are to occur during working hours and will interfere with the employee’s normal duties on behalf of the Company, the employee must first obtain permission from the Company. It is agreed
that the Plant Chairperson will request permission on behalf of the employee, on the appropriate form, no later than (7) seven calendar days prior to such activities taking place. The Company will respond within three (3) calendar days. It is agreed that such permission, if requested, will not be unreasonably withheld. It is also agreed that emergencies will be the only cause for relaxation of the above procedure.
6:02 The Company agrees to grant leave of absence for a period not more than 12 months, or for the balance of the duration of this Agreement, whichever is the longer, to any employee who has been elected or appointed as an Official of the Local Union, if such duties require him/her to have leave of absence from his/her Company duties on a full time basis.
6:03 Employees on such leave of absence may be continued as active members of the pension and welfare plan upon payment of the total contributions whether from the Union or from the employee concerned. During such periods of leave of absence, the employee’s seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he/she were employed at his/her regular post by the Company.
6:04 Union Stewards will be granted reasonable time off from their regular jobs in order to attend grievance and disciplinary hearings within their assigned section in the administration of this Collective Agreement. Time off will be granted subject to permission being given by the Steward’s Supervisor. It is understood that such permission
will not be unreasonably denied and the Steward will not forfeit pay for such time off the job. The “Parties” will make every effort to schedule such hearings during regular working hours.
6:05 The Company may grant leave of absence without pay to any regular employee for urgent personal reasons, and any persons who are absent with written permission shall not be considered to be laid-off, and their seniority shall continue to accumulate during their absence. A copy of such Leave of Absence shall be given to the Local Union Secretary.
Regular employees on Maternity or Paternity leave will continue to receive coverage for the following benefits: life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, major medical and dental, in addition to coverage under the terms of the pension plan.
SECTION 7 Health and Safety
7:01 It is mutually agreed that both parties hereto will cooperate to the fullest possible extent in the prevention of accidents and the promotion of safety and health.
7:02 All injuries sustained during work hours, no matter how trivial, must be reported to the Supervisor.
7:03 In cases of sickness or accidents which necessitate absence from work the department
8
concerned must be notified as soon as possible.
7:04 Rubber boots, aprons and protective clothing shall be furnished to all employees when and where necessary.
All employees not issued rubber boots as their regular footwear shall be entitled to the purchase of safety shoes or boots when and where necessary. It is understood that temporary and probationary employees will be entitled to such reimbursement against a previously purchased pair after becoming a regular employee.
All required safety footwear will be provided to permanent employees on a replacement basis, subject to a maximum allowable expenditure of $100.00 ($110.00 effective January 1,1995) for each permanent employee per calendar year.
The Company will furnish work clothing and truck driver uniforms as required.
SECTION 8
Steward and Grievance Procedure
8:01 The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to select not more than six (6) employees who shall be Stewards in presenting complaints or grievances to the Company. One Steward shall be selected from each of the following six (6) sections, and will be recognized by the Company to represent employees in his/her section, upon written notification.
9
(1)	Brewing
(2)	Packaging - Bottling
(3)	Packaging - Shipping and
Warehouse/Retail Store
(4)	Mechanical
(5)	Transportation
(6)	Groundskeepers
The Company will, upon written notification, recognize a Steward on the afternoon shift in the Bottling Section of the Packaging Department. The Steward will only be recognized by the Company for the period for which such shift is required.
The Union may appoint and the Company shall recognize, upon written notification, additional alternate Steward to act in the absence from work of a regular Steward, with respect to any grievance arising in this area.
Schedules will be so arranged that there will be equal representation when there are two shifts, and reasonable representation on the third shift, if there should be one.
The Company shall recognize the Local Union President who shall be considered the Plant Chairperson if employed by the Company. In the event that the Local Union President is not employed by the Company, then the Union may appoint from among the six (6) regular Stewards a Plant Chairperson who will act in the absence of the Local Union President, in the administration of this Collective Agreement.
8:02 The procedure for handling complaints or grievances of employees shall be as follows:
An employee who has a complaint or question shall ordinarily discuss the matter with his/her Supervisor, but if this does not satisfy him/her or if for any reason his/her complaint is of such a nature that he/she prefers to refer it to his/her Steward first, he/she may do so.
8:03 Step No. 1
If a complaint or grievance is referred by an employee to his/her Steward and the Steward considers that there may be a reasonable basis for the complaint or grievance, he/she shall present the matter to the Supervisor of the employee involved within five (5) working days from the time such grievance arose or became apparent, and shall endeavour to arrange a satisfactory settlement.
A grievance presented after the aforementioned time limit shall not be arbitrable. If such settlement cannot be arranged the Steward shall then state the grievance in writing in quadruplicate and give the Supervisor twenty-four (24) hours to provide a written answer.
8:04 Step No. 2
If the decision of the Supervisor is not acceptable to the employee, the Shop Steward may appeal the decision within ten (10) working days after the Supervisor’s decision to the Supervisor’s immediate Supervisor. The Supervisor’s immediate Supervisor will give an answer in writing within two (2)
working days after the date on which the grievance was presented to him/her.
8.05 Step No. 3
If the decision of the Supervisor’s immediate Supervisor is not acceptable to the employee, the grievance may be presented within ten (10) working days after the Supervisor’s immediate Supervisor’s decision by the employee’s Shop Steward to the Employee Relations Manager to be taken up at a meeting arranged between Management and the Shop Committee which will be held within five (5) working days from the time of receipt.
One or two additional representatives of the Union’s choice may be present at this meeting if requested either by the Company or the Shop Committee. Unless otherwise agreed, Management shall give its decision in writing to the Local Union President or his/her designate within two (2) working days following the meeting.
8:06 Step No. 4
If the decision of Management is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, the Local Union President or Plant Chairperson may, by serving written notice within thirty (30) days of the date on which Management’s decision was received, appeal therefrom to an impartial arbitrator selected by the Company and the Union. In the event, agreement to an arbitrator cannot be reached, either party may apply to the Minister of Labour for Ontario for the appointment of an arbitrator in accordance with the Ontario
Labour Relations Act and Regulations.
8:07 The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties hereto.
8:08 No matter may be submitted to an arbitrator which has not been properly carried through all previous stages of the grievance procedure, and no person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has taken part in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8:09 An arbitrator shall not alter, add to, subtract
from, modify or amend any part of this Agreement. He/she shall, however, in respect of a grievance involving the suspension or discharge of any employee, be entitled to set aside or substitute such other penalty as to the arbitrator seems just and reasonable in all the circumstances.
8:10 With respect to grievances involving discharge, the grievance shall be put in writing by the Steward and Step Nos. 1 and 2 shall be omitted, and the grievance shall be dealt with by starting with Step No. 3 herein.
8:11 It is also agreed that if any dispute arises between the parties to this Agreement concerning the general policy of either the Union or the Company which affects the orderly administration of this Agreement, that either party may invoke the grievance procedure and arbitration beginning with a conference at Step No. 3.
8:12 Time limits at any step of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement between the parties.
SECTION 9 Seniority
9:01 The general intent of the succeeding clauses is to ensure to regular employees, as much job seniority, based on length of service with the Company, as it is possible and practicable for the Company to grant and also, as far as it is equitable to do so, between employees concerning in the application of these clauses.
9:02 A probationary employee is one who has been hired with a view to his/her becoming a regular employee, but who has not yet actually worked ninety (90) working days. Such employees do not have any seniority rights, and their names will not appear on seniority lists during their period of probation.
9:03 A regular employee is one who:
(a)	has actually worked for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days in a twelve-month period as a temporary employee, or
(b)	has actually worked in excess of ninety (90) working days as a probationary employee, or
(c)	having been reclassified from temporary to probationary status, has actually worked in excess of a total of ninety (90) working days from the
commencement of his/her last employment with the Company.
9:04 With the exception of temporary tradesperson, a temporary employee is one who at the time of hire is employed to fill a job vacancy created as a result of illness, leave of absence, vacation replacement, or during the period March 15 to October 1, or during Christmas and New Year production or for other bona fide operational requirements.
A temporary tradesperson is one who is employed to fill a tradesperson job vacancy created as a result of illness, leave of absence or vacation replacement.
These employees shall have no senority rights under the senority provisions of this Agreement and their retention shall be solely at the discretion of the
Company.
A temporary employee who has worked in excess of one hundred and thirty two (132) days in a continuous twelve (12) month period will automatically be classified as a regular employee and will be credited with a seniority date ninety (90) days prior to the date that he/she accumulated one hundred and thirty two (132) days of work in a continuous twelve (12) month period. This shall include temporary tradesperson.
9:05 Seniority lists will be revised and posted on Union Bulletin Boards every six months, and copies shall be supplied to the Union Steward.
--------------------- 15 ----------------------
SECTION 10 Termination of Seniority
An employee will automatically lose his/her
seniority and cease to be an employee of the
Company for any of the following reasons:
(i)	If he/she quits:
(ii)	If he/she is discharged for just cause:
(iii)	If an employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days without having notified the company and received permission to be absent in advance where that is possible;
(iv)	If he/she accepts gainful employment while on a granted leave of absence without the Company’s previous consent in writing;
(v)	If an employee has been laid off and fails to report for work within seven (7) days after written notice to report to work has been mailed to his/her last address registered with the Company, provided that when an employee is recalled to work and does not report within forty-eight (48) hours, the Company may recall the next employee in line, but he/she is subject to being displaced if the first employee recalled does report within seven (7) days;
(vi)	In case of layoff for a period of twelve (12) months for employees with less than five (5)
years seniority and in case of layoff for a period of twenty-four (24) months for employees with five (5) or more year’s seniority.
SECTION 11 Layoffs and Recall
11:01 Whenever it is necessary to reduce the working staff in any department, the reduction shall be accomplished as follows:
11:02 The Company shall first layoff temporary employees plant wide followed by probationary employees, plant wide, if any, with the exception that temporary and probationary tradespersons and drivers, if any, whose skills continue to be required shall be retained.
11:03 Thereafter, layoffs of regular employees for an anticipated duration of one month or more will be effected in reverse order of plant seniority applied on a departmental basis. Such employees will be permitted, if qualified, to displace more junior employees in other departments.
11:04 Temporary and probationary employees who are laid off in a department shall not have any rights to displace temporary, probationary or regular employees in other departments.
11:05 The application of seniority for regular
employees will not be available until the beginning of the next regular shift.
11:06 Members of the Shop Committee shall be
exempt from layoff as long as there is work within the Plant which they are qualified to perform satisfactorily.
11:07 In all cases employees who are transferred to a different department as a result of the application of these seniority rules must be able to perform the job satisfactorily, and must accept the rate of the job which they are assigned.
11:08 When the working force of a department is
increased following a layoff, the employees will be recalled to their former department from transfer or a layoff in order of seniority.
11:09 When recalling employees from layoff and it is not possible to notify an employee by means other than mail, notification shall be given by registered mail addressed to the last address recorded with the Personnel and Industrial Relations Department. It is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of any change of address.
SECTION 12
Application of Seniority to Promotions or Vacant Positions
12:01 When a higher-rated job, newly established job or other declared vacancy exists within the department, it shall be filled where possible from within the department on the basis of qualifications, with preference to employees having the greatest seniority according to the Departmental Seniority List. For the purposes of this section, a “higherrated job, newly established job or other declared vacancy” will be deemed to include a job where work is performed during the day shift only, as opposed to a job where the work is performed on a
---------------------- 18 ------------------------
rotating or alternating shift basis, provided that the Company’s right to reschedule such a job under other sections of the Agreement is not impaired.
12:02 If there are no sufficiently qualified persons within a department so that a vacancy is not filled; or as a result of a transfer or transfers as outlined in 12:01 there is a resultant vacancy; or that there is need for additional employees, they will be obtained by first resorting to the layoff list of that department.
In the event that no person with sufficient qualifications can be selected from that list for the vacancy or position or if there are no employees on the departmental layoff list, then the following procedure will be effected.
12:03 Any position not filled as the result of the operation of 12:01 and 12:02 will be posted throughout the bargaining unit for a period of three (3) working days. The Local Union Secretary and the Stewards of the department where the vacancy or open position exists will receive a copy of the posting, as well as the names of the applicants, following posting.
12:04 Notwithstanding the foregoing, no posting shall be required for a vacancy resulting from vacation, illness, absenteeism or authorized leave of absence. Nor shall a posting be required for any vacancy or job which the Company announces is not expected to last for more than fifteen (15) working days; but if the position is still available at the end
----------------------- 19 ------------------------
of fifteen (15) working days, then it shall be filled as provided in 12:01,12:02 and 12:03 above.
12:05 When considering which applicant shall be given a job which has been posted, the qualifications of the applicant shall be given consideration, but if there is any choice to be made between two or more applications having sufficient qualications for the job, the most senior applicant shall be given the position, but exceptions may be made in favour of an applicant who needs a transfer because of his/her health or physical condition.
Employees in the bargaining unit having sufficient qualifications for the job shall receive the job in preference to persons outside the bargaining unit.
12:06 The Company may fill any position temporarily, either before or after posting, but shall not be obligated to try out all applicants, nor is the Company obligated to fill all vacancies by promotions or transfer from within the bargaining unit.
12:07 Should an employee having greater seniority than the selected applicant be absent from work during the total period of the job posting, he/she shall be permitted to apply for such job within a period of two calendar weeks after the expiry date of the job posting.
SECTION 13 Transfers
13:01 When an employee is transferred from one department to another except in the case of layoff,
---------------------- 20 -------------------------
his/her seniority position shall remain in the department from which he/she was transferred for a period of sixty (60) working days. If the transfer remains in effect for a period of sixty (60) working days in a particular department his/her seniority shall then be transferred to that department permanently, and he/she shall have no claim to any other department where he/she may have worked.
13:02 Employees who are transferred from departments or jobs not subject to the provisions of this Agreement shall, if transferred to a department subject to this Agreement, be placed upon the seniority list in that department to which he/she has transferred after he/she has worked in that department for a period of ninety (90) working days. This kind of transfer shall not take place during periods when seniority employees are laid off.
13:03 An employee who has been on a seniority list in any department and is promoted to a position not covered by this Agreement and later demoted shall, after ninety (90) working days in the department to which he/she has been assigned, be given seniority equivalent to his/her total service with the Company, except if the demotion occurs before he/she has worked for ninety (90) working days outside the bargining unit he/she may return to his/her original department and regain his/her total seniority without delay.
13:04 Any painting work which can be done to the
satisfaction of the Company by employees who are
-------------------- 21 --------------------
laid off will be offered to employees with seniority who are laid off at the rate of wages applicable to the Bottling and Warehouse Machine Operator, so long as they do not displace employees from their
regular job.
SECTION 14 No Strike Clause
14:01 In view of the orderly procedure arranged for the settlement of complaints and grievances, it is agreed that there will be no strikes or lock outs instigated, endorsed or condoned by either party to
this Agreement.
14:02 If an employee in the bargaining unit encounters a bona tide picket line in the course of his/her normal duties there shall be an immediate conference between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
SECTION 15 Notice Boards
The Company agrees to provide notice boards for the use of the Union and it will allow the Union to post notices of meeting or other official Union notices duly signed by an officer of the Union, provided that prior approval is obtained from the Company for notices other than meeting notices.
SECTION 16
Establishment of Classifications 16:01 Upon the establishment of a new classification
not shown in the Agreement, the Company will notify the Union in writing. Such job classification and rate will be subject to negotiation between the parties.
16:02 If the parties fail to reach agreement within ten (10) working days after the date of the written notice in 16:01, the new classification and rate will be implemented. The matter may then be treated as a grievance and submitted to an arbitrator pursuant to the provisions of Section 8:06 within fifteen (15) days of the date of implementation of the new classification and rate.
The arbitrator’s decision shall be limited to the matter in dispute and to determining the propriety of the classification and/or rate in dispute.
SECTION 17
HOURS OF WORK AND PAY PRACTICES
(EXCEPT TRACTOR TRAILER DRIVERS)
17:01 The following is not to be construed as a guarantee of hours of work, either per day or per week. Seven and one-quarter hours work, plus break periods shall constitute a normal work day. Five normal work days shall constitute a normal work week.
With the exception of employees assigned to the Retail Store, employees will be scheduled to work five consecutive days or shifts starting the first of such regular days or shifts on either Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday. However, the Company will
-------------------- 23 ---------------------
endeavour to schedule as many employees as practicable on a Monday to Friday basis. The Company will establish and continue a practice with respect to a rotating day off in its Retail Store.
17:02 Employees so scheduled will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on any one shift. Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per shift will be paid at the rate of double time.
Hours worked on Saturday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
Hours worked on Sunday will be paid at the rate of double time.
There shall be no pyramiding of regular or overtime hours paid for the same hour worked. For example, an employee will not be paid at the rate of double time and at the rate of time and one-half for the same hour worked.
The Company will endeavour to give twenty-four hours notice to employees who are required for overtime assignments. The Company retains its unqualified right to assign overtime work without notice where required operationally.
17:03 Except for Tractor Trailer Drivers, the regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Any shift commencing after 9:00 a.m. and up to and including 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and any shift commencing after 5:00p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the night shift.
---------------------- 24 -----------------------
17:04 The schedule of hours to be worked each day shall be posted at least one week in advance of the first of such scheduled days, and the scheduling shall provide for at least fifteen (15) hours elapsed time between the close of each employee’s shift and the start of his/her next shift, except where an employee is scheduled to change from one group of consecutive shifts to another. In this case, the said elapsed time may be reduced to seven (7) hours.
Without changing schedules posted pursuant to the preceding paragraph an employee may be requested to take over a work assignment different from that which was posted for him/her, provided he/she is given four (4) working hours notice of such change, and further provided that at least seven (7) hours time will elapse from the end of his/her posted assignment to that of his/her new assignment. If these two conditions are not met the employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours worked by him/her on the changed work assignment.
Before effecting any general change in departmental shift schedules, the Company will endeavour to advise the Union in advance of such change.
17:05 There shall be two break periods per shift totalling one hour, of which forty-five (45) minutes will be paid. One break period will be taken in each half of the shift. Break periods in all departments will be scheduled subject to operational requirements.
If an employee is scheduled to work at least two hours in addition to his/her regular shift, he/she shall be allowed a fifteen minute break period, and an additional fifteen minute break period for each two hours of overtime thereafter.
Employees who are required to work no less than three (3) continuous hours of overtime immediately prior to or following their regular shift shall be granted a meal allowance of three dollars ($3.00).
17:06 Shunters will be paid at the appropriate hourly rate for each hour worked. Shunters will be allowed ten (10) minutes for pre shift and five (5) minutes for post shift activities.
In the event a shunter is assigned a trip, he/she will be paid in accordance with Section 18 for said trip.
SECTION 18
HOURS OF WORK AND PAY PRACTICES (TRACTOR TRAILER DRIVERS)
18:01 Transport Delivery Standards:
a)	Travel Time Allowance
i)	Highway Deliveries
Trips of a forty (40) kilometre radius or greater will be based on a driving standard of 80 km/hr.
ii)	City Deliveries
Trips less than a forty (40) kilometre radius, will be based on a driving standard of 50 km/hr.
--------------------- 26 ----------------------
Travel time allowance will be paid at the appropriate hourly rate.
The Company will establish, in co-operation with the Union, the distance in kilometres for each trip.
b)	Non-Driving Allowances
i)	Pre and Post Trip Activities Drivers will be entitled to one (1) payment of forty-five (45) minutes at the appropriate hourly rate for pre and post trip activities on a daily basis.
ii)	Pallet Delivery/Pickup
Drivers will be compensated for two (2) minutes at the appropriate hourly rate for each full pallet lift delivery of product or pickup of each full pallet lift of empty containers or return product.
iii)	Multipool Deliveries
A multipool delivery is defined as a trailer load of product which requires the driver to pickup and/or deliver at one or more geographic locations. Payment for the first call is incorporated into the applicable delivery standard. For each subsequent call a driver will be paid fifteen (15) minutes at the appropriate hourly rate.
iv)	Drop or Pickup Trailer
For each drop or pickup trailer (other than the pre and post function), a
driver will be paid fifteen (15) minutes at the appropriate hourly rate.
v)	Highway Fueling
A driver will be paid fifteen (15) minutes at the appropriate hourly rate for each required highway fueling.
Delivery drivers will be paid travel time allowance by the hour and non-driving allowances by flat rate standards as outlined above.
c)	Authorized Downtime
A driver will be paid at the appropriate hourly rate for legitimate and authorized downtime as defined below:
i)	Load availability at plant warehouses and switch points (post scheduled arrival).
ii)	Equipment availability.
iii)	Tractor/Trailer mechanical breakdown
iv)	Accidents involving Company vehicles operated by driver.
v)	Delays at the BRI stores causing a
driver’s total time to be in excess of two (2) minutes per pallet (on and off the truck), Store management authorization will be required.
vi)	Official road closures or non-official road closures which result in delays in excess of 75 minutes (non-cumulative).
vii)	Delays as authorized by the dispatcher at the time of occurrence.
--------------------- 28 ----------------------
18:02 If work is available, forty hours Monday to Friday shall constitute a work week for Tractor Trailer Drivers. For each day of absence from work by the driver for any reason, eight (8) hours will be deducted from the above forty (40) hours.
18:03 Meal Allowance:
(i)	The Company will reimburse Tractor
Trailer Drivers for amounts expended for sleeping accommodation on presentation of valid receipts and will allow an extra thirteen ($13.00) for breakfast on such occasions.
(ii)	If a Tractor Trailer Driver is held up because of mechanical breakdown, road conditions or weather conditions, and obliged to hold up for one or more than one full day, he/she will be given an extra meal allowance of five dollars ($5.00) for each of such days held over, and will be credited with eight hours work for each day held over.
18:04 Tractor Trailer Drivers will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of ten (10) in a day or forty (40) in a week.
Hours worked on Saturday will be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
Hours worked on Plant Holidays, and on Sunday between 12:01 a.m. and 7:59 p.m., will be paid at the rate of double time.
There shall be no pyramiding of regular or overtime hours paid for the same hour worked.
18:05 Tractor Trailer Drivers will be granted two break periods of fifteen (15) minutes per shift. One break period will be taken in each half shift.
A Tractor Trailer Driver required to work more than ten (10) hours in a day will be granted an additional fifteen (15) minute break period.
18:06 The Company agrees not to use outside trucks for any delivery which is normally made by the Company’s trucks and while an employee with a seniority date prior to January 1, 1990, who is qualified to drive, is laid off.
SECTION 19 — PLANT HOLIDAYS
19:01 The Company agrees that the following Holidays will be recognized as set forth below:
	1994	1995	1996
NEW YEAR’S DAY	FRI. DEC. 31/93	MON. JAN 2	MON. JAN. 1
JANUARY 2nd	MON. JAN. 3	TUES. JAN. 3	TUES. JAN. 2
GOOD FRIDAY	FRI. APR. 1	FRI. APR. 14	FRI. APR. 5
EASTER MONDAY	MON. APR. 4	MON. APR. 17	MON. APR. 8
VICTORIA DAY	MON. MAY 23	MON. MAY 22	MON. m*V 20
CANADA DAY	FRI. JULY 1	FRI. JUNE 30	MON. JULY 1
CIVIC HOLIDAY	MON. AUG. 1	MON. AUG. 7	MON. AUG. 5
LABOUR DAY	MON. SEPT. 5	MON. SEPT. 4	MON. SEPT. 2
THANKSGIVING DAY	MON. OCT. 10	MON. OCT. 9	MON. OCT. 14
CHRISTMAS DAY	MON. DEC. 26	MON. DEC. 25	WED. DEC. 25
BOXING DAY	TUES. DEC. 27	TUES. DEC. 26	THURS.DEC.26
			(WED. JAN. 1/97)
			(THURS. JAN. 2/97)
-------------------- 31 ----------------------
19.02(a) Employees on the seniority lists will
receive eight hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
(i)	the employee has worked at least five days during the twenty working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
(ii)	the employee has not been absent without permission on the last day scheduled for him/her immediately prior to the date on which the said holiday is observed or the first work day scheduled for him/her immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
(b)	Probationary employees who have completed thirty (30) days of work for the Company since their most recent date of hire and who would be eligible for Plant Holidays were they on the seniority list by having satisfied all pre-conditions for Plant Holiday entitlement for regular employees be entitled to benefit from such Plant Holiday provision.
19:03 In a calendar week in which one or more
Plant Holidays are observed, the number of days in that week which may be worked at straight time shall be reduced by the number of such holidays.
19:04 When an employee is required to work any hours on any of the Plant Holidays referred to in 19:01, he/she shall receive double time for the for the hours worked in addition to pay for the holiday, and if called in to work on such a day, he/she shall
-------------------- 32 ---------------------
be provided at least four (4) hours of work or pay at the double time rate.
19:05 When any of these holidays are observed during an employee’s vacation, he/she shall receive one day’s pay for each of such holidays in addition to his/her regular vacation payment, unless by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company the employee is given another day off with pay in lieu of such holiday. Such lieu day shall be
scheduled by mutual agreement between the
employee and the Company.
19:06(a) In the event the Brewers’ Warehousing Company Stores are not permitted to open for sale to the public throughout the entire Province by virtue of an edict of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, Tractor Trailer Drivers will be credited with eight (8) hours pay without being required to work.
(b)	In any work week in which a Liquor Control Board of Ontario Holiday, which is not Province wide is declared and in which a Tractor Trailer Driver has worked less than forty hours, solely because of the Holiday, the Company will credit the Driver with sufficient hours, up to a maximum of eight hours, to bring his/her total hours for that week to forty hours. Tractor Trailer Drivers required to work on the Holiday will do so at straight time.
(c)	Retail Store employees who are not required to work on Holidays and election days proclaimed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario in addition to those enumerated above, shall receive their normal
-------------------- 33 ----------------------
pay for the day. Such time will be counted as time worked for the purpose of computing normal weekly hours. If employees are required to work on such days, they shall, in addition to their normal pay for the day receive double time for their actual hours of work, with a minimum of four hours.
(d)	If a Retail Store employee voluntarily elects to work on his/her regular day off in the week in which an additional holiday is observed he/she shall be paid at straight time for hours worked on that day provided that if an employee who has worked on his/her regular day off is laid off for lack of work in that week, he/she will then be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the hours worked on his/her day off.
SECTION 20 Vacations
20:01 Vacation Leave
On May 1st in each year, vacation leave will be established for all regular employees according to the following scale:
(a)	Regular employees who have achieved seniority as of May 1st — 1 week;
(b)	Regular employees who have one year or more of seniority as of May 1st — 2 weeks;
(c)	Regular employees who have three or more years of seniority as of May 1st — 3 weeks;
(d)	Regular employees who have eight or more years of seniority as of May 1st — 4 weeks;
--------------------- 34 ----------------------
(e)	Regular employees who have fifteen or more years of seniority as of May 1st — 5 weeks;
(f)	Regular employees who have twenty or more years of seniority as of May 1st — 6 weeks;
(g)	Regular employees who have twenty-five or more years of seniority as of May 1st — 7 weeks;
20:02 The initial establishment of the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh week of vacation will be made with reference to the employee’s seniority anniversary date as though established as of May 1st.
20:03 Employees who have not attained regular
status as of May 1st will receive vacation pay at the rate of 4% for the period from date of hire to May 1st.
20:04 Summer vacations shall be limited to two consecutive weeks which shall be scheduled in a fourteen week period commencing the second Monday in June, but wherever practical, such summer vacations may be taken outside this period if mutually satisfactory to an employee and his/her Supervisor.
Additional weeks of vacation for employees with three or more years of service shall be taken outside the regular summer vacation period.
Vacations are to be granted by seniority (regardless of shift) and within occupational groups where applicable.
20:05 Vacation Pay
For each week of vacation leave an employee shall
--------------------- 35 -----------------------
receive forty hours of pay at his/her current hourly wage rate.
20:06 Vacation Bonus
The benefits under the Vacation Bonus Plan are designed to provide regular employees, as defined in Section 9:03 of this Agreement, with a more stable working year, On May 1st of each year, employees with three or more years of seniority shall receive a vacation bonus equal to 20% of such employee’s normal vacation payment. The Vacation Bonus will take the form of vacation time off, or a cash bonus, depending on whether or not junior regular employees are scheduled for layoff. If, during the vacation year, regular employees who have qualified as such under 9:03 of this Agreement, are scheduled to be laid off due to lack of work, the Union and the Company will meet to schedule vacation bonus time off for these employees who are eligible to receive benefits under this Plan in direct proportion to the anticipated layoff. If, during the vacation year, all or a portion of the vacation bonuses are not used up in vacation time off, the remaining vacation bonus entitlements will be paid in cash on June 30th of each year.
20:07 Vacation Payment on Termination
All terminations will be handled on the following
basis:
(a) Employees who had received their vacations earned as of May 1st prior to termination shall
receive a pro rata payment of 4 %, 6 %, 8 %, 10 %,
12 % , or 14% as applicable, of earnings from May 1st to date of termination.
(b)	Employees who had not received their earned vacation as of May 1st prior to termination shall receive their regular vacation pay in addition to a pro rata payment of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12%, or 14% as applicable of earnings from May 1st.
(c)	Probationary and temporary employees shall be entitled only on vacation pay accordance with provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
On termination, an employee will receive any vacation bonus to which he/she is entitled.
20:08 An employee continuously absent from work for a period in excess of 104 weeks shall not be entitled to any vacation entitlement thereafter until further entitlement is earned by resumption of active service.
20:09 Near the conclusion of the vacation year, an employee with unused vacation entitlement who is then in receipt of Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Benefits and who has not been continuously absent from work in excess of 104 weeks shall:
1.	cease to receive such benefits and be placed on vacation leave until his/her unused vacation entitlement is exhausted; and,
2.	resume receipt of disability benefits, if still qualified, once his/her vacation credits are exhausted;
-------------------- 37 ----------------------
An employee whose disablility benefits are interrupted as described above, shall have his/her eligible benefit period extended by the number of weeks for which he/she has been placed on vacation leave by the Company pursuant to this clause.
SECTION 21 Bereavement Allowance
Should a bereavement occur in an employee’s immediate family (members of his/her household, parents, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law) he/she may request a bereavement leave, and he/she shall be granted such time off with pay as is reasonable under the circumstances to enable him/her to look after funeral arrangements or to attend the funeral. The extent of such leave shall be in the discretion of the Company, depending upon the time of the bereavement in relation to his/her regular time off, the distance to be travelled, etc. The general standard of bereavement time off shall be three (3) consecutive days.
One day’s leave with pay will be granted to an employee, upon prior request, so as to permit him/her to attend the funeral of a grandparent or a grandchild. One day’s leave will be granted to an employee, upon prior request, so as to permit him/her to attend the funeral of other in-laws not listed above.
SECTION 22
Wage Rates and Classifications 22:01 The following minimum wage rates for the
respective classification shall be effective the dates indicated:
Regular employees Bottling and Whse.
Machine Operator Retail Store Brewing Dept. Tractor Trailer Drs. Garage Helper Oiler
Tradesperson “A” Groundskeepers
Others
Temporary Tractor Trailer Drivers Probationary Tractor Trailer Driver Temporary Probationary Temp. Tradesperson Prob. Tradesperson
Apr. 1. Jan. 1. Jan. 1. 1994	1995	1996
22.25	22.70	23.15
22.25	22.70	23.15
22.25	22.70	23.15
22.50	22.95	23.40
22.30	22.75	23.20
23.20	23.65	24.10
26.05	26.58	27.11
22.25	22.70	23.15
13.20	13.47	13.74
14.26	14.26	14.26
11.57	11.80	12.03
13.14	13.14	13.14
18.66	19.04	19.42
19.83	19.83	19.83
22:02 Charge Hands will be paid at the same hourly rate as the employees whom they are supervising, plus an additional 22 cents per hour.
22:03 Except for the Retail Store, the regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. Any shift commencing after 9:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift, and any shift commencing after 5:00p.m.
--------------------- 39 ----------------------
and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
Retail Store full-time employees regular day shift shah commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and any shift commencing after 10:00 a.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift.
22:04 Hourly rates contained in the schedule of wages of this Agreement shall be paid for all regular or day shift work, The afternoon shift shall receive a premium of sixty (60) cents per hour. The midnight shift shall receive a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
These premiums constitute separate fixed items of pay and shall not be included in basic rates for the calculation of overtime or premium payments nor shall they be included in the calculation of pay for legal holidays if not worked.
Afternoon and night shift premiums do not apply to Retail Store temporary employees.
22:05 Employees who are transferred pursuant to the seniority provisions in order to avoid laying them off shall immediately take the rate for the job to which they are assigned.
22:06 Employees who are temporarily transferred to a vacant job for the convenience of the Company shall continue to receive their usual rate.
22:07 An employee who is transferred temporarily to more highly paid work shall continue to receive his/her usual rate unless the transfer continues for
---------------------- 40 -----------------------
one full working day or more, in which case he/she shall receive the higher rate for the entire period of the transfer.
22:08 An employee who regularly works on jobs having two rates shall, if he/she worked twenty hours or more in the week, receive the higher rate for the full week.
22:09 Time off shall not be given in lieu of overtime or premium hours worked.
SECTION 23 Reporting Allowance
23:01 When an employee reports for work at the customary time scheduled for him/her without being notified to the contrary and is assigned less than four hours of work he/she shall be paid at least four hours at straight time rates.
It is understood that an employee may be assigned under such circumstances to work other than his/her regular assignment.
23:02 When an employee is called in for breakdown or emergency work after leaving the plant following his/her regular shift and before returning to work for his/her regular shift and is assigned less than four hours of extra work outside his/her regular shift hours, he/she shall be paid for at least four hours at the appropriate overtime rate in addition to payment at straight time for any hours worked by him/her during his/her regular shift hours; except that if so called in within one hour before his/her
regular starting time he/she shall be paid only for such extra time worked at the appropriate overtime rate and at straight time for regular shift hours
worked.
23:03 If an employee is injured on the job and cannot complete his/her shift he/she will be sent home and paid for the balance of this shift.
SECTION 24 Discipline
In the imposition of discipline, prior disciplinary written warnings or reprimands will not be referred to after twelve (12) months; prior suspensions will not be referred to after thirty (30) months.
SECTION 25 Adequate Manpower
(a)	The Company shall supply adequate manpower on all operations in all departments at all times so that any employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day’s work.
(b)	Clause (a) shall not be construed to mean that the manning of all operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly a fair day’s work, and accordingly changes in the manning of crews and changes in an employee’s work load may be made so long as the resulting situation is not a violation of Clause (a).
SECTION 26 Injury or Illness
Sickness, or disability resulting from an accident,
shall not be sufficient cause for discharge in the case of regular employees. Upon recovery the employee shall receive his/her former position or some other suitable job if held by an employee with less seniority, if the recovered employee is capable of performing the job.
This clause shall also apply in the event of a Driver who is required to have a Class A licence on account of failing to meet government standards for a Class A licence. This will not apply in the event of the loss of a driver’s licence for any other reason.
SECTION 27 Tool Allowance
The Company agrees to replace any worn or broken tools and/or purchase new tools, which in its judgement, are necessary, up to a maximum of three hundred and twenty dollars ($320.00), effective May 1st, 1995 up to a maximum of three hundred and thirty-five dollars ($335.00), effective May 1st., 1996 up to a maximum of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) in any twelve month period.
SECTION 28 Welfare Plan
The Company will provide a Welfare Plan for employees in the bargaining unit, particulars of which will be outlined in Schedule A.
SECTION 29 Pension Plan
The Pension Plan for regular employees of Molson
-------------------- 43 ----------------------
Breweries, who are members of the C.A.W. Local 306, Brewery Workers shall be part of this Agreement. The Plan is summarized in Schedule B. Should there be any dispute respecting the benefits to which an employee is entitled under the Plan, it shall be settled by a mutually agreed upon arbitrator who is a member of the Actuarial Institute.
SECTION 30
Sick Leave
On January 1st of each year, all seniority employees at work will be credited with forty-eight (48) hours of Sick Leave at their then existing daily basic wage rate. These hours are to be used to offset loss of pay caused by occasional illnesses of up to three normal working days which are not covered by the Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan, or for going home ill for balance of shift.
Any unused portion of Sick Leave will be paid to the employee in cash on the second last pay day
before Christmas.
Employees who attain seniority during the year, or, who return to work following a disability absence after the 1st of January of any year, shall be credited with four (4) hours of straight time pay for each full month worked from the date they attained seniority or the date of their return from disability absence respectively.
Employees who terminate their employment or retire during the calendar year, shall receive Sick Leave Benefits prorated at four (4) hours of straight time
------------------- 44 ---------------------
pay for each full month worked from January 1 to their termination date less any sick leave hours used during this period.
SECTION 31 Jury Duty
Should an employee be called for Jury Duty or be subpoenaed as a Crown Witness, the Company will supplement his/her Jury or Witness pay to ensure that the employee will receive totally, monies equivalent to eight (8) hours of straight time pay at his/her regular wage rate for those days he/she would actually have been at work during his/her service on a Jury or as a Crown Witness.
SECTION 32 Cost of Living Allowance
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including Vacations and Statutory Holidays, in the period from January 1,1996 to December 31, 1996, the first pay period following publication of the December, 1996 Consumer Price Index, on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, in the period from January 1,1996 to December 31,1996 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index for the month of December, 1995, after adding thereto 7 % of the December, 1995 Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for the month of December, 1996.
SECTION 33 Technological Change
33:01 In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or
more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (‘eligible employees’) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of
seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the Separation Pay Entitlement of all the employees designated for indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated.
The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if the greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
33:02 If:
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following provisions shall apply:
(i) The employees ultimately designated for the indefinite layoff hereunder will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the
Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff.
---------------------- 47 -----------------------
Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 34 hereof.
If any of those employees were classified as probationary or regular employees prior to March 21,1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
(ii) Those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan.
In addition, such employees shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his/her employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan the eight (8) weeks can never be restored:
(b)	the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
SECTION 34 Separation Pay
34:01 A regular employee shall be entitled to
--------------------- 48 -----------------------
separation pay as set out in subsection :03 provided he/she has not been excluded by subsection :02 and provided he/she meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he/she is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection :02;
(b)	if he/she is laid off and on any date during his/her layoff the hours scheduled for him/her during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he/she is not eligible for any Company or government pension or for benefits under the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six months he/she may res-quest immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if he/she is ultimately designated for indefinite layoff as a result of a major technological change as provided in Section 33:02;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he/she first becomes eligible therefore, otherwise his/her right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company
--------------------- 49 ------------------------
permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he/she is entitled without waiting the six months period.
34:02 Notwithstanding subsection :01, an employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he/she quits;
(b)	he/she is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he/she is terminated under section 10 (loss of seniority provision) of this collective
agreement;
(d)	he/she has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations; unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing within the Province;
(e)	he/she has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he/she is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his/her layoff;
(g)	he/she is in receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or Long
--------------------- 50 ----------------------
Term Disability Plans or the Worker’s Compensation Act;
(h)	he/she is entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
34:03 The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to:
(a)	one week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his/her hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his/her completed years of seniority (as used, for vacation entitlement) as of the last day he/she actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	for employees classified as probationary or regular employees prior to March 21, 1988, an additional three hundred and seventy-five dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his/her completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he/she first becomes eligible therefore shall have his/her separation pay under this part (b) calculated as seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his/her completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years.
If there is a permanent closure of the brewery the 15 year maximum is replaced with a 22 year maximum.
34:04 The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan
payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
34:05 If an employee applies for and accepts a
separation payment hereunder, his/her employment is terminated and his/her seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
SECTION 35
Duration and Termination or Modification
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the 31st dav of Decfmhpr, ^nH nnlpgg eitherparty gives notice in writing to the other party that amendments are required, or that the party intends terminating the Agreement, then it shall continue in effect until the 31st day of December, 1997, and so on from year to year.
Notice that amendments are required, or of intention to terminate, may only be given not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the termination of the contract.
The parties hereto agree to meet for the purpose of negotiations within twenty (20) days after the giving of notice and if, as a result of such negotiations, the parties fail to negotiate a new Agreement or a modification of the present Agreement prior to the 31st day of December, following the date of such notice, then the Agreement shall terminate on that day of December.
Extensions of not more than thirty (30) days may be
52
mutually agreed upon in order to complete negotiations, if agreement on a renewal appears possible. During any negotiations, following upon notice of amendment, either party may bring forward counter proposals arising out of or related to the original proposals.
SIGNED on Q)eeem6er /Sth. , 1994.
FOR
THE COMPANY
FOR
THE UNION
<Scum(Jer&
P. FERLAND
K. SAUNDERS
^am&cAuA/ jMcu&ona/d
F. ZBARASCHUK	P. MACDONALD
Q). ffltaa&ze/i/___& Neuman/
D. KLAASSEN	G. GANNON
& Q)mni&	W. ‘Warmiar
G. DENNIS
W. WARNAAR
& Jltfact%saao
B. HEISZ
T. MACISAAC
P. DAGENAIS
P. TEMPEL
fflarwe'
T.W. HARVIE
D. BARRY
SCHEDULE A Welfare Benefits
The Company is not the insurer of the following benefits, and the terms and conditions set out below shall be governed by the contracts with the insurers. The effective date(s) for improved coverage are indicated where appropriate.
1.	Hospital Benefits
All seniority employees, and their dependents, will continue to be enrolled in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan for standard ward accommodation and be covered for semi-private accommodation under the Company’s Major Medical Plan as noted below.
Particulars of these plans will be contained in leaflets issued by the Ministry of Health and the Insurer.
2.	Life Insurance
All seniority employees will continue to be insured for an amount of $39,000. The amount of insurance shall be increased to $40,000. effective April 1,1994 ($41,000 effective January 1, 1995 and $42,000 effective January 1,1996) for employees actively at work on those days. Employees not actively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment. Upon retirement, coverage will be reduced to an amount of $4,000.
3.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits
In case of death by non-occupational accident,
---------------------- 54 -----------------------
a principal amount of $39,000. will be paid to the named beneficiary of an eligible employee. The amount of insurance shall be increased to $40,000. effective April 1,1994 ($41,000. effective January 1,1995 and to $42,000. effective January 1,1996) for employees actively at work on those days. Employees not actively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment. In the event of loss of two members of the body by accidental means, the full amount will be payable. Similarly, one-half of the amount will be payable for the loss of one member.
4.	Surgical, Medical Expenses and Diagnostic Benefits
All seniority employees, and their dependents, will continue to be enrolled in the Ontario Health Plan, particulars of which are contained in a leaflet issued by the Ministry of Health.
Upon retirement at age 65, or, upon retirement after age 60 with 30 years of credited service, or, upon retirement on 85 points, coverage will be continued on behalf of each Pensioner and his/her spouse, during the lifetime of the Pensioner.
5.	Major Medical Benefits
All seniority employees, and their dependents, will continue to be enrolled in a Major Medical Plan, particulars of which will be contained in a leaflet issued by the Insurer. Highlights of the Plan are as follows:
-------------------- 55 ----------------------
-employing a $10.00 deductible, $20.00 family
maximum
—$10,000. maximum benefit with an annual reinstatement of up to $2,500.00 of that maximum benefit at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore the maximum to the level of $10,000.00.
-semi-private hospital benefit included. This is not subject to the $10.00 deductible and provides full coverage.
-maternity included on “any other illness” basis.
6.	Non-duplication of Benefits
An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as Holiday Pay, Vacation Pay, Weekly Indemnity, LTD, Worker’s Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part day.
7.	U.I.C. Rebate
The employee’s share of any Unemployment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this Agreement.
8.	Weekly Indemnity and Insured Term Disability
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 70% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the 26-week period will be paid to employees who are off work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will
commence on the first day, if disability is due to an accident, and on the fourth day, if due to sickness, and will continue up to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one period of disability.
Where it is necessary for an employee to have dental surgery, claims under the weekly indemnity plan will be recognized and payments will commence on the fourth day and will continue up to a maximum of two weeks for any such claim upon the receipt of the proper certification by a dental oral surgeon.
An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the 26 week period of disability or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks during which an employee has received Worker’s Compensation payments and continue until recovery or normal retirement date, whichever occurs first. The Plan will provide payment of 66-2/3% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the first 78 weeks on the Long Term Plan. Following such period the payment will be 66-2/3 % of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at the end of the said 78-week period. The Long Term Disability Plan and the Weekly Indemnity Plan will be of a standard nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance, and, in the case of Long Term Disability, will also include an offset clause for integrating Worker’s Compensation.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary
monies to build up the pension of persons receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual at the commencement of disability.
Commencing after the 26th week, and until 104 weeks from the date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be the inability to do a regular job available in the Bargaining Unit. Starting at the 105th week, eligibility for benefits will depend on the employee’s ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he/she is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience to perform.
Note: Benefits for approved Leave of Absence due to pregnancy are covered under the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
9.	Coverage
Newly hired employees will qualify for coverage under the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plan upon attainment of seniority.
10.	Dental Plan
All seniority employees, and their dependents, will be enrolled in a Dental Plan, particulars of which will be issued by the Insurer.
In general, the Plan will provide reimbursement for 100% of the costs of eligible expenses incurred for Basic Services (examination, cleaning, filling, etc.) up to a maximum of $700.00 per year with a combined Lifetime maximum of $4,000.00 for
--------------------- 58 -----------------------
Restorative and Orthodontic Services.
Effective January 1,1992, there will be a provision for an annual re-instatement of up to $500.00 at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore such Lifetime maximum to the level of $4,000.00.
Where Restorative Services are required, the Plan provides for 75 % reimbursement of the cost of eligible expenses incurred. Where Orthodontic Services are required, the Plan provides for 50 % reimbursement of the cost of eligible expenses incurred.
-------------------- 59 ---------------------
SCHEDULE B
Summary of the Pension Plan
1.	The main provision of the text of the Pension Plan, established at July 1, 1975 and including amendments as at January 1,1994, January 1,1995 and January 1,1996 are summarized below.
All benefits accrued prior to July 1,1975 are subject to the provisions of the predecessor Pension Plan in effect at that time.
For the purpose of calculating the Supplemental Benefit provisions, if any, of the Pension Plan, credited service includes the years of service for which pension credits were accrued under the predecessor Plan for all such years back to July 1, 1962. In the calculation of such Supplemental Benefit Provisions herein, the employee’s pension will include earned pension benefits under both the predecessor and the current Pension Plan.
2.	Eligibility
All full time, regular employees within the bargaining unit are covered by the Plan after the completion of six months continuous service.
3.	Contributions
The Plan is non-contributory,
4.	Credited Service
Credited service shall be computed for each calendar year on the basis of one-tenth (1/10) of a years credited service for each 180 hours actually worked or for which wages have been paid. It is understood
-------------------- 60 ---------------------
that wages shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence such as, for example, Jury Duty, Crown Subpoenaed Witness, Bereavement Pay, payment for Statutory Holidays, Call-In Pay and any period for which an employee is absent from work and in receipt of Workers Compensation or Weekly Indemnity payments. Earned credits in any calendar year shall in no case exceed one year of credited service and shall be calculated to the nearest one-tenth (1/10) year of credited service.
Employees who are or become totally or permanently disabled and qualify for benefits under the insured Long Term Disability Plan shall continue to accrue credited service and pension credits at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of Long Term Disability payments with service computed as outlined in the previous paragraph. Such credits shall continue and Long Term Disability Payments will only by made until he/she recovers, dies or attains his/her normal retirement date and retires under the Plan.
5.	Normal Retirement
Normal retirement takes place on the first day of the month coincident with or following age 65.
6.	Special Early Retirement
Employees may retire on full accrued pension that was earned after July 1,1975, provided they have completed 30 years of credited service and have attained the age of 60 or more.
61
7.	Pension Benefits
The monthly pension benefit earned in respect of each year of credited service under the Plan is as
follows:
For Each Year of Credited Service During
July 1, 1975 to Dec. 31, 1979 July 1, 1980 to Dec. 31, 1980 July 1, 1981 to Dec. 31, 1981 July 1, 1982 to Dec. 31, 1982 July 1, 1983 to Dec. 31, 1983 July 1, 1984 to Dec. 31, 1984 July 1, 1985 to Dec. 31, 1985 July 1, 1986 to Dec. 31, 1986 July 1, 1987 to Dec. 31, 1987 July 1, 1988 to Dec. 31, 1988 July 1, 1989 to Dec. 31, 1989 July 1, 1990 to Dec. 31, 1990 July 1, 1991 to Dec. 31, 1991 July 1, 1992 to Dec. 31, 1992 July 1, 1993 to Dec. 31, 1993 July 1, 1994 to Dec. 31, 1994 July 1, 1995 to Dec. 31, 1995 July I, 1996 to Dec. 31, 1996
Monthly
Pension
$ 9.00
13.00
14.00
15.00
16.50 17.25
19.00
19.50
20.00 26.00
27.00
28.00
30.00
31.00
32.00
34.00
35.00
36.00
8.	Supplemental Benefit
I. For members who retire on or after April 1,1994 the following shall apply:
(A)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits determined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,980.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(B)	Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his/her credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,743.00 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive
unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement
Benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits determined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,980.00; which supplement shall become his/her lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31,1991 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
II.	For members who retire on or after January 1, 1995 the following shall apply:
(A) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits deter-
--------------------- 64 -----------------------
mined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $2,060.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
(B) Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his/her credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,800.00 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits,
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits determined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2,060.00; which supplement shall become his/her lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31,1992 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit both determined as of that date, his/her accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his/her related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
III.	For members who retire on or after January 1, 1996 the following shall apply:
(A) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement:
A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits determined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $2,140.00.
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by the member’s accrued pension.
---------------------- 66 -----------------------
(B) Special Early Retirement:
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his/her credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,865.00 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member’s accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits determined at the date of his/her retirement to produce a monthly pension of $2,140.00; which supplement shall become his/her lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before December 31,1993 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then
--------------------- 67 ----------------------
be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime
supplement.
9.	85 Point Retirement:
A member retiring on or after January 1,1991 and after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement), is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his/her credit for service to date of early retirement.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his/her date of retirement but using his/her current unreduced vested accrued pension and his/her related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement.
10.	Other Early Retirement:
A member retiring on or after January 1,1988 and after having attained age 55 but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement or for 85 Point Retirement is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his/her credit for service to date of early retirement reduced by one-third of 1% per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month his/her retirement precedes age 65.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his/her date of retirement but using his/her current unreduced vested accrued pension and his/her related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by one-third of 1% per month (i.e. 4% per
year) for each month his/her retirement precedes age 65.
11.	Partial Disability Retirement:
Effective January 1, 1991 employees who have attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service who become disabled and retire under the disability provisions of the pension plans, will receive a supplementary benefit of $14.00 per month multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The Supplement is payable until the employee is eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirement benefit. This supplement will be paid in addition to such employees full accrued pension at time of disability retirement.
In addition, such member who retires on or after January 1,1988, shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement commencing on the date he/she first becomes eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits. This supplement
--------------------- 69 ----------------------
shall be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his/her date of retirement but using his/her current unreduced vested accrued pension and his/her related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement.
12.	Joint and Survivor Pension:
A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Other Early or Disability Retirement on or after January 1,1988, shall receive a joint and survivor pension unless the persons entitled to the joint and survivor pension deliver to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve months immediately preceding the commencement of payment of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shah be reduced by 10 % during his/her lifetime and upon his/her death, his/her eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 60% of the member’s reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to actuarial reduction if such spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member).
13.	Death Benefits Before Retirement:
If a member dies on or after January 1,1988 and after having completed 15 years of continuous service, his/her spouse shall receive an immediate
pension equal to 50 percent of the employee’s pension accrued after July 1,1975 to his/her date of death plus 50 percent of his/her lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his/her date of death, but using his/her current unreduced accrued pension and his/her related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of death.
After Retirement:
If the above joint and survivor pension is waived or if the member has no eligible spouse at retirement, the member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be payable during the member’s lifetime and shall cease upon his/her death. The member may elect an optional form of pension.
14.	Escalation of Benefit:
For members who retired prior to January 1,1988, the basic pension accrued under the Plan after July 1,1975 (not including supplemental benefits) will be subject to an annual escalation based on the increase in the Consumer Price Index. For members who retire on or after January 1,1988, the member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be subject to an annual escalation based on the increase in the Consumer Price Index. The adjustment will be made on January 1st each year, commencing with the January 1st following the
--------------------- 71 ----------------------
member’s actual retirement date, based on the 12 months percentage increase in the Index as of the prior September 1st, to a maximum of 2 % per year.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated on the existing formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following the member’s date of death.
15.	Termination of Employment (Vesting):
A member’s accrued pension and lifetime supplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
SCHEDULE C Guaranteed Wage Plan
AGREEMENT Between Molson Breweries, Barrie, Ontario and the C. A.W. and its Local 306.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Barrie, Ontario.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this Supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September, 1994 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
(a)	the Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans.
(b)	payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
(c)	the receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
73
1.	Purpose:
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of
guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off.
2.	Eligible for Participation in the Plan:
Any regular hourly-rated employee having at least one year of seniority determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding his/her layoff shall be eligible to participate in this plan.
Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to March 21,1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan until September 1st of the year following the employee’s attainment of three (3) years of seniority.
3.	Exceptions:
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee’s status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing, or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by any of the Unions which were party to the Ontario Industry Memorandum of Agreement which led to
---------------------- 74 -----------------------
the renewal of this Plan, or by any Local thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or degree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations; unless
(i)	The direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	The direction or decree purports to change the method of beer distribution or beer retailing within the Province.
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or hostile act of any foreign power
or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	Disqualification for Benefits:
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
(i) In which he/she has been on layoff and has failed to apply for U.I.C. benefits, or in which he/she has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I.C.
--------------------- 75 -----------------------
benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
(ii)	In which he/she has been on layoff and has tiled to keep himself/herself registered for employe-ment with the Canada Employment Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.I.C. benefits or for reduction of U.I.C. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he/she has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him/her by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he/she has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he/she is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans.
(vi)	After he/she has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect of which he/she is qualified for compensation from the Worker’s Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	Definitions:
For the purposes of this Plan.
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. Jury Duty,
Bereavement Pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and Call-In Pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company’s payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	all hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employee in such week, plus
(b)	all hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he/she receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	all hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he/she has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	all hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he/she has not worked for any reason other that lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him/her.
“Week of layoff means a week in which the employee’s compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off Employees: Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as
herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from
the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of items 1,2, and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff:
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his/her Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he/she has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he/she has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
----------------------- 78 ------------------------
8.	Duration of Benefits:
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table ‘A’. However, the employee’s actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he/she has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of l/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee’s maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table ‘A’ below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table ‘A’.
Table
Completed Years of Seniority Determined as of the September 1st immediately preceding his/her layoff
15 Years or More 10 Years or More 5 Years or More 4 Years or More 3 Years or More
‘A’
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
78 Weeks of Benefits 65 Weeks of Benefits 52 Weeks of Benefits 45 Weeks of Benefits 35 Weeks of Benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which
an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his/her Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that September 1st in accordance with Table
‘A’ above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each in respect of which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one week for each week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by l/5th of a week in which he/she is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his/her weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he/she is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.
9.	Deductions:
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
SO
10.	Applications:
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The wilful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he/she may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed, subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
11.	Reporting:
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
12.	Duration of Agreement:
This Agreement shall continue until August 31,1997. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding
81
that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1,1997.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signature this	/cSt/i/. day of
QBecemAer, 1994.
FOR
THE COMPANY
SferBand
P. FERLAND
FOR
THE UNION
<SausicBes&
K. SAUNDERS
ZB ZAarascAaA ZB. JfZaxZBona/d
F.	ZBARASCHUK
Q). ZBTaas&en'
D. KLAASSEN
B/. QBenm&>
G.	DENNIS B. HEISZ
QBqgeacu&
P. DAGENAIS
BB. ZBmfiel
P. TEMPEL T.W. HARVIE
P. MACDONALD
B/. B/asinafi/
G. GANNON
BZ. BZamaaA
W. WARNAAR
B7B jfZaaZ&aac
T. MACISAAC
Q). BBarrt/y
D. BARRY
APPENDIX “A!
Clock or Employee Number
Name (typewriter for Office Use)
Social Isurance Number
Company Name
AUTHORIZATION FOR DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
As a condition of my employment by the Company and in consideration of my membership in the C.A.W. and its Local 306 and in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect at the date hereof between the Company and the said Union, I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from my pay, hereinafter due to me, such amount as may from time to time be certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of Union dues currently payable.
Dated at__________.
this____________day of
____________ Witness__
_19_____,
Employee
Clock or Employee Number
Name (typewrite for Office Use)
Social Isurance Number
Company Name
AUTHORIZATION FOR DEDUCTION OF INITIATION FEE
In consideration of my acceptance into membership in the C. A.W. and its Local 306 and in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement in effect at the date hereof between the Company and the said Union, I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from my pay, hereinafter due to me, such amount as presently certified by the Union to the Company as being the amount of its current initiation fee.
Dated at___________,
this ___________day of
____________ Witness___
-19_____,
Employee
GROUNDSKEEPERS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
MOLSON BREWERIES BARRIE PLANT, BARRIE, ONTARIO (Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and
(C.A.W. - CANADA) and its LOCAL 306,
(Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”) SECTION 1
Scope of the Bargaining Unit
The Union shall be the exclusive Collective Bargaining representative of all employees of the Company employed at the Company operations in Barrie, Ontario, as Groundskeepers, save and except:
(a)	Molson’s at Barrie Park Personnel
(b)	Supervisor and those persons above the rank of Supervisor
(c)	Office, clerical and technical personnel
(d)	Those employees covered by subsisting
Collective Agreements.
SECTION 2 Management Function
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 3
Non-Discription and Non-Harassment
As in main Agreement.
------------------- 85 --------------------
SECTION 4 Union Security
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 5 Check-Off
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 6
Union Activities and Leave of Absence
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 7 Health & Safety
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 8 Grievance Procedure
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 9 Seniority
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 10 Termination of Seniority
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 11 Layoff and Recall
When the Company is required to reduce the working force, the reduction shall be accomplished as follows:
(a)	Temporary and probationary employees shall be the first to be laid off, provided that the regular
employee is qualified and capable of performing the work of the employee he/she displaces.
(b)	If further reductions in the working forces are necessary, regular employees will be laid off in the inverse order of their seniority provided, however, that the senior employee is qualified and capable of performing the work available.
(c)	Employees with seniority who are laid off will be recalled in the reverse order to that in which they were laid off provided that the employee for recall is qualified and capable of performing the work available.
(d)	The Union Steward shall be exempt from layoff as long as there is work within the Groundskeeper classification which he/she is qualified and capable of performing satisfactorily.
SECTION 12
Application of Seniority to promotions or Vacant Positions
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 13 Transfer
As if main Agreement.
SECTION 14 No Strike Clause
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 15 Notice Boards
As in main Agreement.
------------------- 87 ---------------
SECTION 16
Establishment of Classification
Does not apply.
SECTION 17
Hours of Work and Pay Practices
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 18
Hours of Work and Pay Practices (Tractor Trailer Drivers)
Does not apply.
SECTION 19 Plant Holidays
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 20 Vacations
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 21 Bereavement Allowance
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 22 Wage Rates As in main Agreement.
SECTION 23 Reporting Allowance
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 24 Discipline
As in main Agreement.
------------------ 88 ---------
SECTION 25 Adequate Manpower
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 26 Injury or Illness
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 27 Tool Replace Alllowance
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 28 Welfare Plan
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 29 Pension Plan
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 30 Sick Leave
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 31 Jury Duty
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 32 Cost of Living Allowance
As in main Agreement.
SECTION 33 Technological Change
As in main Agreement.
----------------- 89 -----------------
SECTION 34 Separation Pay As in main Agreement.
SECTION 35
Duration and Termination or Modification
As in main Agreement.
SCHEDULE A Welfare Benefits
As in main Agreement.
SCHEDULE B
Summary of the Pension Plan
As in main Agreement.
SCHEDULE C Guaranteed Wage Plan
As in main Agreement.
APPENDIX A
As in main Agreement.
90
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signature this	73tA. day of
Q)ecemAer, 1994.
FOR
THE COMPANY
FOR
THE UNION
AB. SAr/aml ABB <ScumcAs&
P. FERLAND
K. SAUNDERS
SB BAarascAuA AB. jfAcu3)ana/d
F.	ZBARASCHUK
Q). ABAAias&ert/
D. KLAASSEN
A/. Q)e/wi&'
G.	DENNIS
SB. SBA&z-
B. HEISZ
ABqqencu&'
P. DAGENAIS
P. MACDONALD
AS. A/a/WOfl;
G. GANNON
(AP. ABcuriaar
W. WARNAAR
JlBacSSsaao
T. MACISAAC
Q). AABcvrqs
D. BARRY
AB. AABmfiel
P. TEMPEL
AABHA ABAarw&
T.W. HARVIE
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders President
C. A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Further to our discussion during recent negotiations and in recognition of our mutual concern for the health and safety of our employees, the Company agrees to work cooperatively with our unions and their health and safety representatives to:
1.	Continue to develop a new health and safety program which will systematically deliver agreed upon objectives as determined by the Joint Health and Safety Committee;
2.	Continue to develop, promote, and implement local policies and procedures which deal with occupational health and safety in the workplace;
3.	Continue to develop and deliver occupational health and safety training programs in consultation with the Joint Health and Safety Committee;
4.	Continue to make every reasonable effort to comply with all pertinent health and safety legislation.
Each party, however, recognizes such committment to cooperation does not relieve them of their respective duties, rights and obligations under the Occupational Flealth & Safety Act.
Yours truly,
Pierre Ferland
Plant Manager
92
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders
President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: HEALTH AND SAFETY
As a result of our discussion regarding health and safety,
the Company agrees to the following:
1.	The Company will continue its present practice of providing to those employees who are exposed to potentially harmful of toxic materials, those medical services, physical examinations and other appropriate tests to determine whether the health of such employees are being adversely affected (as prescribed under the OHSA);
2.	The Company will continue to make the necessary arrangements with the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety to transmit information to the plant;
3.	Issues dealing with the observance of a minute of silence will be dealt with at the local Joint Health and Safety Committee.
Yours truly,
Pierre Ferland
Plant Manager
93
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Upon reasonable notification to the Personnel Manager, the Company agrees that a representative from the National Union Health and Safety Staff may be allowed access to the plant. Access will be at a mutually agreeable time and the National Safety representative will be accompanied while on the premises by both a management and worker representative as designated by the Health and Safety Committee.
Yours truly,
Pierre Ferland Plant Manager
94
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders
President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: WAREHOUSE AREA
As a result of our discussions on the warehouse area
of the Packaging Department during negotiations, the
Company agrees to the following:
1.	Future permanent vacancies will be determined by management and if deemed appropriate to fill, will be done according to the posting procedures of the Collective Agreement;
2.	If due to operational requirements there is a need to temporarily transfer some of the 35 permanent employees from the warehouse area to another area of the plant, it will be done in the reverse order of seniority. These employees will be returned to the warehouse area on the basis of last out first back;
3.	Manpower requirements in addition to the 35 permanent positions in the warehouse area will be determined and assigned solely at management’s discretion.
Yours truly,
Frank Zbaraschuk
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
95
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: DRIVER’S HOURS OF WORK
Further to our discussions during negotiations, the Company agrees that wherever possible and under normal circumstances, the Company will endeavour to schedule an out of town driver so that he/she will have no less than eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty nor more than twelve (12) consecutive hours off-duty.
Yours truly,
^ran/ty Zbara&c/iuA
Frank Zbaraschuk,
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
96
January 20, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: ELIGIBILITY FOR SICKDAYS/W.I./L.T.D. FOLLOWING LAYOFF
An employee’s eligibility for sick days and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases immediately upon his/her layoff and is reinstated upon his/her recall to work and completion of eight (8) hours of work in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non-occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans, effective the date of his/her recall.
Your truly,
Frank Zbaraschuk
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
January 20, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: SKILLED TRADES
The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply to Skilled Trades employees except as altered by the provisions of this Letter.
The term tradesperson as used in this letter shall mean any person who:
(a)	presently holds a journeyman/woman classification in a skilled trades occupation, or
(b)	has served a bonafide apprenticeship and holds a
recognized certificate which substantiates his/her skill level, or
(c)	who, in the opinion of the Company, has 8 years of practical experience in the skilled trades classification in which he/she claims journeyman/woman designation, or
(d)	holds a C.A.W. or U.A.W. journeymanAvoman card, and
(e)	is currently employed in the Tradesperson “A”
classification.
Any further employment of regular skilled trades employees after the signing of this Letter shall be limited to journeymen/women and apprentices.
The Company agrees to deduct the sum of one-half hour pay per year as dues to the Canadian Skilled Trades Council from employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred to the skilled trades upon receipt of individual authorization cards signed by each employee. Such
-------------------- 98 --------------------
deductions shall be made at the same time as regular union dues and thereafter on an annual basis in the month of April. These deductions, along with the names of the employees, shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
5T *ZAarmcAuA/	ffle/v <Scuisi(/er&
January 21, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: TRADESMAN “A”
Further to the discussions during our recent negotiations in respect to the Tradesmen ‘A” Classification, it is understood that the Tradesman “A” Classification encompasses the following trades:
Maintenance Mechanic Electrician
Fork Truck Mechanic Instrument Mechanic Plumber Welder
Garage Mechanic Electronic Technologist
It is agreed the above is merely a current listing of trades, and not to be applied for trade demarcation purposes; nor is there any intent to limit future trades being included or excluded as Tradesman “A”. Any such position would be subject to Section 12 of the Collective Agreement.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
Z/nirascAaA/	fflefi' 'Sauncfer&
------------------ 99 ------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: CHRISTMAS/NEW YEAR SHUTDOWN
The parties agree to meet prior to November 1st of each year in order to discuss the possibility of a Christmas/New year shutdown.
If additional days are required to obtain a full week’s Christmas-New year holiday period, the parties will consider the option of working mutually agreed upon Saturday(s) in exchange for scheduled work day(s) during the Christmas New Year period.
Dated February, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
fflesis Saunder&	Z/uzrascAid/
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: EMPLOYMENT EQUITY
The parties agree to meet to ensure all the obligations under employment equity legislation are jointly addressed.
Dated February, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
d&rts Sounder®	2darasedud/
------------------- 100 ------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MAINTENANCE EFFECTIVENESS
The parties agree on the necessity to provide relevant training and skills upgrading to maintenance personnel in order to improve maintenance efficiency, flexibility and customer service.
The parties further agree to determine needs and develop a skills upgrading program.
In addition, the parties will jointly develop competitive maintenance standards pertaining to garage employees.
The above does not preclude either party from exercising their rights under the Collective Agreement.
Dated February, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
S'Ss/2' <Scumc/er& &Z/nira&cAuA
--------------------- 101 ---------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: LEARNING AND SKILL ENHANCEMENT
The parties confirm a commitment to continuous learning and skill enhancement as a vital part of achieving and maintaining the Barrie Brewery’s objective of becoming the preferred supplier in Molson Breweries. The objectives are:
(i)	to increase the efficiency of the Barrie Brewery
(ii)	to assure that Quality Standards are met
(iii)	to provide a large degree of employment security to the people who work at the Brewery
(iv)	to maximize Customer Service levels
(v)	to ensure compliance to the legislation that affects the workplace
The parties believe that these objectives can best be met through planning, monitoring and guiding departments in their efforts to bring lasting changes to overall performance.
Dated February, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
5^ c fcwncier&	<9T 'Z/xismcAuA'
---------------------- 102 ----------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MAINTENANCE AND QUALITY CONTROL
The parties agree that within 60 days of ratification the Company and C.A.W. Local 306 will establish joint committees of equal numbers of management and union employees who are suitably qualified to examine maintenance and quality control activities and the utilization of operators in the performance of these activities. Qualifications will be determined based on the employee’s experience with, and knowledge of, the specific activity.
As examples, the utilization of operators in maintenance activities may include but not be limited to those operators performing; minor set-ups and change-overs, some component replacement, some lubrication, some preventive maintenance inspection and minor adjustments.
Also as examples, the utilization .of operators in quality control monitoring may include but not be limited to those operators monitoring: dissolved oxygen, C02, can tear downs, fill levels, torques, caustics carry-over, titration, gravities, water tests, temperature, pH, in-coming materials, and full goods inspections.
The committees will be selected on a departmental basis and will make recommendations on issues affecting their area of work to the PMT/UE. Recommendations will be jointly agreed to prior to implementation.
It is also understood that the Company intends to schedule operators to assist maintenance personnel in the overhaul of said operator’s equipment.
The utilization of operators in the performance of maintenance and quality control activities will not result
------------------- 103 --------------------
in any skilled trades person losing his/her employment within the Maintenance department or any other regular employee losing his/her employment with the Company.
The above does not preclude either party from exercising their rights under the collective agreement.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
fflesi' <Scumc/es& ££ Z/nirascAieA'
----------------------- 104 -------------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: DRIVER ACCOUNTABILITY
The parties agree that Transport Drivers shall be responsible for the following as part of their normal job duties:
1.	Prior to departure:
a)	Sign for the bill of lading.
b)	Check load integrity.
c)	Ensure that load is sealed and matches bill
of lading.
2.	Arrive at destination at scheduled time.
3.	Communicate to dispatch immediately delays that result in late arrival.
4.	Comply with security practices as required by the Company.
5.	At the store:
a)	The driver will be present and where practical, assist in unloading/loading.
b)	The driver will verify and sign for bill of lading discrepancies.
c)	The driver will verify and sign for empty and full goods returns.
d)	Perform other related duties as required.
6.	Ensure that all bills are returned to dispatch/ warehouse.
7.	Complete and return to dispatch time sheets and other forms as required.
Dated March, 1994 FOR THE UNION:
Sffesi; <Saimc/er&
FOR THE COMPANY
<9T Z/>ara&cAuA
-------------------- 105 ---------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: WEEKLY INDEMNITY AND WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BOARD ADVANCES
Further to discussions during our recent negotiations, the Company undertakes that in certain cases where it is beyond the control of the employee, a weekly indemnity claim which has been properly submitted by the employee with no undue delay and has been approved and the payment of such claim is delayed, the Company will, upon the request of the affected employee, give due consideration to the advancement of moneys pending the commencement of weekly indemnity payments. Repayment of such advance will be effected by signing over the cheque(s) to the Company immediately upon commencement of weekly indemnity payments.
The Company also undertakes that in certain cases where it is beyond the control of the employee, a Workers’ Compensation Board (WCB) claim which has been properly submitted by the employee with no undue delay and has been approved and the payment of such claim is delayed, the Company will, upon the request of the affected employee, give due consideration to the advancement of moneys pending the commencement of WCB payments. Advances will only be considered when arrange ments can be made with the WCB to have a repayment cheque written directly to the Company.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
-------------------- 106 --------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: PURPOSE AND VALUES AGREEMENT
Our purpose is to improve plant performance so as to compete in the Canadian and U.S. beer markets. To fulfill this purpose, the parties will be guided by the following vision statement:
We want to create a safe and healthy workplace. We want to ensure the Molson Barrie facility is an effective production facility.
We believe that employees are responsible and trustworthy, capable of working together effectively and of making decisions related to satisfying their customers given that they have the necessary information and training.
We believe that a climate can exist among all , employees where there is trust, openness, honesty, fairness, equality, and respect supported by an efficient, two-way communication systems.
We believe in providing opportunities for education and development that will enhance the skills of those who work at the brewery.
Both parties agree that their common objective is the desire to make the operation more effective, to improve quality and safety and to enhance the job security of employees. In this regard, both parties agree to co-operate in the implementation of activities through the Plant Management Team/Union Executive that would help in achieving these goals. As a first initiative the parties will introduce a program for basic skills upgrading under the Basic Education Skills Training (B.E.S.T.) program.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
^e/v <Scumder& ££ ^Z6ara&cAu/o
------------------ 107 ------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: GWP INDUSTRY LETTER
During the 1991 negotiations, the parties discussed certain arbitration awards concerning the application of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
It was agreed that the decisions rendered pertaining to the Newfoundland (“must take”), and the Alberta (“use it or lose it”), GWP awards would not be applied in Ontario.
It was further agreed the the Saskatchewan (“less than one week layoff) GWP award would not be applied in Ontario.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY
‘ffleris <Scumcfer& & Z/xira&cAaAy
108
March 8, 1994
Mr. K. Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: PLANT CLOSURE
Further to our discussion during our recent negotiations about the issue of Plant closure, the Company will give the Union six (6) months notice of its intention to permanently close the brewery.
Your truly,
•9T Z/mrascAaAy
Frank Zbaraschuk,
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
The parties agree to continue to develop a modified work program for workers and will attempt to have such program implemented within sixty (60) days following ratification.
Dated March, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MODIFIED WORK
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:  
<9T ZIkVHZ&c/u/A/
______________________ mo _______________________
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: WEEK-END CREW
The parties agree that it is in their mutual interest to ensure that the Barrie Brewery attains the highest level of production required to maximize our ability to meet our customers’ needs.
To this end, the following understanding is entered into.
The signing of this Memorandum of Agreement and the understandings contained herein shall supersede certain provisions of the current collective agreement only as they apply to employees working on the Week-end Crew (W.E.C.).
1.	Hours of Work
a)	The normal hours of work for employees assigned to the W.E.C. will be twelve (12) hours per day starting or finishing on either Saturday or Sunday, for a total of twenty-four (24) hours worked. The crews will alternate shifts every other week.
b)	Seniority employees assigned to the W.E.C. will be credited with forty (40) hours worked for provisions of the current collective agreement with respect to:
1)	Pension Plan
2)	Welfare Benefits
3)	Vacation
4)	G.W.P.
For each twenty-four (24) hours actually worked on the W.E.C.
Temporary employees assigned to the W.E.C. will be credited with two and one-half (2-1/2) working days for each full twelve (12) hours worked only
------------------------- 110 --------------------------
for the purposes of Section 9:04 of the collective agreement.
In the event the Company requires the use of W.E.C. employees on a Monday to Friday schedule to fill vacancies created by absenteeism, etc., this work will be offered to regular W.E.C. employees prior to temporary W.E.C. employees on a lowest overtime hours basis excluding W.E.C. scheduled hours. The first two (2) shifts of eight (8) hours in any one week will be paid at the straight time hourly rate. Any hours worked thereafter in any one week will be paid at premium rates as per the collective agreement.
2.	Employee Mix
To maximize production levels, it will be necessary to have an appropriate employee mix with regard to manning requirements. The ratio of regular employees relative to temporary employees will be approximately 1:1. However regular employees on vacation will be replaced by temporary employees.
3.	Eligibility/Qualifications
The Company will post a notice in each affected department and solicit the names of those seniority employees who wish to be considered for the W.E.C.
When considering applications, the qualifications of the applicant shall be given primary consideration. If there is any choice to be made between two or more applicants having sufficient qualifications, the most senior applicant shall be given the position on the W.E.C.
Once selected, all regular employees will remain on the W.E.C. for the duration of the period required,
------------------------ Ill -------------------------
up to a maximum of four months.
Notwithstanding the above, any employee may be removed from the week-end crew for reasons of ill health or cause.
4.	Vacation
Regular employees working on the W.E.C. shall be allowed to take vacation during the effective period of the W.E.C. schedule, as per the collective agreement. No more than 14% of the regular employees on the W.E.C. will be allowed on vacation at the same time.
5.	Sick Pay
Eligible employees on the W.E.C. will be paid under the Sick Leave Plan for qualified absence due to illness or non-occupational accident, according to the number of hours missed at the straight time rate.
An eligible employee on the W.E.C. who is absent due to sickness or non-occupational accident will be paid under the W.I. Plan after a waiting period of two (2) consecutive scheduled twelve (12) hour shifts.
If a seniority employee becomes so ill that he/she cannot complete his/her shift after reporting for work in good health, he/she will be sent home and paid for the balance of his/her shift at his/her straight time hourly rate. Such hours will be deducted from his/her Sick Leave entitlement.
6.	Overtime
While in principle the Company does not wish to have employees work in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours, such may be necessary in emergency situations. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) will be
---------------------- 112 ----------------------
paid at the rate of double time.
7.	Bereavement
Bereavement leave will be paid at the straight time hourly rate, up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) hours.
8.	Plant Holidays
Eligible employees shall be paid eight (8) hours at straight time in addition to pay for their week-end work.
9.	Compensation
Employees working on the W.E.C. will be paid at the rate of 1.59 times the straight time hourly wage rate for all scheduled hours worked.
10.	Shift Premium
Employees on the W.E.C. shall be paid a shift premium of 53 cents per hour for all hours worked on Saturday and Sunday.
11.	Paid Break Periods
There shall be two fifteen (15) minute breaks, one before and one after a thirty (30) minute lunch break in each 12 hour shift.
12.	Implementation
The Company will provide a minimum of two (2) weeks notice of its intention to work employees on the W.E.C. or to return to a conventional eight (8) hour shift schedule.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
<9T %dara&cAu£/	Saunders
____________________ Vi'x ____________________
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
The purpose of this Letter is to confirm our agreement reached during negotiations respecting amendments to the terms and conditions under which temporary employees will be employed for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
It is agreed that the terms of this Letter will override the provisions of the Collective Agreement where necessary and in the event of any conflict between this Letter and the contractual provisions. Accordingly, we have agreed that this Letter forms part of the Collective Agreement and that this Letter will terminate on December 31,1996 unless the parties mutually agree to renew it.
The following are the amended terms and conditions for temporary employees:
11.	The period of time which a temporary employee may
be employed without becoming eligible to acquire seniority shall be two hundred and twenty (220) days actually worked in a continuous twelve (12) month period. At the conclusion of this period the Company shall either reclassify him/her as a seniority employee, lay him/her off or terminate his/her employment.
2.	Upon completion of one hundred and thirty two (132) days worked, the temporary employees shall receive an increase to his/her wage rate. The amount of the increase shall be $1.15 per hour in excess of the rate stipulated in the Collective Agreement for temporary employees.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
5T Z6arascAuA/	tffe/v <Sau/ider&
---------------------- 114 -----------------------
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: DEFERRED RETIREMENT
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his/her normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement:
1.	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his/her normal retirement date (the “Pension”) shall be frozen as of the employee’s normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee’s Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee’s seventy-first (71) birthday, whichever shall first occur (the “Pension Date”).
3.	The employee’s Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his/her normal retirement date to his/her Pension Date.
4.	No contribution to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his/her normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5.	An employee’s Pension will not be affected by any amendment’s made to the Pension Plan after the employee’s normal retirement date.
6.	An employee’s Pension benefits will be actuarially reviewed effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the employee’s Pension having been deferred
----------------------- 115 ------------------------
since his/her normal retirement date.
17.	For purposes of calculation, any minimum pension
supplement, the Canada Pension Plan and old age security benefits, where applicable, will be taken into account at the level in effect at the employee’s normal retirement date.
8. An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his/her normal retirement date, as defined in the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to only the insured welfare benefits provided to employees on retirement as at his/her normal retirement date.
Dated March, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
<Z6ara&cAuA/	'fflesi/ <Scuvicfer&
116
March 8, 1994
Mr. Ken Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: PLANT CHAIRPERSON
Further to our discussions during our recent negotiations, insofar as is practicable, the Company will maximize the assignment of the Plant Chairperson to day-shift work in his/her present job.
The Company will grant to the Plant Chairperson upon one week’s written request, two days off in any week to be used in connection with the administration of this Collective Agreement and such days are to be scheduled by mutual agreement with the Company up to a maximum of one hundred (100) such days per calendar year.
In addition, the Company will pay the Plant Chairperson at the Tradesman “A” rate.
Yours truly.
<9T Z/xiru&cAaA/
Frank Zbaraschuk
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
117
March 8, 1994
Mr. Ken Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
Further to our discussions during the negotiations, the Company agrees to contribute $0.02 (two cents) per regular hour worked to a Paid Education Leave Fund effective with the signing of the Collective Agreement.
The Company may grant an educational leave of absence without pay provided said leave is arranged between the Union and the Company so as to minimize disruption of the Company’s operations.
It is further agreed that the number of days granted for such leaves of absence in the Bargaining Unit shall not exceed a total of forty (40) days in any one year period and that only one leave of absence may be granted at one time.
The Company further agrees to forward the contributions, quarterly to;
Canadian Auto Workers Paid Education Leave Program P.O. Box 897 Port Elgin, Ontario NOH 2C0
The following information will also be included with the contributions: the Local Union number, the Bargaining Unit covered, the number of employees, the number of
------------------------- 118 ---------------------------
hours used in the payment calculation and the period of time covered.
Yours truly,
Frank Zbaraschuk
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations
March 9, 1994
Mr. Ken Saunders President
C.A.W. and its Local 306
LETTER OF INTENT RE: SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
Further to our discussions during the 1994 negotiations, the Company agrees to contribute $0.01 (one cent) per regular hour worked to the Social Justice Fund effective with the signing of the Collective Agreement.
The Company agrees to forward the contributions quarterly to an address provided by the Union.
The following information will also be included with the contribution: the Local Union Number, the Bargaining Unit covered, the number of employees, the number of hours used in the payment calculation, and the period of time covered.
Yours truly,
ZZ ZAarmcAiuA
Frank Zbaraschuk
Manager, Personnel and Industrial Relations