COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MOLSON BREWERY Redwood Plant
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS Local Union 330W
JUNE 1, 1991 -JUNE1, 1994
0ontoV
INDEX
Article	Page
1	Bargaining Agent.............................. 1
2	Definitions............................... 1-2
3	Union Shop: Check Off....................... 2-3
4	Hiring Practices.......................... 3
5	Seniority................................... 3-8
6	Union Shop Committee.......................... 8
7	Sickness or Disability,
Hospitalization and Insurance........... 9-15
8	Discharge or Suspension................... 15-16
9	Wearing Apparel - Safety.................. 16-17
10	Hours of Work and Overtime................ 17-26
11	Shift Premiums............................ 27-28
12	Plant Holidays............................ 28-29
13	Vacation with Pay......................... 29-32
14	Union Label and Material.................. 32 33
15	Grievance Procedure and Arbitration....... 33-35
16	Welfare................................... 35-37
17	Schedule of Wages......................... 37-39
18	Cost of Living Allowance.....................x40
19	Terms of Agreement........................
Guaranteed Wage Plan................................ 42-50
Summary of the Pension Plan......................... 52-64
Health Benefits..................................... 65-74
Letters of Understanding and Intent................. 75-97
Seniority List...................................... 98-100
MAR -9 1932
ooLniyCA
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into the 21 day of June, 1991.
BETWEEN:
United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 330W
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
AND
Molson Brewery Redwood Plant
(hereinafter called the “Company”)

ARTICLE 1 — Bargaining Agent
1.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargainingagencyforemployeesin the Winnipeg plant. Itis understood and agreed, however, thatthis Agreement shall notapplyto, nor include Brewmaster, Assistant Brewmaster, Chief Engineer, Assistant Chief Engineer, Foremenand above the rank of Foreman, Office Staff and Salesmen.
1.02	New classifications and wages may be added to the bargaining unit from time to time when mutually agreed between the parties.
1.03	Except for necessary instructions, no employee who is excluded from the bargaining unit shall perform any work coming within the bargaining unit. The Company will post a list of supervisory personnel who are classified as supervisors.
ARTICLE 2 — Definitions
2.01	Temporary and Probationary Employees
New employees shall be considered probationary employees until they have been employed and have worked one hundred and thirty (130)working days within any twelve (12) month period. At the end of the probationary period such employee will be entered upon the seniority list in accordance with Article 5.02.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who actually work sixty (60) days within any twelve (12) month period shall acquire recall rights and be placed on the temporary employees recall list as provided in Article 5.10.
2.02	Regular Employees
In addition to employeeswho are now recognizedas regular employees, an employee who has completed his proba-
1
tionary period by actually working one hundred and thirty (L30)days, as provided above, shallbe placed on thesenior-ity list in accordance with Article 5,02.
ARTICLE 3 — Union Shop: Check Off
3.01	Each member of the bargaining until shall be a member in good standing of United Food and Commercial Workers, Local Union No. 330W.
3.02	The Union Agrees that the Company has sixty (60) working days within which to determine whether an employee is satisfactory to it.
Subject to the foregoing, the parties agree that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the bargaining unit must make application for membershipin the said local Union after havingworked thirty (30) days and paythe regular initiation fees and regular dues, and will not be denied membership in the said Local Union without just cause.
3.03	Whenever an employee issuspended or expelled,the Union will give the Company inwriting the reason for such action.
3.04	The Company shall, on receipt of written authorization in a form attached to this Agreement, deduct from each Union member's pay on the last pay day in each calendar month duringthe term of this Agreement, Uniondues to the amount specified and will transmitthe total of the sum deductedto thesecretary-treasurer ofthe Union within one (1) week of said deduction. The authorization to deduct shall be effective providingthe employee hasworked atotal of forty (40) hours in anyone(1) month. The above mentioned authorization shall not be revocableduringthe life of this Agreement.
2
Notwithstanding the foregoing, which pertains to the payment of dues by established Union members, the Company agrees to deduct in the form of Union dues from all other employees working within the bargaining unit, the then current amount specified per week regardlessofthe number of hours worked in the week but not to exceed the regular employee's monthly dues.
The Union shall indemnifyand keep harmlessthe Company from all claims made against it in respect of the deduction of Union dues.
The Company agrees to provide the Union Secretary-Treasurereach month with a complete list of all employees for whom deductions have been made.
ARTICLE 4 — Hiring Practices
4.01	The local Union shall keep a list of all unemployed brewery workers inthe Union by companies. From time to time the Unionshall supplythe Company with a list of its unemployed brewery workers. Inthe event that the Company is in need of a man, such man shall be selected from the said list if a satisfactory man can be produced from it.
ARTICLES —Seniority
5.01	Definition of Seniority
Seniority of an employee shall be defined as the elapsed time from the day the employee’s seniority date was established under 5.02. In the event that seniority is broken for any of the reasons set forth in Article 5.03 calculation of seniority shall date from the time the employee re-established seniority as set forth in Article 2.
o
5.02 Qualificationsfor Seniority
Newemployeesshall be placed on the seniority list afterthey haveworked atotal of one hundred andthirty (130) days, within a twelve (12) month period. On completion of this probationary period an employeeshall have his seniority dated back one hundred and thirty (130) working days from the date on which he completes his probation.
A Recall Employeewho was absent due to industrial! llness or accident which entitles him to Worker's Compensation coverage, or is absent on Jury Duty, shall havethe twelve (12) month period prescribed in Article 2.01 andthe backdating process in Article 5.02 increased by the number of days of such absence, provided, however, that he shall not be given a seniority date earlier than his actual hiring date.
5.03	Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons:
(a)	If an en	jitsthejobvoluntarilyor nturesinto
r p	i employment
(b)	If an employee is discharged for cause not reversedby the grievance procedure.
(c)	If an employee fails to report for work within seven (7) days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mailto his last known address to do so, unless he has advised the Company and produces medical evidence as to his being unable to report.
(d)	If the employee has not had employment with the Company for a period of eighteen (18) months.
4
5.04	Seniority shall not be considered broken by virtue of:
(a)	Leave of absence granted by the Company provided such leave of absence does not exceed six (6)months and providedthatemployeesgranted leave of absence pay dues and assessments to local Union 330W in advancefor the period of leave. The Company will notify the Union of all leaves of absence granted.
(b)	Absence from work due to lay-offfor less than eighteen (18) months, providedemployeesare available for work on being recalled in order of seniority.
(c)	Absence from work due to certified sickness or injury.
5.05	Postingof Seniority and Temporary Employees Recall Lists
The Companyshall maintainand posta seniority list on the plant bulletinboardswithin thirty (30) days from date of this Agreement being signed. Such list shall contain only the names, the seniority and the posted positions of those employees working in the established bargainingunit.
The Company shall also post and maintain a temporary employees recall list containing the names of those employeeswho have acquired recall privilegesas provided in Article 5.10.
The Company shall notifythe Chairman of the Union Shop Committee of any changes in the seniority list or recall list.
The Union Shop Committee shall have the right to review any changes,deletions or errors in said lists up to thirty (30) days after posting.
5
5.06 Seniority re: Choice of Vacations
Preference for the choice of annual vacation periods for employees in the bargaining unit shall be governed by an employee's plant wide seniority within the department. Vacation lists will be posted.
5.07	Seniority re: Lay-off and Re-hiring after Lay-off
The Companywill first lay-off al temporary and probationary employees before any regular employee is laid off.
Plant seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff. All lay-offsshall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, providedthat the senior employee is then willing and able to perform the work required of him. Re-hiringafter lay-offshall be in reverseorder of lay-off with the last man laid off beingthe first man rehired
and so on.
5.08	Seniority re: Promotion and Preferred Jobs
In the event that an opportunityfor promotion or a prefer-redjob occurs inthe plant, notice ofthe open positionshall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. The classification, wages and hours of work for the job shall be given in this notice and all employees shall be entitledto apply. The namesof all applicants shall be posted.
The senior applicantshall be given preferenceandthe em-ployeeselectedshall be givena maximum of thirty (30) days trial period in order to qualify for the job. The employee selectedtofill apostedjob shall commence histrainingon the same not laterthan twenty (20) working days from the date of hisselection. Afterthirty (30)daysserviceonthejob, the employeeshall receivethe top rate of pay for such job, provided he has sufficientplant wide seniority to qualify in the
6
wageschedule. During any time in the thirty (30) days trial period the employee shall have the right to return to his previously held job without prejudice.
PROVIDEDthat employeeswho are absent during the total period during which a job Is posted shall have two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry of the five (5) day job posting period inwhich to apply.
The Company shall havethe right toselectthemost suitable person for any position In the Retail Store and for the classificationbarperson-receptionroom. The Company in exercising this right shall select such person from those membersof the bargainingunlt who apply.
5.09	Any dispute arising over the question of an employee's qualificationsto perform any job shall be dealt with under the grievance procedure outlined in this Agreement.
5:10 Newemployeeswho completesixty (60) working days in any twelve (12) month periodshallbe recalledforwork when it becomes available if thenqualified and able, in the order in which their recall privileges were established.
On completion of sixty (60) working days in any twelve (12) month period, an employee shall have his date of recall established by counting back sixty (60) working days from thedateonwhich hecompleted hissixtiethworkingday and shall be placed on the temporary employees recalllist.
These recall privileges shall be terminated:
1.	If the employee has not had employment with the Company for a period of twelve (12) months;
2,	Ifthe employee falls on two (2) occasionsto reportto work withintwenty-four (24) hoursof receivingnotice;
7
3.	If the employee quits voluntarily;
4.	If the employee is discharged.
It is agreed that employees shall not be laid off for the sole purpose of preventingthem from acquiring regularemployee status.
ARTICLE 6 — Union Shop Committee
6.01	The Union membersemployedby the Companyshall elect a Union Shop Committeeof not morethan six (6) members and this Committee shall hold monthly meetings with Managementto discuss any localproblems which may arise affecting the welfare of the employees. All Union Shop Meetingsshall be heldduringthe day shift andshall not continue beyond4 p.m. of the day.
6.02	Minutes of Union Shop Committeemeetingsshall betaken and signed at the following meetingbyrepresentativesof the Committeeandthe Company. The Companywill post a copy of the minutes, and a signed copy will be given to the Committee.
6.03	Nomember shall bedischargedordiscriminatedagainstfor his activities as a Union member. A memberwho works on a committee or under the instruction of the Union shall not lose his position or be discriminated against for so doing. Union activities other than those with Company approval shall not be carried on during working hours.
6.04	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writingofthe personnel of, or any change inthe Union Shop Committee.
8
ARTICLE 7 — Sickness or Disability Hospitalization and Insurance
7.01	Sickness, disability or dental appointments resulting from an accidentshall not be sufficientcause for discharge. Upon recovery the employee shall receive his former position or some other suitable job in his department if held by an employee with less seniority, providing the recovered employee is capable of performing thejob in a satisfactory manner. Hewill retain hisfull seniority rights for all lost time. Inthe event of sickness, dental appointment or accident an employee shall make every reasonable effort to notify his foreman. The employee shall notify his supervisor of his intention to return to work before quitting time of the work day prior to his return to work if possible.
7.02	The sick leave plan covers a regular employeewho is absent from work because of sickness, dental appointment or accident not covered by Workers Compensation. Sick leave benefits will be established as follows:
1)	Employeeswho achieve regular employee status after June 1,1985 shall be entitled to ten days sick leave per year and shall not accumulate sick days from one benefits year to the next.
2)	Employeeswhohaveachievedregularemployeestatus priorto Junel, 1985 shall be credited effectiveJunel of each year with ten (10) sick days of sick leave benefit. Employeeswho have achieved regularemployee status prior to June 1, 1985 shall be allowed to accumulate a maximum of fifteen (15)days of sick leave in anytwo year period.
3)	An employee who has achieved regular employeestatus priorto June 1,1985 and who retire underthe terms of the Company pension plan, shall be allowedto cash out any unused portion of their sick leave to a maximum of ten (10) days.
9
4)	The unused portion may be applied to providefull pay in certaininstances by supplementingweekly indemnity for days lost as follows:
(i)	Thefirstthree (3)working days lost asthe result of any one non-occupational illness or injury,
(ii)	The periodofweekly indemnitypaymentsresulting from sickness or non-occupational accidentin which casessickpay may be usedto supplementweekly indemnity up to full pay.
(iii)	An employee's maximum entitlement shall be reduced by one (1) for each full or partial day's payment of sick leave, except where an employee becomes illso that hecannotcomplete hisshiftafter reportingfor work in good health, he will be sent home and will be paidthe balancecf his regularshift hours by applying an equivalent number of sick leave hoursthereby reducing his sick leave entitlement by one (1) hour for each hour or part hour payment made thereof.
(iv)	Full pay for an employee shall mean the equivalent of hisstandard daily hourstimes hisjob rateof pay and the payment of sick pay shall not result under any circumstances in any employeereceiving more that a full day's pay or a full weeks pay.
7.03	Employeesapplyingfor sick pay resultingfrom sicknessor accident of an anticipated short duration shallcomplete and sign a statementdetailing pertinent matters relatingto the illness and absence.
Also, employees may be requiredto furnish a doctor's certificate as proof of disability at the discretionof the Company. The Company shall assume the cost, if any.
10
It is understood that medical evidence of an illnessor injury which isanticipated will result in a Weekly Indemnityclaim, must be provided from the first day of absence in order to qualify for Indemnity payments.
The Company may require certification also by a Doctor of its own choosing.
7.04	An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weekly indemnity pay, Long term disability pay, Workers Compensation pay or other similar benefits from more that one (1) source for the same or part day.
7.05	The Companywill pay such amount as may be required, to provide the following welfare plan:
Regular Employees
1.	Life Insurance of $34,000.00
Effective the first day of the monthfollowing ratification the amount of Life Insurance shall be increased to $36,000. insurance coverage for em ployees actively at work on that day. Effective June 1,1992 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $37,000. for employees actively at work on that day. Effective June 1,1993 the amount of insurance shall be increased to $39,000 for employees actively atworkonthat day. Employeesnot actively at work on the above named days shall only be providedincreasedinsurancecoverageupontheir return to active employment.
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment, including occupational accident $34,000.
Effective on the first day of the month following ratification, the amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment lnsuranceshallbeincreasedto$36,000. Insurance
11

coverage for employees actively at work on that day. EffectiveJune 1,1992 the amount of insuranceshall be increasedto $37,000. for employeesactivelyatworkon thatday. EffectiveJune 1,1993theamountof insurance shall be increasedto $39,000. for employeesactively at workon that day. Employees notactively at work on the above named days shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
3.	Base Medicaland Hospitalbenefitsunderthe Manitoba Government Plan. (The Manitoba Health Services InsuranceAct).
4.	SupplementalbenefitsequivalenttoMediplus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of ManitobaBlueCross.
5.	After Manitoba Health Services Commission annual chiropractic limitsfor chiropractic care are reached, the Companywill providechiropracticcoverage for subse-quentvisits up to the ManitobaHealthServices Commission's Fee Schedulein effect at the time of servicesare performed.The maximumcoveragewillbe$150.00 per family.
6.	Non-contributoryDental Plancoveringbasicserviceon a 100% co-insurance basis, major services on a 75% co-insurance basis and orthodontic serviceson a50% co-insurance basis.
7.	The Company agrees to provide an insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plan as follows:
Insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident,
a weekly benefit amounting to 70% of wages (hourly
12
rate x40) in effect at any timeduring	26 week period will
be paid to employees who are off work	I I the care
of a tor. Payments will commence i the 4th a if il ty isc	t anon-compensable di orsickness
and	I or to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one
period of di:
\niisjrel a Term Disability Plan will be	at the end
)f the 26 week period or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks a which an rye has received Workers ip	payments id if until
recovery or normal retirementdate, whichever occurs first
The Plan will provide payment of 66 2/3% of wages (hourly rate 10) in effect any time during the first 78 a softhe igTerm I’l F 'ii I to the payment will be a 2/3%ol g (i u ' ratex40) in effect at the end f If said 78 week period, he Long Term Disat Plan i the yi	Plan Hit of a standard naturewhich
will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment a	etc. and l si fl Term Disability,
will include an offset I f< ii	Workers
Compensation.
The Company is prepared to providethe	y i
to >i | the lie of >< •: c	i efi from
the Ii a c Term it Plan, at the rate iff isi accrual in effect at the commencement of disability and will r	oth	11	I welf e t enefii at I
I in ffec at the	t of is ilit
v^.nr gafterthe 26th week and till weeks from the date of disability the eligibility for continuance of the coverageshallbe h< inability to do a regular j	ve
in the Bargaining Unit. Starting at tt 105th week, eligi-
13
bility for benefitswill depend on the employee's ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he is reasonablyqualified by training, educationor experience.
During the first 104 weeks of benefits provided herein, employees shall be paid weekly and thereafter monthly.
Welfare Benefitsfor Pensioners
All benefitsgranted to employees who retired prior to the dateof signing of the Agreement are governedbythe Agreement in force on the date they retired.
The following benefitswill be providedto pensionerswho retire after the date of signingof the Agreement, at no cost to the pensioner.
A.	On Normal Retirement or Special Early Retirement
(i)	Life insurance to continue at $4,000.00
(ii)	Base hospital, medicaland surgicalbenefitswill be continued in a Provincial Plan as long as the pensioner is resident in a province of Canada.
(iii)	Supplemental Benefits equivalent to the Medi-Plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital Ambulance Plan of the Manitoba Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba. If the pensioner resides in another provincein Canada, hewill beenroll-ed in the comparable supplemental health plan.
B.	Partial Disability Retirement:
(i)	Life Insurance will be continued in the full amount of insuranceinforce immediatelybefore retirementto age 65, then reducedto $4,000.00
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgicalbenefitswill be continued in a ProvincialPlan as long as the pensioner is resident in a province of Canada.
14
(iii)	Supplemental Benefits equivalent to the Medi-Plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital Ambulance Plan of the Manitoba Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba. If the pensioner residesin another provincein Canada, he will be enrolled in the comparable supplemental health plan.
C.	Voluntary Early Retirement:
Employeesaged60oroverwho select voluntary early retirement shall have welfare benefits continued in line with benefits of an employee retiring normally, providing they have removedthemselves from the permanent work force.
7.06	Deferred Retirement Group Insurance Plan
An employeewho continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the pension plan, shall be entitled to only the insured welfare benefits providedto employeeson retirementas at his normal retirement date.
ARTICLE 8 — Dischargeor Suspension
8.01	Only the manager or supervisory employee as designated by the management shall have the authority to discharge or suspend any employee.
The reasonsfor the discharge or suspension shall be given to the employee and the Union Shop Steward at the time of dischargeor suspension and shall be inwriting, and in either case the Union Shop Committee shall be entitled to investigate such discharge or suspension. No employee will be discharged or suspended without just cause. The employee discharged or suspended shall be entitled to a hearing if he so desires.
15
Inthe case of a reprimand involvinga visit to asupervisor's office,the employee shall have i n attendancea member of the Shop Committee.
8.02	Any employee discharged or suspended upon grounds which, after investigationbythe Union ShopCommitteeand Managementand/or a Board of Arbitration, are foundto be insufficientshall be reinstatedinto hisformerjob, retain his full seniorityrights and shall receivethe pay he would have received if he had not been discharged or suspended, unless the Arbitration Board rules otherwise.
8.03	If any employee inthis bargaining unit encounters a legal picket line inthe courseof his normalduties, there shall be an immediate conference betweenthe parties hereto before any decision is madeby either party astowhetherthe picket line should or should not be respected.
8.04	All disciplinary records will be removedfromthe employees personnel folder and destroyed after a period of three (3) years from the date of issuance of such discipline and thereafter shall not be relied upon for any purpose.
ARTICLE 9 — Wearing Apparel - Safety
9.01	Employees shall be required to wear their Company supplied uniformsexcept in such caseswhere an employeecan presentjust causeto the contrary. Rubberand duckaprons and rubber boots, goggles, masks, rubber gloves, rubber suits and safety shoes shall be supplied to all employees when and where necessary. When safety shoes are not provided by the Company, the Company will supply safety shoes to all regularemployeesuptoacostof$60.00 on a replacement basis. As a condition of employment, temporary employees shall be requiredto supplytheir own safety shoes. Upon completion of the probation period such employees shall be reimbursed for safety shoes in accordance with the above provision.Work clothesshall be i ssued to all employees on the basis of three (3) sets per year
16
without any costto the employee. These uniforms shall be ordered by April 15 of each calendar year. Maintenance employees shall receive four (4) sets of work clothes if required. All clothing issuedto the employeesofthe Company shall carry a bonafied Union label.
Safety glasses with prescription Hardex lenses and industrial frames of an approved type will be provided as prescribed, free of charge to employeeswho require them, upon presentation of an invoice.
9.02	Noemployee shall berequiredto undertake anyjob which mayendangerhis/her healthwithout appropriate protective clothing or device.
9.03	Any employee undertaking anyjob requiring safety equipment and not using equipment available may besubjectto discipline.
9.04	It is agreed that every effort will be made to provide for at least one (l)qualified first-aid man being available on each shift.
9.05	Lunchrooms will be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. The Company will provide to such employees engaged in work causing extraordinary physical dirtiness, as mutually agreed with the Shop Committee, a five (5) minute wash-up time.
9.06	The Company will pay license fees for engineers and electricians when their employment requires it.
ARTICLE 10 — Hours of Work and Overtime
10.01	Bottleshop, Brewhouse, Reception Room, Shipping, Receiving, Maintenance,Transport and DeliveryGroup
Forty (40)hours perweek, five (5)consecutiveeight (8) hour daysMonday through Fridayshallconstitutea week’s work. Overtime shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half
17
for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours perweek. Subjectto Article 10.06. All work performed on Saturdayshall bepaid for at the rate of double time.
With respect to this Article the parties agree that an employeewill not be asked or requiredtoworkasplitshift.
10.02	Engineers
Engineers shall work an average of forty (40) hours per week, asperthe Master SchedulecommencingatO o'clock Sunday to 24 o’clock Saturday. Provisions shall be made for scheduled days off each such calendarweek. Any work performedon all such regularlyscheduleddays off shall be paid for at the rate of double time. Any work performed in excess of the Master Schedule shall be consideredas overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-halffor the first two (2) hours and double time thereafter. Engineers who are required to work on any Sunday as part of their regular shift shall be paid at the rate of double time for all hours worked. Work schedules for engineers shall be mutually worked outbetweenthe Companyandthe Union and shall not be subject to change unlessthirty (30) days noticeto amend is served on either of the two parties and a substitute working schedule agreed upon.
10.03	Hours of Rest Between Shifts
Except as provided for engineers who may be requiredto double back on same day while changing shifts, all employeesshall received a minimum of twelve (12) hours rest between shifts. In the event that less time than twelve (12) hours is allowedto an employee, such employee shall be paid time and one-halffor all hours worked up to the time when he would have normally received twelve (12) hours rest. This does not applywhen the variation is requestedby the employee affected.
18
10.04	Rest Periods
Every employee shall beentitledto two (^fifteen (15) minute relief periods in each eight (8)hours shift. Whenever pos-siblethe first relief periodshall be taken within the first three (3) hours of work. In the case of continuous shift work, special arrangementsshall be made for employees to take their relief periods during such shift. All employees shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period before starting overtimeand shall receivean additionalfifteen (15) minute rest period after each two (2) consecutive hours of work thereafter. All employeesengaged in continuous shift operations shall be entitled to eat their lunch during the middle of each shift.
10.05	Pay for all Overtime Hours
All overtime shall be paid for and shall not be absorbed by giving the time off nor shall any employee be required to absorb time lost by lay-off by working any other day of the week.
10.06	Maximum Daily Overtime
All work performed in excess of ten (1O) hours in any one day shall be paid at the rate of doubletime. This does not apply to engineers who may be required to double back on shift periodically,within the same day.
10.07	Call-in Pay and Prior Notice of Overtime
(a)	Employees shall be notified beforequittingtime ifthey are notto reportfor work the following day. Ifthey are not notifiedand reportfor work they shall be paid for the whole day.
(b)	Any employee called in to work shall be guaranteed at least one-half day's pay.
19
(c)	The Company agrees to notify the employees the previous day when they are requiredto work overtime. In the event of an emergency, and overtime is to be workedwithout notice beinggiventhe previousdayand the periodofovertime isto beatleasttwo (2)hoursdura-tion,thenthe Company agreesto provide lunch for all employeesworking overtime upto a limit of $3.00.
(d)	When an employee is called in for breakdown or emergency work after leaving the plant following his regularshift and before returningto work for his regular shift and is assigned less than four (4) hours of extra work outside of his regular shift hours, he shall be paid for at least four (4) hours at the rate of double time in addition to paymentat straighttime for any hoursworked by him during his regular shift hours.
10.08	Sunday and Normal Day Off Pay
All worked performed on Sunday or any employee's recognizeddayof restshall be paid for atthe rate of double time exceptasexcluded by Article 10.04. Doubletime shall be understood to mean regular time in addition to regular time.
10.09	Plant Holidays Falling in a Calendar Week
In the event that a recognized plant holiday falls during a calendarweek, then the employee’s work week for that week shall be reducedby eight (8)hoursfor each such holiday and overtime rates shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the reduced work week.
10.10	Work Stabilization
‘ The Company will endeavorto providefull employmentfor all regular employees. Any maintenance or painting work which can be done to the satisfactionof the Company by
20
employeeswho are laid df will beofferedto employees with seniority, who are laid off, at the rate of wages not lessthan the classificationof Bottleshop(general), so long as they do not displace employeesfrom their regularjobs. Extra shifts will not be usedfor the purposeof reducingthe regularwork week of regular employees.
10.11	Technological Change
.01 “In the event that, during this collective agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff often (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply;
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on whichthe technologicalchangeisto beeffected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to bedisplaced shall begrouped bythe Company for the purposes cf paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees i n ac-cordancewith the provisionsof the collectiveagreement and the provisions asset out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and priortoeffectingany layoffs or separations underthe collective agreement, the Company shall canvass employeeseligible for special early retirement(‘eligible employees') as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in
d.\
order of seniorityand, if they chooseto take special early retiremenlwithin the abovethirty (30) day period and actually retirewithinthirty (30) daysthereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus(TCB). The TCB will be determinedby dividingthe total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designatedfor indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retiresi n any group who may receivethe TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technologicalchangeand, ifagreater number of eligi-bleemployeesinany groupsoelecttotakespecialearly retirement, the TCB will only be paidto the mostsenior of them.
10.11	(a) Ifthe numberof eligible employees in any groupwho .02 elect to take special early retirement is lessthan the numberofjobsinthatgrouptobepermanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinitelayoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisionsshall apply;
(I) the employees ultimately designatedfor indefinite layoff hereunderwill be permittedto elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employeesso electing andterminatingfrom the Company shallbe en-titledto receivethe amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 10:12.03 hereof. If any of those employees were classified as probationaryor regular employees prior to
22
July 15,1988, theirseparationpaymentcalculation shall include an additional One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.).
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligiblefor participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition such employeesshall receivean additionaleight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions.
(A)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstandingSection8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(B)	the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
10.11	Inconsiderationoftheforegoingprovisionsthatare intend-.03 edtoassistemployeesaffectedbytechnologicalchangeto
adjust to the effects of technological change the parties hereby agree that Sections83, 84, and 85 of The Labour Relations Act do notapply duringtheterm of the Agreement to the Company and the Union.
10.12	Separation Pay
.01 A regular employee shall be entitledto separation pay as set out in subsection (3) provided he has not been excluded by subsection (2) and provided he meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection.02;
23
(b)	if he is laidoff and on any date during hislayoffthe hours scheduledfor himduringthe previoustwelve (12) consecutive monthswere lessthan fifty percent(50°/o) of normalfull time hoursprovidedheisnoteligiblefor any Company or Governmentpensionor for benefitsunder the Company's insuredWeekly Indemnityor LongTerm Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a periodof six months he may request immediatetermina-tion and separation pay, and with the concurrenceof the Company andthe Union this may be granted notwith-standingthe eligibility clause in(b) above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite lay off as a result of a majortechnological change as provided in Section 10.11.02;
An employee eligiblefor a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his rightto such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinuesan operation,an employee laidoff as a result thereof must applyfor and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitledwithoutwaiting the six month's period.
02 Notwithstandingsubsection.01, an employee shall beex-cluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
(c)	heisterminatedundersection5:03(loss of seniority provision) of this collective agreement;
24
(d)	he has been terminated becauseof specific directionor decree from any Governmentauthoritywhich has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations; unless
(i)	the directionor decree is the result of an illegal act committedby the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing with the Province;
(e)	he has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrectionor by any act of God;
(f)	he islaidoffand hasarrangedwiththe Companytotake leave of absencewithoutpayfor a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is in receipt of income replacement benefits under theWeekly Indemnityor LongTerm DisabilityPlansor the Worker’sCompensation Act;
(h)	he is entitledto receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
.03 The amount of the separation payment of an eligible
employee shall be equal to:
(a)	one weeks baseearnings(computedonthebasisof his hourly rate ineffectasoftimeof layoff) multipliedby the numberof hiscompletedyears of seniority (as used for vacation entitlements of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	for employees classified as probationary or regular employees priorto July 15, 1988 an additional Three Hundredand Seventy-fiveDollars($375.00) multiplied by his completedyears of seniority used in (a) above to
25
a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separationpay at the time he first becomeseligible therefor shall havehisseparation pay underthispart(b) calculatedas Seven Hundredand Fifty Dollars($750.00) multipliedby hiscompleted years of seniority used in (a)above to a maximum of 15 years. Ifthere isa permanentclosureofa brewerythe 15 year maximum is replacedwith a 22 year maximum.
.04 The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
.05 Ifanemployeeappliesforandacceptsaseparation payment hereunder, hisemploymentisterminatedand hisseniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.”
10.13	(a) The Company will supply adequate manpower on all operations in all departments at all times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day's work.
(b)	Clause(a) shall not be construedto meanthat the manning of all operations isatpresentexactly adequateor that all employeesare presently assignedexactly a fair day’swork, and accordingly changes inthemanningof crewsand changesi n an employee’swork load maybe made so long as the resultingsituation is not a violation of Clause (a).
(c)	Before selectingemployees for training on otherjobs, the Company will post the training job for a period of three (3)working days. With qualificationsfor the training job being given full and primary consideration,
26
employees having the greater seniority will be given preference. Nothwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may temporarily assign any employeestoanyjob.
(d)	Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs (including prescribed textbooks) of education courses provided that:
(i)	The course is given by a recognized school and is approved bythe manager as a contribution to the development of the employee;
(ii)	Thecourseislikelytocontributetotheemployee's performanceoradvancementwithinthe Company;
(iii)	The employee offers proof of successful completion of the course;
(iv)	The maximum refund to any employee in anyone calendar year will be $200.00 for any full term course, and $100.00 for any half term course.
(e)	The Guaranteed Wage Plan, which is a supplement to this Agreement, is intended to provide assistance for certain employees who are laid off as a result of the application of the lay-off provisions of this Agreement and is not to be construed as authorization to alter existing lay-off practices.
ARTICLE 11 — Shift Premiums
11.01	Any shift commencing at or after 6 a.m. and before 10a.m. shall be considered the morning shift, and any shift commencing at or after 10 a.m. and before 5 p.m. shall be considered as the afternoon shift, and any shift commencing atorafter5p.m. and before6a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
11.02	All employees working the afternoon shift shall receive a premium of sixty (60) cents per hour over and above the
27
normalhourlyrateforallhoursworked. Effectivethefirstday of the month following ratificationallemployees working the midnightshiftshall receive a premiumof ninety (90)cents per hour over and above the regular hourly ratefor all hours worked.
Effective June 1, 1992, midnight shift premium shall be ninety-five (95) cents per hour.
Effective June 1,1993 midnightshiftpremiumshall beone dollar (1.00) per hour.
ARTICLE 12 — Plant Holidays
12.01	The Company will observe the following Plant holidays:
Civic Holiday
and any other holidaysdeclaredby the Provincialor Federal Governments.
If any of the said holidays shouldfall on a Sunday they will be observed on the following Monday. If any of the said holidays should fall on a Saturday,which is an employee's non-workingday, then such holidaywill beobserved on the precedingwork day.
12.02	Employeeson the seniority list will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
(a) the employee has worked at leastfive (5) days during the twenty (20) working days immediately precedingthe day on which such holiday is observed, and
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday
Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Victoria Day Canada Day
28
(b)	the employee has not been absent without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior tothedayonwhich the said holiday is observed, or the first workday scheduled for him immediately afterthe day on which the said holiday is observed.
(c)	In cases where a regular employee has been on weekly indemnity and iscleared by his physician to return to work prior to or on the holiday, he will be eligible for pay for that holiday
12.03	Any employee who is required to work on any of the aforementioned plant holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to his regular days pay of eight (8) hours.
12.04	Employees who have gained recall privileges will receive payment for plant holidays on the same terms and conditions as regular employees.
ARTICLE13 — Vacation with Pay
13.01	Anyemployeewho hasworkedatotalofsix(6)monthseither continuously or collectively, prior to April 15, shall receive one (1) week’s vacation with pay, plusan additional dayfor each monthof service in excess of six (6) months to a maximum of ten (10) days in any one year.
Employeeswho haveworked lessthansix^monthsasof April 15 shall receive payment in accordance with Provincial Government Legislation.
13.02	AsofApril15 in each calendar year vacation leavewillbe established for all regular employees accordingto the following scale:
29
Years of Continued Service Weeks of Vacation
2	2
3	3
8	4
15	5
20	6
25	7
Employeeswho attain their 3rd, 8th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversariesbetweenJanuary 1st and December31st in thecalendaryear shall beentitledto receivethe established vacation entitlement mentioned respectively in (c), (d),
(e), (9and(g) above.
The employeewill be permittedto take the additionalweek duringthe slack periodsdesignated i n 13.06 but i n no case prior to this actual anniversary date.
13.03	Itisunderstoodthatwith respectto entitlement outlined in Section13.02 abovethatthe additionalweek(s) ofvacation will betaken after September30th in any year and, as well, subsequent to the employee's anniversary date.
13.04	If a regular employee who would be entitled to vacation leaves the service of the Company without receiving his vacation, he shall be paidfor his vacation at the appropriate rate.
13.05	If any of the aforementioned plant holidays fall within an employee's annual vacation period, he shall receive either an additional day's vacation or an additional day's pay.
13.06	The recognized annual vacation period shall be between May 1st and September30th and all regularemployeeswho are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation shall be entitledto have three (3)weeks Continuousvacation during this period, providedthat the taking of the vacationsdoes not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
30
A vacation schedule for the following year shall be posted by March 1 st. Employeesshall indicatetheir preferencefor recognized annual vacation period priorto April 15 ortheir right to displace employees with lower seniority shall be forfeited.
13.07	An employee may, with the consent of the Company, take his vacation in advance of the regular vacation period.
13.08	It is understood and agreed that seniority requirements for vacation purposesshall be total service with the Company.
13.09	(a) Asof April 15th, ineachcalendaryear, employeeswho
attain three (3) or more years cf seniority, as of their anniversary date within the calendaryear, shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash and equal to 20 per cent of such employees normal vacation payment.
(b) In the event any employee who has benefit service as defined in the GuaranteedWage Plan is expected to be laid off during any calendar year, the Company and the Unionshall discuss the matter, and if the UnionAgrees, instead of cash vacation bonus payments hereunder, time off with pay may be scheduled for certain of the employees who would otherwise be entitled to such payments. Such discussions shall be held in the months of September and Decemberof each year (and at such other times as the parties may agree) to determine to what extent vacation time off with pay should be scheduled in lieu cf payment of cash vacation bonuses to alleviate layoff of junior employees having benefit service. In any event, payment of vacation bonusin cash shall not be made prior to September30th in each year.
13.10	(a) In the event that an employee becomes seriously ill or
is injured after having commenced his vacation, such that he qualifies for weekly indemnity coverage, he may
31
make arrangements as outlined to postpone his remaining vacation in order to enroll in the weekly indemnifying plan.
(i)	The employee shall advise his supervisor of his illnessor accident and make arrangementsto have the Weekly Indemnity Form completed.
(ii)	All approved requestswill result in the employees remainingvacation being cancelled the day after the request is received. The remaining vacation time shall be rescheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
(iii)	Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled periodshall be returned to the Company and re-issued for the rescheduledvacation period.
(b) NotwithstandingArticle 13.10 (a) or any other articleof this Agreement, an employee's annual vacation must be taken infull within one year of becoming entitledto same. Employeeswho are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Worker's Compensation, weekly indemnity, Company-paid sick leave, etc. shall within the first 104 weeks of such absence have added to such allowance, by the Company, vacation wages so that the employee receives, during his vacation period, the full amount he would have received had he not beendisabled, sick, etc. but inno event shall he be entitled to receive more in combinedcompensation and vacation wages than hewould have received were he not in receipt of such disability compensation allowance.
ARTICLE 14 — Union Label and Materials
14.01	The useofthe Union labelofthe InternationalUnionwill be grantedas long as the Company strictly observes all provisions of this Agreement.
32
14.02	The Union label may be used on cooperage, bottles, cases and cartons and must be affixed before leaving the Company's plant.
14.03	Only Union made malt may be used when available when price and qualityare equal. Other Union made materials and machinery shall be given preference where priceand quality are equal
ARTICLE 15 — Grievance and ProcedureArbitration
In the event that any employee alleges a violation of the Agreement, he shall have full recourseto the grievancepro-cedure. The following shall bethe recognizedprocedurefor the progressiveadjustmentof disputesor grievanceswithin five (5) full working days of the alleged grievance occurring or becoming apparent, the first step shall be taken. It is understood and agreed that any aggrieved employee has the right to be heard at meetings dealing with his case.
15.01	1st Step: The shop steward inthe department in which the aggrieved employee works shall take the matter upwith the department foreman, either with or without the aggrieved employee being present. If no agreement can be reached the next step shall be taken.
15.02	2nd Step: The Union ShopCommittee shall takethe matter up with the department head. If no agreement can be reached the 3rd step shall be taken.
15.03	3rd Step: The Union Shop Committee shall take the matter up with the Management of the Company. Any grievance originating from the Company shall commence at the 3rd step in grievance procedure. The Union Shop Committee Chairmanshall be advised of the natureof the grievanceand sufficient time shall be given for the committee to conduct a full investigationof the case before meetingwith Management. If no agreement can be reached betweentheCom-
33
pany and the Union Shop Committee, the matter shall be taken to the 4th step.
15.04	4th step: Within three (3) working days of the 3rd step being taken the grievance shall then be put inwriting, signed by the aggrievedemployeeandsigned on behalf of the Union Shop Committee andshall bedealtwith bythe Management of the Company, the Union Shop Committee and a representative of the Union's choice.
15.05	5th Step: If no adjustmentsatisfactoryto both parties can be reached in the previous four (4) steps then the matter shall be referred to a Boardof Arbitration by written notice within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the com-paniesdecisionatstep4. One (l)representativeselected bythe Union and one (1) representative selected bythe Company. Shouldthesetwo(2) representativesfaito agree on the selection of a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Labor RelationsBoard. A majoritydecision of the Board shall be binding on both parties. Either party to this Agreement shall appoint their Arbitrator within seven (7) clear days after notice by registered mail has been re-ceivedof the appointment of the Arbitrator of the other party. A decision shall be reachedwithin one (1) week of date of the appointment of the Chairman ofthe Boardor such longer periodas the Board may require to then reach a decision. It is agreed that the Union will be responsible for paying expensesof its nominee. The Company and the Unionshall jointly be responsible for the expenses of the Chairman.
15.06	The Chairmanof the Union Shop Committee, on behalf of the Union or the Manager on behalf of the Company, may file a policy grievance at 3rd step of the Grievance Procedure. A policygrievanceisdefinedas a disputebetween the Union and the Company concerningthe interpretation, application, operationor allegedviolationof the agreement, includingwhether or not a matter is arbitrable.
34
15.07	Pending arbitration, there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement. Arbitration cases to be resolved and a decision made by the Arbitration Board within a period not exceeding sixty (60) days ofthe hearing.
ARTICLE 16 - Welfare
16.01	lntheeventofthedeathofanimmediaterelative,ie. parent, legalguardian,spouse, child, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, a regular employee will be granted such time off with pay as is reasonableunder the circumstances to enable him to look after funeral arrangementsor to attend the funeral. The extent of such time off shall be at the discretion of the Company depending upon the time of the bereavementin relationto his regular time off, the distance to be travelled, etc. The general standard of bereavement time shall be three (3) consecutive days. Inthe event of the funeral of an employee's grandparent or grandchildren occurring on an employee's regular scheduled day of work, time off with pay shall be granted to attend the funeral on that day.
16.02	(a) Wheneveremployeesarerequiredtoserveonaregular
orcoroner’sjury duringtheir normalworking hours, they shall be granted leave of absence and shall receivethe difference between their straight time pay and regular rate of jury pay.
(b)	When an employee is grantedtime off during his regular scheduled shift to act as a pallbearer for a deceased fellow employeeor pensioner of the Company, heshall be paid at his rate of pay for any lost time incurred on the day of the funeral.
(c)	An employee subpoenaed to appear as a witness for the Crown shall upon presentation of a claim supported by proof of having fulfilled such function be paid the dif-
35
ference betweenthe compensation receivedfrom the Crown as witness fees and straight time pay at the regular hourly rate of the employee for his regularly scheduled working time missed. Employees receiving subpoenas shall notify the Company at the earliest opportunity.
16.03	(a) The Company agreesto grant leave of absence without remunerationfor a period of not morethan twelve (12) monthsto a regular employeewho has been electedor appointed as an officer of the International or Local Union, if such duties require him to have a leave of absence from his Company duties on a full time basis. Duringsuch periodof leaveof absencethe employee's seniority shall continue to accumulate as if he were employed by the Company. This period of time may be extendedfor afurther period on the Union giving one (1) month's notice prior to termination date. An employee who has beengranted leaveto holdoffice in the Union shall continueto accrueservice entitlement towards service vacation andG.W.P. entitlement.
(b) Employeesnot exceedingthree (3)at anyone time will be granted a leave of absence without remuneration from the Company to represent the Union at conferences provided at least one (1) week's notice i sgivento the Company and there is no unreasonable interference with Company operations.The durationof such leaveof absenceshall not be l ess than one (1) day, nor morethan ten (1O) workingdays. The partiesagreethat inthe event of an emergency situation occurringthe employeein-volved will give at leastl 2 hours noticeto the Company. With respectto the employees noted inthe preceding paragraph the Company agreesto continuethe pay and insured benefits of such personsfor the period of the agreed leave of absence. The cost of wages and benefits is to berecoveredbythe Company by deduc-
36
ting the amount owing from the check-off transmittedto the Union.
(c) Upon written application to the Company, from the executive of the Union, for educational leave for an elected official(s) of the Union:
(i)	EffectiveJunel, 1991 the Company shall grant a total of seven man days prior to June 1, 1992 in orderto provide paideducational leave, operational requirements permitting.
(ii)	EffectiveJunel, 1992 the Company shall grant a total of seven man days prior to June 1, 1993 in orderto provide educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
(iii)	EffectiveJunel, 1993 the Company shall grant a total of seven man days priorto June 1, 1994 in orderto provideeducationalleave,operationalre-quirements permitting.
16.04	The Pension Plan is part of thisAgreement and the amendments to it are attached hereto.
ARTICLE 17 — Scheduleof Wages
17.01	The followingschedule of wages is hereby confirmed and shall form part of this Agreement. No employee shall receive less than the following rates of pay for the classificationin which he is employed. A regular pay period shall be established bythe Company on a one(1) week basis and employeesshall receivetheir payasmutuallyagreed upon.
17.02	Present higher rates of pay than those listed in the following schedules now enjoyed by the employee shall not be disturbed and shall continue as heretofore.
17.03	Any employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing, but any
37
employee substituting on a lower ratedjob shall not have his regular rate of pay reduced, unless such employee applies for a job at a lower rate or is permanentlytransfer-red to a lower ratedjob as a result of the operations of the seniority provisions contained in this Agreement.
17.04	Employeeswho are transferredto a newjob as a result of technologicalchange shall continue existing rate of their formerjob untilthe rate of their newjob reachesthe existing rate of the former position.
17.05	As well, those employees whose jobs are affected by technological change, such as skilled tradesmen, Engineers, etc. may elect separationpay if they wish rather than accept transfer to ajob outside of their usual occupation. If an employee elects to take separation pay in lieu of anotherjob with the Company, hewould not be eligiblefor separation pay again if re-hired.
38
MOLSON BREWERIES WAGES SCHEDULE
CLASSIFICATION
Brewing Department Bottling:
Machine Operators Assistant Shippers & Receivers Bottleshop General including Shippers & receivers Helpers Fork Lift Operators Maintenance and Engineering:
Maintenance Mechanics
Machinist
Welder
Carpenter
Electrician
Painter
Engineers
Miscellaneous:
Plant Janitor Barman - Plant Barman - Reception Starting Rate First Sixty (60) Days Worked
After Sixty (60) Days Worked
Effective 1st of month following
ratification June 1,1992
19.55	20.50
19.35	20.30
19.35	20.30
19.27	20.22
19.35	20.30
21.42	22.53
21.47	22.58
21.47	22.58
19.75	20.70
21.82	22.93
19.75	20.70
21.91	23.02
19.27	20.22
19.35	20.30
19.35	20.30
9.27	9.76
9.52	10.01
Junel, 1993
21.60
21.40
21.40 21.32
21.40
23.82
23.87
23.87 21.80 24.22 21.80
24.31
21.32
21.40
21.40
10.33
10.58
Employeeswho attain regular employeestatusas per the Collective Agreement shall be paid the above classified rates.
39
Machine operators will include employeesworking on uncaser, soaker, discharge,filler, labeller, packers,sealerandtaper, baler, palletizer, fork lift truck, carton former, saw operator, power transporter and laboratory technician- bottleshop.
Group Leaders shall be those designated by the Company from time to time to assume duties of a responsible nature over and above the ordinary duties requiredof that employee’s classification. The Group Leader rate shall be 30 cents per hourabove the highest rate of the men in their group for those hours worked as a Group Leader.
Employeeswho are holders of valid St. John’s Ambulance Cer-tificatesor equivalent may bedesignated within the Plant as First Aid Attendants. These employeesshall receivethirty (30) cents per hour in additionto their regular hourly rate for those hours worked as designated First Aid Attendants.
Inthe case of a temporaryemployeewho has notworked sixty (60) working days and who is placed on a job classified inthe wage schedule, with the exceptionof a job classified atthe base rate, he will receivean incrementequaltothedifferencebetweenthe base rate of pay and the rate for the job he is performing.
ARTICLE 18 — Cost of Living Allowance
18.01	A cost of LivingAllowance, in a lump sum paymentwill be paidto regularemployeesfor all hoursworked, including vacationsand statutory holidays, in the periodfrom June 1, 1993 to May 31, 1994, the first pay period following the publication of the May, 1994 Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100), on the basisof one (1 )cent per hourfor each full .3 change inthe Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100)in the periodfrom June 1,1993, to May 31,1994, calculated by subtractingthe Consumer Price Index(1971 = 100)for the monthof May, 1993, afteraddingthereto7% ofthe May, 1993 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Con-sumerPricelndex(1971 =100) for the month of May,1994.
40
7\
ARTICLE 19 — Term of Agreement
19.01	This Agreement shall remain inforce and effect from the 1st day of June. 1991 to May 31,1994 and shall automatically continue from year to year thereafter unless either party serves notice on the other party by registered mail, not less than thirty (30) days priorto the expirationdate, that changes are desired therein. When such notice has been given the parties shall commence negotiations within ten (10) days from date of notification.
19.02	Inthe eventthat no settlement can be reached betweenthe parties, and a strike or lockout develops, the Union agrees that engineering staff, one per shift, will be allowed to continue to work to maintain essential plant protection service. Suchemployeewill not be subject to the provisionsof Article
8.03	of this Agreement.
19.03	There shall be no retroactive application of any of the provisions of thissettlement and the resulting amendmentsto the Collective Agreement except as expressly provided for herein.
19.04	The employees share of any unemployment insurance premium rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion ofthe Cost of the benefit improvementscontained in this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
GUARANTEEDWAGE PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT madethis21st day of June A.D. 1991:
BETWEEN:	MOLSON BREWERIES
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART AND:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL330W (hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the Company has entered intoa CollectiveAgreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Winnipeg.
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto have agreed to make a supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said CollectiveAgreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the CollectiveAgreement.
NOWTHEREFOREthe Parties agree to the continuation of the GuaranteedWage Planashereinaftersetforthwith such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of June 1991,
Or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
42
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans;
(b)	Paymentsby the Company pursuant to this Planwill be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and;
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Planwill notdisqualifysuchemployeesfrom receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this Plan isto provide a methodof guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off.
2.	Eligibility For Participation in the Plan
An eligible employee(s) entitled to participate in this Plan is
an hourly rated employee who has:
(a)	Actually worked for the Company as such for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty (130) workings day in any twelve (12) month period, and:
(b)	Has completed at least one (1) year of Benefit Service determined, as of the 1st day of June immediately proceeding his layoff
(c)	Notwithstandingthe above, employees not classifiedas regular employees prior to date of July 15,1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this plan until June 1 st of the year following the employee'sattainmentof three (3) years of benefit service.
43
Forthe purposesof the Plan, BenefitServiceshall be computed as the lengthof service of such employeesubsequent to a date six (6)calendar months priorto the date on which he completed working one hundred and thirty (130) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
3,	Exceptions
This Plan has no applicationto and providesno benefitsfor:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the GrievanceProcedureof the CollectiveAgreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan;
(b)	Employees who have been laid off becauseof any strike, lock-out, slow-down, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other Company who are represented for collective bargainingpurposesbythe United FoodandCommercial Workers Union, Local330W, C.L.C, or by any local Union thereof or by any successor of any of the aforementioned:
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company's operations;
(d)	Employeeswho have been laid off because of any act of war or hostileact by any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrectionor by any act of God;
(e)	Employeeswho are laidoffandwho have arranged with the Companyto take a leave of absencewithout payfor a specific period in lieu of their lay-off. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
44
4.	Disqualfication for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise beeligible for participation in the Planshall not receive
any payments under the plan for any week:
(i)	I n which he has been on lay-offand hasfailed to apply for U.l. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled for U.l. benefits by any reasonotherthan serving a two (2) week waiting period;
(ii)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre i n those cases where such registration is necessaryto qualify for U.l. benefits for reduction of U.l. waiting period;
(iii)	In which he has failed or refusedto accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission:
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any ap-propriatework assignmentof at least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause:
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's Sickness and Disability Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company:
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan:
(vii)	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Workers Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
45
5.	Definitions
For purposes of this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, paymentfor any leaveof absencewith pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company's payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hoursworked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus;
(b)	All hoursnot worked by the employee in such week but for which he receiveswages from any employer, plus;
(c)	All hoursscheduled in such week for an employeewho is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus;
(d)	All hoursscheduled insuchweekfor an employeewho is on layoff andwhich he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice accordingtotheestablishedpracticeoftheCom-panythat such scheduled hourswere availableto be worked by him.
“Week of layoff' means a week in which the employee's compensatedand available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid Off employees
Subjectto the terms and conditions of the Plan as hereinset out each eligible employeewho is laid offfrom the Bargaining Unit shall receive in additionto any wages earned i nthe week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff
46
calculated by determining the product of items 1,2, and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 v below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70% for eligible employees as hereinabove defined;
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff;
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee;
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible underthe Unemployment InsuranceAct for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employeesin his/her Bargaining Unitto the end of the monthfollowingthe last month in which he/she has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or untiltheendofthe last monthduring which he/she has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever isthe later. Welfare Planforthe purpose of thissection does not include the Pension Planorthe Company’sSicknessand Disability Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long-Term DisabilityPlanwhich cover only indemnityfor wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on lay off who, pursuant to the above, has ceasedto participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
8.	Durationof Benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefitestablished in accordance
47
with Table “A”. However, the employee’sactual benefiten-titlement will be l essthan the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefitsare restored based uponthe formula of 1/10th of a weekfor eacheight (8) full hoursduringwhich the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employees's maximum benefitentitlement set out in Table " A 'below. Nocreditstowardsfuture benefitsentitlements are allowedfbr wages earned during any periodinwhichthe employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table "A".
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing June 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of the June 1st in accordance with Table “A” above.
Each eligible employee's weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on lay off and in receipt of benefits for more than
TABLEA
Completed Years of Benefit Service Determined as of the June 1st Immediately Preceeding his Layoff
Maximum Benefit Entitlement
48
thirty-two (32) hours, and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours, and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor more than sixteen (16) hours; and by2/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receiptof benefitsfor more than eight (8)hours; and by 1/5th of aweek inwhich he ison layoff and in receiptof benefits for eight(8) hoursor less; and his weeks of benefitsshall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on layoffbutwasdisqualifiedforany reasonsset out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of Section 4,
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincialand Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employeeconcerned.
10.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such proceduresand make such reportsand applications as shall be prescribedby the Company after consulta-tionwith the Union.The wilfulfalsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee's benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have underthe Planfor a periodof twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinaryaction which may be imposedsubject to the GrievanceProcedureof the Collective Agreement.
11.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic reportsto the Unionwhile employeesare laidoff and receivingbenefitsunderthe Plan
49
and quarterly if no employeesare on lay-off giving the Union complete informationas to the number of employees who have been laid off, the durationthereof, the payments made to each individual underthe Plan, the numberof ineligible anddisqualifiedemployeesand such other similar information as may be relevant.
12.	Duration of Agreement
This Agreementshall continue until May31,1994. During negotiationsfor renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendmentsto this Agree-mentwill not take effect any earlier than June 1, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signaturethis 1 st day of November A.D. 1991.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
W. S. Bashucky	W. McDowell
50
PENSION
PLAN
BENEFITS
51
SUMMARY OF THE PENSION PLAN
The following changes to the current Pension benefits will be effectiveasof Junel, 1991 forallregularemployeesasofthatdate and for newly hired employeeswhen they attain seniority following that date:
1.	Scope and Coverage
This Agreement covers all seniority employees who are represented in collective bargaining by the Union.
The terms, conditions and funding arrangements of said Plan will be revised in such manner and detail as are necessaryor desirable to effectivelyandfully implement the understandings herein enumerated.
2.	BenefitsAccruedupuntilMay31,1977
In respectto benefitsactuallyearned and accrued up to and includingMay 31,1977 by the employees who were covered by the former Pension Plans it is understoodand agreed that such benefits shall continue to the credit of the individual employee and to be exercisable in accordance with the termsandconditionsapplicableasof May31,1977, unless specifically modified or amended by this document.
3.	Eligibilityfor Benefitsfrom June 1,1977
As and from Junel, 1977 those employeeswho were participating membersof the Pension Plan priorto June 1,1977 shall automatically be eligible for all benefitsaccruing as hereinafter outlined.
As and from June 1, 1977, all other present and future employeesshall beeligiblefor benefitsaccruing effective from the first day of the monthfollowingcompletionof 130 daysof work in any twelve month period.
52
4.	Cost of Benefits
	The cost of providing all contributions with respect to pension benefits which will accrue as and from June 1, 1977 shall be made by the Company.
5.	Credited Service
	Credited service shall be computed for each calendaryear on the basis of one twelfth (1/12) of a year’s credited service for each 150 hoursactuaily worked orforwhich wages have been paid. It is understood that wages shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence such as, for example, jury duty, bereavement pay, paymentfor statutory holidays, call-in pay and any period for which an employee is absent from work an in receipt of Worker's Compensation, Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability payments. Earned credits inany calendar year shall in no case exceed one year of credited service and shall be calculated to the nearest one twelfth
	(1/12) year of credited service.
6.	Normal Retirement Date
	The normal retirementdateshall be the first day of the month coincident with or next following the employees' 65th birthday and the earned and accrued retirement income shall be payable commencing on that normal retirement date.
7.	Pension Payable of Normal Retirement The amount of basic pension benefits payable for an employee who has reached normal retirementdate shall be the amount as provided in Section Two (2) plus a basic pension benefit calculated in accordance with the following schedule.
	53
Plus:
Period of Credited Service or
proportionate Credit to the nearest Monthly Retirement one-twelfth (1112th) or a year as Income per year of outlined in Section Five (5).	Credited Service
June 1, 1977 to May 31, 1978 June 1, 1978 to May 31, 1980 June 1, 1980 to May 31,1981 June 1, 1981 to May 31,1982 June 1, 1982 to May 31,1983 June 1, 1983 to May 31,1984 June 1,1984 to May 31,1985 June 1,1985 to May 31,1986 June 1, 1986 to May 31, 1987 June 1,1987 to May 31,1988 June 1,1988 to May 31,1989 June 1,1989 to May 31,1990 June 1,1990 to May 31,1991 June 1, 1991 to May 31,1992 June 1,1992 to May 31, 1993 June 1,1993 and on
12.00
12.00
13.00
14.00
15.00
16.50 17.25
19.00
19.50
20.00 26.00
27.00
28.00
30.00
31.00
32.00
8.	Supplemental Pension Benefit
I	For members who retire on or after June 1, 1991, the following shall apply:
(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A memberretiringatage 65 with at Ieast30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirementto produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,685.00
54
If a member retires at age 65 with lessthan 30 years of credited service, the lifetimesupplementshall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirementexceeds the full unreducedCanada Pension Plan Retirementbenefits, prorated by the ratio of the numberof years of creditedserviceto30 years and reduced by the member's accrued pension.
(b) Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after having attained age 60 with at Ieast30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
The pension will be supplemented by an amount necessaryto providea monthly pensionof$1,537.00, from Company Plans payable untilthe memberwould have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculatedas the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pensionand the full unreducedCanada Pension Plan Retirement benefitsdetermined at the date of his retirement to produce a monthly pension of $1,685.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
Inadditionto the recalculated lifetime supplement, a memberwho retires before May 31, 1992 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pensionfrom Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal
55
retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit bothdeter-minedas of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his relatedcredited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
II	For members who retire on or after June 1, 1992, the
following shall apply:
(a)	Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A memberretiringatage65with at least30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement beingthe amount requiredto be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,740.00.
If a memberretiresat age65 with lessthan 30 years of credited service, the lifetimesupplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at nor-malretirement exceedsthefull unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirementbenefits, proratedbythe rati o of th e nu mberof years of credited serviceto 30 years and reduced by the members accrued pension.
(b)	Special Early Retirement
A member retiring after havingattainedage60 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitledto an immediate accruedpension equal to the amount of accrued pension to his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
56
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessaryto provide a monthly pensionof $1,562.00 fromCompany Plans payableuntilthe memberwould have first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits. Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreducedCanada Pension Plan Retirement benefitsdetermined at the date of his retirementto produce a monthly pension of $1,740.00 which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
Inadditionto the recalculated lifetime supplement, a member who retires before May 31, 1993 will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pensionfrom Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. Thisfurther supplementshall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
Ill	For memberswho retire on or after June 1, 1993, the
following shall apply:
(a) Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement
A member retiring at age 65 with at Ieast30 years of credited service is entitled to a lifetime supplement being the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of his retirement to produce a minimum monthly pension of $1,905.00.
57
If a member retires at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall bethe amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement ex-ceedsthe full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits prorated by the ratio of the number of years of creditedserviceto30 years and reducedbythe member's accrued pension.
(b) Special Early Retirement
A memberretiringafterhavingattainedage60with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to an immediate accruedpension equalto the amount of accruedpensionto his credit for service to date of early retirement, without reduction for the earlier date of retirement.
This pensionwill besupplementedbyan amount necessary to provide a monthly pension of $1,695.00 from Company Plans payable until the member would have first become eligibleto receive unreducedCanada Pension Plan retirement benefits.
Thereafter, the supplement shall be recalculated as the amount required to be added to the member's accrued pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefitsas determined at the date of his retirementto produce a monthly pensionof $1,905.00; which supplement shall become his lifetime supplement.
In addition to the recalculated lifetime supplement, a memberwho retires before May31,1994 will be paida further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normalretirementminimumpensionand full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including
58
any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplementshall then be added to and form part of the member's lifetime supplement.
9.	Escalation of Benefits
On January 1, 1978 and every January 1 thereafter, an employee retiringafter June 1,1977 who reaches his normal retirement date will have his accrued pensions only (excludingany supplement)escalatedto a maximumof 2% based on the 12 month percentage increase of the Consumer Price Index as of previous September 1. Any employee whose normal retirement date is January 1 will not receive any basic pension escalation untilthe following January 1.
For members who retire on or after June 1, 1988, the member'sactual pension paymentincluding lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increasedafter January 1, commencing with the January 1st following the member'sactual retirement date, by the percentage set out in the existing pension escalation formula (as described above).
Any spousal pension will also be escalated as per the existing formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following the member's date of death.
10.	Other Early Retirement
A member retiringon or after June 1,1988 and after having attained age 55 butpriorto having qualified for Special Early Retirementor85 point retirement isentitledto an immediate accrued pensionequalto the amountof accrued vested pen-sionto hiscreditfor service to date of early retirement reduced byone-thirdof 1 % per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month his retirement precedes age 65.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime 59
supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirementbut usinghiscurrent unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirementbenefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement. The lifetime supplementso calculatedwill then be reducedby one-third if 1% permonth(i.e. 4% peryear) for each month hisretire-ment precedes age 65.
11.	85 Point Retirement
A memberretiringon or after June 1,1991 and after having attained age55 and whose age plusyears of credited service total 85 or more(butpriortohavingqualifiedfor Special Early Retirements entitled to an immediateaccrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pensionto his credit for service to date of early retirement.
In addition, such member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirementbut using hiscurrentunreduc-ed vested accrued pension and his related creditedservice, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
60
12,	DisabilityRetirement
	EffectiveJune 1,1991, employeeswho have attained age 50 and completed 10 years of service and becomedisabl-ed and retire underthe disability provisionsof the pension plans, shall receive a supplementary benefit of $14.00 per month multiplied by the numberof years of credited service up to a maximum of 30 years. The supplement is payable until the employee is eligible to receive either a statutory disability or retirementbenefit. Thissupplementwill be paid inadditiontosuch employees’full accrued pensionattime of disability retirement.
	In addition, such memberwho retireson or after June 1, 1988 shall beentitledto a lifetimesupplementcommencing on the date he first becomeseligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirementbenefits. This supplement shall be calculated as if the memberhad attainedage 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of retirement.
13.	Termination of Employment (Vesting)
	A member's accrued pension and lifetimesupplement shall completely vest upon the completion of two (2) years of credited service.
14.	Spouse’s Option (a) Joint and Survivor Pension
	A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Disabilityor Early Retirement on or after June 1,1988 shall receive a Joint and Survivor Pension unless the persons entitled to the Joint and Survivor Pensiondeliver to the Plan Administrator 61
a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve months immediately precedingthe commencementof payment of the pension benefit.
The standard form of Joint and Survivor pension provides that the member’s accrued pensionand lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10% during his lifetime(subjectto actuarialreductionifthe member’s spouse is more than 10 years younger than the member). Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 60°/o of the member’s reduced accrued pension and lifetime supplement, if any.
The current Manitobalegislationrequiresthatthe surviving spouse receives pensionof not less than 66 2/3% of the member’sreducedaccrued pensionand lifetime supplement, if any. In order to provide the 66 2/3% spousal pension, the member’spension mustbe reduced to a level which is the actuarial equivalent of the standard form of Joint and Survivor pension.
(b) Death Before Retirement
Ifa memberdieson or after Junel, 1988 after having met the existing eligibility requirements for a preretirement spousal pension, hisspouse shall receive an immediate pension equal to the existing percentageof the accrued pensionto hiscreditfor service priorto the date of his death under the existing pre-retirement spousal pension provisions, plusthesame percentage of his lifetime supplement.
The lifetime supplement will be calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on hisdate of death, but using his current unreduced accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada
62
Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension all determined as of the member's actual date of death.
If a member dies before his pension commences and the spouse is not entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraphs, any contributions required to be paid by the member prior to June 1, 1977 with interest to the date the death will be paid to the designated beneficiary orfailing such, to the member’s estate.
The death benefit paid above shall not be l essthan that provided under existing pension legislation.
15.	Continuation of Benefits After Retirement
Employees eligible for basic pension benefits and lifetime supplement, if any, derived from employment underthe non-contributoryplan after Junel, 1977 shall have said benefits continue as long as they live. Benefitsfor employment under the contributory plan prior to June 1,1977 shall be for life or as follows:
Ifthe total basic pensionpayment, if any, at time of death of a member who elected normal pension, after normal or early retirement are less than the sum of his contribution with accumulatedinterest to retirement date, the difference will be payable to his designated beneficiary.
16.	Deferred Retirement
The following provisions respecting the Pension Plan shall apply where an employee continues in the employment of the Company beyond his normal retirement date
1.	The employeeshall continue to accrue service and pension credits until the employee terminates or retires in accordance with (2) below.
63
2.	The employees Pension shall becomepayableas of the first day of the month immediately following month the employes ceasedto be employed with the Company, or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employees seventy-first (71) birthday, whichever shall first occur (the “Pension Date”).
3.	Forthe purpose of calculatingany supplement benefit, the Canada Pension Plan benefits will at the level in effect at the actual retirement date.
4.	Escalation benefits are to commence from actual retirement.
5.	All other provisions of the Pension Plan will remain unchanged.
17.	Application for Benefits
If an employee is eligible to receive either unreduced Canada Pension Plan or disability benefits whichever are applicableand does notapplyfor or losespartor all of such benefitsthrough delay in applyingfor them, or other act or failure to act, the employee shall be deemed to be in receipt of such benefits for purposes of calculating the amount of any supplement.
18.	Duration
This Pension Memorandum will be for three years and effective June 1, 1991.
64
MOLSON BREWERIES (HOURLY EMPLOYEES) HEALTH BENEFITS
PROVIDED BY:
MANITOBA BLUE CROSS
NOTE: In any communication with Blue Cross, please make reference to your Group Number. YOUR GROUP NUMBERS 1138.
INTRODUCTION
Manitoba Blue Cross is very pleased to have been selected to provide these Company benefits.
This booklet has been prepared to provide you with a convenient summary of your benefits, in non-technical language. (in all cases, the specific benefits available and the terms and conditions under which they are provided, are governed by the master agreement between the Company and Blue Cross.
If you should require any further information concerning your benefits, you are encouraged to contact your Company’s Personnel Administrator, or to call Blue Cross directly at (204)775-0151. (Subscribers located in rural Manitoba are welcome to call using our toll-free line, (1-800-262-8832).
We look forward to serving you!
WHO IS ELIGIBLE?
Permanent full-time employees and permanent part-time employees as designated by the Company including the employee's spouse and dependents are eligible to become Members.
The term “Spouse” means the person to whom an Employee is legally married; or, the person named by the employee, but who is sharing the same principal residence with the employee
65
at the time of employment. For subscribers adding a dependent common-law spouse, if their coverage has become effective, there shall be a one-year waiting period immediately prior to the commencement of benefits for the dependent common-law spouse. This waiting period must be administered by Blue Cross.
The term "Dependent" means any natural, legally adopted, or foster child under21 years of age provided they are networking and not married. Also, unmarriedchildrenundertheagecf21 who are full-time students at a specialized school, college or university. Also, any child physically disabled, or mentally retarded, regardless of age, who is totally dependent upon the parents for financial support.
Newemployeesshall be eligible for planbenefitsuponcompletion of the following waiting period: Ambulance/Hospital Semi-Private and Extended Health Benefits Planson the first of the monthfollowing 130 daysof employment in a 12 month period.
Employees retiringfrom activeemploymentwho wish to maintain their health benefitswhile retired, may remain enrolled in this group plan provided they have been subscribersfor at least one year prior to retirement.
YOUR BENEFITS Health Benefits
Your Plan providescompletecoveragefor Ambulance and SemiPrivate Hospital charges in Manitoba. (see page A-1 in this booklet).
In addition, you may claim reimbursement for 80% of other necessary health expenses not covered by the Government Health Plan. These eligible expenses are listed on pages E-1 and E-2.
66
AT A GLANCE
Eligible expenses include charges for services rendered by chiropractors up to a maximum of $150. per family per calendar year.
Please note that reimbursement is subject to an Annual Deductible of $10. per person (maximum $20. per family). The deductible amount is subtracted from your first claim(s).
IDENTIFICATION CERTIFICATE
Soon after you enroll you will receive an Identification Certificate. This certificate identifies the subscriber, his/her eligible dependents,and the type of coverageprovided.Whenever you are claiming benefits from this Plan, be sure to quote your contract number in the space provided for it on the claim form.
If you have lost or misplaced your Identification Certificate, please contact your Personnel Administrator and arrangements will be made to provide you with a new one.
AMBULANCE/HOSPITAL PLAN PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
This plan provides for ambulance services and hospital accommodation in your home province; and provides a convenient method of “paying” for these services if they are provided in Manitoba.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
_ Ambulance Benefits
Full payment of reasonable and customary charges for ambulance services provided within the province, and payment of up to $250, pertrip (basedon provincial rates)for ambulance services provided elsewhere.
67
This includes not only local ambulance servicesto and from hospital but also long distance ambulance trips for which additional mileage charges are made.
There are no limits on the amount payable within the province or on the number of trips covered.
All “emergency” ambulancetrips are covered, and “nonemergency” tripsare covered on the priorrecommendation of an attending physician if the patient is non-ambulatory and cannot be transported by any means other than ambulance.
Air ambulance allowances will be paid up the amount equivalent had the services been provided by ground ambulance.
Medical Transfer Service (“Medicar”)
Chargesfor “non-emergency” transport by a participating medical transfer service are covered upto a lifetime maximum of $250. per person.
Hospital Benefits
Full payment of the hospital's additionalcharge for semiprivate room accommodationprovidedwithin the province. (The provincial Medicare plan covers standard ward charges).
Hostel Accommodation
If a subscriber requires diagnostic testing or treatment on the recommendationof a medical practitioner, at a Manitoba hospital located more that 60 km from the subscriber’s home, and if the subscriber is placed in a recognized medical hostel associatedwith the hospital, Blue Crosswill pay the reasonableand customaryper diem charge for such hostel accommodation.
68
CLAIMING FOR AMBULANCE AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS
In Manitoba, ambulanceservices and semi-private hospitalaccom-modation are provided automatically upon presenting the Blue Cross card, and no further action is necessary.
Outside Manitoba, employees must pay for these services privately and then submit itemized receipts for reimbursement.
EXTENDED HEALTH CARE
PURPOSE OF EXTENDED HEALTH CARE
Extended Health Care is designed to supplement provincial Medicare. In addition to the Ambulance and Hospital coverage, employees are reimbursed for necessary and reasonable health expenses, incurred by employees or dependents, which are not covered by the Government Plan.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
Under Extended Health Care, employeeswill be reimbursed for a portion of reasonable and customary expenses (See “Your Benefits, At-A-Glance) for extent of coverage) for the following health services:
__ Drugs (including oral contraceptives) serums, injectibles
and insulin purchased on the prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines.
__ Travel Health Care
Charges for medical, surgicaland hospital services resulting from accident or illness while travelling out of the province up to a maximum of $2,500. per calendar year. Additional coverage for U.S. or international travel is recommended.
69
Dental Treatment
Chargesfor dental treatment resulting from accidentalinjury or jaw or natural teeth.
Medical Practitioner
Charges for diagnosis and treatment by chiropodists, physiotherapists, and podiatrists upto an annual maximum of $350. per person per practitioner.
Nutritional Counselling
Chargesforthe services of a registereddietician upon referral by a medical practitionerto an annual maximum of $350. per person.
Athletic Therapy
Charges of $10.00 pervisitfor services of a Certified Athletic Therapist when recommendedby a physicianto an annual maximum of $100.
Psychological Counselling
Chargesfor the services of a Clinical Psychologist when referred by a medical practitionerto an annual maximum of $350. per person.
Private Duty Nursing
Charges for private duty nursingor home visits by a professional registerednurse (not a relative) either in the hospital or home as recommended by the attending physician, up to a maximum of $3,000. per calendar year.
Prosthetic and Remedial Equipment
Charges for artificial limbs and eyes, splints, casts, trusses, crutches and breast prostheses(subject to certain limitations). Chargesforthe modificationto orthopedicshoes, one pairof orthopedicshoesperyearwhen part of a brace and 50% of the cost of one pair of specially made orthopedic shoes per year.
70
__ Medical Appliances
Rental or purchase of an iron lung, wheelchair, respirator, or hospital-typebed as deemed necessary by the attending physician, to a lifetime maximum of $1,000. per person. Rental or purchase of other prescribed medical equipment up to lifetime maximum of $250. per person.
__ Blood and Blood Plasma
Charges for blood and blood plasma if not available free of charge through the Red Cross Blood Bank.
__ Wigs
Eligible expenses shall include the cost of wigs required as a result of accidental injury or illness, upto a lifetime maximum of $1,000. per person.
__ Cardiac Rehabilitation
A benefit payment of upto $300.00 Lifetime maximum for Cardiac patients requiring the services of a recognized Cardiac Rehabilitation program.
CLAIMING FOR EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFITS CLAIMING FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
In Manitoba, employees should submit photocopies of Pharma-care receipts with an Extended Health Claim form to be reimbursed
In other areas, and in Manitoba if Pharmacare receipts are not available, employees should submit the Claim Form along with itemized receipts (specifying name of drug) for reimbursement.
(Claims for prescription drugs may be made at any time during. the year. To assure prompt processing and reimbursement, employees should submit drug claims to Blue Cross as soon as total drug expense exceed the Pharmacare deductible).
71
CLAIMING FOR OTHER EXPENSES
Claimsfor other eligible expenses under the ExtendedHealth Care programmust be submitted on ExtendedHealthclaimforms and supported with itemized receipts. Claim forms are available from your PersonnelAdministrator.
(Before mailingyour claim, please ensure that you have identified yourselfwith your group number andcontract number- shown on your IdentificationCertificate- andthatthe Claim Formissigned).
CLAIMING FOR “TRAVEL HEALTH” EXPENSES
Blue Cross covers hospital, medical and surgical expenses in excess of what is covered under your provincial Medicare plan. Employees should first submit a claim, for all expenses incurred, to their provincialhealth plan. Any expenses not covered by the provincialplan should then be claimed from Blue Cross.
COORDINATION OF BENEFITS
This situation may arise if both spouses in a family are regularly employed and health plans are provided at both places of employment.
Under the “Coordination of Benefits” provision included in all health plans, you are entitledto claim benefitsfrom both plans, as long as the total benefits do not exceed the health expenses actually incurred.
In order to obtain theseadditional benefits, pleaseensurethat you complete the appropriate section of the claim form.
72
EXTENDED HEALTH CLAIM FORM
73
CHANGES IN STATUS REPORTING CHANGES
The employee mustnotifythe PersonnelAdministratorand Blue Crosswithin sixty (60) daysof changeinhis/her own or dependents status resulting from marriage, divorce, death, change of residence, birth or legal adoption.
The majority of status changes maybereportedto BlueCrossusing the “Notice of Change” form available from the Personnel Administrator.
BIRTH
Newly born children of the employee and spouse may be added to the Plan asdependentsattherequestof the employee, provided such requestis made in writingwithin60 days from date of birth.
DIVORCE
Inthe event of divorce of the employee and spouse, the divorced spouseand/or dependent childrenof the employee may apply for continuation of coverage(excludingany Dentalcoverage)with Blue Cross provided such requestis made in writingwithin 60 days.
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEE
*Group coverage is terminated when the employee terminates employment with the Company. Once notice of termination has been receivedby BlueCross,the subscriberwill becontactedby mail and offered an opportunity to continue his/her coverage privately.
NOTE: Employeesenrolledi n this group plan shall not be permitted to opt out while still employed by the Company except in the event of duplicate coverage. If this situation arises the employee's requestto cancel must be receivedby Blue Crosswithin 60 days of the the effective date of the new plan.
74
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Overtime
As discussedduring negotiations,it is hereby agreedthat overtime shall be voluntary, however, in such instances of overtime the Company shall poll employees to work overtime and in the event insufficient employees volunteer then the Company shall assign the junior qualified employees to work such overtime.
For the Company	For the Union
75
June 14, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Vacation Period
The Company will agree that duringthe period of September 15th to September30th of thesummervacationperiodidentifiedin 13.06 after the finalization of the summer vacationschedule, shouldthere be any weeks inwhich additionalseniorityemployees may take an extraweek of vacation, every effort will be made by the Company in order to accommodate such employees. Also, it is understood that the granting of additionalvacation during this perioddoes not interferewith the efficient operation of the plant.
For the Company	For the Union
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #33QW
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Bereavement During Vacation
The Company agrees to meetwiththe UnionCommitteetodiscuss allowing an employee who suffers a bereavement during his scheduled vacation to cancel his vacation, exercise his bereavement leave and pick up his remaining vacation at a later date.
For the Company	For the Union
77
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
RE: Production Scheduling
The Company agrees that in weeks preceding long weekends, the Company will schedule the Friday workload on the previous Friday.
For the Company	For the Union
78
June 14, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Article 7.02 (4) (ii)
The Company agrees, notwithstanding the current languageinthis Article, that, for the duration of this Agreement, when an employee uses sick days to supplement Weekly Indemnity payments, his maximumentitlementof sick days shall be reduced by one (1) hour for each hour or part hour of supplementation.
For the Company	For the Union
79
June 14. 1991 Mr. Fi. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Wnnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Company Truck
The use of the Companytruckwill be atthe discretion of the Company and shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 10.13.
However, if the truck is used in the course of our operation, a qualified member <f the bargaining unit will be assignedto operate thetruckand shall be paidthethen currentstockdriverrateinthe A.B.D. agreement.
For the Company	For the Union
80
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Retail Store Operations
This will confirm the understanding reachedduring 1980 negotiations concerning Retail Store Operations.
Should such operations be reinstitutedby the Companythe clauses deleted from the Agreement which expires May 31,1980 will be replaced in the then current Agreement.
The rateof pay shall be determined in accordancewith Article 1.02 and the provisions cf Article 10.13 shall be deemed to have been satisfied.
For the Company	For the Union
81
June 14, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
PlantChaimman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and CommercialWorkers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
RE: Letter of Intent Regarding Sickness Benefits
An employee's eligibility for sick days and participationinthe Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans cease immediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recallto work and completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years seniority who is laid off, and who, if recalledwithin two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or nonoccupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnityand LongTerm Disability Plans effectivethe date of his recall.
For the Company	For the Union
June 14, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Letter of Intent Regarding Plant Closure
Forming Part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
In recognition of the Company's current statutory obligations and in further recognition of the adverse consequences of any plant closure upon employeesthe parties, during the 1988 negotiations, agreed to this letter of understanding regarding any plant closure which may occur during the life of this agreement.
(1)	The Company shall, at least 90 days prior to any plant closure, notify the local union of its intention to close the plant.
(2)	Following receiptof the notificationby the Company the local union may request that the Company meet with the local union to discuss any and all matters arising as a consequence of the plant closure. The Company agrees that promptly upon receipt of such letter it will meet with the local Union and discusswith a view to resolving any mattersarising as a consequence of the plant closure.
(3)	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company undertakes and agrees that it will:
83
(a)	Make all reasonable effortsto fill declared vacancies at any of its other operationswith regularemployeeswho have been laid-off as a result of plant closure.
(b)	Requestthat other Canadianbrewing Companies hire at any of their operationsregular employees who have been laid off as a result of plant closure.
It is further understoodthat if the Company permanently discontinues an operation,the Companywill provide regular employees with a reasonable period of training to facilitate an employee's seniority rights pursuant to the Collective BargainingAgreement.
Yours truly,
D. A. Richards Manager Personneland Industrial Relations
84
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local#330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: G.W.P. Section 10
This letter will clarifytheword “Operation” inSectionlO, paragraph 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
Operation will be interpreted as meaning:
1.	Plant, Branch or Warehouse.
2.	Department or part department in which 10 or more employees are permanently laid off.
For the Company	For the Union
85
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
PlantChairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Wnnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Guaranteed Wage Pian
This letter will clarify the meaning of Section 2(a).
For the purpose of interpreting Section 2(a) of the Guaranteed Wage Plan it is understoodthis provision refersto the employee’s probationary period as defined in Article 5.02 of the Agreement.
For the Company	For the Union
86
June 14, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local#330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Additional Time - Sanitation
This will confirm our agreement during negotiations, that if an employee becomes abnormally dirty, he can request permission from his Supervisor for wash-up time in addition to this five (5) minute wash-up period. Permission will not be unreasonably denied.
For the Company	For the Union
87
June 14.1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner:
RE: Shop Steward Payment
This will confirm the agreementreached between the Company and the Union that, any shop steward attending committee meeting beyond his regular scheduled hours shall be paid straight time for all additionaltime spent at such meetings.
For the Company	For the Union
88
June 24,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Technological Change-Forming A Part of the Collective Agreement
The parties agree that during the life of this agreement any reduction in the work force of the Companywill be the subject of negotiation with the Union. If the Company plans Plant closure, reduction of staff or anticipates that the introduction of a new technology in the form of new equipment or product distributionsystem, will result in employees whose immediate jobs are directly altered thereby being placed in a different occupational Classification or being removed from their occupation classification due to lack of work then when the Company knowsthe changes that are expected to apply to these employees it will arrange for an early discussion of these changes with the Union.
The Company shall notifythe Shop Committeeand the Union ninety (90) days in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods of facilities, or the permanent closure of an operation, which would involve the laying off of employees.
89
Furthermore, a joint Labor-Managementcommitteewill be formed which will deal with; evaluatingthe options open to the Company, includingjustification for the change; its responsibility to the workers and the community; maintenance of earnings and separation pay; the feasibility of decreasing personnel through various methods such as attrition, transfer to other jobs, retraining, educational guidance and assistance, and early retirement.
In agreeing to Clause 10.11 TechnologicalChange, it is understood that technologicalchanges may be introduced by the Company as it considers desirable and that employees may elect separation pay. The transfer to new jobs, retraining, early retirement, etc. will be subject to negotiation. It is further understood that separated employees will be eligible for reemployment by the Company but seniority would commence as of the date of re-hire except that any employee who has been discharged for cause would not be eligible for re-hire.
For the Company
For the Union
90
June 18,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local#330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Summer Students
Notwithstandingany provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement, it has been mutuallyagreed between the parties that effectiveimmediate-ly, the parties will recognizea distinct category cf employee entitled “Summer Students”.
The term under which “Summer Students” will be engaged are limited to the following:
(a)	“Summer Students” are only those employees hired between April 15 and August 31 of the calendar year, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the parties.
(b)	“Summer Students” will be paid as follows:
First Summer Employment ■ Starting wage rate Second Summer Employment - Starting wage rate plus
$.50/hour
Third Summer Employment - Starting wage rate plus
$1.00/hour
91
(c)
Summer studentswill not accrueseniority, or recallrights. The following provisions of the collective agreement shall apply to summer students during their employment.
Article 1 - BargainingAgent Article 2 - Definitions Article 10 - Hours of Work and Overtime Article 11 - As it applies to Shift Differential Article 15 - Grievance Procedure for those articlesthat are applicable underthis paragraph(c)
Article 19 - Term of Agreement
Summer students shall be entitled to vacation pay and all statutory holidays which are observed during the period of their employment.
After completion of a summer assignment, a summer student shall be deemed to be terminated under the Collective Agreement and all rights thereunder shall be cancelled.
In selectingthe individualsto be employed in this category, the following conditionsmust be satisfied:
(j) The student hasattainedthe age of majority priorto his/her employment;
(ii) The student is returningto an educational institution as a student at the conclusion of the summer period; and
(Hi) The student issuitably qualifiedto performthe various summer work assignments.
For the Company
For the Union
June 18,1991
Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303-275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Tool Allowance
Regular maintenance employees (excluding shift engineers, painters and carpenters) will be provided with an annual tool allowance as follows:
Effective On Ratification - $200.00 Effective June 1, 1992	- $200.00
Effective June 1, 1993	- $200.00
For the Company	For the Union

93
June 18, 1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue Wnnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: ContractAgreements
The company hereby undertakes to provide the Union with the following contractswithin six (6) monthsfollowing ratification of the agreement.
-	Weekly Indemnity
-	Long Term Disability
-	Major Medical
-	Dental
-	Life Insurance
Prior to providing the benefit contracts to the Union, the Union representatives and any person intendingto have accessto such documentswill providethe Company with the attached confidentiality agreement signed by the person or persons who will have access to the documents.
For the Company
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303-275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Health & Safety Committee
During the term of the current CollectiveAgreement, the Company and the Union agree to review the guidelines governing the administration of the Plant Health and Safety Program.
The Health and Safety Committee shall consist of three (3) Management and three (3) Union Representatives. The Committee shall endeavor to meet once a month and shall endeavor to work from a predetermined agenda, to be prepared by the Committee's Cochairman, one (1) selected by Management and one (1) selected by the employees.
The Committee's key objectives will be:
1 .	To reduce the number of accidents at the work site.
2.	To reduce the amount of time lost due to accidents.
3.	To ensure that all employees are aware cf the importance of safe work practices.
95
in keepingwith the above objectives, the Committeeshall have as its primary responsibilities the following:
1.	The evaluation of current safety proceduresand the recommendation of ways and means of improving those procedures.
2.	The identificationof potentiallyhazardoussituationswithin the workplace and the recommendationof remedial action where appropriate.
3.	The evaluation of current first aid systems and resources and the identificationof areas within the plant where additional skills or training are required.
4.	The ongoing review of accident reports, injuries, near misses, equipment damage and work practices within the plan.
5.	The evaluation and implementation of Departmental or plant-wide information and/or education programsaimed at promoting a safe work environment.
For the Company	For the Union
96
June 14,1991 Mr. R. Warner
Plant Chairman Union Shop Committee Local #330W
United Food and Commercial Workers 303-275 Broadway Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 4M6
Dear Mr. Warner;
RE: Worker’s Compensation Board Claims & Payments
This will confirmthe agreement reached betweenthe Company and the Union, regarding an employee who has a Worker's Compensation Claim which has been accepted by the Worker's Compensation Board and is awaiting payment. The Company will advance the payment, on the condition that the employee signs over the Worker's Compensation Board cheque to the Company upon receipt.
For the Company	For the Union
97
SENIORITY LIST
NAME
1.	PEDLAR, GORDIE
2.	FREDERICKSON, HERB
3.	WITTENBERG, TED
4.	DUDYCH, WILLIAM
5.	COLLETTE,GILLES
6.	BEDARF, UDO
7.	SCHAETZLE, HELMUT
8.	BROWN, RON
9.	NEMETH, DON
10.	MCDOWELL, WALTER
11.	BENNETT, LAWRENCE
12.	BUZAHORA, NORMAN
13.	EDWARDS,AL
14.	MASKIW, DONALD
15.	DIDORA, TONY
16.	GRIFFIN, KEN
17.	TINNEY, MAL
18.	DORGE, GILBERT
19.	COLVIN, MICHAEL
20.	COLLETTE, RAY
21.	WARNER, RUEBEN
22.	BOLLENBACH, KEN
23.	DINELLA, GABE
24.	COLVIN, DONALD
25.	LIVINGSTON, ROBERT
26.	GOTTFRIED, DOUGLAS
27.	HAARSMA, DOUGLAS
28.	SMITH, BILL
29.	SAVILLE, DANNY
30.	MONCHAK, KEN
31.	COOK, GERALD
32.	WOOLLEY, BOB
33.	RAE, JOHN
34.	BASHLfCKY, JACK
35.	SEMAN, KERRY
36.	MANNING, LEE
DEPARTMENT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
PLANT
BREWING
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
BREWING
BREWING
BREWING
PLANT
BREWING
MAINTENANCE
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
BREWING
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
BREWING
BREWING
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
BREWING
BREWING
ENGINEERING
BREWING
BREWING
BREWING
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
BREWING
BREWING
SENIORITY 66/07/11 67/04/17 68/08/13 68/09/11 68/09/30 69/09/H 70/04/19 70/07/22 70/08/19 70/10/01 70/10/27 70/11/10 71/01/12 71/02/15 71/02/18 71/05/20 71/07/02 71/07/09 71/07/13 71/12/23 72/01/05 72/03/24 72/08/02 73/04/30 73/05/11 73/11/23 74/02/14 74/03/19 76/06/23 76/06/23 76/06/23 76/08/27 77/02/21 77/05/02 77/05/10 77/08/15
98
SENIORITY IIST (continued)
NAME
37.	BAIRD, JOHN
38.	GRAHAM, GEOFF
39.	JOHNSTONE, ALLAN
40.	USKALO, DANNY
41.	HORN, RICK
42.	POPE, TONY
43.	KETCHEN, KEVIN
44.	PLENAR, RICK
45.	KANSKI, GARY
46.	MIDDLEDITCH, AL
47.	HINT2, ALFRED
48.	VANWALLENGHEN, BOB
49.	DUSKO, BOB
50.	SEGUIN, AL
51.	PALMER, ROGER
52.	LETENDRE, ED
53.	BIELSKI, BRIAN
54.	PACHOLEK, JOHN
55.	TRUDEAU, KEN
56.	ROSE, DAVE
57.	PFEIFER, JEFF
58.	SHILLINGTON, DON
59.	BEATTY, JED
60.	KANTYLUK, GLEN
61.	MCCULLOUGH, TERRY
62.	TERLECKI, ED
63.	BOYER, TODD
64.	SACHVIE, BLAIR
65.	DIAKOW, MIKE
66.	HART, TOM
67.	ROBINSON,ALLAN
68.	MCMULLAN, ART
69.	ROMANS, DALE
70.	DALLMAN, WARD
71.	MCBRATNEY, PAT
72.	PASCOE, GORD
DEPARTMENT
PLANT
BREWING
PLANT
BREWING
BREWING
MAINTENANCE
BREWING
BREWING
BREWING
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
PLANT
PLANT
BREWING
BREWING
PLANT
BREWING
PLANT
PLANT
BREWING
PLANT
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
SHIPPING/RECEIVING
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
ENGINEERING
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
MAINTENANCE
PLANT
SENIORITY
77/11/21 78/03/28 78/04/26 78/05/15 78/05/19 78/08/28 78/1 Oil 8 78/11/17 78/11/28 79/08/16 79/09/18 79/09/21 79/1 1/22 79/1130 79/12/11 79/12/17 79/12/31 80/02/04 80/03/18 80/06/30 80/07/29 80/08/01 80/10/24 80/12/11 81/02/12 81/02/20 81/02/26 81/03/04 81/03/13 81/03/25 81/04/13 81/06/24 82/02/01 82/02/08 82/05/17 82/07/09
99
SENIORITY LIST (continued)
NAME
73.	KAY,BOB
74.	SMITH, LES
75.	DEVION, RICK
76.	KIZUK, TIM
77.	VAN HELDEN, KAREL
78.	PARISIAN,JULIE
79.	KNOTT. DALE
80.	SHERMAN, PETE
81.	SIERKS, ROLAND
82.	SIDDORN, DWIGHT
83.	JOKIC, ANTE
84.	PUSH, FREDERICK
85.	EHMANN, MANFRED
86.	KUSTASKI, DAVID
87.	LONEC, DON
88.	BOUTILIER, BRENT
89.	NOLIN. DON
DEPARTMENT
MAINTENANCE
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
ENGINEERING
MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE
PLANT
PLANT
PLANT
ENGINEERING
PLANT
SENIORITY 83/07/04 83/08/13 83/10/27 83/12/03 85/05/21 85/07/23 88/02/01 90/02/06 90/03/05 90/03/06 90/03/19 90/03/30 90/04/20 90/05/01 90/05/11 90/05/14 90/08/24