SOURCE
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 330W
AND
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY
June 1st, 1994 to May 31st, 1997
BETWEEN
THIS EDITION IS PREPARED FOR PURPOSES OF CONVENIENCE ONLY, AND FOR ACCURATE REFERENCE, RECOURSE SHOULD BE HAD TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BEARING
tuc r\mr5iMAi oicmati idco r\c -rue
PRINCIPALS. THE OFFICIAL LEGALLY BINDING DOCUMENT IS THAT WHICH CONTAINS THOSE AFOREMENTIONED ORIGINAL SIGNATURES.
THIS
AGREEMENT
made and entered into on the 28th day of June, 1994. BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 330W
(Hereinafter called the “Union”)
- and -
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
-INDEX -
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION	PAGE
1.	Bargaining Agent...................................... 3
2.	Definitions .......................................... 3
3.	Union Shop Check OS' ................................. 4
4.	Seniority ............................................ 5
5.	Union Activities and Shop	Committee .................. 8
6.	Sickness, Disability, Hospitalization & Ins................ 9
7.	Discharge or Suspension	.............................. 14
8.	Health and Safety ....................................
9.	Hours of Work and Overtime ........................... lb
10.	Shift Premium ............................................ 24
11.	Plant Holidays ........................................... 24
12.	Vacation with Pay ........................................ 25
13.	Union Label and Materials	............................ 28
14.	Grievance Procedure and Arbitrations ....................  29
15.	Welfare .................................................. 31
16.	Schedule of Wages ........................................ 33
17.	Term of Agreement ........................................ 36
Seniority List .......................................... 37
Dental Plan ............................................. 41
Guaranteed Wage Plan ...................................  44
Letters of Understanding	............................. 52
Group Insurance Plan .................................... 77
Labatt Retirement Plan .................................. 82
-2-
ARTICLE 1
BARGAINING AGENT
1.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agency for employees in the Winnipeg Plant It is understood and agreed, however, that this Agreement shall not apply to, nor include Head Brewer (Brewmaster), Assistant Head Brewer (Assistant Brewmaster), Chief Engineer, Production Manager and above the rank of Production Manager, Office Staff and Salesperson.
1.02	New classifications and wages may be added to the bargaining unit from time to time when mutually agreed between the parties.
1.03	Except for emergencies or reasonable purposes of training, no employee who is excluded from the Bargaining Unit shall perform any work coming within the Bargaining Urit
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS
Temporary and New Employees
2.01	Employees shall be considered temporary employees until they have been employed and have worked one hundred and sixty (160) working days in a calendar year. Employees who work more than one hundred and sixty (160) working days in a calendar year will be deemed to have acquired seniority and will be entered on the seniority list in accordance with Article 4.02.
Regular Employees
2.02	In addition to employees who are now recognized as regular employees, an employee who has completed his temporary period by actually working one hundred and sixty (160) days, as provided above, shall be placed on the Seniority List in accordance with Article 4.02.
Gender
2.03	Wherever the words he, his, and him are used in this collective agreement, it shah be deemed gender neutral.
ARTICLE 3
UNION SHOP CHECK OFF
3.01	Each member of the Bargaining Unit shah be a member in good standing of United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330.
3.02	The Union agrees that the Company has one hundred and thirty-two (132) working days within which to determine whether an employee is satisfactory.
Subject to the foregoing, the patties agree that any employee engaged by the Company to work in the Bargaining Unit must make application for membership in the said Local Union after haying worked thirty (30) days and pay the regular initiation fees and regular dues, and will not be denied membership in the said Local Union without just cause.
3.03	Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled, the Union will give the Company in writing the reason for such action.
3.04	The Company shall, on receipt of written authorisation, in a form attached to this Agreement deduct from each Union Member’s biweekly pay during the term of this Agreement, Union dues to the amount specified and will transmit the total of the sum deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within one (1) week of said deduction. The above mentioned authorisation shall not be revocable during the life of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, which pertains to the payment of dues by established Union members, the Company agrees to deduct in the form of Union dues from all other employees working within the Bargaming Umtme men Current amount specified per wees'regardless of the number of hours worked in the week, but not to exceed the regular employee monthly dues.
The Company agrees to provide the Union Secretary-Treasurer each month with a complete list of all employees for whom deductions have been made.
4
ARTICLE 4
SENIORITY Definition of Seniority
4.01	Seniority of an employee shall be defined as the elapsed time from the day the employee’s Seniority date was established under 4.02.
In the event that Seniority is broken for any reasons set forth in Article 4.03, calculation of Seniority shall date from the time the employee reestablished Seniority as set forth in Article 2.
Qualifications for Seniority
4.02	New employees shall be placed on the Seniority list after they have worked a total of one hundred twt.*txtx/\£4\ working days m a calendar year. On completion of this period, an employee shall have his Seniority dated back one hundred and sixty (160) working days from the date on which he completes working 160 days in a calendar year. An employee who was absent during his first one hundred and sixty (160) days of employment due to serving on a jury or due to W.C.B. and who would have otherwise been working shall have, after he has completed working one hundred and sixty (160) days in a calendar year, his Seniority date adjusted to compensate for the above noted absence.
4.03	Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee quits the job voluntarily or ventures into other permanent employment.
(b)	If an employee is discharged for just cause not reversed by the grievance procedure.
(c)	If an employee fails to report for work within seven (7) days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mail to his last known address to do so, unless he has advised the Company and produces medical evidence as to his being unable to repot-t.
(d)	If the employee has not had employment with the Company for a period of eighteen (18) months.
-S-
4.04 Seniority shall not be considered broken by virtue of
(a)	Leave of absence granted by the Company provided such leave of absence does not exceed six (6) months and provided that employees granted leave of absence pay dues and assessments to Local Union 330 in advance for the period of leave. The Company will notify the Union of all leaves of absence granted. Employees granted a leave of absence for one (1) month or for a longer period will have their vacation entitlement reduced on a pro rata basis.
For example, an absence of one (1) month would reduce normsl entitlement for that year by 1/12th.
(b)	Absence from work due to lay-off for less than eighteen (18) months, provided employees are available for work on being recalled in order of seniority.
(c)	Absence from work due to certified sickness or injury.
Posting of Seniority List and Temporary Employee List
4.05	The Company shah maintain and post a Seniority List on the plant bulletin board within thirty (30) days from date of this Agreement being signed Such list shall contain only the names and seniority of those employees working in the established Bargaining Unit
The Company shall notify the Chairperson of the Union Shop Committee of any changes in the Seniority List.
The Company shall maintain and post every six (6) months (May and November) a list of the temporary employees and their date of hire. Temporary employees will be called to work based on hiring date and availability. It is agreed that temporary employees shah not be laid off for the sole purpose of preventing them from acquiring regular employee status.
The Union Shop Committee shah have the rights to review any changes, deletions or errors in said lists up to thirty (30) days after posting
-6-
Seniority re Choice of Vacations
4.06	Preference for the choice of annual vacation periods for employees in the Bargaining Unit shall be governed by an employee’s plant wide Seniority within the department. Vacation lists will be posted.
Seniority re Lay-off and Re-Hiring after Lay-Off
4.07	The Company will first lay-off all temporary and probationary employees before any regular employee is laid off.
Plant seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff All lay-offs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, provided that the senior employee is then willing and able to perform the work required of him. Re-hiring after lay-off shall be in reverse order of lay-off with the last man laid-off being the first man rehired and so on.
Seniority re Promotion and Preferred Jobs
4.08	In the event that an opportunity for promotion or a preferred job occurs in the plant, notice of the open position shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. The classification, wages, hours of work and qualifications for such job shall be given in this notice and all regular employees shall be entitled to apply. The names of all applicants shall be posted on a mutually approved form. The senior applicant will be selected and given a fifteen (15) day trial period except in the case of maintenance, engineering, brewing, warehouse, filler, labeller and palletizer jobs, where the trial period will be thirty (30) days. (Other jobs may be added or deleted from this list through shop committee discussions). In the case of vacancies for the tradesperson or classification where a license or a certificate is required, the senior qualified applicant will be selected. The employee selected to fill a posted job shah commence his training on the same not later than twenty (20) working days from the date of his selection. After thirty (30) days service on the job, the employee shall receive the top rate of pay for such job, provided he has sufficient plant wide seniority to qualify in the wage schedule. An employee has five (5) days to accept the posting where fifteen (15) day t-Vucf pVTi'Ous are established^ and fen (10) days'df streepf the posting where thirty (30) day trial periods are established In event an employee turns down the posting within the five (5) day or ten (10) day time frames noted above, he will have the right to return to his previously held job without prejudice. At any time during the trial period, the Company maintains the right to return the employee to his previous position if he is deemed unable to meet the job requirements of the new
-7-
position. However, such employee shall not be entitled to apply for other posted jobs for a period of six (6) months from the date of return to his previous job unless the Company and the Union mutually agree to waive this restriction Provided that employees who are absent during the total period during which a job is posted shall have two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry of the five (5) day job posting period in which to apply.
No employee may apply for and accept training on more than two (2) separate positions in a twelve (12) month period.
4.09	Any dispute arising over the question of an employee’s qualifications to perform any job shall be dealt with under the grievance procedure outlined in this Agreement
ARTICLE 5
UNION ACTIVITIES AND SHOP COMMITTEE
5.01	The Union members employed by the Company shall elect a Union Shop Committee of not more than six (6) members and this Committee shall have monthly meetings with Management to discuss any local problems which may arise affecting the welfare of the employees. All Union Shop meetings shall be held during the day shift and shall not continue beyond 4:00 p.m. of that day.
It is understood that when a contentious point can not be resolved departmentally, and if it is mutually agreed that the matter be brought to the Shop Committee for resolution, the Shop Steward involved will be compensated at his straight time hourly rate for the time spent at the meeting.
5.02	Minutes of Union Shop Committee meetings shall be taken and signed at the following meeting by representatives of the Committee and the Company. The Company will post within ten (10) days a signed copy of the minutes, and a signed copy will be given to the Committee.
5.03	No member shall be discharged or discriminated against for his activities as a Union member. A member who works on a Committee or under the instruction of the Union shall not lose his position or be discriminated against for so doing. Union activities other than those with Company approval shall not be earned on during working hours.

5.04	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writing of the personnel of, or any change in the Union Shop Committee.
ARTICLE 6
SICKNESS OR DISABILITY HOSPITALIZATION AND INSURANCE
6.01	An employee who has been off work as a result of certified sickness, dental appointments, or accident, upon recovery shah be reemployed in a position in keeping with his physical condition if such position exists and retain his full seniority rights for all time lost. In the event of sickness or accident an employee shall make every reasonable effort to notify his supervisor at least four (4) hours prior to his normal starting time of the afternoon and night shifts, and half (1/2) hour prior to his starting time on the day shift. The foregoing shall not apply under extenuating circumstances.
6.01	(a) The sick leave plan covers a regular employee who is absent from work because of sickness, dental appointment, or accident not covered by Workers’ Compensatioa Employees who achieve regular employee status shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days paid sick leave per benefit year. Sick leave will be allocated on a pro-rated basis during the year in which the employee attains regular errployee status.
Employees who attained regular employee status prior to June 1,1985, shall be allowed to accumulate a sick leave carryover to a maximum of five (5) days that may be utilized to provide for top up pay to bring an employee’s daily or weekly rate to regular full pay while the employee is on W.I. or W.C.B.
Other than what is covered in the above paragraph, sick leave shall not accumulate from one benefit year to the next
(b)	The unused portion shall be applied to provide frill pay (in certain instances by supplementing weekly indemnity) for days lost as follows
(i)	The first three (3) working days lost as ihc result of any one non-occupational illness or injury;
(ii)	The period of weekly indemnity payments resulting from sickness or non-occupational accidents in which
case sick pay is to be used to supplement weekly indemnity up to a full pay.
(c)	Full pay for an employee shall mean the equivalent of his standard daily hours times his job rate of pay and the payment of sick pay shall not result under any circumstances in an employee receiving more than a full day’s pay or full week’s pay.
(d)	An employee’s maximum entitlement of sick days shall be reduced by one (1) hour for each or part hour of sick leave and also when supplementing weekly indemnity payments. The foregoing does not cover Worker’s Compensation.
(e)	Employees absent due to sickness os non-occupational
accident shall be paid every plant pay day. Employees will be required to submit completed weekly indemnity claim forms as requested by the Company to continue to receive pay in subsequent pay periods. It is understood that weekly indemnity cheques will be endorsed by the employees afid turned over to the Company.
6.03	Employees who apply for sick pay resulting from sickness, dental appointments or accidents may be required to furnish a doctor’s certificate as proof of disability, at the discretion of the Company. The Company shall assume the cost, if any.
A physician’s certificate will remain necessary in order to qualify for Weekly Indemnity Insurance. Physician means a Doctor of Medicine (MD.) duly licensed to practice medicine.
6.04	(a) The Company will pay such amount as may be required to provide the following Welfare Plan:
Regular Employees
1.	Life Insurance
Effective June 1st, 1994- $40,000 Effective June 1st, 1995 - $41,000 Effective June 1 st, 1996 - $42,000
Employees not actively at work on the above named dates shall only be provided the increased coverage upon their return to active employment
-10-
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment, including Occupational Accident
Effective June 1st, 1994 - $40,000 Effective June 1st, 1995 - $41,000 Effective June 1st, 1996 - $42,000
Employees not actively at work on the above named dates shah only be provided with the increased insurance coverage upon their return to active errploymait.
3.	Base Medical and Hospital benefits under the Manitoba Government Plan (The Manitoba Health Services Insurance Act).
4.	Supplemental benefits equivalent to Medi-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage and the vacation insurance plan under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Manitoba Blue Cross. After Manitoba Health Services Commission annual chiropractic limits for chiropractic are reached, the Company will provide, through Blue Cross, Chiropractic Coverage for subsequent visits up to the Manitoba Health Services Commission’s fee schedule in effect at the time services are performed. The maximim coverage will be $150.00 per family per year.
5.	In lieu of Union request for additional paid sick time, the Company agrees to provide Weekly Indemnity of seventy percent (70%) of employees weekly wage, payable on the fourth day of non-compensable accident, and on the fourth day of sickness calculated at forty (40) times the employees current hourly rate for a maximim of twenty-six (26) weeks.
6.	The Company agrees to provide Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability plans as follows:
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 70% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the 26 week period will be paid to employees who are off work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will commence on the 4th working day, if disability is due to a non-compensable accident or sickness and will continue to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one period of disability.
11-
An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the 26 weeks period of disability or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks during which an employee has received Worker’s Compensation payments and continues until recovery or normal retirement date, whichever occurs first, subject to the eligibility provisions of the Plan. The Plan will provide payment ot'662/3% of wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at any time during the first 78 weeks of the Long Term Plan. Following such period the payment will be 66 2/3% wages (hourly rate x 40) in effect at the end of the said 78 weeks period. The Long Term Disability Plan and Weekly Indemnity Plan will be of a standard nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of persons receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of disability.
Commencing after the 26th week, and until 104 weeks from the date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be inability to do a regular job available in the Bargaining Unit, fffirtimg the 105th wedt, tugjbimj for benefits will depend on the employee’s ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience to perform.
During the first 104 weeks of benefits provided herein, employees shah be paid weekly and, thereafter monthly.
7.	Dental care benefits in accordance with the provision attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement.
8.	Retiree Benefits:
(a)	For pensioners who retired prior to June 1st, 1980, all benefits granted are governed by the Agreement in force on the date they retired.
(b)	For pensioners who retired after the date of signing this Agreement, the following benefits will be provided at no cost to the pensioners.
-12-
(a)	On Normal Retirement or Special Early Retirement:
( i) Life insurance will continue at $4,000
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical benefits will be continued in a Provincial Plan as long as the pensioner is a resident in a province of Canada.
(iii)	Supplemental benefits equivalent to the Medi-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba
If the pensioner resides in another province he will be enrolled in the
comparable supplemental health plan of the
nearest Brewery.
(b)	On Partial Disability Retirement:
( i) The full amount of insurance in force immediately before retirement will be continued to age sixty-five (65) and then reduced to $4,000.
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical benefits will be continued in a Provincial Plan as long as the pensioner is a resident in a province of Canada
(iii)	Supplemental benefits equivalent to the Medi-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba.
If the pensioner resides in another province he will be enrolled in the comparable supplemental health plan of the nearest brewery.
(c)	On Voluntary Eariy Retirement
Employees over age sixty (60) who elect voluntary early retirement and who do not engage in full time regular employment shall be eligible for welfare benefits as . outlined in (a) above.
(d)	In the event of the death of the pensioner, the surviving spouse will receive the same benefit
13-
coverage enjoyed by the pensioner with the exception of the $4,000 life insurance policy.
6.05	Group Insurance Plan
An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan shall be entitled to only the insured Welfare Benefits provided to employees on retirement as at his normal retirement date.
6.06	U.I.C. REBATE:	The employee’s share of any
Unemployment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
7.01	Only the manager or supervisory employees as designated by the Management shall have the authority to discharge or suspend any employee.. The reasons for the discharge or suspension shall be given to the employee and the Union Shop Committee at time of discharge or suspension and shall be in writing, and in either case the Union Shop Committee shall be entitled to investigate such discharge or suspension. No employee shall be reprimanded without a Shop Steward being present. No employee will be discharged or suspended without just cause. The employee discharged or suspended shall be entitled to a hearing if he so desires.
7.02	Any employee discharged or suspended upon grounds which, after investigation by the Union Shop Committee and Management and/or a Board of Arbitration, are found to be insufficient shall be reinstated into his former job, retain his full seniority rights and shall receive the pay he would have received if he had not been discharged or suspended, unless the Arbitration Board rules otherwise.
7.03	If any employee in the Bargaining Unit encounters a legal picket line in the course of his normal duties, there shall be an immediate conference between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
-14-
7.04	All disciplinary records will be removed from the employee’s personnel folder and destroyed after a period of thirty (30) months from the date of issuance of such discipline and, therefore, shall not be relied upon for any purpose.
ARTICLE 8
HEALTH AND SAFETY
8.01	The Union and the Company will work together to improve practices to ensure a safe working environment for all employees. There shall be no reprisals taken against employees who comply with the Workplace Safety and Health Act/Regulations.
8.02	Employees shall be required to appear in clean working clothes at the beginning of each week. Rubber and duck aprons and rubber boots, goggles, masks, rubber gloves, and a rubber suit shall be supplied to all employees when and where necessary. The Company will supply safety shoes on approval by his supervisor, to all regular employees, when and where necessary. As a condition of employment, temporary employees shall be required to supply their own safety shoes. Upon completion of the temporary period, such employees shall be reimbursetf 161 “satiety'‘Shoesf- nr acturoartcfr wrtn~ril'e tteovj -provision. Work clothes shall be issued to all regular employees on the basis of two (2) sets per year without cost to the employee., except for maintenance and powerhouse employees who shall receive three (3) sets per year. The company will pay cost of prescription safety lenses and industrial frames for those employees who wear glasses on a full-time basis, and may have to work in au area where safety glasses are required.
Employees must obtain the necessary forms from the Human Resources Department to obtain glasses from a supplier designated by the Company, unless other arrangements have been made with the Company.
8.03	No employee shall be required to undertake any job which may endanger his health or safety without appropriate protective clothing or devices.
8.04	Any employee undertaking any job requiring safety equipment and not using equipment available may be subject to discipline.
8.05	It is agreed every effort will be made to provide for at least one (1) qualified first-aid person being available on each shift.
-15-
8.06	The Company will pay license fees for engineers and electricians when their employment requires it
ARTICLE 9
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Bottleshop, Brarbouse,
Shipping, Receiving
9.01	Forty (40) hours per week, five (S) consecutive eight (8) hour days Monday through Friday shall constitute a week’s work.
Overtime shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week subject to Article 9.07.
Ail work performed on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
Maintenance
9.02	Employees shall be regularly scheduled to work five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days from Monday through Saturday. All work in excess of the regular scheduled over eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half subject to Article 9.07. All work performed on an employee’s regularly scheduled day off shall be paid for at the mte of double time.
9.03	W ith respect to Articles 9.01 and 9.02 above, the parties agree that an employee will not be asked or required to work a split shift.
Hours of Rest Between Shifts
9.04	All employees shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours rest between shifts. In the event that less time than eight (8) hours is allowed to U>- cnspiisyee; vuisb ernptojw shall be paid ‘Ann. •uui'OWbhrJf. fes all hours worked up to the time when he would have normally received Sight (8) hours rest. This does not apply when the variation is requested by the employee affected.
-16-
Sunday and Normal Day OffPay
9.09	All work performed on Sunday or any employee’s recognised day of rest shall be paid for at the rate of double time shall be understood to mean regular time in addition to regular time.
Plant Holidays Falling In a Calendar Week
9.10	In the event that a recognised plant holiday falls during a calendar week, then the employee’s work week for that week shall be reduced by eight (8) hours for each such holiday and overtime rates shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of the reduced work week
Work Stabilization
9.11	(a) The Company will endeavour to provide full employment
for all regular employees. Any maintenance or painting work which can be done to the satisfaction of the Company by employees who are laid-off will be offered to employees with seniority, who are laid-off, at the rate of wages not less than the classification of Bottleshop (General) so long as they do not displace employees from their regular jobs. Extra shifts will not be used for the purpose of reducing the regular work week of regular employees.
Technological Change
9.11	(.01) In the event that, during this collective agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the day on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the collective agreement
-18-
and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the collective agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (‘eligible employees’) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them
9.11	(.02) If
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated for indefinite layoff hereunder will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount
-19-
of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 9.14(.03) hereof If any of those employees were classified as probationary or regular employees prior to July 22, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.);
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan In addition such employees shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
(iii)	an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
(iv)	the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the
first weeks used
9.11	(.03) “In consideration of the foregoing provisions that are intended to assist employees affected by technological change to adjust to the effects of technological change the parties hereby agree that Section 83, 84 and 85 of The I ahonr Relations Act do not apply during the term of the Agreement to the Company and the Union”
9.12	(a) The Company will supply adequate manpower on all
operations in all departments at all times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day’s work
(b)	Clause (a) shall not be construed to mean that the manning of all operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees .are presently assigned exactly a fair day’s work, and accordingly changes in the manning of crews and changes in an employee’s work load may be made so long as the resulting situation is not a violation of clause (a).
(c)	Before selecting employees for training on other jobs, the Company will post the training job for a period of three (3) working days. Employees having the greater seniority will be given preference for the training job. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may temporarily assign any employee to any job. A temporary assignment is
-20-
for purpose of replacing an employee to any job. A temporary assignment is for purpose of replacing an employee on a job because of sickness, vacation relief or for other reasons, but in any case not longer than thirty (30) working days. Where a temporary assignment is made for “other reasons” the Gompany will discuss these reasons with the Union.
It is further understood that any employee so assigned by the Ootrpany will not be given preference over others solely by virtue of such temporary assignments. Senior available employees shall be given first right of refusal for such temporary jobs in the Warehouse Department where vacancies are expected to last for 1 week or longer.
(d)	Thre-Guar.?nteed .Wjgrv Rian .whLc.t' is a sijTWement to this
Agreement, is intended to provide assistance for certain employees who are laid-off as a result of the application of the lay-off provisions of this Agreement and is not to be construed as authorization to alter existing lay-off practices.
9.13	Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs (including prescribed text books) of educational courses provided that:
(i)	The course is given by a recognized institution, is approved by Management and makes a contribution to the development of the employee or improved Union-Management relations.
(ii)	The course is likely to contribute to the employee’s performance or advancement within the Cbmpany.
(iii)	The employee offers proof of successfid completion of the course;
(iv)	The maximum refund to any employee in any one calendar year will be $200.00 for any full term course, and $100.00 for any half term course, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
9.14	(.01) A regular employee shah be entitled to separation pay as set out in subsection .03 provided he has not been excluded by subsection .02 and provided he meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection .02;
-21-
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided be is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company’s insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans;
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little, prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six (6) months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in (b) above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite layoff as a result of a major technological change as provided in Section 02;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six (6) months after he first becomes eligible therefor, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding ‘Ait-iuuvtTi'hfcGcoriijnmy -permanently discontinues' an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six (6) month’s period.
9.14	(.02) Notwithstanding subsection .01, an employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
(c)	he is terminated under section 4.03 (loss of seniority provision) of this collective agreement;
(d)	he has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations; unless
-22-
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing within the province;
(e)	he has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is vn leoerpf of income replacement benefits undes the Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Worker’s Compensation Act:
(h)	he is entitled to receive full pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan. At no time will the number of weeks of separation pay exceed the number of weeks to an employee’s normal retirement date (NRD) and/or the date the employee has announced as his retirement date.
9.14	(.03) The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to:
(a)	one week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of seniority (as used for vacation entitlement) as of the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus
(b)	for employees classified as probationary or regular
employees prior to July 22,1988, an additional Three Hundred and Seventy-live Dollars ($375.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years. However, such eligible employee who applies for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefor shall have his separation pay under this part (b) calculated as Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) multiplied by his completed years of seniority used in (a) above to a maximum of 15 years.	If there is a
-23-
permanent closure of the brewery, the letter re: severance pay attached to this agreement shall apply.
9.14	(.04) The Company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
9.14	(.05) if an employee applies for and accepts a separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled
10.01	Any shift commencing at or after 6:00 a m. and before 10:00 a.m. shall be considered the morning shift, and any shift commencing at or after 10:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and any shift commencing at or after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a m. shall be considered the midnight shift.
10.02	Effective June 1st, 1994 all employees working the afternoon shift shall receive a premium of 65 cents per hour over and above the normal hourly rate for all hours worked. All employees working the midnight shift shall receive a premium of SI.05 per hour over and above the regular hourly rate for all hours worked.
Effective June 1,1996 amend shift premium provisions such that the midnight shift premium payable shall he $1.10 per hour.
11.01	The Company will observe the following plant holidays:
ARTICLE 10
SHIFT PREMIUMS
ARTICLE 11
PLANT HOUDA YS
New Year's Day
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
-24-
and any other holidays declared by the Provincial or Federal Governments. If any of the said holidays should fall on a Sunday they will be observed on the following Monday. If any of the said holidays should fall on a Saturday, which is an employee’s non-working day, then such holiday will be observed on the preceding work day.
11.02	Employees on the seniority list will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
(a)	The employee has worked at least five (5) days during the twenty (20) working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
(b)	The employee h3s.t\s)l-hft£|rj*b5£®i without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed, or the first work day scheduled for him immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
(c)	In cases where a regular employee has been on Weekly Indemnity or Worker’s Compensation and is cleared by his physician to return to work prior to or on the holiday, he will be eligible for pay for that holiday.
11.03	Any employee who is required to work on any of the aforementioned plant holidays shau be paid at the rate of abuoW'nfne In addition to his regular day’s pay Swight (8) hours.
ARTICLE 12 VACATION WITH PAY
12.01	Any employee who has worked a total of six (6) months either continuously or collectively, prior to April 15, shall receive one (1) week’s vacation with pay, plus an additional day for each month of service in excess of six (6) months to a maximum of ten (10) days in any one year.
Employees who have worked less than six (6) months as of April 15th shall receive payment in accordance with Provincial Government Legislation
-25-
12.02	All employees with a minimum of one (1) year's seniority on April 15th shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay per year, providing that the employee has not taken vacation under Article 12.01. The company will provide annually two (2) consecutive weeks vacation if requested by the employee.
12.03	(i) On the anniversary date of an employee, the entitlement,
for vacations will be as follows:
Years of
Continuous Service	Weeks of Vacation
(ii)	The recognized annual vacation year will be from April 15th to April 14th of the following year.
(iii)	Employees who attain their 3rd, 8th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversary date within the vacation year (April 15th to April 14th following year) shall receive their fidl vacation entitlement within that vacation year, but not before such anniversary date has been attained.
Notwithstanding the above, such extra entitlement may be granted in advance by the
Company in order to have annual vacations completed within the vacation year in question.
12.04	If a regular employee who would be entitled to vacation leaves the service of the Company without receiving his vacation, he shall be paid for his vacation at the appropriate rate.
12.05	If any of the aforementioned plant holidays falls within an employee's annual vacation period, he shall receive either an additional day's vacation or an addition^ day's pay.
12.06	The recognized summer vacation period shall be May 1 through September 15 and all regular employees who are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation shall be entitled to have three (3) weeks continuous vacation during tMn/imod, pwidedJt'al.'h/r.rakin^cf '.icstior does .cr\* interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
12.07	An employee may, with the consent of the Company, take his vacation in advance of the regular vacation period.
12.08	It is understood and agreed that seniority requirements for vacation purposes shall be total service with the Company.
12.09	It is to be understood that with respect to those employees who are entitled to more than three (3) weeks vacation per year, shall take these additional weeks subsequent to September 15th.
12.10	(a) In the event that an employee becomes seriously ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation, such that he qualifies for Weekly Indemnity coverage, he may make arrangements as outlined to postpone his remaining vacation in order to enroll in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
CO The employee shall advise his supervisor of his illness or accident and make arrangements to have the Weekly Indemnity form completed.
(ii)	All approved requests will result in the employee’s remaining vacation being cancelled the day after the request is received. The remaining vacation time shall be re-scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
(iii)	Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled period shall be returned to the Company and re-issued for the re-scheduled vacation period.
(b) Notwithstanding Article 12.10 (a) or any other Article of this Agreement an employee’s annual vacation must be taken in frill within one year of becoming entitled to same. Employees who are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Worker’s Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, Company paid sick leave, etc., shall within the first 104 weeks of such absence have added to such allowance by the Company, vacation wages so that the employee receives, during this vacation period, the full amount he would have received had he not been disabled, sick, etc., but in no event shall he be entitled to receive more in
-27-
combined compensation and vacation wages than he would have received were he not in receipt of such disability compensation allowances.
12.11	(a) As of an employee's anniversary date, employees with
three (3) or more years of seniority shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash and equal to twenty (20) per cent of such employee’s normal vacation payment
(b) In the event any employee who has benefit service as defined in the Guaranteed Wage Plan is expected to be laid-off during any vacation year, the Company and the Union shall discuss the matter and, if the Union agrees, instead of cash vacation bonus payments hereunder, time off with pay may be scheduled for certain of the employees who would otherwise be entitled to such payments. Such discussion shall be held in the months of September and December of each year (and at such other times as the parties may agree) to determine to what extent vacation time off with pay should be scheduled in lieu of payment of cash vacation bonuses to alleviate lay-off of junior employees having benefit service. In any event, payment of vacation bonus in cash shall not be made prior to March 1 of the vacation year.
ARTICLE 13
UNION LABEL AND MATERIALS
13.01	The use of the Union Label of the International Union will be granted as long as the Company strictly observes all provisions of this Agreement.
13.02	The Union Label may be used on cooperage, bottles, cases and cartons and must be affixed before leaving the Company’s plant
13.03	Only Union made malt may be used when available, when price and quality are equal, Other Union made materials and machinery shall be given preference where price arru'quadiy are equal.
13.04	It is understood that the Company will not contract out work, if it is agreed that such work can be performed by a member of the bargaining unit who is available for such work.
(It is to be understood that the Company will decide if there is a person available from the Bargaining Unit with the required ability to perform the work).
-28-
If it is necessary for the Company to contract work to outside firms, the Company will fully inform the Union in writing (form C*0*-1) of its intention to do so, and preference will be given to firms employing Union people, providing price, quality and service are reasonably equal.
If there is a disagreement regarding any work the Company has contracted out, the Union may refer the matter to the grievance procedure, starting at the second step.
ARTICLE 14
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATIONS
In the event that any employee alleges a violation of the Agreement, he shall have full recourse to the grievance procedure. The following shall be the recognised procedure for the progressive adjustment of disputes or grievances; within fifteen (15) full working days of the alleged grievance occurring or becoming apparent, the first step shall be taken. It is understood and agreed that any aggrieved employee has the right to be heard at meetings dealing with his case.
14.01	FIRST STEP
The Shop Steward in the department in which the aggrieved employee works shall take the matter up with his Manager either with or without the aggrieved employee being present. If no agreement can be reached the next step shall be taken.
14.02	SECOND STEP
The Union Shop Committee shall take the matter up with the Management of the Company. Any grievance originating from the Company shall commence at the second step in the grievance procedure. The Union Shop Committee Chairperson shall be advised of the nature of the grievance and sufficient time shall be given for the Committee to conduct a till investigation of the case before meeting with Management If no agreement can be reached between the Company and the Union Shop Committee, the matter shall be taken to the third step.
-29-
14.03
THIRD STEP
Within three (3) working days of the second step being taken the grievance shall then be put in writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and signed on behalf of the Union Shop Committee and shall be dealt with by the Management of the Company, the Union Shop Committee and a representative of the Union’s choice. Management shall give the Union a written answer not later than three (3) working days after either party declares that discussions pertaining to the grievance have concluded.
14.04	FOURTH STEP
If no adjustment satisfactory to both parties can be reached in the previous three (3) steps, the grievance shall be submitted to arbitration by written notice within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the Company’s decision at Step 3. The Board of Arbitration shall be constituted in the following manner:
One (1) representative selected by the Union and one (1) representative selected by the Company. Should these two (2) representatives fail to agree on the selection of a Chairperson then the Chairperson shall be appointed by the Labour Relations Board. A majority decision of the Board shall be biding on both parties. Either party to this Agreement shall appoint their Arbitrator within seven (7) clear days after notice by registered mail has been received by the appointment of the Arbitrator of the other party. A decision shall be reached within one (1) week of date of the appointment of the Chairperson of the Board or such longer period as the Board may require to then reach a decision. It is agreed that the Union will be responsible for paying expenses of its nominee to any Arbitration Board and the Company will be responsible for the expenses of its nominee. The Company and the Union shall jointly be responsible for the expenses of the Chairperson.
14.05	The Chairperson of the Union Shop Committee, on behalf of the Union, or the Manager on behaTT of the Company, may file a policy grievance at 2nd Step of the grievance procedure. A policy grievance is defined as a dispute between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of the agreement, including whether or not a matter is arbitrable.
-30-
14.06	Pending arbitration, there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement Arbitration cases to be resolved and/or decision made by the Arbitration Board within a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE 15 WELFARE
15.01	When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative he shah receive leave of absence for three consecutive working days (one of which days shall be the day of the funeral) and shall receive eight (8) hours straight-time rate of pay for each of such days absent on which he would otherwise have been working.
For the purpose of this Article 15.01, “immediate relative” shah mean one of the following:
Spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister and brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchildren. In the event of the funeral of an employee’s grandparent occurring on an employee’s regular schedule day of work, time off with pay shall be granted to attend the funeral on that day.
15.02	(a) Whenever employees are required to serve on a regular or coroner’s jury during their normal working hours, they shall be granted leave of absence and shall receive the difference between their straight time pay and regular rate of jury pay.
(b) An employee subpoenaed to appear as a witness for the Cicranr dbol! upon presentation of a dam.'sirppurrelhy,qrnnf. 'll; barra/j fulfilled such fimction, be paid the difference between the compensation received from the Crown as witness fees and straight time pay at the regular hourly rate of the employee for his regularly scheduled working time missed. Employees receiving subpoenas shall notify the Company at the earliest opportunity.
15.03	(a) The Company agrees to provide a leave of absence without pay to one regular employee who has been elected or appointed as an officer of the International or Local Union, if such duties require him to have leave of absence from his Company duties on a full-time basis. During such period of leave of absence, the employee’s seniority shah continue to accumulate as if he were employed by the Company.
-31-
Where the Union elects in writing to the Company, to have such an employee's Welfare benefits (including pension) held in force during the leave of absence, the Company shall recover the full cost of those benefits from the Union by deducting that amount owing from the check-off transmitted to the Union. The Union shall make application in writing to the Company for such leave of absence which shall include the election for Welfare Benefit coverage for each twelve (12) month period of such leave.
An employee who has been granted leave to hold office in the Union shall continue to accrue service entitlement towards service vacation and guaranteed wage entitlement.
(b)	Employees, not exceeding three (3) at any one time, will be granted leave of absence without remuneration from the Company to represent the Union at conferences, provided at least one (1) week's notice is given to the Company and there is no unreasonable interference with Company operations. The duration of such leave of absence shall not be less than one (1) day, nor more than ten (10) working days. The parties agreed that in the event of an emergency situation occurring the employee involved will give at least twelve (12) hours notice to the Company. The Company agrees to continue the pay and insured benefits of such persons for the period of the agreed leave of absence. The cost of wages and benefits are to be recovered by the Company by deducting the amount owing from the check-off transmitted to the Union. Three (3) additional employees will be granted leave at any time excluding the summer vacation period and the month of December.
(c)	Upon written application to the Company from the executive of the Union, for education leave for an elected officials) of the Union:
(ij i ne company snail grant a total or seven (/) man-aays prior to June 1, 1995, in order to provide paid education leave, operational requirements permitting.
(ii)	Effective June 1, 1995, the Company shall grant a total
of seven (7) man-days prior to June 1, 1996, in order to	provide	paid	educational	leave,	operational
requirements permitting.
(iii)	Effective June 1, 1996, the Company shall grant a total
of seven (7) man-days prior to June 1, 1997, in order to	provide	paid	educational	leave,	operational
requirements permitting.
15.04	The Pension Plan is part of this Agreement, and the amendments to it are attached hereto.
15.05	Lunchroom and washrooms will be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
ARTICLE 16 SCHEDULE OF WAGES
16.01	The following schedule of wages is hereby confirmed and shall form part of this Agreement. No employee shall receive less than the following tales of pay for the classification in which he is employed. A regular pay period shall be established by the Company on a two (2) week basis and employees shall receive their pay as mutually agreed upon The parties agree to implement a direct deposit for payment of wages before the end of 1995; this system shall include all employees.
16.02	Present higher rates of pay than those listed in the following schedules now enjoyed by the employees shall not be disturbed and shah continue as heretofore.
16.03	Any production employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing but any employee substituting on a lower rated job shall not have his regular rate of pay reduced. Any employee permanendy transferred at his request will be paid the rate of the job to which he has been transferred.
Any regular employee classified in a higher category who is requested to perform the work in a lower job classification due to mechanisation or lay-offs shall not have his wage rate reduced. This higher rate will continue until such time as the classification rate equals the employee’s wage rate.
Lead hands will be paid 30 cents per hour above the highest job rate within the department they are leading
Machine operators will include employees working on soaker discharge, soaker infeed, filler, labeller, packer, sealer and taper, baler, fork lift truck, power transporters, carton make-up machine, uncaser, pallelizer, saw operators, depalletizer and reclamation operator when assigned.
-33-
16.04	An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weekly indemnity, LTD, Worker's Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one (1) source for the same day or part day.
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from June 1, 1996 to May 31, 1997, the first pay period following publication of the May, 1997 Consumer Price Index, on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1986 = 100) in the period from June 1, 1996 to May 31, 1997 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index for the month of May, 1996, after adding thereto 4% of the May, 1996 Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for the month of May, 1997.
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY WAGE SCHEDULE
CLASSIFICATION	June I, 1994
Brewing	$21.60
Bottling
Machine Operator	21.40
Bottling General	21.32
Filler, Labeller	21.40
Racking	21.45
Warehousing
Fork truck operator	21.40
Power Transporter Operator	21.40
Warehouse General	21.32
Maintenance & Engineering
Machinist - Mechanic	23.87
Painter	21.80
Welder	23.87
Electrician	24.22
Engineer (2nd Class)	24.31
Maintenance Mechanic	23.82
Temporary Trades Employee	18.50
General
Plant	21.32
Shipper & Receiver	21.40
Temporary Employee	10.50
Special Temporary Employee *	13.00
June 1/94 - $450 lump sum payment to all active regular employer staff as of June 1,1994
June 1/95 - $500 lump sum payment to all active regular employe staff as of June 1,1995
•Wage rate applies only to those 11 temporary employees on staff a May 1,1994
-35-
ARTICLE 17
TERM OF AGREEMENT
17.01	The Agreement shall remain in force and effect from the first day of June 1994 to May 31st, 1997, and shall automatic-'MilliridS’' from year to year thereafter unless eftnapirtj serves notice ca ,'b/t other party by registered mail, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date, that changes are desired therein. When such notice has been given the parties shall commence negotiations within ten (10) days from date of notification.
17.02	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the parties and a strike or lock-out develops, the Union agrees that engineering staff (one per shift) will be allowed to continue to work to maintain essential plant protection service. Such employees will not be subject to the provisions of Article 7.03 of this agreement.
17.03	The changes incorporated in this Collective Agreement shah be effective as stated in the Memorandum of Agreement of June 8,1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement this 28th day of June, 1994.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 330
- 36«
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY SENIORITY LIST
June 9,1994
Employee______
•W. Munick
R.	Horohetz A. Schmidtke
D.	Kunderman *S. Prytula
S.	Buksak
E.	Hotz A. Sedor M. Knight
M.	Bertens •I. Dahl
N.	Brunei A. Carlson G. Lovstad
Employment Date
March 1,1954 Sept. 4, 1956 Sept. 4, 1956 Feb. 20, 1957 May 25, 1959 May 3, 1960 May 3,1960 Aug. 2, 1960 March 27, 1961 June 8, 1961 June 17,1963 March 31, 1964 May 26, 1964 July 12, 1967
.isiaiiteBaa
March 1,1954 Sept. 4, 1956 Sept. 4, 1956 Feb. 20, 1957 Dec. 11, 1959 June 20, 1960 June 30, 1960 Oct. 3, 1960 March 30, 1961 June 16, 1961 June 17, 1963 Apr. 21, 1964 Oct. 2,1964 July 12, 1967
As per Labatt Kiewell-Pelissier Agreement of December 10, 1969
B. Lutz •	Dec. 15, 1965	Jan. 13, 1966
R. DeMontigny	July 21, 1966	July 21, 1966
E. Pawluk	Sept. 6,1966	Sept. 6,1966
•Long Term Disability
Emnlovee	Emnlovment Date	Semoritv Date
B. Hawtyluk	Jan. 26,1970	Mar. 23, 1970
T. Dooley	Aug. 28,1963	Apr. 16, 1970
R. Brunei	Apr. 24,1970	May 8,1970
•P. Merkel	June 15,1970	June 15,1970
#R. Smyrichinsky	June 26,1970	Aug. 21, 1970
L/A		
*F. Michalick	May 24,1973	May 24, 1973
L. Van Den	June 20,1973	Aug. 30, 1973
Busscbe		
B. Hyde	June 1,1973	Sept. 27, 1973
B. Birt	Oct. 9,1970	Apr. 23, 1974
D. Kamyszek	Feb. 27,1974	Apr. 29, 1974
A. Schultz	Apr. 15,1974	May 14,1974
A Rehberg, Jr.	Sept. 16,1975	Nov. 21,1975
M. Vrnck	Sept. 8,1975	Dec. 12, 1975
B. Micholson	Aug. 26,1975	Dec. 18, 1975
D. Palahitski	Jan. 29,1976	Mar. 4,1976
•R. Mouflier	Aug. 26,1975	Apr. 1, 1976
I. Flamand	Sept. 26,1975	May 26,1976
T. McGavock	Apr. 28,1976	May 28,1976
J. Clements	June 16,1976	Oct. 18, 1976
L.Johnson	Sept. T, 1976	Jan. 12,1977
S. Hillman	Sept. 14,1976	Jan. 14,1977
M. Maki	Mar. 1, 1977	Mar. 25,1977
G. Prost	Mar. 17,1977	June 23, 1977
W. Schell	Nov. 30,1976	Sept. 9, 1977
F. Loney	Mar. 8,1977	Sept. 25, 1978
L. Pelland	Mar. 8,1977	Dec. 5, 1978
D. Haliuk	Aug. 31,1977	Dec. 15, 1978
R. Dube	Jan. 9,1979	Jan. 9,1979
R. Rawluk	Jan.9,1979	Jan. 10,1979
S. Franklin	Mar. 21,1978	Jan. 16,1979
C. Winzinowich	Mar. 22,1978	Jan. 22, 1979
B. Jackson	Mar. 22,1978	Jan. 23, 1979
D. Woodcock	Apr. 29,1976	Feb. 1, 1979
T. Lesperance	Apr. 15,1978	Feb. 2,1979
L. Coughlin	Oct. 26,1981	Oct. 27,1981
E. Onufreychuk	Mar. 29,1982	Apr. 2,1982
D. Weston	Apr. 16,1978	Mar. 14, 1984
J. Trosky	May 9,1980	Mar. 15,1984
*Long Term Disability		
ftOn official Union brave of Absence.
-38-
DENTAL PLAN
Following are the main provisions of the Labatt Limited (Manitoba Brewery) Dental Plan for employees who are members of the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330, effective June 1,1994.
Eligibility
You and your dependents are eligible for dental insurance coverage, commencing on the effective date if you are a full-time regular employee and have completed one month’s continuous active service with the Company. New employees will become eligible for coverage when they meet these requirements.
Your dependents are:
1.	Your spouse.
2.	Unmarried children under 21 years of age, dependent on you for
support
3.	Unmarried children between the age of 21 and 25 who are full-time
students attending an educational institution.
Eligible Services
All reasonable and customary dental services, which are recommended as necessary and are performed by a qualified dentist or physician, are eligible for benefits under the plan.
Dental services are classified under three (3) major categories:
a)	Basic Services
Examinations and cleaning of teeth (once in any six month period); extractions, fillings and other necessary treatment for relief of dental pain
b)	Restorative Services
Crown and inlays, bridgework, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics) and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodontics).
-41-
c)	Orthodontia
Proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or corrections of irregularities of teeth
Benefits
You will be reimbursed on the basis of 100% of basic services, 75% (effective June 1, 1995 - 85%, effective June 1, 1996 - 100%) of restorative services, and 50% of orthodontia services costs incurred by you or your dependents, subject to the limitations and exclusions described below.
Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current fee schedule of the Dental Association, in effect at the time the dental work is performed
Limitations and Exclusions
1.	Benefits paid in respect of each insured person will be limited to the following maximum amounts.
The maximum per year for basic services is $700.00. The increase shall only apply to eligible expenses incurred after the above date.
The combined lifetime maximum for Restorative and Orthodontic Services is $4,000.00. Effective June 1, 1992, there will be a provision for an annual re-instatement of up to $500.00. at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore such lifetime maximum to the level of $4,000.00. (Effective June 1,
1995,	the lifetime maximum increases to $4,500; effective June 1,
1996,	the lifetime maximum increases to $5,000.)
2.	When the cost of a series of dental treatments is expected to exceed $200.00 such treatments must be authorized in advance by the insurance company to be covered under the plan
3.	Expenses incurred for the replacement of dentures are covered upon joining the plan.
Subsequent replacement of dentures is permitted under the plan at five (5) year intervals. No benefits will be paid for the replacement of dentures which have been lost or misplaced.
-42-
4.
Dental expenses incuned principally for cosmetic purposes are not covered.
5. Dental services which may become eligible for payment in the future, under the Workers Compensation or other government plan, as well as any service for which the employee or dependent would not otherwise have to pay, are not covered under the plan.
Premium Cost
The Company pays the full premium cost for this benefit Insurer
The Plan is insured with the Confederation Life Insurance Company and the terms and conditions of the Company’s contract with the insurer applying in all cases.
-43-
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT made this 28th day of June, A.D.
1994
BETWEEN:
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY A DIVISION OF LABATT BREWING COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”),
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, (hereinafter caged the “Union”),
OF THE SECOND PART.
AGREEMENT Between Labatt Manitoba Brewery, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited and United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330W.
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Winnipeg.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of the supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Cbllective Agreement
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree t o the
continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September 1991 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
■ 44-
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans;
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and;
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled
1.	PURPOSE
The purpose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off.
2.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION IN TEE PLAN
An eligible employee entitled to participate in this Plan is an houriy-rated employee who has:
a)	actually worked for the Company as such for a period in excess of one hundred and sixty (160) working days in a calendar year, and;
b)	has completed at least one (1) year of seniority determined as of the 1st day of September immediately preceding his
layoffand
c)	notwithstanding the above employees not classified as regular employees prior to July 22,1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan until September 1, of the year following the employees attainment of 3 years of seniority.
For the purposes of the Plan, Benefit Service shall be computed as the length of service of such employee subsequent to a date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which he completed working one hundred and sixty (160) working days in a calendar year.
-45-
3.
EXCEPTIONS
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee’s status under the Plan;
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees ofany other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the International Union of United Food and Commercial Workers, C.L.C., or by any local thereof or successor Unions thereto.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Governmental authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations;
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their lay-off. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	DISQUALIFICATION FOR BENEFITS
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any payments under the Plan for any week:
i In which he has been on lay-off and has failed to apply for U.I. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.I. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2 j week waiting period.
-46 -
ii In which he has been on lay-off and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.I. benefits or for reduction of U.I. waiting period.
m In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him. by the Unemployment Insurance Commission
iv	In which be has failed or refused to accept and report for any jppicqnriate wnrk_asgi.Bnmnnr_of zt least one normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
v	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company’s Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company.
vi	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
vii	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Workers’ Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company’s payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus,
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus,
-47-
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus,
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on lay-off and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
“Week of lay-off means a week in which the employee’s compensated^ available lioui» are less than forty (40).
BENEFITS PROVIDED FOR LAID OFF EMPLOYEES
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Batgaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of items I, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as hereinabove defined;
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff;
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee;
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
WELFARE BENEFITS DURING LAYOFF
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month
during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's sick leave plan, insured Weekly Indemnity, Insured Long-Term Disability Plans which
cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or axidcnt.
An employee on lay-off who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the
8. DURATION OF BENEFITS
Hie maxirrum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shah not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table “A”. However, the employee’s actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of 1/IOth of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee’s maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table “A below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table “A”.
TABLE“A”
Completed Years of Seniority
Determined as of the September 1st	Maximum Benefit
immediately preceding his lay-off	Entitlement
15 Years or More	78
Weeks of Benefits
10 Years or More ...................................... 65
Weeks of Benefits
5 Years or More ....................................... 52
Weeks of Benefits
4 Years or More	45
Weeks of Benefits
3 Years or More	35
Weeks of Benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit entitlement
49
determined as of that September 1 st in accordance with Table “A” above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shah be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of .benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours;, and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/Sths of one week for each week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by l/5th of a week in which he is on lay-off and in receipt of benefits of eight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shah also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on lay-off but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i). (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.
9.	DEDUCTIONS
Any payment made under this Plan shah be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorisation from the employee concerned.
10.	APPLICATIONS
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shah be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shah not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed, subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
11.	REPORTING
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union, weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan, and quarterly if no employees are on lay-off, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each
-jo-
individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant
12.	duration of agreement
This Agreement shall continue until August 31,1997. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1,1997.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signature this 28th day of June, 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
-51-
June 1,1994
M\ Barry Ffyde
Chairman, Shop Cbmmittee, Local 330 United Food and Gorrmercial Workers International Union
Dear Mr. Hyde:
Rt: Guaranteed Wage Plan
This letter will serve to eliminate and replace the letter revised June 1, 1991, appended to the current Collective Agreement and pertaining to an enplcyee’s availability for work during a lay-off
For the purpose of administering Clause 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan, the Corrpany agreed that the word “day” will replace the word “weelC.
An employee will be disqualified for benefits under Clause 4 if he does not communicate by telephone with his Supervisor twice a day as close as reasonably possible to the hours of 6:00 a.m to 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to notify laid-off enployees of available work assignments as early as possible
Yours truly,
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
-52-
June 1,1994
Mt Bany Jfyde
Chairman, Skip Cbrmittee, Local 330 United Food and Cbmntrcial Workers International Union
Gear tvh Hyfe
The Company agrees to meet with the Union Committee to discuss allowing an employee who suffers bereavement in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 15:01 of the current Collective Agreement, during his scheduled vacation, to cancel his vacation, exercise his bereavement leave and pick up his remaining vacation at a later date, to be mutually agreed upon by the Company andVraamiflioyee.
Yours f n i k/
GlenKilback Brewery Manager
-S3-
June 1, 1994
Mr. Barry Hyde
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
Dear Mr. Hyde:
Please consider this as the Company's letter of intent with respect to Brewing Job Classifications.
It has been our practice in the Brewing Department to use plant wide seniority for job preference. It is our intention to carry on this practice in the future.
Yroir* tmlv
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
-54-
June 1,1994
fvfr. Barry Ffyde
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 Uiited Food and Cbmracial Workers International Union
Dear Ffyde:
This will confirm the understanding reached during 1980 negotiations on the matter of Retail Store Operations. Should such operations be reinstituted the language pertaining to retail store operators contained in the Collective Agreement which expired on May 31, 1980, shall be placed back into the then-current Collective Agreement and the appropriate rate of pay for the classification shall be subject to the provisions of Article 1.02 and the provisions of Article 9.12 (b) shall be deemed to have been satisfied
Ynnrs tmlv
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
- 55 -
June 1,1994
Nfr. Bany Ffyde
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
Dear Mr. Hyde:
This letter will serve to clarify an agreement reached with respect to assignment of enployees to work voluntary overtime.
When voluntary overtime is to be worked, the first opportunity to accept this work shall be given to regular employees within the Department who are capable of performing the work required. The next opportunity for this work shall be given to other regular employees who are available provided they are not requested to work overtime in their own department.
For the purposes of overtime work in the Bottleshop; Racking, Shipper-Receiver, Warehouse relief and Brewbouse relief will be considered to be Bottleshop employees.
All cunent departmental procedures for the assignment of overtime work will remain in effect
Yours truly.
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
- 56 -
LETTER OF INTENT - GWP
During the 1991 negotiations the parties discussed certain arbitration awards concerning the application of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
It was agreed that the decisions rendered pertaining to the Newfoundland ("must take"), and the Alberta ("use it or lose it"), GWP awards would not be applied in Manitoba.
It was further agreed that the Saskatchewan ("less than one week layoff") GWP award would not be applied in Manitoba.
For the Company
June 1,1994
Mr. Barry Hyde
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
Dear Mr. Hyde:
Be: G.W.P. Section 10
This letter will clarify the word "Operation" in Section 10, paragraph 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
Operation will be interpreted as meaning:
1.	Plant, Branch or Warehouse.
2.	Department or part department in which 10 or more
employees are permanently laid off.
Yours truly,
LABATT MANITOBA BREWERY
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
June 1,1994
United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330W Dear Mr. Smyrichinsky:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: PLANT CLOSURE. FORMING PART OF THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
In recognition of the Company’s current statutory obligations and in further recognition of the adverse consequences of any plant closure upon employees the parties, during the 1988 negotiations, agreed to this letter of understanding regarding any plant closure which may occur during the life of this agreement:
(1)	The company shall, at lease 90 days prior to any plant closure, notify the local union of its intention to close the plant
(2)	Following receipt of the notification by the Company the local union may request that the Company meet with the local union to discuss any and all matters arising as a consequence of the plant closure. The Company agrees that promptly upon receipt of such letter it will meet with the local union and discuss with a view to resolving any matters arising as a consequence of the plant closure.
(3)	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Company undettakes and agrees that it will:
(a)	Make all reasonable efforts to fill declared vacancies at any of its other operations with regular employees who have been laid off as a result of plant closure.
(b)	Request that other Canadian brewing companies hire at any of their operations regular employees who have been laid off as a result of plant closure.
It is further understood that if the Company permanently discontinues an operation the Company will provide regular employees with a reasonable period of training to facilitate an employee’s seniority rights pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement
-60-
T&J
THE COMPAQ
.7*7


77-
THE UNION
'fyrt.AH/j/ tylj£l$&.-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RB:	Letter of Intent Regarding Sickness Benefits
An employee's eligibility for sick days and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases immediately updn his lay-off and is reinstated upon his recall to work and completion of eight (S) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years of seniority who is laid off and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non-occupational accident, shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans effective the date of his recall.
For the Company	For the Union
- 62 -
Junel,1994
Barry Hyde
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 303 - 275 Broadway Avenue WINNIPEG, MB
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Re: Technological Change Forming Part of the Collective Agreement
Dear Nfr. Hyde:
The parties mutually agree that during the life of this Agreement the Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union ninety (90) days in advance to intent to institute changes in working merhods or facilities which would involve the laying off of employees.
Furthermore a joint labour-management committee will be formed which will deal with: evaluating the options open to the Company, including justification for the change; its responsibility to the workers and the community, maintenance of earnings and severance pay; the feasibility of decreasing personnel through various methods such as attrition, transfer to other jobs, retraining, educational guidance and assistance and early retirement.
In agreeing to clause 12 (b) “Technological Change” it is understood that technological changes may be introduced by the Company as it considers desirable, and that employees may be laid-off as a result. The transfer to new jobs, retraining, early retirements, etc., will be subject to negotiation.
It is further understood that separated employees will be eligible for reemployment, but seniority would commence as of the date of re-hire, except that any employee who has been discharged for cause from any plant would not be eligible for re-hire.
Those employees whose jobs are affected by technological change such as skilled tradesmen, engineers, may elect a separation pay if they wish rather than accept transfer to a job outside of their usual occupation. If an employee elects to take separation pay in lieu of another job with the Company, he would not he eligible for separation pay again if rehired.
Glen Kilback Brewery Manager
-63
June 1, 1994
REGULAR MAINTENANCE/REL1EF ENGINEER
Maintenance Engineers who are also first and second Relief Engineers will have a work week of 40 hours consisting of five 8 hour days. They will have to swing in and out of the 12 hour shifts to cover for sickness or as Shift Engineers take their vacation.
When a Shift Engineer is sick, overtime rate for his replacement will apply for the first day. For example, if the Relief Engineer has to finish the Shift Engineer’s regular 12 hour shift, he would he paid the overtime rate for hours over and above his regular 8 hour day. If the Shift Engineer is sick for more than one day, the Relief Engineer will take his place on the rotating shift schedule.
The person on steady maintenance shall he considered the first Relief Engineer. The leadhand will be considered the second Relief Engineer.
Maintenance overtime will be recorded and offered to the qualified person with the least number of hours on the list. Refusals will be recorded as overtime to maintain fairness to all.
Overtime will not be offered or recorded as a refusal to someone who is sick, on W.I., WCB, scheduled vacation, or on shift during the time the overtime is required.
-64-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The following confirms the understanding reached between Labatt Manitoba Brewery and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, with regard to twelve (12) hour shift schedule for Engineers.
1.	The actual work schedule shall be as per the attached
2.	The twelve hour shift schedule as implemented is from 7:00 am to 7:00 pm and 7:00 pm to 7:00 am.
3.	Adequate relief coverage will be secured by utilizing the relief engineers and the two regular engineers who are off duty each day. Guarantee relief in case of illness and vacation over weekend.
4.	Shift premiums will be paid on the following basis: For all hours worked between 7:00 p.m and 7:00 am, night shift premium will be paid
5.	Pay for statutory holidays will be as follows:
a)	For those Engineers working, double time (2x) for all hours worked plus eight touts statutay holiday pay.
b)	For those Engineers on day off, eight hours statutory
holiday pay. Article 9.10 of the Collective Agreement shall not apply.
6.	Funeral leave will be up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay. It more time is required, the employee may exchange shifts or request leave of absence.
7.	Shit? exchanges will be permitted however, no employee will be allowed to work two twelve hour shifts back to back.
8.	Vacation payment will be made on the basis of one straight time pay for each hour of vacation
9.	Overture will be paid on the following basis:
a)	Double time shall be paid for wotk on scheduled days off.
-65-
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
b)	Work performed in excess of twelve hours per day shall be considered overtime and shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). All overtime in excess of two (2) hours in any one day shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
Engineers will be entitled to an additional fifteen minutes rest period when working a twelve hour shift.
An Engineer, when hired, will be required to work one hundred and seven (107)
shifts to achieve regular employee status. Seniority dates will be established by counting back 107 shifts as applicable.
For each twelve hour day of sick leave used, the Engineer’s sick leave accumulation will be reduced by 1.5 days. For each eight hour day used, accumulation will he reduced by one day, for each four hour day of sick leave used, accumulation will be reduced by one-half day.
Weekly Indemnity will be on the basis of 70% of forty hours per week. The Weekly Indcmiity waiting period shall be twenty-four hours of lost time in the case of sickness. No waiting period is required in the case of accident
The schedule will not be interpreted in such a way as to increase cost to the Gorrpany.
The parties will meet every second month, or more frequently if necessary, to discuss the progress of the trial period of any problems that have arisen
Pay will be calculated on hours worked in each pay period
Signed at Winnipeg this 8th day of June, 1994
FOR THE UNION:
-66-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
NEW WORK SCHEDULES
The following will outline the agreement regarding the new shift schedules:
The parties agreed that the purpose for the new schedules is to make the fvtinitoba Brewery mote attractive to new volume and allow increased flexibility.
The continuous operatiorVcontinaital work week anckor the confessed work week will not be implemented as a means to redtce anckor layoff regular employees on staff as of May 3 1,1994. It is understood and agreed that Uj’ofis shall ccathraeno l/feppeii-aSpS current practice.
The trigger point for the continuous opcration/continental work week will be 475,000 hectolitres. The Company and the Union may implement this work week at levels less than the above by mutual agreement
The compressed wotk week may be implemented by the Cbnpany based on staffing requirements - it may be implemented even though regular employees are on layoff - it is understood that should this take place, the compressed work week shall not result in further regular employees being laid off while the compressed work week is in effect.
The parties agree that when the Cbnpany implements the continuous operation/continental work week or the compressed work week that the Letters of Understanding that cover these work weeks shall override the provisions of the Collective Agreement where necessary and/or in the event of any conflict between the provisions.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-67-
LETTER OF 1 INDERSTANDINC
CONTINUOUS OPF.RATION/CONTINENTAI. WORK WEEK
The Company may implement a continuous operation schedule covering seven (7) continuous 24 hour workdays. Each workday may be made up of either 8 hour or 12 hour shifts in any department, part of a department, or departments, as follows:
(A)	Continuous Operating 8 Hour Shift Schedule:
Days of work and days off shall be determined by the Company and Union for each area in which a continuous 8 hour shift schedule is implemented. The workday shall consist of up to three (3) consecutive 8 hour shifts. Eight (8) consecutive hours, including a thirty minute paid lunch period, shall constitute a day’s work.
(B)	Continuous Operating 12 Hour Shift Schedule:
The workday shall consist of up to two (2) consecutive twelve (12) hour shifts beginning at 7:00 am and 7:00 pm. Twelve (12) consecutive hours, including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch, shall constitute a day’s work.
For each department, part department, or departments in which a continuous operating twelve (12) hour shift schedule is implemented, the Company and Union will be afforded the opportunity to develop a shift schedule which is mutually agreed upon, provided such shift schedule does not increase operating costs or reduce efficiencies relative to the following “default” shit? schedule.
In the absence of an alternative schedule developed by the Company and Union, the following default shit? schedule, entitled “Every Other Weekend Oft” will be implemented.
Four. (4) scheduling groups shall be designated. The scheduling groups shall be defined as A, B,C,D.
-68-
The following rotation schedule shall be established for those 4 groups:
EVERY OTHER WEEKEND OFF EOWEO
PUII CYCI F- 4 WFFKS
4 SHIFTS X 12 HOURS = 16* HOURS + 4 WEEKS = 42 HOURS PER WEEK
	M	T	W	T		S S	M	T	W	T			S		T	W	T			t	ir	T	"W	T	T	~r	T
A	D	D			N	H N			D	D				N	N			0	0	b				N			
8			0	D				N			0	8	D			N	N				D	0			N	i»	N
C	N	N			D	D D			M	N				0	D			li	N	N			D	D			
D			M	N			&	D			N	N	N			D	D				N	N			8	0	8
THE 2-2-3 SHIFT SCHEDULE Overtime:
Overtime shall be as follows for employees on the continuous operating shifts:
Eight Hour Shifts: Time and a half for all hours worked over 8 hours but 'itfVsVmm' fthiiDursTirhuy wms'iiky; and double •tmitfttn tiAh/t/cn s
worked in excess of 10 hours in one work day and for all hours worked on a scheduled day off, or on a plant holiday plus 8 hours straight time holiday pay at his regular rate.
Twelve Hour Shifts: Double time for all hours worked over 12 hours in any work day, for all worked on a scheduled day off, and for hours worked on a plant holiday plus 8 hours straight time holiday pay at his regular rate.
Breaks:
All employees shall be granted two (2) breaks of 15 minutes each day, one in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift.
Employees shall be entitled to an additional 15 minute break for each two hour period of overtime worked. If overtime is likely to exceed one hour, the break shall be taken before the overtime commences.
-69-
Vacation Pay:
Vacation Pay will be paid on the basis of one hour straight time pay for each hour of vacation taken. Any remaining entitlement shall be taken when straight time relief is available.
Sick Leave:
On an hour for hour basis.
In general and specifically with respect to time paid not worked, and wage loss replacement plans, where the Collective Agreement uses the term “day”, it shall be equated to an hourly entitlement based on an 8 hour day. As an example, 7 sick days would equate to an hourly entitlement of 56 hours (7 days x 8 hours = 56 hours). An employee on a 12 hour shift will draw on this entitlement on an hour for hour basis.
Bereavement Leave:
Maximum is 24 hours.
Temporary Employees:
Temporary employees who work 12 hour shifts will achieve seniority based on 107 days worked in a calendar year (160 days/1.5).
Shift Premium 12 Hour Shifts:
First 12 hours -- no premium; second 12 hours -- midnight shit? premium
Shift Premium 8 Hour Shifts:
As per Collective Agreement
The Company will provide three (3) weeks’ notice of its intention to initiate the continuous operation schedule or return to a conventional eight hour shift schedule or compressed work week.
Signed this 8th day of June, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-70-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
The workweek shall be defined as four consecutive work daysmen, and .a half consecutive hours, including a 30 minute unpaid lunch period, shall constitute a day’s work
The operation, or certain sections, will operate one (1) or two (2) consecutive ten and a half (1014) hour shifts, as required. If two (2) ten and a half (10!/:) hour shifts are required, a shift rotation schedule which results in employees rotating between the two shifts will be established.
Overtime:
Double time for all hours worked over ten (10) in any work day, and all hours worked on a scheduled day of£ or on a plant holiday plus 8 houts straight time holiday pay at his regular rate.
Vacation Pay:
Will be paid on the basis of one hour straight time pay for each hour of vacation taken, Any remaining entitlement shall be taken when straight time relief is available.
Sick Leave:
On an hour for hour basis.
In general and specifically with respect to time paid not worked, and wage loss replacement plans, where the Collective Agreement uses the term “day”, it shall be equated to an hourly entitlement based on an 8 hour day. As an example, 7 sick days would equate to an hourly entitlement of 56 hours (7 days x 8 hours = 56 hours) and an employee on a 10.5 hour shift will draw on this entitlement on an hour for hour basis.
Bereavement Leave:
Maximum 24 hours.
-71-
Temporary Employees;
Temporary employees who work 10.5 hour shifts will achieve seniority based on 120 days worked in a calendar year (160/1.25).
AU employees shall be granted 2 breaks of 15 minutes each day, one in the first half of the shift and one in the second half of the shift.
Employees shall be entitled to an additional 15 minute break for each two hour period of overtime worked. If overtime is likely to exceed one hour, the break shall be taken before the overtime commences.
Shift Prcminms:
Fist shift -- no premium.
Second shift - afternoon premium.
Prior to implementing the compressed work week, the Company will notify the Union at least two (2) weeks in advance of its start. The Company will give the Union one (1) weeks notice when switching back to the conventional shifts.
Note: In departments or part departments that are providing a paid half hour lunch period as of May 3 1,1994, these departments or part departments will continue to receive this paid lunch period should they go on a compressed work week. The above language in paragraphs 1 and 2 would read *10" from "10V4" and “paid lunch period” from “unpaid lunch period”.
Signed this 8th day of June, 1994
Breaks:
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-72-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CASH VACATION BONUS ARTICLE 12.11
The following will outline the interpretation of Article 12.11 and how it
will be applied.
1)	The major purpose of this clause is to help alleviate layoffs within the plant.
2)	If it has been determined that layoffs will take place during the vacation year, then employees will be required to utilize their cash vacation bonus as time off in times that will alleviate the layoff of either themselves or other junior employees.
3)	Other than point 2) above, the parties agree that no employee will be allowed to use their cash vacation bonus as time off unless the Company specifically designates set time periods where it may be used (for example, low production periods, shutdowns, mini-overhauls, Christmas).
4)	In any event, employees shall not receive payment of vacation bonus in cash prior to March 1st of the vacation year.
The parties agree on the above interpretation Signed this 8th day of June, 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
-73-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING PLANT HOLIDAYS FOR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
For the eleven (11) temporary employees on staff as of June 1,1994, the following will apply regarding qualifying for the three (3) plant holidays that occur in the summer months (the holidays in question are: Canada Day, Civic Holiday and Labour Day):
a)	the employee has worked at least five (S) days during the twenty (20) working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
b)	the employee has not been absent without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed, or the first work day scheduled for him immediately alter the day on which the said holiday is observed.
For qualifying for all other plant holidays that occur during the year, these temporaiy employees will qualify for plant holiday pay based on legislation
All other temporaiy employees will qualify for plant holiday pay based on legislation
Signed this 8th day of June, 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-74-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
“GUARDED STATUS'
“Based on the agreement to pay engineers straight time for Sunday work, guarded status will not be implemented during the term of this agreement.”
Signed this 8th day of June, 1994
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:

-16-
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
AS AMENDED JUNE 1,1994 FOR UNION EMPLOYEES IN MANITOBA
The description in this booklet is intended to give you a general explanation of the insured benefits but it should be understood that the master insurance contracts are the governing documents in any question of interpretation.
In addition to benefits under this group insurance plan, hospital and medical benefits are available under the government plans in effect in the province of residence and are payable in accordance with provincial regulations, with supplemental benefits being provided under plans with Manitoba Blue Goss.
1. SCHEDULE OF INSURED BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES
June 1,1994 June 1,1995 June 1,1996
Accidental Death & Life	Dismemberment
Insurance
$40,000
$41,000
$42,000
Insurance
$40,000
$41,000
$42,000
NOTE:	Employees not actively at work on the above named dates
shall have their coverage increased only upon their date of return to active employment
Weekly Indemnity benefit at 70% of your basic weekly earnings rate with benefits payable from fourth day of disability to a maximum of 26 weeks per disability.
Long Term Disability benefit at 66 273% of your basic earnings rate with benefits commencing when your Weekly Indemnity benefits cease.
-77-
For Employees and Dependents:
Dental care benefits at 100% for basic services, 75% for restorative services and 50% for orthodontia (Effective June 1, 1995 - 85% for restorative services; effective June 1,1996 - 100% for restorative services.)
The weekly indemnity and dental care benefits apply only to those accidents and sicknesses which are not covered by Worker’s Compensation or similar legislation
2.	WHO MAY BE INSURED
You and your eligible dependents become insured on the date you complete six months of full-time continuous service or 160 days of work in a calendar year, whichever is earlier.
Any employee absent from work on the date he becomes eligible will not be covered until the day he returns to work. Any dependent who is hospital&d on the effective date of your insurance will not be covered until the day after release from hospital.
Dependents eligible for insured benefits are your dependent spouse and unmarried children under 21 years of age. Coverage will be continued for the dependent children beyond 21 as long thereafter as the child is a fulKtinc- 3fividflr'an.tiftadig"a ” educational institution or on vacation therefrom. It is your responsibility to notify your Human Resources Department or Supervisor immediately of any change in your dependents.
3.	LIFE INSURANCE
The amount of life insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured Benefits. In the event of death from any cause your life insurance will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. You may change your beneficiary at any time within the limits set by law by completing a form which may be obtained from your Human Resources Department
The full amount of your life insurance will be continued during any period for which you are eligible to receive Long Term Disability benefits. If you become totally and permanently disabled your Long Term Disability benefits will continue until our normal retirement date, at which time your life insurance will
-78-
be reduced to the same amount of insurance as it provided for employees who retire at the normal date, as explained in (a) below.
When you retire in accordance with the terms of the company’s pension plan your life insurance will be as follows:
(a)	Normal or Special Early Retirement - If you retire at your normal retirement date, or after you have attained age 60 with at least 30 years of credited service under the terms of the Labatt Retirement Plan, your life insurance will be reduced to $4,000 when you retire.
(b)	Disability Retirement - If you retire due to partial disability under the terms of the Labatt Retirement Plan, the full amount of your life insurance witt-h*. ceefeitd wr.til your normal retirement date at which time your life insurance will be reduced to $4,000.
(c)	Other early Retirement - If you elect voluntary early
retirement after attaining age 60 and you do not engage in full-time regular employment, your life insurance will be reduced to $4,000 when you retire. Otherwise your life insurance will cease as of your date of early retirement.
if you terminate service with the Company other than by retirement your life insurance will be cancelled as of the date your service is terminated.
You may obtain an individual life insurance policy up to the amount of life insurance which is cancelled when you retire or terminate service. Insurance is available under this conversion privilege even though you are unable to pass a medical examination, but the premium rate will be based on your attained age at the date of conversion. Application for individual insurance must be made to the insurance company within 3 I days of the date your group insurance is cancelled, and during this 3 1 day period your group life insurance is considered as in effect without charge. Yom other insurance coverages cannot be converted to individual policies.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
The amount of your accidental death and dismemberment (AD & D) insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured Benefits. I£
-79-
within 365 days of and as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below, payment will be made as indicated.
Full amount of insurance for loss of life, both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes, one hand and one foot, one hand or one foot and sight of.noecvc,
Three-quarters of full amount for loss of one arm or one leg.
One-half of full amount for loss of one hand, one foot or sight of one eye. One-quarter of full amount for loss of thumb and index finger
Your AD & D insurance includes coverage for injury sustained while riding as a passenger in or on, boarding or alighting from, or being struck by a licensed aircraft Benefits are not payable for any loss caused by suicide or self-destruction, war or service in the armed forces of any country.
In the event of your death the AD & D insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. This benefit is payable in addition to your life insurance. All other benefits tinder the AD & D insurance are payable to the insured person.
Your AD & D insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire or terminate service with the Company.
HOW TO CLAIM
When you or your dependents are entitled to receive insured benefits, you should obtain the necessary claim forms from your Human Resources Department. When you have completed the employee’s portion of the claim form you should have your physician or dentist complete this section. Then give the completed form to your Human Resources Department for them to forward for settlement by the insurer.
iii order to qualify for payment Of benefits, claim must be submitted within the time limit set out below;
(a) WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT - Claim must be filed within 90 days of oortmencenent of disability. Benefits will be paid as previously described only if you see a licensed physician no later than the fourth day of disability and remain under the doctor’s care until you are able to return to
work. If you do not see a doctor by the fourth day, your benefits will be payable only Horn the day on which you fust visit a doctor. Diagnosis and prescription by telephone only does not constitute a “visit” for this purpose.
(b)	LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT - Claim must be filed within 6 months following the date from which LTD benefits become payable but the earlier the better in order to avoid any delay in commencement of your LTD benefit payments.
(c)	DENTAL CARE BENEFIT - Claim must be submitted by
the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred except that proof of claim must be submitted within 90 days of the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim The dentist’s statement on this form or any bills supporting your claim must show the patient’s name, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. I f the total cost associated with proposed dental work is $200 or more, a Treatment Plan must be submitted to the insurer as explained in Section 7. You should have your dentist complete a'itimf'ionnnstvtfli^1 At details	TJraptystti
treatment and cost and give this form to your Human resources Department to forward for review by the insurance company. You will then be advised as to the charges, or portion thereof, which the insurer considers eligible for benefits. Upon completion of the dental treatment you again submit a claim to receive payment of the approved benefits.
• 81-
labatt retirement plan
This section of the booklet is a summary of the main features of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan for Wage Employees amended June 1, 1994 with respect to Brewery Workers employed by Labatt Brewing Company Limited in Manitoba. A complete description of the plan which-is the governing document is available for reference at your Human Resources Department. If you have any question do not hesitate to seek the answers from your Supervisor or Human Resources Staff.
1.	ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP
A new employee becomes a member of the plan on the first day of the i.kj.nn ramaAtshwAh ta immediately foUoning completion of 6 months of continuous service or 160 days of work in a calendar year whichever is earlier.
You will be advised when you are eligible and are enrolled as a member and you will be asked to submit proof of age.
In accordance with Manitoba legislation, a part-time employee who has completed 6 months of continuous service is eligible to become a member on January 1 of the year immediately following a period of two consecutive calendar years during which the part-time employee earned at least 25% of the maximum pensionable earnings of the Canada Pension Plan during the year.
In accordance with Manitoba legislation, an employee shall become a member upon completion of 160 consecutive days of work, where a temporary suspension of employment shall not constitute an interruption in the employee’s consecutive days of work.
2.	CONTRIBUTIONS
You are not required to make contributions to the plan in respect of your service after January 1,1975. Any required contributions which you have made in respect of service before January 1,1975 remain to your credit in the Plan and will be applied to provide benefits in respect of your service before January 1,1975.
The Company contributes whatever amount is necessary, along with the required contributions made by employees in respect of service before January 1,1975 to provide the benefits called for
-82-
under the Plan. The Company also pays the lull cost of administering the Plan and, in addition, matches your contributions to the Canada Pension Plan.
All contributions to the Plan are paid over to the Royal Trust Company to be invested and held in trust for the purposes of the Plan.
3.	NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE
Normal retirement is at age 65. Your pension commences as of the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following your 65th birthday.
4.	SERVICES AND CREDITED SERVICE
Your service to qualify for certain of the benefits under the Plan is the total number of years from your date of employment as established under the plan to the date on which you retire, die or terminate service.
The number of years of your “credited” service determines the amount of pension you are entitled to receive. Credited service is calculated as explained below:
a)	From January 1,1975 you receive a credit of one year while a member of the Plan or a prorated partial year of credit for less than 1800 hours. For example, if while a member of the Plan you work only 900 hours in a year, your credit for that year will be one-half year (900 divided by 1800). If you are absent due to disability, you will receive service credits for any periods during which you are totally disabled and receive weekly indemnity or long term disability insurance benefits or Worker’s Compensation payments, but in no event will you receive more than one year of credited service for any one calendar year.
b)	Your credited service for the period from January 1,1958 to December 31,1974 is the number of years on which you have made the required contributions to the Plan but does not include any periods during which you failed to contribute for which you withdrew and have not repaid your required contributions.
-83-
c)	If you were a member of a previous company pension plan before January 1,1958 when the Labatt Retirement Plan became effective, your credited service to December 31, 1957 is the period from your date of employment to December 31,1957 but excluding any periods when you were eligible to but did not contribute to the previous plaa
5.	CALCULATION OF BASIC PENSION CREDIT
You receive credit for a monthly basic pension payable from your
normal retirement date (age 65) calculated as follows:
a)	for service after June 1,19% - $34.00 multiplied by the number of years of your credited service after June 1,19%
b)	for service from June 1,1995 to May 31,1996 - $33.50 multiplied by the number of years of your credited service after June 1,1995
c)	for service from June 1,1994 to May 31,1995 - $33.00 multiplied by the number of years of your credited service after June 1,1994
d)	for service from June 1, 1993 to May 31,1994 - $32.00 multiplied by the number of years of your credited service after June 1,1993;
e)	for service from June 1,1992 to May 31,1993-$31.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
f)	for service from June 1,1991 to May 31,1992 -$30.00 of credited service for one year or a prorated amount of less than one year;
g)	for service from June 1,1990 to May 31,1991 -$28.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
h)	for service from June l,1989to May 31,1990-$27.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
-84-
i)	for service from June 1,1988 to May 31,1989-$26.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
j)	for service from June I, 1987 to May 31,1988 - $20.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
k)	for service from June 1,1986 to May 31,1987-$19.50 for
one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
l)	for service from June 1,1985 to May 31,1986 - $19.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
m)	for service from June 1,1984 to May 31,1985-$17.25 for
one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year,
n)	for service from June 1,1983 to May 31,1984-$16.50 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
o)	for service from June 1,1982to May 31,1983-$15.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
p)	for service from June 1,1981 to May 31,1982-$14.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year,
q)	for service from June 1,1980 to May 31,1981-$13.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year,
r)	for service to May 31,1980 - the amount of monthly basic Pension to your credit for service to May 31, 1980 determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan in effect to May 3 1,1980.
-85-
6.	AMOUNT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT PENSION
When you retire at your normal date (age 65) you will receive a monthly basic pension tram the Labatt Retirement Plan in an amount equal to the sum of your basic pension credits determined as explained in Section 5. In addition you will receive any pension which is payable to you under a previous plan (see Section 16) and any statutory pension (such as C.P.P. and O.A.S.) which is payable to you under government plans. You may also qualify for a supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan under the minimum pension provision explained in Section 7.
7.	MINIMUM PENSION AT NORMAL RETIREMENT
If vqu tetirc.at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service you are entitled to a minimum monthly pension from Company Plans	and the	Canada Pension Plan combined of
a)	$1,980,	if you retire on or after June 1,1994;
b)	$2,055,	if you retire on or after June 1,1995;
c)	$2,130,	if you retire on or after June 1,1996;
These amounts represent the minimum monthly pension payable from Company plans and tine Canada Pension Plan combined before allowing for the provision of a spousal survivor pension. The Company Pension will be adjusted to provide a survivor pension unless the spouse who will benefit from that survivor pension waives his/her right to receive it in writing
You will receive a minimum lifetime pension supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan equal to the amount, if any, required to be added to your accrued basic pension from all Company Plans and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of your retirement to provide the above nininum monthly pension.
If you retire at age 65 with less than 30 yearn of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which, thr.minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the frill unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years
-86-
of credited service to 30 years and reduced by your accrued pension.
To determine what, if any, amount of supplement is needed, your basic pension from Company Plans is the basic amount payable before the amount of the survivorship pension is calculated, and your C.P.P. pension is the amount you are entitled to receive when you firk become eligible at Normal retirement age, whether or not you actually make application for such benefits, but disregarding any increase in your C.P.P. pension after its date of commencement.
8.	SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT
If you are age 60 or over and you have 30 or more years of credited service you may elect Special Early Retirement, in which case you will be entitled to an immediate accrued basic pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of early retirement, without reduction for your early age of retirement
This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide the minimum monthly pension amounts set out below, until you first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits:
a)	if you retire on or after June 1,1994 - $1,743
b)	if you retire on or after June 1,1995 - $1,798
c)	if you retire on or after June 1,1996 - $1,853
Once you become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (on attaining age 65) the supplement will be recalculated as the amount required to be added to your accrued basic pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits, determined as the actual date of your retirement, to produce the following monthly pension:
a)	if you retire on or after June 1,1994 - $1,980
b)	if you retire on or after June 1,1995 - $2,055
c)	if you retire on or after June 1,1996 - $2,130
(Once again, both sets of figures above do not take account of the reduction required to produce a survivor option for the surviving spouse).
-87-
This recalculated supplement shall become your lifetime supplement.
In addition to this recalculated lifetime supplement, you may be entitled to receive a further supplement if you retire before May 31, 1997. This further supplement will represent the amount necessary to produce a total pension from the Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if you were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, your accrued pension including any escalation thereof and your actual credited service at the date of your retirement. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of your lifetime supplement
9.	85 POINT RETIREMENT
A member retiring on or after June 1,1994 and after haying attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediate accrued pension equal to the amount of accrued vested pension to his credit for service to date or eariy retirement
In addition, sich member shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if the member had attained age 65 on his date of retirement but using his current unreduced vested accrued pension and his related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefit and the normal retirement mininum pension all determined as of the member’s actual date of retirement
Once you have become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (on attaining age 65) and in addition to the lifetime supplement, a member who retires under this provision (85 point retirement) will be paid a further supplement, if necessary, to produce a total pension from Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable if the member were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, his accrued pension including any escalation thereof and his related credited service. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of the member’s lifetime supplement.
-88-
10. OTHER EARLY RETIREMENT
At any time after you are age 55, you may request early retirement and elect to draw your pension. If you retire after having reached age 55 but prior to having qualified for other forms of Retirement, you are entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount of vested accrued basic pension to ytm credit for service to the date of your retirement, reduced by 1/3% for each month (i.e. 4% per year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
In addition, you will be entitled to receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 65 on the date of your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credit service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension determined as at your actual date of retirement
This lifetime supplement so calculated will also be reduced by 1/3% for each month (i.e. 4% per year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
U. PARTIAL DISABILITY RETIREMENT (before age 65)
As long as you are eligible to receive disability benefits under the Group Insurance Plan you will receive service and basic pension credits under the Labatt Retirement Plan and you will not be retired. However, .it you become partially disabled and you do not qualify for insurance benefits you may not qualify for Disability Retirement. Retirement under this provision requires that:
a)	you are at least age 50 and have completed 10 years of service, and
b)	you are certified to be partially disabled and thereby
prevented from performing any work available with the Company, and
c)	it is mutually agreed by you and by the Company that you be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
On retirement under the disability provision you are entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of disability retirement without reduction by your earlier age of retirement. In addition, until you qualify for the earlier of receipt of C.P.P. disability benefits or the
-89-
attainment of age 65, you will receive a monthly disability supplement equal to $14.00 multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to 30 years.
At age 65, you will then receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 65 on the date of your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the Normal Retirement minimum pension determined as at your actual date of retirement
12. DEATH AFTER RETIREMENT:
JOINT AND SURVIVOR PENSION
Your vested accrued basic pension and minimum supplements are payable for as long as you live and cease as of the first day of the month in which your death occurs.
If you have a spouse, as defined by the Manitoba Pension Benefits Act, when you retire your basic pension will automatically be paid in a reduced amount to you during your lifetime with 66 2/3% of such pension being paid to your spouse following your death. The reduced amount of pension payable to you will be determined based on the of yon and your spouse. If you do not want your basic pension paid in this manner, you must file the waiver form signed by your spouse; the form is prescribed by law and is available from your Human Resources Department.
The Labatt Retirement Plan has another spouse pension option available if you have a spouse at time of retirement
Provided you have waived, using the prescribed form, the 66 2/3% spouse's pension option described'in trie preceding paragraph, a Plan member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Disability or Other Early Retirement shall receive a joint and survivor pension, unless the member delivers to the Pension Administrator (through your Human Resources Department) a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the 12 month period immediately preceding the commencement of the payment of the pension, benefit
Unless waived, your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement if any, shah be reduced by 10% during your lifetime. Upon your death your eligible surviving spouse shah receive a
-90-
pension of 60% of your reduced accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to a further actuarial reduction if your spouse is more than 10 years younger than yourself).
13.	DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
If you should die while in the service of the Company and after you have reached age 55 and 10 years of service your eligible surviving spouse will receive a pension for her remaining lifetime. Her pension will be equal to the amount of pension she would have received from the Plan had you retired as of your date of death and elected a reduced joint survivorship pension, but her basic pension and lifetime supplement will be. subject to a reduction if she is more than 10 years younger than you. Pension payments to your eligible surviving spouse are guaranteed to return any required contributions you have made to the Plan with interest to your date of death.
14.	IF YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY
If your service is terminated (other than by retirement or death) and if you have completed at least 2 years of credited service, with the Company, you will be entitled to a deferred monthly pension at age 65 equal to the accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement to your credit
Instead of this deferred pension entitlement you may elect to transfer the commuted value of your pension to your Registered Savings Plan. Any amount so transferred may be subject to Provincial locking-in requirements.
In accordance with Manitoba legislation, if you die before your pension commences and your spouse is not entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraph, the value of your vested basic pension earned from January 1,1985 to your date of death, together with any contributions you have made with interest to your date of death, will be paid to the beneficiary you have named or, failing such, to your estate, 'foe Ttaij change your beneficiary from time to time as permitted by law by completing a form which is available from your Human Resources Department
If you were a member of the Plan before January I, 1975 when your service is terminated you may either
-91
a)	leave all of your contributions in the Plan and receive at age 65 a monthly pension equal to the basic pension to your credit to December 31,1974, which is included in the pension referred to above, or
b)	withdraw your contributions plus interest to your date of termination of service in which case you forfeit your credited service to December 31,1974, and any pension in respect of such service which is included in the pension referred to above.
15.	ESCALATION OF PENSION AFTER RETIREMENT
If you retired prior to January 1,1988, from the service of the Company pursuant to any of the types of retirement listed above, your pension will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your retirement date. Your accrued basic pension shall be increased by the lesser of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year and 2%.
If you retire on or after January 1,1988, from the service of the Company pursuant to any of the types of retirement listed above, your pension and lifetime supplement will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your retirement date. Your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased on each January 1st following your retirement by the lesser of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year and 2%.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated applying the same formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 1st following your death.
16.	PREVIOUS PLANS (before January 1,1958)
If you were a member of a previous Company pension plan (Government Annuity and Monarch Life) in effect before January 1, 1958, your benefits from that plan are payable in accordance with the provisions of that previous plan and are in addition to the benefit you receive from the Labatt Retirement Plan.
Since your period of membership in the previous pension plan is included in determining your total credited service, any basic pension to your credit under the previous plan is taken into account in determining the amount of any minimum pension
• 92-
supplement you are entitled to receive. Since your pension from the previous plan will be actuarially reduced if you retire before age 65, your basic L.R.P. pension will include an amount equal to the difference between your actuarially reduced previous pension plan and the amount of the basic previous pension plan at age 65 reduced by the same factors as are applicable to your L.R.P. pension as explained in Sections 8, 9,10 or 11, as the case may be.
For these purposes your basic previous pension plan has been determined and fixed as that amount of pension payable tram age 65 and guaranteed for a minimum of 5 years which would be available in accordance with the terms of the previous pension plan in effect at December 3 1,1957 but excluding any pension purchased by voluntary contributions you may have made to that plan. Any increase in the amount of your Government Annuity which has resulted from an increase in interest rate from 1975 is not considered as a part of your basic previous pension plan and would be payable as an extra benefit over and above your basic pension.
After retirement your total basic pension which is subject to escalation as explained in Section 15 includes the amount of basic previous pension plan determined as explained above.
17. OTHER INFORMATION
a)	Annual Statement - You will receive a statement following each calendar year end showing the amount of benefits to your credit under the Plan.
b)	Benefits Not Assignable - The benefits provided under the Plan are not assignable except as is specifically provided with respect to death benefits nor may you borrow against them at any time. Similarly, except as specifically provided at termination of service or in connection with death, no benefit can be surrendered.
c)	Deterred Retirement - If you continue in the service of the Company after your normal retirement date, payment of your pension will be deferred to commence when your, retire. However, due to Revenue Canada restriction, you must commence payment of your pension before you attain age 71 and such date will be your deemed retirement date. In accordance with Manitoba legislation, you will continue
-93-
to ear” additional pension credits for your service after normal retirement date up to the date of your retirement.
The amount of pension payable to you on your retirement date will be determined based on the Retirement Plan provisions and C.P.P. provision in effect at that date, but will be at least equal to the amount of pension which would have been payable from your normal retirement date determined in accordance with the Retirement Plan provisions and C.P.P. regulation then in effect plus the additional basic pension credits described in Section 5 earned for your service while you defer your retirement.
d)	Eligible Surviving Spouse - Your spouse is eligible for the surviving spouse’s pension under Section 12 or 13 provided you have been “tarried for at least one year before your retirement or death, whichever is earlier. Under certain circumstances a common-taw spouse may quality and the Human Resources Department will answer your questions in this respect
e)	Marriage Breakdown - I” accordance with Manitoba legislation, if your marriage or common-law relationship M1UUJG oreaK-up, me pension creuits accumulated aunng me years of the relationship would be split on a 50/50 basis between you and your spouse.
The beginning and ending dates of a common-law relationship will be determined from the dates the Human Resources Department is notified by you using the forms prescribed
f)	Income Tax - All pension payments received from Company pension plana are considered as income for tax purposes in the year in which received Your C.P.P. and O.A.S. pensions must also be reported as taxable income when you file your annual tax return Similarly, all monies received in lump sum withdrawals or death benefits must be declared as income for tax purposes in the year in which received and are taxable unless such monies are transferred to a registered retirement sayings plan.
-94-
18. GOVERNMENT PENSION PLAN
Statutory benefits from government plans such as the Canada Pension Plan (C.P.P.) and the pension under the Old Age Security Act (O.A.S.) are in addition to the benefits payable under the Labatt Retirement Plan.
Your spouse will also receive O.A.S. pension benefits payable from age 65 subject to the same residency requirements specified above.
Application must be made to receive benefits from the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security and the applications should be filed 6 months in advance of your date of eligibility for such pensions to ensure prompt commencement of your benefits. As well as retirement pensions, the Canada Pension Plan provides certain disability, death and survivor benefits and further information can be obtained from your local Canada Pension Plan Office.
19. EXCERPTS PROM THE MANITOBA PENSION BENEFITS ACT AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER
Act: Section 26 - Inspection of Plan by Member
A member of a registered pension plan or his agent authorization in writing may inspect and make extracts, one in any 12 month period, from the pension plan or any documents related thereto in accordance with the regulations.
Regulations:	Section 21(2) - Documents Available for
Inspection
For the purpose of Section 26 of the Act, the following documents shall be available at the offices of the commission at any time during business hours or from the administrator of the pension plan:
(a)	all provisions of the pension plan;
(b)	the amendments to the plan;
(c)	the annual information return;
(d)	an abstract of the latest actuarial valuation showing at least the following information:
i)	the official name of the plan;
-95-
ii)	employer and employee contributions required for future service;
iii)	the balance of all actuarial deficiencies or liabilities, the annual special contributions required to liquidate such unfunded liabilities, and the amortization periods, and;
iv)	the surplus, if any, and:
(e)	the latest financial statements in the case of uninsured plans.
Under certain legislation your C.P.P. pension is payable when you reach age 65, or as early as age 60 on a reduced basis. The amount of your C.P.P. pension is dependent upon the amount of your earnings on which you have made C.P.P. contributions and the period during which you contributed. To illustrate, an employee who retires at age 65 in 1991 and who is entitled to maximum benefits under the Canada Pension Plan receives a pension of $605 per month when he retires. After C.P.P. pension commences it is subject to adjustment each following Januaty 1st depending upon increases in the Consumer Price Index.
Your O.A.S. pension is also payable from age 65 but if you take up residence outside Canada your O.A.S. pension may be discontinued unless you have been a Canadian resident for a prescribed number of years. If you plan to move out of Canada you should check into these requirements. The amount of O.A.S. pension is subject to quarterly adjustment upward if the Consumer Price Index increases. In January, 1991 the O.A.S. pension was $355 per month.
Labatt Breweries Alberta

PO. Box 1818
4415 Calgary Trail N. Edmonton, Alberta T5] 2P2
Tel (403) 436-6060 Fax(403) 436-3656
July 6,1998
Workplace Information Directorate Collection of Agreements Unit Labour Branch
Human Resources Development Canada Hull, PQ K1A 0J2
Gentlemen;
File: 0067704 UFCW Local SSOW
Further to your request of June 18,1998, please be advised that the Labatt Manitoba Brewery was closed on May 9,1995 and the contract in place was terminated at that time.
Since we no longer operate a brewery in Manitoba, there is no membership and no collective agreement.
Please .adjust your records. If-vou.rerM/ire.furthfir.iflformation-.jo^te^feel Jree to contact me at 403-438-8716.
Sincerely,
Evelyn Black
Human Resources Administrator