-SOURCE
EFF.
TERM.
No. OF EMPLOYEES
NOM8RE
D'EMPIOYES

THIS
AGREEMENT
made and entered into on the 24th day of January, 1989.
BETWEEN:
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 330W
(Hereinafter called the “Union”)
-and-
LABATT’S MANITOBA BREWERY
Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”)
-INDEX
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION
1.	Bargaining Agent ...l..................
2.	Definitions............................
3.	- UnlorrStiORCheelcOff.................
4.	Hiring Practices:?. ..i................
5.	Seniority.:.".-..;;_:..................
-6: -UnfCn Activitiesan'cT Shop Committee ..
7.	Sickness, Oisebltlty' Hospitalization & Ins
8.	Discharge or Suspension ...............
9.	Wearing AppareT. . '..................
10.	Hours of Work and Overtime............
11.	Shift Premium.........................
12.	Plant Htiiidays.......................
13.	Vacation with Pay.....................
14.	Union Label and Materials.............
15.	Grievance Procedure and Arbitrations..
16.	Welfare...............................
17.	Schedule of Wages.....................
18.	Term of Agreement.....................
Seniority List.......................
Dental Plan .........................
Guaranteed Wage Plan ................
Letters of Understanding ............
Group Insurance Plan.................
Labatt Retirement Plan...............
PAGE ...	3
...	3
...	3
...	4
...	5
... 8 ... 8 ... 13 ... 14 ... 15 .. 22 .... 23 .. 23 ....26 ... .26 . .28
38
39 .48 .59 .63
2
ARTICLE 1
BARGAINING AGENT
1.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agency for employees in the Winnipeg Plant It is understood and agreed, however, that this Agree-ment5hall.notgppJy.tq nor include.H&adBre.we.r IBrewmaster\, Assistant Head Brewer (Assistant Brewmaster), Chief Engineer, Foremen and above the rank of Foreman, Office Staff and Salesmen.
1.02	New classifications and wages may be added to the bargaining unit from time to time when mutually agreed between the parties.
1.03	Except for emergencies or reasonable purposes of training, no employee who is excluded from the Bargaining Unit shall perform any work coming within the Bargaining Unit The Company will post a list of supervisory personnel who are classified as supervisors.
ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS
Temporary and Probationary Employees
2.01	New employees shall be considered probationary employees until they have been employed and have worked one hundred and thirty (130) working days within any twelve (12) month period. At the end of the probationary period such employee will be entered upon the Seniority List in accordance with Article 5.02.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees who actually work sixty (60) days within any twelve (12) month period shall acquire recall rightsand be placed on the temporary employees recall list as provided in Article 5.10.
Regular Employees
2.02	In addition to employees who are now recognized as regular employees, an employee who has completed his probationary period by actually working one hundred and thirty days (130), as provided above, shall be placed on the Seniority List in accordance with Article 5.02.
ARTICLE 3
UNION SHOP CHECK OFF
3.01	Each member of the Bargaining Unit shall be a member in good standing of United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330.
3
3.02	The Union agrees that the Company has thirty (30) working days within which to determine whether an employee is satisfactory to it
Subject to the foregoing, the parties agree that any emoloyee engaged by the Company to work in the Bargaining U'ritwiJ/EkwalfA application for.TO9TOha«hjs\rt tba said Local Union after having worked thirty (30) days and pay the regular initiation fees and regular dues, and will not be denied membership in the said Local Union without just cause.
3.03	Whenever an employee is suspended or expelled, the Union will give the Company in writing the reason for such action.
3.04	The Company shall, on receipt of written authorization in a form attached to this Agreement deduct from each Union Member’s pay on the last day in each calendar month during the terms of this Agreement, Union dues to the amount specified and will transmit the total of dues to the amount specified and will transmit the total of the sum deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union within one (1) week of said deduction. The authorization to deduct shall be effective providing the employee has worked a total of forty (40) hours in any one (1) month. The above mentioned authorization shall not be revocable during the life of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, which pertains to the payment of dues by established Union members, the Company agrees to deduct in the form of Union dues from all other employees working within the Bargaining Unit the then current amount specified per week regardless of the number of hours worked in the week, but not to exceed the regular employee monthly dues.
The Company agrees to provide the Union Secretary-Treasurer each month with a complete list of all employees for whom deductions have been made.
ARTICLE 4 HIRING PRACTICES
4.01	The Local Union shall keep a list of all unemployed brewery workers in the Union by companies. From time to time Union shall supply the Company with a list of its unemployed brewery workers. In the event that the Company is in need of a man, such man shall be selected from the said list if a satisfactory man can be produced from it
4
ARTICLE 5 SENIORITY
5.01	Seniority of an employee shall be defined as the elapsed time from the day the employee’s Seniority date was established under 5.02. In the event that Seniority is broken for any reasons set forth in Article 5.03, calculation of Seniority shall date from the time the employee m-established Seniority as set forth in Article 2.
Qualifications for Seniority
5.02	New employees shall be placed on the Seniority list after thev have worked a total of one hundred and thirty (130) days, within a twelve (12) month period. On completion of this probationary period an Employee shall have his Seniority dated back one hundred and thirty (130) working days from the date on which he completes his probation. An employee who was absent during his first 130 days of employment due to serving on a jury or due to W.C.B. and who woula have otherwise been working shall have, after he has completed working one hundred and thirty (130) days in a twelve (12) month period, his Seniority date adjusted to compensate for the above noted absence.
5.03	Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons:
(a)	If an employee quits the job voluntarily or ventures into other permanent employment.
(b)	If an employee is discharged for just cause not reversed by the grievance procedure.
(c)	If an employee fails to report for work within seven (7) days after receiving notice from the Company by registered mail to his last known address to do so, unless he has advised the Company and produces medical evidence as to his being unable to report.
(d)	If the employee has not had employment with the Company for a period of eighteen (18) months.
5.04	Seniority shall not be considered broken by virtue of:
(a)	Leave of absence granted by the Company provided
such leave of absence does not exceed six (6) months and provided that employees granted leave of absence pay dues and assessments to Local Union 330 in advance for the period of leave. The Company will notify the Union of all leaves of absence granted. Employees granted a leave of absence for one month or for a longer period will have their vacation entitlement reduced on a pro rata basis.
5
For example, an absence of one month would reduce normal entitlement for that year by 1/12th.
(b)	Absence from work due to lay-off for less than eighteen (18) months, provided employees are available for work on being recalled in order of seniority.
(c)	Absence from work due to certified sickness or injury.
Posting of Seniority and Temporary Employees Recall Lists
5.05	The Company shall maintain and post a Seniority List on the plant bulletin board within thirty (30) days from date of this Agreement being signed. Such list shall contain only the names and seniority of those employees working In the esta-bished Bargaining Unit.
The Company shall also post and maintain a temporary employees recall list containing the names of those employees who have acquired recall privileges as provided in Article 5.10.
The Company shall notify the Chairman of the Union Shop Committee of any changes in the Seniority List or recall list.
The Union Shop Committee shall have the rights to review any changes, deletions or errors in said lists up to thirty (30) days after posting.
Seniority re Choice of Vacations
5.06	Preference for the choice of annual vacation periods for employees in the Bargaining Unit shall be governed by an employee’s plant wide Seniority within the department Vacations lists will be posted.
Seniority re Lay-off and Re-Hiring after Lay-Off
5.07	The Company will first lay-off all temporary and probationary employees before any regular employee is lald-off.
Plant seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff. All lay-offs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, provided that the senior employee is then willing and able to perform the work required of him. Rehiring after lay-off shall be in reverse order of lay-off with the last man lald-off being the first man re-hired and so on. Seniority re Promotion and Preferred Jobs
5.08	In the event that an opportunity for promotion or a preferred job occurs In the plant, notice of the open position shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days. The classification, wages, hours of work and qualifications
6
for such job shall be given In this notice and all regular employees shall be entitled to apply. The names of all applicants shall be posted on a mutually approved form. The senior applicant will be selected and given a fifteen (15) day trial period except in the case of maintenance, engineering, brewing, warehouse, filler, labeller and palletizer jobs, where the trial period will be thirty (30) days. (Other jobs may be added or deleted from this list through shop committee discussions). In the case of vacancies for tradesmen or classification where a license or a certificate is required, the senior qualified applicant will be selected. The employee selected to fill a posted job shall commence his training on the same not later than twenty (20) working days from the date of his selection. After thirty (30) days service on the job, the employee shall receive the top rate of pay for such job, provided he has sufficient plant wide seniority to duality in the wage schedule. During any time in the thirty (30) days trial period the employee shall have the right to return to his previously held job without prejudice. Provided that employees who are absent during the total period during which a job is posted shall have two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry of the five (5) day job posting period in which to apply.
The Company shall have the right of selection for the classification barman-reception room. The Company in exercising this right shall select such a person from those members from the Bargaining Unit who apply. The senior employee will be selected from the suitable applicants who applied. The Company will consult with the Union as to its reasons for the selection made.
5.09	Any dispute arising over the question of an employee's qualifications to perform any job shall be dealt with under the grievance procedure outlined in this Agreement
5.10	New employees who complete sixty (60) working days in any twelve (12) month period shall be recalled for work when it becomes available, if then qualified and able, in the order in which their recall privileges were established.
On completion of sixty wrvking days within any, twelve (12) month period, an employee shall have his date of recall established by counting back sixty (60) working days from the date on which he completed his sixtieth working day and shall be placed on the temporary employees recall list
These recall privileges shall be terminated:
1.	If the employee has not had employment with the
Company for a period of twelve (12) months;
7
2.
If the employee fails on two (2) occasions to report to work within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving notice;
3.	If the employee quits voluntarily;
4.	If the employee is discharged.
it is agreed that employees shall not be iaid-off for the sole purpose of preventing them from acquiring regular or recall employee status.
ARTICLE 6
UNION ACTIVITIES AND SHOP COMMITTEE
3.01	The Union members employed by the Company shall elect a Union Shop Committee of not more than six (6) members and this Committee shall have monthly meetings with Management to discuss any local problems which may arise affecting the welfare of theemployees. All Union Shop meetings shall be held during the day shift and shall not continue beyond 4:00 p.m. of that day.
It is understood that when a contentious point can not be resolved departmentally, and if it is mutually agreed that the matter be brought to the Shop Committee for resolution, the Shop Steward involved will be compensated at his straight time hourly rate for the time spent at the meeting.
3.02	Minutes of Union Shop Committee meetings shall be taken and signed at the following meeting by representatives of the Committee and the Company. The Company will post within ten (10) days a signed copy of the minutes, and a signed copy will be given to the Committee.
3.03	No member shall be discharged or discriminated against for his activities as a Union member. A member who works on a Committee or under the instruction of the Union shall not lose his position or be discriminated against for so doing. Union activities other than those with Company approval shall not be carried on during working hours.
3.04	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writing of the personnel of, or any change in the Union Shop Committee.
ARTICLE 7
SICKNESS OR DISABILITY HOSPITALIZATION AND INSURANCE 7.01 An employee who has been off work as a result of certified sickness, dental appointments, or accident, upon recovery shall be re-employed in a position in keeping with his physical
8
condition if such position exists and retain his full seniority rights for all time lost. In the event of sickness or accident an employee shall make every reasonable effort to notify his supervisor at feast four (4) hours prior to his normal starting time of the afternoon and night shifts, and half (1/2) hour prior to his starting time on the day shift The foregoing shall not apply under extenuating circumstances.
7.02	(a) The sick leave plan covers a regular employee who
is absent from work because of sickness, dental appointment or accident not covered by Worker’s Compensation. Sick leave benefits will be established as follows:
1.	Employees who achieve regular employee status after June 1,1985 shall be entitled, to ten (10) days sick leave per year and shall not accumulate sick days from one benefit year to the next
2.	Employees who have achieved regular employee status prior to June 1,1985 shall be credited effective June 1 of each year with ten (10) days of sick leave benefit Any unused portion shall be accumulated to a total of twenty (20\ riavs in anv two (£) year period. Effective June 1, 1987, employees who have achieved regular employee status prior to June 1,1985 shall be allowed to accumulate a maximum of fifteen (15) days of sick leave in any two (2) year period.
3.	Effective June 1,1987, employees who have achieved regular employee status prior to June 1,1985 and who retire under the terms of the Company Pension Plan, shall be allowed to cash out any unused portion of their sick leave benefit to a maximum of ten (10) sick days.
4.	(a) The unused portion shall be applied to provide full pay (in certain instances by supplementing weekly indemnity) for days lost as follows:
(i)	The first three (3) working days lost as the result of any one non-occupational illness or injury:
(ii)	The period of weekly indemnity payments resulting from sickness or non-occupational accidents in which case sick pay is to be used to supplement weekly indemnity up to a full pay.
(b) Full pay for an employee shall mean the equivalent of his standard daily hours time his job rate of pay and the payment of sick pay shall not result under any circumstances in an employee receiving more than a full day’s pay or full week’s pay.
9
(c)	An employee’s maximum entitlement of sick days shall be reduced by one (1) hour for each or part hour of sick leave and also when supplementing weekly indemnity payments. The foregoing does not cover Worker's Compensation.
(d)	Employees absent due to sickness or non-occupational accident shall be paid every plant pay day. Employees will be required to submit completed weekly indemnity claim forms as requested by the Company to continue to receive pay in subsequent pay periods. It is understood that weekly indemnity cheques will be endorsed by the employees and turned over to the Company.
7.03	Employees who apply for sick pay resulting from sickness, dental appointments or accidents may be required to furnish a doctor’s certificate as proof of disability, at the discretion of the Company The Company shall assume the cost, if any.
A physician’s certificate will remain necessary in order to qualify for Weekly Indemnity Insurance. Physician means a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) duty licensed to practise medicine.
7.04	(a) The Company will pay such amount as may be required to provide the following Welfare Plan:
Regular Employees
1.	Life Insurance
Effective	August 1st, 1988..	.	,	$32,000
Effective June 1st, 1989	.	$33,000
Effective	June 1st, 1990	.	.	,	$34,000
Employees not actively at work on the above named dates shall only be provided the increased coverage upon their return to active employment
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment, including Occupational Accident
Effective August 1st, 1988 .... $32,000 Effective	June 1st, 1989	.	.	$33,000
Effective June 1st, 1990 .... $34,000 Employees not actively at work on the above named dates shall only be provided with the increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment
3.	Base Medical and Hospital benefits under the Manitoba Government Plan (The Manitoba Health Services Insurance Act).
4.	Supplemental benefits equivalent to Medi-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage and the vacation
10
insurance plan under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Manitoba Blue Cross. After Manitoba Health Services Commission annual chiropractic limits for chiropractic are reached, the Company will provide, through Blue Cross, Chiropractic Coverage for subsequent visits up to the Manitoba Health Services Commission’s fee schedule in effect at the time services are penormeo. The maximum coverage will be $150.00 per family per year.
In lieu of Union request for additional paid sick time, the Company agrees to provide Weekly Indemnity of seventy percent (70%) of employees weekly wage, payable on the fourth day of non-compensable accident, and on the fourth day of sickness calculated as forty (40) times the employees current hourly rate for a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks.
The Company agrees to provide Weekly Indemnity and Long term Disability plans as follows:
In case of sickness or any non-occupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 70% of wages (hourly rate X 40) in effect at any time during the 26 week Deriod will be Daid to erqDlqvees who are off work and under the care of a doctor. Payments will commence on the 4th working day, if disability is due to a non-compensable accident or sickness and will continue to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one period of disability.
An insured Long Term Disability Plan will begin at the end of the 26 weeks period of disability or at the end of a continuous period of 26 weeks during which an employee has received Worker’s Compensation payments and continues until recovery or normal retirement date, whichever occurs first, subject to the eligibility provisions of the Plan. The Plan will provide payment of 66 2/3% of wages (hourly rate X 40) in effect at any time during the first 78 weeks of the Long Term Plan. Following such period the payment will be 66 2/3% wages (hourly rate X 40) in effect at the end of the said 78 weeks period. The Long Term Disability Plan and Weekly Indemnity Plan will be of a standard nature which will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance.
The Company is prepared to provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of persons receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commence ment of disability
Commencing after the 26th week, and until 104 weeks from the date of disability, the eligibility for continuance of the coverage shall be inability to do a regular job available in the Bargaining Unit Starting the 105th week, eligibility for benefits will depend on the employee’s ability to perform duties at any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education or experience to perform.
During the first 104 weeks of benefits provided herein, employees shall be paid weekly and, thereafter monthly. 7. Dental care benefits in accordance with the provision attached hereto and forming part of this Agreement.
(a)	For pensioners who retired prior to June 1st, 1980, all benefits granted are governed by the Agreement in force on the date they retired.
(b)	For pensioners who retired after the date of signing this Agreement, the following benefits will be provided at no cost to the pensioners.
(a)	On Normal Retirement or Special Early Retirement:
(i)	Life insurance will continue at $4,000
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical
benefits will be continued in a Provincial Plan as long as the pensioner is a resident in a province of Canada.
(iii)	Supplemental benefits equivalent to the Medi-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba.
If the pensioner resides in another province where the Company has an operating brewery, he will be enrolled in the comoarable supplemental health plan of that brewery.
(b)	On Partial Disability Retirement:
(i) The full amount of insurance in force
12
immediately before retirement will be continued to age sixty-five (65) and then reduced to $4,000.
(ii)	Base hospital, medical and surgical
benefits will be continued in a Provincial Plan as long as the pensioner is a resident in a province of Canada
(iii)	Supplemental benefits equivalent to the Meai-plus (Standard) and semi-private coverage under the Hospital-Ambulance Plan of Blue Cross if the pensioner resides in Manitoba.
If the pensioner resides in another province where the Company has an operating brewery, he will be enrolled in the comparable supplemental health plan of that brewery.
(c)	On Voluntary Early Retirement
Employees over age sixty (60) who elect voluntary early retirement and who do not engage in full time regular employment shall be eligible for welfare benefits as outlined in (a) above.
7.05	Group Insurance Plan
An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan shall be entitled to only the insured Welfare Benefits provided to employees on retirement as at his normal retirement date.
7.06	U.I.C. REBATE: The employee’s share of any Unemployment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this Agreement
ARTICLE 8
DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
8.01	Only the manager or supervisory .employees as desig-
nated by.theMaDaapmRot.shaH nave the.authority to discharge or suspend any employee. The reasons for the discharge or suspension shall be given to the employee and the Union Shop Committee at time of discharge or suspension and shall be in writing, and in either case the Union Shop Committee shall be entitled to investigate such discharge or suspension. No
13
employee shall be reprimanded without a Shop Steward being present No employee will be discharged or suspended without just cause. The employee discharged or suspended shall be entitled to a hearing if he so desires.
8.02	Any employee discharged or suspended upon grounds Which, after ioyestjfiatJ.Qa by the I ininn.fximrvCommittee, and. Management and/or a Board of Arbitration, are found to be insufficient shall be reinstated into his former job, retain his full seniority rights and shall receive the pay he would have received if he had not been discharged or suspended, unless the Arbitration Board rules otherwise.
8.03	If any employee in the Bargaining Unit encounters a legal picket line in the course of his normal duties, there shall be an immediate conference between the parties hereto before any decision is made by either party as to whether the picket line should or should not be respected.
8.04	All disciplinary records will be removed from the employee’s personal folder and destroyed after a period of three (3) years from the date of issuance of such discipline and, therefore, shall not be relied upon for any purpose.
ARTICLE 9
WEARING APPAREL — SAFETY
9.01 Employees shall be required to appear in clean working clothes at the beginning of each week. Rubber and duck aprons and rubber boots, goggles, masks, rubber gloves, and a rubber suit shall be supplied to all employees when and where necessary. The company will supply safety shoes on approval by his supervisor, to all regular employees, when and where necessary. As a condition of employment, temporary employees shall be required to supply their own safety shoes. Upon completion of the probationary period, such employeesshall be reimbursed for safety shoes in accordance with the above provision. Work clothes shall be issued to all regular employees on the basis of three (3) sets per year without cost to the employees. All clothing issued to the employees of the Company shall carry a bona fide Union label. The company will pay cost of prescription safety lenses and industrial frames for those employees who wear glasses on a full-time basis, and may have to work in an area where safety glasses are required.
Employees must obtain the necessary forms from the Personnel Department to obtain glasses from a supplier designated by the Company, unless other arrangements have been made with the Company.
14
9.02	No employee shall be required to undertake any job which may endanger his health without appropriate protective clothing or devices.
9.03	Any employee undertaking any job requiring safety equipment and not using equipment available may be subject to discipline.
9.04	It is agreed every effort will be made to provide for at least one (1) qualified first-aid man being available on each shift
9.05	The Company will provide to such employeesengaged in work causing extra-ordinary physical dirtiness, as mutually agreed with the Shop Committee, a five (5) minute wash up time.
9.06	The Company will pay license fees for engineers and electricians when their employment requires it
ARTICLE 10
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Bottleshop, Brewhouse, Reception Room,
Shipping, Receiving
10.01	Forty (40) hours per week, five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days Monday through Friday shall constitute a week’s work.
Overtime shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per dav and/or forty (40) hours per week subject to Article 10.08.	.
All work performed on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
Maintenance
10.02	Employees shall be regularly scheduled to work five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days from Monday through Saturday All work in excess of the regular scheduled over eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half subject to Article 10.08. All work performed on an employee’s regularly scheduled day off shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
10.03	With respect to Article 10.01 and 10.02 above, the parties agree that an employee will not be asked or required to wui k a split shift.
Engineers
10.04	Engineers shall work forty (40) hours per week, within a calendar week, commencing at 0 o’clock Sunday to 24 o’clock Sunday. Provisions shall be made for scheduled days off each such calendar week. Any work performed on all such regularly
15
scheduled days off shall be paid for at the rate of double time. Any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half for the first two (2) hours and double time thereafter. Engineers who are required to work on any Sunday as par1, of. thaw reguta'-sbit1 Jibal1 iv? ,c\ald at t.be rate of. doi jfcJe time for all hours worked. Work schedules for engineers shall be mutually worked out between the Company and the Union and shall not be subject to change unless thirty (30) days notice to amend is served on either of the two parties and a substitute working schedule agreed upon.
Hours of Rest Between Shifts
10.05	All employees shall receive a minimum of twelve (12) hours rest between shifts. In the event that less time than twelve (12) hours is allowed to an employee, such employee shall be
Said time and one-half for all hours worked up to the time when e would have normally received twelve (12) hours rest This does not apply when the variation is requested by the employee affected.
Rest Periods
10.06	Every employee shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute relief periods each eight (8) hour shift. Whenever possible the first relief period shall be taken within the first three (3) hours of work. In the case of continuous shift work special arrangements shall be made for employees to take their relief periods during such shift. All employees shall be entitled to a fifteen (15) minute rest period before starting overtime and shall receive an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period after two (2) consecutive hours of work thereafter. All employees engaged in continuous shift operations shall be entitled to eat their lunch during the middle of each shift
Pay for All Overtime Hours
10.07	All overtime shall be paid for and shall not be absorbed by giving the time off nor shall any employee be required to absorb time lost by lay-off by working any other day of the week.
Maximum Daily Overtime
10.08	Ail work performed in excess often (10) hours in any one day, shall be paid at the rate of double time.
Call in Pay and Prior Notice of Overtime
10.09	(a) Employees shall be notified before quitting time if they are not to report for work the following day. If they are not notified and report to work they shall be paid for the whole day.
16
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union ninety (90) days in advance to intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the laying-off of employees.
Furthermore a joint labour-management committee will be formed which will deal with: evaluating the options open to the Company, including justification for the change; its responsibility to the workers and the community, maintenance of earnings and severance pay; the feasibility of decreasing personnel through various methods such as attrition, transfer to other jobs, retraining, educational guidance and assistance and early retirement
In agreeing to clause 12 (b) “Technological Change” it is understood that technological changes may be introduced by the Company as ii considers desirable, and that employees may be laid-off as a result. The transfer to new jobs, retraining, early retirements, etc., will be subject to negotiation.
It is further understood that separated employees will be eligible for reemployment, but seniority would commence as of the date of re-hire, except that any employee who has been discharged for cause from any plant would not be eligible for rehire.
Those employees whose jobs are affected by technological change such as skilled tradesmen, engineers, may elect a separation pay if they wish rather than accept transfer to a job outside of their usual occupation, if an employee elects to take separation pay in lieu of another job with the Company, he would not be eligible for separation pay again if re-hired.
(ii)	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE:
01	in the event that during this collective agreement the Company plans to introduce a major technological change which It anticipates will directly result in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
18
The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected reg-uiar employee? in-juicncdanoe with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be permanently laid off;
During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the collective agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for special early retirement (‘eligible employees’) as to their willingness to elect special early retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take special early retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB)
The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the GWP separation pay entitlement of ail the employees designated for permanent layoff in paragraph(b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take special early retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
02	if:
the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take special early retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results
19
in the permanent layoff of ten (10) or more
regular employees.
Trie'itJlicwfng provfaljrre-shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated for permanent layoff hereunder, who are eligible for participating in GWR will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan, if any of those employees who are eligible for participating in the Guaranteed Wage Plan were classified as regular employees prior to July 22, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 10 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan;
(ii)	those employees designated for permanent layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan, in addition, if any employee who is eligible for participation in tne Guaranteed Wage Plan was classified as a regular employee prior to July 22,1988, he shall receive an additional eight (8) weeks of benefit entitlement under the plan, subject to the following conditions:
A) an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
20
B) The additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
03	In consideration of the foregoing provisions that are intended to assist employees affected by technological change to adjust to the effects of the technological change the parties hereby agree that Sections 83,84 and 85 of The Labour Relations Act do not apply during the term of the Agreement to the Company and the Union.
10.13	(a) The Company will supply adequate manpower on
ail operations in all departments at ail times so that an employee will not be required to perform more than a fair day’s work.
(b)	Claus© ,(^'„shal|.a£\ti^>j^>ns1r!.iad.tn/nK>n *haJ. the manning of ail operations is at present exactly adequate or that all employees are presently assigned exactly a fair day’s work, and accordingly changes in the manning of crews and changes in an employee's work load may be made so long as the resulting situation is not a violation of clause (a).
(c)	Before selecting employees for training on other jobs, the Company will post the training job for a period of three (3) working days. Employees having the greater seniority will be given preference for.thr.tolnvr^jis* Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may temporarily assign any employee to any job. A temporary assignment is for purpose of replacing an employee to any job. A temporary assignment is for purpose of replacing an employee on a job because of sickness, vacation relief or for other reasons, but in any case not longer than thirty (30) working days. Where a temporary assignment is made for “other reasons” the Company will discuss these reasons with the Union.
It.Ls.furtheraindffrsJrtndJthat. any employes so assigned bv the Company will not bq.aiven areference over others solelv by virtue of such temporary assignments. Senior available employeesshall be given first right of refusal for such temporary jobs in the Warehouse Department where vacancies are expected to last for 1 week or longer.
(d)	7/».SiMmnt«wV&ajy,.cl{ap which is a supplement to this Agreement, is intended to provide assistance for certain employees who are laid-off as a result of the application of the lay-off provisions of this Agreement and is not to be construed as authorization to alter existing lay-off practices.
(e)	SEVERANCE PAY — Persons hired as regular employees after July 22,1988 who have achieved seniority and
21
who are not yet eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan will, upon permanent layoff, be eligible to receive an amount of severance pay equal to one (1) week of regular pay for each completed year of service as of the original date of his layoff. Upon receipt of such severance pay, the employee’s employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under this Agreement are cancelled.
10.14 Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs (including prescribed text books) of educational courses provided that:
(i)	The course is given by a recognized institution, is approved by Management and makes a contribution to the development of the employee or improved Union-Management relations.
(ii)	The course is likely to contribute to the employee’s performance or advancement within the Company
(iii)	The employee offers proof of successful completion of the course:
(iv)	The maximum refund to any employee in any one
calendar year will be $200.00 for any full term course, and $100.00 for any half term course.
ARTICLE 11 SHIFT PREMIUMS
11.01	Anv shift commencina at or after 6:00 a.m. and before 10:00 a.m. shall be considered the morning shift, and any shift commencing at or after 10:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the afternoon shift and any shift commencing at or after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the midnight shift
11.02	Effective June 1st, 1988 all employees working the
afternoon shift shall receive a premium of 55 cents per hour over and above the normal hourly rate for all hours worked. All employees working the midnight shift shall receive a premium of 75 cents per hour over and above S!ob regular hourly rate for all hours worked.	'
Effective June 1.1989 amend shift premium provisions such that the midnight shift premium payable shall be 80 cents per hour.
Effective June 1,1990 the midnight shift premium payable shall be 85 cents per hour.
22
ARTICLE 12 PLANT HOLIDAYS
12.01	The Company will observe the following plant holidays:
Civic Holiday
and any other holidays declared by the Provincial or Dominion Governments. If any of the said holidays should fail on a Sunday they will be observed on the following Monday. If any of the said holidays should fall on a Saturday, which is an employee’s nonworking day, then such holiday will be observed on the preceding work day.
12.02	Employees on the seniority list will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
(a)	The employee has worked at least five (5) days during the twenty (20) working days Immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
(b)	The employee has not been absent, without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed, or the first work day scheduled for him immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
(c)	In cases where a regular employee has been on weekly indemnity or worker’s compensation and is cleared by his physician to return to work prior to or on the holiday, he will be eligible for pay for that holiday.
12.03	Any employee who is required to work on any of the aforementioned plant holidays shall be paid at the rate of double time in addition to his regular day’s pay of eight (8) hours.
12.04	Employees who have gained recall privileges will receive payment for plant holidays on the same terms and conditions as regular employees.
ARTICLE 13 VACATION WITH PAY
13.01	Any employee who has worked a total of six (6) months
either continuously or collectively prior to April 15, shall receive one (1) week's vacation with pay, plus an additional day for each
New Year’s Day Good Friday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Easter Monday Victoria Day
Dominion Day
23
month of service in excess of six (6) months to a maximum of ten (10) days in any one year.
Employees who have worked less than six (6) months as of April 15th shall receive payment in accordance with Provincial Government Legislation.
13.02	All employees with a minimum of one (1) year’s seniority on April 15th shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay per year, providing that the employee has not taken vacation under Article 13.01. The Company will provide annually two (2) consecutive weeks vacation if requested by the employee.
13.03
(i) On the anniversary date of an employee, the entitlement, for vacations will be as follows:
Years of
Continuous Service Weeks of Vacation
1	2
3	3
8	4
15	5
20	6
25	7
(ii)	The recognized annual vacation year will be from April 1 15th to April 15th of the following year.
(iii)	Employees who attain their 3rd, 8th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversary date with the vacation year (April 15th to April 14th following year) shall receive their full vacation entitlement within that vacation year, but not before such anniversary date has been attained. Notwithstanding the above, such extra entitlement may
be granted in advance by the Company in order to have annual vacations completed within the vacation year in question.
13.04	If a regular employee who would be entitled to vacation leaves the service of the Company without receiving his vacation, he shall be paid for his vacation at the appropriate rate.
13.05	If any of the aforementioned plant holidays falls within an employee’s annual vacation period, he shall receive either an additional day’s vacation or an additional day’s pay
13.06	The recognized summer vacation period shall be May 1 through September 15 and all regular employees who are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation shall be entitled to have three (3) weeks continuous vacation during this period, provided that the taking of vacation does not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant
24
13.07	An employee may, with the consent of the Company, take his vacation in advance of the regular vacation period.
13.08	It is understood and agreed that seniority requirements for vacation purposes shall be total service with the Company.
13.09	It is to be understood that with respect to those employees who are entitled to more than three (3) weeks vacation per year, shall take these additional weeks subsequent to September 15th.
13.10	(a) In the event that an employee becomes seriously ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation, such that he qualifies for Weekly Indemnity coverage, he may make arrangements as outlined to postpone his remaining vacation in order to enroll in the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
(i)	The employee shall advise his supervisor of his illness or accident and make arrangements to have the weekly indemnity form completed.
(ii)	All approved requests will result in the employee’s remaining vacation being cancelled the day after the request is received. The remaining vacation time shall be m-scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to by the Company and the employee.
(iii)	Any vacation pay held by the employee for the cancelled period shall be returned to the Company and reissued for the re-scheduled vacation period.
(b) Notwithstanding Article 13.10 (a) or any other Article of this Agreement an employee’s annual vacation must be taken in full within one year of becoming entitled to same. Employees who are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Worker’s Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, Company paid sick leave, etc., shall within the first 104 weeks of such absence have added to such allowance by the Company, vacation wages so that the employee receives, during this vacation period, the full amount he would have received had he not been disabled, sick, etc., but in no event shall he be entitled to receive more in combined compensation and vacation wages then he would have received were he not in receipt of such disability compensation allowances.
13.11	(a) As of an employee’s anniversary date, employees with three (3) or more years of seniority shall receive a vacation bonus payable in cash and equal to twenty (20) per cent of such employee's normal vacation payment
(b) In the event any employee who has benefit service as defined in the Guaranteed Wage Plan is expected to be laid-
25
off during any calendar year, the Company and the Union shall discuss the matter and, if the Union agrees, instead of cash vacation bonus payments hereunder, time off with pay may be scheduled for certain of theemployees who would otherwise be entitled to such payments. Such discussion shall be held in the months of September and December of each year (and at such other times as the parties may agree) to determine to what extent vacation time off with pay should be scheduled in lieu of payment of cash vacation bonuses to alleviate lay-off of junior employees having benefit service. In any event, payment of vacation bonus in cash shall not be made prior to September 30th in each year.
ARTICLE 14
UNION LABEL AND MATERIALS
14.01	The use of the Union Label of the Canadian Union will be granted as long as the Company strictly observes all provisions of this Agreement.
14.02	The Union Label may be used on cooperage, bottles, cases and cartons and must be affixed before leaving the Company’s plant
14.03	Only Union made malt may be used when available, when price and quality are equal. Other Union made materials and machinery shall be given preference where price and quality are equal.
14.04	It is understood that the Company will not contract out work, if it is agreed that such work can be performed by a member of the bargaining unit who is available for such work.
(It is to be understood that the Company will decide if there is a man available from the Bargaining Unit with the required ability to perform the work).
If it is necessary for the Company to contract work to outside firms, the Company will fully inform the Union of its intention to do so, and preference will be given to firms employing Union people, providing all things are reasonably comparable.
If there is a disagreement, regarding any work the Company has contracted out the Union may refer the matter to the grievance procedure, starting at the third step.
ARTICLE 15
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATIONS
In the event that any employee alleges a violation of the Agreement, he shall have full recourse to the grievance procedure. The following shall be the recognized procedure for the
26
progressive adjustment of disputes or grievances; within fifteen (15) full working days of the alleged grievance occuring or becoming apparent, the first step shall be taken. It is understood and agreed that any aggrieved employee has the right to be heard at meetings dealing with his case.
15.01	FIRST STEP
The Shop Steward in the department in which the aggrieved employee works shall take the matter up with the department foreman, either with or without the aggrieved employee being present If no agreement can be reached the next step shall be taken.
15.02	SECOND STEP
A Union Steward shall take the matter up with the Department Head. If no agreement can be reached the 3rd Step shall be taken.
15.03	THIRD STEP
The Union Shop Committee shall take the matter up with the Management of the Company Any grievance originating from the Company shall commence at the third step in the grievance procedure. The Union Shop Committee Chairman shall be advised of the nature of the grievance and sufficient time shall be given for the Committee to conduct a full investigation of the case before meeting with Management. If no agreement can be reached between the Company and the Union Shop Committee, the matter shall be taken to the fourth step.
15.04	FOURTH STEP
Within three (3) working days of the third step being taken the grievance shall then be put in writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and signed on behalf of the Union Shop Committee and shall be dealt with by the Management of the Company, the Union Shop Committee and a representative of the Union’s choice. Management shall give the Union a written answer not later than three (3) working days after either party declares that discussions pertaining to the grievance have concluded.
15.05	FIFTH STEP
If no adjustment satisfactory to both parties can be reached in the previous four (4) steps, the grievance shall be submitted to arbitration by written notice within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the Company’s decision at Step 4. The Board of arbitration shall be constituted in the following manner;
One (1) representative selected by the Union and one (1) representative selected by the Company. Should these two
27
(2) representatives fail to agree on the selection of a chairman, then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Labour Relations Board. A majority decision of the Board shall be binding on both parties. Either party to this Agreement shall appoint their Arbitrator within seven (7) clear days after notice by registered mail has been received by the appointment of the Arbitrator of the other party. A decision shall be reached within one (1) week of date of the appointment of the Chairman of the Board or such longer period as the Board may require to then reach a decision. It is agreed that the Union will be responsible for pay-ina exoenses of its nominee to anv Arbitration Board and the Company will be responsible for the expenses of its nominee. The Company and the Union shall jointly be responsible for the expenses of the Chairman.
15.06	The Chairman of the Union Shop Committee, on behalf of the Union, or the Manager on behalf of the Company, may file a policy grievance at 3rd Step of the grievance procedure. A policy grievance is defined as a dispute between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation of the agreement, including whether or not a matter is arbitrable.
15.07	Pending arbitration, there shall be no strike or lockout and work shall continue under this Agreement. Arbitration cases to be resolved and/or decision made by the Arbitration Board within a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE 16 WELFARE
16.01	When an employee attends the funeral of an immediate relative he shall receive leave of absence for three consecutive working days (one of which days shall be the day of the funeral) and shall receive eight (8) hours straight-time rate of pay for each of such days absent on which he would otherwise have been working.
For the purpose of this Article 16.01, “immediate relative” shall mean one of the following: Spouse, children, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister and brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchildren. In the event of the funeral of an employee's grandparent occuring on an employee’s regular schedule day of work, time off with pay shall be granted to attend the funeral on that day.
16.02	(a) Whenever employees are required to serve on a regular or coroner’s jury during their normal working hours, they shall be granted leave of absence and shall receive the differ-
28
(c) Upon written application to the Company from the executive of the Union, for education leave for an elected officials) of the Union:
(i)	The Company shall grant a total of seven (7) man-days
prior to June 1,1989, in order to provide paid education leave,	requirements permitting.
(ii)	Effective June 1,1989, the Company shall grant a total of seven (7) man-days prior to June 1,1990, in order to provide paid educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
(iii)	Effective June 1,1990, the Company shall grant a total of seven (7) man-days prior to June 1,1991 in order to provide paid educational leave, operational requirements permitting.
16.04	The Pension Plan is part of this Agreement, and the amendments to it are attached hereto.
16.05	Lunchroom and washrooms will be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
ARTICLE 17 SCHEDULE OF WAGES
17.01	The following schedule of wages is hereby confirmed and shall form part of this Agreement No employee shall receive less than the following rates of pay for the classification in which he is employed. A regular pay period shall be established by the Company on a two (2) week basis and employees shall receive their pay as mutually agreed upon.
17.02	Present higher rates of pay than those listed in the following schedules now enjoyed by the employees shall not be disturbed and shall continue as heretofore.
17.03	Any production employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing but any employee substituting on a lower rated job shall not have his regular rate of pay reduced. Any employee permanently transferred at his request will be paid the rate of the job to which he has been transferred.
Any ogrular employee classified in a high®’ category who is requested to perform the work in a lower job"classification due to mechanization or lay-offs shall not have his wage rate reduced. This higher rate will continue until such time as the classification rate equals the employee’s wage rate.
Lead hands will be paid 30 cents per hour above the highest job rate within the department they are leading.
30
In the case of a temporary employee who has not worked sixty (60) working days and who is placed on a job classified at the base rate, he will receive increment equal to the difference between the base rate of pay and the rate for the job he is performing.
Machine operators will include employees working on soaker discharge, soaker infeed, filler labeller, packer, sealer and taper, baler, fork lift truck, power transporters, carton make-up machine, uncaser, palletizer, saw operators, depalletizer and reclamation operator when assigned.
17.04	An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, weekly indemnity, LTD, Worker’s Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part day.
COST O? UVItfG ALLOWANCE
A cost of Living Allowance, in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from June 1,1990, to May 3 1,1991, the first pay period following the publication of the May, 1991 Consumer Price Index, (1991 = 100), on the basis of 1 cent per hour for each full .3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1971 = 100) in the period from June 1,1990, to May 31, 1991, calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of May, 1990, after adding thereto 6% of the May, 1990 Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100), from the Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100) for the month of May, 1991.
31
LABATT’S MANITOBA BREWERY
WAGE SCHEDULE
CLASSIFICATION		Effective 1st of month following ratification	June 1 1989	June 1 1990
B r e w i n	g	$ 17.20	$ 17.85	$ 18.55
Bottling				
Machine Operator.			17.00	17.65	18.35
Bottling General			16.92	17.57	18.27
Filler, Labeller			17.00	17.65	18.35
Racking 			17.05	17.70	18.40
Warehousing				
Fork Truck Operator ....		17.00	17.65	18.35
Power Transporter Operator 			17.00	17.65	18.35
Truck Driver. .		17.07	17.72	18.42
Warehouse General			16.92	17.57	18.27
Maintenance & Engineering Machinist • Mechanic	 18.72			19.48	20.30
Painter			17.40	18.05	18.75
Welder 			18.72	19.48	20.30
Electrician			19.07	19.83	20.65
Engineer (2nd Class) ....		19.16	19.92	20.74
Oiler			17.34	17.99	18.69
Maintenance Mechanic .		18.67	19.43	20.25
General				
Plant			16.92	17.57	18.27
Barman - Reception Room.		17.00	17.65	18.35
Shipper & Receiver.			17.00	17.65	18.35
Starting Rate - first working days		60	7.40	7.74	8.10
32
ARTICLE 18
TERM OF AGREEMENT
18.01	The Agreement shall remain in force and effect from the first dav of June 1988 to May 31st, 1991, and shall automatically continue trom year to year tnereaner unless either party serves notice on the other party by registered mail, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date, that changes are desired therein. When such notice has been given the parties shall commence negotiations within ten (10) days from date of notification.
18.02	In the event that no settlement can be reached between the parties and a strike or lock-out develops, the Union agrees that engineering staff (one per shift) will be allowed to continue to work to maintain essential plant protection service. Such employees will not be subject to the provisions of Article 8.03 of this Agreement
18.03	The changes incorporated in this Collective Agreement shall be effective as stated in the Memorandum of Agreement of July 9th, 1988.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties haveexecuted this Agreement this 24th day of January, 1989.
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, LOCAL 330
LABATT’S MANITOBA BREWERY
33
LABATT’S MANITOBA BREWERY SENIORITY LIST October 1,1988
Employment Date Seniority Date
Employee
W. Munick *R. Prost L Lavallee
R.	Horobetz A. Schmidtke R Shalist
D. Gertzen
D.	Kunderman |?Deslauriers
K.	Bassett
S.	Prytula S. Buksak
E.	Hotz A. Sedor R. Olsen
L.	Dupont
M.	Knight
N.	Whitehead
M.	Bertens
I.	Dahl
N.	Brunei A. Carlson G. Lovstad W. Jamieson
March 1,1954 June 13,1956 June 25,1956 Sept. 4,1956 Sept 4,1956 Sept. 7,1956 Jan. 2,1957 Feb. 20,1957 June 4,1957 June 6,1957 May 25,1959 May 3,1960 May 3,1960 Aug. 2,1960 Oct. 17,1960 Oct. 17,1960 March 27,1961 Apr. 3,1961 June 8,1961 June 17,1963 March 31,1964 May 26,1964 July 12,1967 Nov. 27, 1967
March 1,1954 June 13,1956 June 25,1956 Sept 4,1956 Sept 4,1956 Sept 7,1956 Jan. 2,1957 Feb. 20,1957 June 4,1957 June 6,1957 Dec. 11,1959 June 20,1960 June30,1960 Oct. 3,1960 Dec. 5,1960 Dec. 8,1960 March 30,1961 Apr. 4,1961 June 16,1961 June 17,1963 Apr. 21,1964 Oct. 2,1964 July 12,1967 Hov. 27, 1967
•Long Term Disability
As per Labatt Kiewell-Pellissier Aqreemecdt	.1fl 1969
34
Employee	Employment Date
W. Anderson	June 14,1952
L. Carriere	June 1953
R. Gaudreau	June 24,1954
H. Loster	Nov. 1,1954
A. Potlone	Dec. 1955
A. Lambert	July 1958
A. Rehberg	May 1964
B. Lutz	Dec. 1965
R. DeMontigny	July 1966
E. Pawluk	SepL 6,1966
*E Porznak	June 26,1967
B. Hawryluk	Jan. 26,1970
T. Dooley	Aug. 28,1963
R. Brunei	Apr. 24,1970
P Merkel	June 15,1970
#R. Smyrichinsky	L/AJune 26,1970
• EMichalick	May 24,1973
#L Van Den Bussche	
L/A	June 20,1973
6. Hyde	June 1,1973
B. Birt	Oct. 9,1970
D. Kamyszek	Feb. 27,1974
A. Schultz	Apr. 15,1974
G.LePage	May 21,1974
A. Rehberg Jr.	Sept. 16,1975
M. Vinck	Sept 8,1975
B. Micholson	Aug. 26,1975
D. Palahltski	Jan. 29, 1976
*R. Mouflier	Aug. 26, 1975
I. FI am and	SepL 26,1975
T. McGavock	Apr. 28,1976
J. Clements	June 16,1976
A. Laden	July 17,1976
L. Johnson	Sept. 7,1976
S. Hillman	SepL 14,1976
M. Maki	March 1,1977
G. Prost	March 17,1977
W. Schell	Nov. 30,1977
E Loney	March 8,1977
D. Haliuk	Aug. 31,1977
R. Dube	Jan. 9, 1979
R. Rawluk	Jan. 9,1979
S. Franklin	Mar. 21,1978
C. Winzinowich	Mar. 22,1978
Seniority Date
June 14,1952 June 22, 1953 June 24,1954 Nov. 1, 1954 Dec. 5,1955 July 31,1958 May 1,1964 Jan. 13,1965 July 21, 1966 Sept. 6,1966 June 26, 1967 Mar. 23,1970 Apr. 16, 1970 May 8,1970 June 15, 1970 Aug. 21, 1970 May 24, 1973
Aug. 30,1973 Sept. 7,1973 Apr. 23,1974 Apr. 29,1974 May 14,1974 June 12,1974 Nov. 21.1975 Dec. 21,1975 Dec. 18,1975 Mar. 4,1976 Apr. 1, 1976 May 26,1975 May 28,1976 Oct. 18, 1976 Nov. 12, 1976 Jan. 12,1977 Jan. 14,1977 Mar. 25,1977 June 23,1977 Sept. 9,1977 Dec. 5, 1978 Dec. 15, 1978 Jan. 9, 1979 Jan. 10, 1979 Jan. 16, 1979 Jan. 22,1979
35
Employee B. Jackson H. Rehberg
D.	Woodcock T. Lesperance L. Coughlin
E.	Onufreychuk D. Weston
J. Trosky D. DeMontigny L. Ong R. Klos
D.	Ryback G. Hartle
R. Wishnoski R. Drohomereski L. Oaye R. Domanski R Toth
G.	Csaba
B.	Burak
A.	Yablonskl J. Caldwell
E.	Plese
H.	Cerln
C.	Burkert T. Roy
B.	Adair 0. Jenken J. Nollette
T. Yaschyshyn R. Berard L. Vatrt R. St. Hilaire L Johannson E. Matichuk N. Avila R. Dey Q Serediuk B. Craig B. Dufault J. Baerr R. Ruymar R. Bieber R. Adelberg
Date Seniority Date
Employment Mar. 22, 1978 Mar. 17,1977 Apr. 19,1976 Apr. 15,1978 Oct. CO, 1981 Mar. 29,1982 Nov. 16, 1978 May 9,1980 May 29,1981 June 22,1983 Feb. 27,1984 Feb. 27,1984 Feb. 27,1984 Mar. It?, 1984 Feb. 27,1984 July 6,1983 Feb. 24,1984 Oct. 5,1978 Mar. 7,1984 May 8,1984 June 19,1984 June 19,1984 Nov. 13,1984 July 3,1984 July 3,1984 June 25,1984 Feb. 11.1985 June 19, 1985 May 6,1985 May 6,1985 Feb. 17,1986 May 27,1986 June 9,1986 Aug. 2,1985 May 13,1985 July 2,1985 May 13,1985 Oct. 22,1986 Aug. 27,1986 June 16, 1986 June 16,1986 Mar. 30,1987 June 16,1986 June 9.1986
Jan. 22,1979 Jan. 31,1979 Feb. 1,1979 Feb. 2,1979 Oct. 27,1981 April 2,1982 Mar. 14,1984 Mar. 15,1984 Mar. 15,1984 Mar. 22.1984 Mar. 26,1984 Mar. 26,1984 Mar. 18,1984 Apr. 23,1984 Apr. 26,1984 Apr. 30,1984 May 11,1984 May 14,1984 May 18,1984 July 24,1984 Oct 12,1984 Nov. 2,1984 Nov. 14,1984 Nov. 28,1984 Dec. 12,1984 Feb. 7,1985 Feb. 11,1985 Feb. 15,1985 Oct 7,1985 Oct. 9,1985 Feb. 17,1986 May 27,1986 June 9,1986 June 24,1986 Sept 22,1986 Oct. 7,1986 Oct. 29,1986 Oct. 21,1986 Nov. 12,1986 Feb. 9,1987 Feb. 9,1987 Mar. 26,1987 June9,1987 June 24,1987
36
DENTAL PLAN
Following are the main provisions of the Labatt’s Limited (Manitoba Brewery) Dental Plan for employees who are members of the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330, effective June 1,1988.
Eligibility
You and your dependents are eligible for dental insurance coverage, commencing on the effective date if you are a full-time regular employee and have completed one month’s continuous active service with the Company New employees will become eligible for coverage when they meet these requirements.
Your dependents are:
1.	Your spouse.
2.	Unmarried children under 21 years of age, dependent on you for support
3.	Unmarried children between the age of 21 and 25 who are full-time students attending an educational institution.
Eligible Services
All reasonable and customary dental services, which are recommended as necessary and are performed by a qualified dentist or physician, are eligible for benefits under the plan. Dental services are classified under three (3) major categories:
(a)	Basic Services
Examinations and cleaning of teeth (once in any six month period); extractions, Fillings and other necessary treatment for relief of dental pain.
(b)	Restorative Services
Crown and inlays, bridgework, dentures, root canal therapy (endodontics) and the treatment of tissues and bones supporting the teeth (periodontics).
(c)	Orthodontia
Proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of teeth.
Benefits
You will be reimbursed on the basis of 100% of basic services, 75% of restorative services, and 50% of orthodontia services costs incurred by you or your dependents, subject to the limitations and exclusions described below.
Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current fee schedule of the
38
Dental Association, in effect at the time the dental work is performed.
Limitations and Exclusions
1.	Benefits paid in rpspect of each insured person will be limited to the following maximum amounts.
(a)	Maximum benefit for all services $5,000.00 in a three (3) year period per person.
(b)	Orthodontia — lifetime maximum $1,000.00 for each insured person.
2.	When the cost of a series of dental treatments is expected to exceed $200.00 such treatments must be authorized in advance by the insurance company to be covered under the plan.
3.	Expenses incurred for the replacement of dentures are covered upon joining the plan.
Subsequent replacement of dentures is permitted under the plan at five (5) year intervals. No benefits will be paid for the replacement of dentures which have been lost or misplaced.
4.	Dental expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes are not covered.
5.	Dental services which may become eligible for payment in the future, under the Worker's Compensation or other government plan, as well as any service-for which the employee or dependent would not otherwise have to pay, are not covered under the plan.
Premium Cost
The Company pays the full premium cost for this benefit. Insurer
The Plan is insured with the Confederation Life insurance Company and the terms and conditions of the Company’s contract with the insurer applying in all cases.
GUARANTEED WAGE PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT made this 24th day of January, A.D. 1989 BETWEEN:
LABATT'S MANITOBA BREWERY A DIVISION OF LABATT BREWING COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”),
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS,
(hereinafter called the “Union”),
OF THE SECOND PART
39
WHEREAS the Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union covering the Bargaining Unit in Winnipeg.
AND WHEREAS the said Parties have agreed to make this supplementary agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of the supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement
NOW THEREFORE the Parties agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 1st day of September 1988 or on any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
(a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and
Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans;
(b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will
be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and;
(c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Unemployment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	PURPOSE
The puipose of this Plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off and
separation pay in certain cases.
2.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN
An eligible employee entitled to participate in this Plan is an
hourly-rated employee who has:
(a)	actually worked for the Company as such for a period in excess of one hundred and thirty (130) working days in any twelve (12) month period, and;
(b)	has completed at least one (1) year of seniority determined as of the 1st day of September immediately preceding his layoff and
(c)	Notwithstanding the above employees not classified as regular employees prior to July 22,1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this plan until September 1, of the year following the employee’s attainment of 3 yrs. of seniority.
For purposes of the Plan. Benefit Service shall be computed as the length of service of such employee subsequent to a date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which he completed working one hundred and thirty (130) working days in any twelve (12) month period.
3.	EXCEPTIONS
This Plan has no application to and provides no benefits
for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan;
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the Canadian Union of United Food and Commercial Workers, C.L.C. or by any local Union thereof or by any successor of any of the aforementioned;
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations;
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	DISQUALIFICATION FOR BENEFITS
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive
any payments under the Plan for any week:
i	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for U.l. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from U.l. benefits by any reason other than serving a two (2) week waiting period.
ii	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada
41
Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for U.l. benefits or for reduction of U.l. waiting period;
iii	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Unemployment Insurance Commission;
iv	In which he has failed or refused to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one
rvormtrf ■wu/'farvtrery- u> TiteSo enssusaef ifcr reasonable cause;
v	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company’s Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company;
vi	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan;
vii	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Workers’ Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5. DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this Plan:
“Wages" shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company's payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus:
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week
but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus;
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus;
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
42
“Week of layoff’ means a week in which the employee’s compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	BENEFITS PROVIDED FOR LAID OFF EMPLOYEES Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week and benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) of eligible employees as hereinabove defined;
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of time of layoff;
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and
available hours of the employee;
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is eligible under the Unemployment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	WELFARE BENEFITS DURING LAYOFF
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the later. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company’s Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long-Term Disability Plan which cover only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accidenL
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining UniL
8.	DURATION OF BENEFITS
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table “A”. However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
43
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of 1/10th of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee’s maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table “A” below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefits set out in Table “A”.
TABLE ’A’
Completed Years of Benefit
Service Determined as of the	Maximum
September 1st immediately	Benefit
preceding his layoff	Entitlement
15 Years or More.............78	Weeks	of	Benefits
10 Years or More.............65 Weeks	of	Benefits
5 Years or More.............52	Weeks	of	Benefits
4 Years or More...............45 Weeks of Benefits
3 Years or More 2 Years or More 1 Year or More
35 Weeks of Benefits
25 Weeks of Bt 15 Weeks of Benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing September 1st shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that September 1st in accordance with Table “A” above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefitsfor more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than Iwenty-four (24) hours; and by 3/5ths of one week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours: and by 2/5ths of one week For each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours, and by 1/5th of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits or sight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one week for each week in which he is on ayoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.
44
9.	DEDUCTIONS
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorisation from the employee concerned.
10.	SEPARATION PAY
An employee shall be eligible for a separation payment as set forth below if on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the previous twelve consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal fulltime hours if he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company’s Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured LongTerm Disability Plan.
In special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six (6) months he may request immediate termination and severance pay, and with the concurrence of the Company and the Union this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause above.
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six (6) months after he first becomes eligible therefore, otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above, if the company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six (6) month period.
If an employee applies for <c w1 tturepdr s sasparatiUT payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
The amount of the separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to the sum of:
(a) One week’s base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of time of layoff) multiplied by the number of his completed years of Seniority as or the last day he actively worked in the Bargaining Unit, plus;
45
(b) $95.00 multiplied by a number equal to the number of unused weeks of benefit entitlement which an employee has to his credit at the date of his separation. However, an eligible employee who applied for separation pay at the time he first becomes eligible therefore shall have the $35.00supplemented 0 • yai rabtilliuna'i $30.00.
The company shall be authorized to deduct from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
11.	APPLICATIONS
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement
12.	REPORTING
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant
13.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall continue until August 31,1991. During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than September 1,1991.
46
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have affixed their signatures this 24th day of January, A.D. 1989.
FOR THE COMPANY:

TTu.
-X/y^r>L

FOR THE UNION:
47
Junel, 1988
Mr. Harold Loster Chairman, Shop Committee,
Local 330
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 570 Portage Ave.
WINNIPEG, MB
Dear Mr. Loster:
RE: GUARANTEED WAGE PUN
This letter will serve to eliminate and replace the letter revised June 1,1983, appended to the current Collective Agreement and pertaining to an employee’s availability for work during a lay-off.
For the purpose of administering Clause 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan, the Company agreed that the word “day” will replace the word “week”.
An employee will be disqualified for benefits under Clause 4 if he does not communicate by telephone with his Supervisor twice a day as close as reasonably possible to the hours of 6:00 A.M. - 8:00 A.M. and 12:00 noon - 2:00 PM.
The Company will make every reasonable effort to notify laid-off employees of available work assignments as early as possible.
Yours truly,
ER Bursev Plant Manager FPB/gk Revised 6/88
48
June 1,1988 Mr. Harold Loster
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 570 Portage Avenue WINNIPEG, MB
Dear Mr. Loster:
Please consider this as the Company’s letter of intent with respect to Brewing Job Classifications.
It has been our practice in the Brewing Department to use plant wide seniority for job preference, it is our intention to carry on this practice in the future.
Yours truly,
FR Bursey Plant Manager FPB/gk Rev. 6/88
50
June 1,1988 Mr. Harold Loster
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 570 Portage Avenue WINNIPEG, MB
Dear Mr. Loster:
This will confirm the understanding reached during 1980 negotiations on the matter of Retail Store Operations. Should such operations be reinstituted the language pertaining to retail store operators contained in the Collective Agreement which expired on May 31,1980, shall be placed back into the then current Collective Agreement and the appropriate rate of pay for the classification shall be subject to the provisions of Article 1.02 and the provisions of Article 10.12 (b) shall be deemed to have been satisfied.
Yours truly,
Plant Manager FPB/gk Rev. 6/88
51
June 24,1988 Mr. Harold Loster
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 570 Portage Avenue WINNIPEG, MB
Bear Mr. Loster
This letter will serve to clarify an agreement reached with respect to assignment of employees to work voluntary overtime.
When voluntary overtime is to be worked, the first opportunity to accept this work shall be given to regular employees within the Department who are capable of performing the work required. The next opportunity for this work shall be given to other regular employees who are available provided they are not requested to work overtime in their own department.
For the purposes of overtime work in the Bottleshop; Racking, Blue Room, Warehouse relief and Brewhouse relief will be considered to be Bottleshop employees.
All current departmental procedures for the assignment of overtime work will remain in effect.
Yours truly,
Plant Manager FPB/gk Rev. 6/88
52
June 28, 1988
Mr. Harold Loster WINNIPEG, MB
Dear Harold:
Re: Temporary Supervisor
This letter will confirm an arrangement the Union and the Company have to utilize bargaining unit employees as Temporary Supervisors.
It is understood that the arrangement can be withdrawn at anytime by either party.
Yours very truly.
PB:wla
53
June 1,1988 Mr. Harold Loster
Chairman, Shop Committee, Local 330 United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 570 Portage Avenue WINNIPEG, MB R3C0G4
Dear Mr. Loster:
Re: G.WP. Section 10
This letter will clarify the word “Operation" in Section 10, paragraph 4 of the Guaranteed Wage Plan.
Operation will be interpreted as meaning:
1.	Plant, Branch or Warehouse.
2.	Department or part department in which 10 or more employees are permanently laid off.
Yours truly,
LABATTS MANITOBA BREWERY
July 8,1988
United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 330W,
Dear Mr. Smyrichinsky:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE:
PLANT CLOSURE, FORMING PART OF THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
In recognition of the Company’s current statutory obligations and in further recognition of the adverse consequences of any plant closure upon employees the parties, during the 1988 negotiations, agreed to this letter of understanding regarding any plant closure which may occur during the life of this agreement:
(1)	The Company shall, at least 90 days prior to any plant closure, notify the local union of its intention to close the plant
(2)	Following receipt of the notification by the Company the local union may request that the Company meet with the local union to discuss any and all matters aris-1 ■ a as axnosqaufioc® of the plant jrifmi'v. Jhs Company agrees that promptly upon receipt of such letter it will meet with the local union and discuss with a view to resolving any matters arising as a consequence of the plant closure.
(3)	Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the
Company undertakes and agrees that it will:
(a)	Make all reasonable efforts to fill declared vacancies at any of its other operations with regular employees who have been laid-off as a result of plant closure.
(b)	Request that other Canadian brewing Companies hire at any of their operations regular employees
u&frW	baiiff Of plant CiOSuTS.
It is further understood that if the Company permanently discontinues an operation the Company will provide regular employees with a reasonable period of training to facilitate an employee’s seniority rights pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement.
56
THE COMPANY
THE UNION
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: Letter of Intent Regarding Sickness Benefits An employee’s eligibility for sick days and participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans ceases immediately upon his layoff and is reinstated upon his recall to work and completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit Notwithstanding the above, an employee with ten (10) or more years of senionty who is laid off, and who, if recalled within two (2) weeks or less, is unable to report to work due to sickness or non-occupational accident shall be eligible for participation in the Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans effective the date of his recall.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
58
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN AS AMENDED JULY 22,1988 FOR UNION EMPLOYEES
IN MANITOBA
The description ls>. this booklet is intended to give you a gerveral explanation of the insured benefits but it should be understood that the master insurance contracts are the governing documents in any question of interpretation.
In addition to benefits under this group insurance plan, hospital and medical benefits are available under the government plans in effect in the province of residenceand are payable in accordance with provincial regulations, with supplemental benefits being provided under plans with Manitoba Blue Cross.
1. Schedule of insured BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES
August 1,1988 June 1,1989 June 1,1990
Accidental Death &
Life	Dismemberment
Insurance	Insurance
$32,000	$32,000
$33,000	$33,000
$34,000	$34,000
NOTE: Employees not actively at work on the above named dates shall have their coverage increased only upon their date of return to active employment
-	Weekly Indemnity benefit at 70% of your basic weekly earnings rate with benefits payable from fourth day of disability to a maximum of 26 weeks per disability
-	Long Term Disability benefit at 66 2/3% of your basic earnings rate with benefits commencing when your Weekly Indemnity benefits cease.
For Employees and Dependents:
-	Dental care benefits at 100% for basic services, 75% for restorative services and 50% for orthodontia.
The weekly indemnity and dental care benefits apply only to those accidents and sicknesses which are not covered by Worker's Compensation or similar legislation.
2. WHO MAY BE INSURED
You and your eligible dependents become insured on the date you complete six months of full-time continuous service or 130 days of work in a twelve month period, whichever is earlier.
59
be reduced to $4,000 when you retire. Otherwise your life insurance will cease as of your date of early retirement.
If you terminate service with the Company other than by retirement your life insurance will be cancelled as of the date your service is terminated.
You may obtain an individual life insurance policy up to the amount of life insurance which is cancelled when you retire or terminate service. Insurance is available under this conversion privilege even though you are unable to pass a medical examination, but the premium rate will be based on your .a.*?2dr,sdS365* jlst? for individual insurance must be made to the insurance company within 31 days of the date your group insurance is cancelled, and during this 31 day period your group life insurance is considered as in effect without charge. Your other insurance coverages cannot be converted to individual policies.
4.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
The amount of your accidental death and dismemberment (AD & D) insurance is shown in the Schedule of Insured Benefits. If, within 365 days of and as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below, payment will be made as indicated.
Full amount of insurance for loss of life, both hands, both feet, sight of both eyes, one hand and one foot, one hand or one foot and sight of one eye.
Three-quarters of full amount for loss of one arm or one leg.
One-half of full amount for loss of one hand, one foot or sight of one eye. One-quarter of full amount for loss of thumb and index finger.
Your AD & D insurance includes coverage for injury sustained while riding as a passenger in or on, boarding or alighting from, or being struck by a licensed aircraft. Benefits are not payable for any loss caused by suicide or selfdestruction, war or service in the armed forces of any country-
in the event of your death the AD & D insurance benefit will be paid to the beneficiary you have named. This benefit is payable in addition to your life insurance. All other benefits under the AD & D insurance are payable to the insured person.
61
charges, or portion thereof, which the insurer considers eligible for benefits. Upon completion of the dental treatment you again submit a claim to receive payment of the approved benefits.
LABATT RETIREMENT PLAN
This section of the booklet is a summary of the main features of the John Labatt Limited Retirement Plan for Wage Employees amended June 1,1988 with respect to Brewery Workers employed by Labatt Brewing Company Limited in Manitoba. A complete description of the Plan which is the governing document is available for reference at your Personnel Office. If you have any question do not hesitate to seek the answers from your Supervisor or Personnel Staff.
1.	ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP
A new employee becomes a member of the Plan on the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following completion of 6 months of continuous service or 130 days of work in a 12 month period whichever is earlier.
You will be advised when you are eligible and are enrolled as a member and you will be asked to submit proof of age. In accordance with Manitoba legislation, a part-time employee who has completed 6 months of continuous service is eligible to become a member on January 1 of the year immediately following a period of two consecutive calendar years during which the part-time employee earned at least 25% of the maximum pensionable earnings of the Canada Pension Plan during each year.
In accordance with Manitoba legislation, an employee shall become a member upon completion of 130 consecutive days of work, where a temporary suspension of employment shall not constitute an interruption in the employee’s consecutive days of work.
2.	CONTRIBUTIONS
Your are not required to make contributions to the plan in respect of your service after January 1,1975. Any required contributions which you have made in respect of service before January 1,1975 remain to your credit in the Plan and will be applied to provide benefits in respect of your service before January 1,1975.
The Company contributes whatever amount is necessary, along with the required contributions made by employees in respect of service before January 1,1975 to provide the benefits called for under the Plan. The Company also pays
63
the full cost of administering the Plan and, in addition, matches your contributions to the Canada Pension Plan. All contributions to the Plan are paid over to the Royal Trust Company to be invested and held in bust for the purposes of the Plan.
3.	NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE
Normal retirement is at age 65. Your pension commences as of the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following your 65th birthday
4.	SERVICE AND CREDITED SERVICE
Your service to qualify for certain of the benefits under the Plaruis the total number of years from your date of employment as eSteftfligntsl under the Plan fo the date un'wftfch you retire, die or terminate service.
The number of years of your “credited” service determines the amount of pension you are entitled to receive. Credited service is calculated as explained below:
(a)	From January 1,1975 you receive a credit of one year white a member of the Plan or a prorated partial year of credit for less than 1800 hours. For example, if while a member of the Plan you work only 900 hours in a year, your credit for that year will be one-half year (900 divided by 1800). If you are absent due to disability, you will receive service credits for any periods during which you are totally disabled and receive weekly indemnity or long term disability insurance benefits or Worker’s Compensation payments, but in no event will you receive more than one year of credited service for any one calendar year.
(b)	Your credited service for the period from January 1, 1958 to December 31,1974 is the number of years on which you have made the required contributions to the Plan but does not include any periods during which you failed to contribute for which you withdrew and have not repaid your required contributions.
(c)	If you were a member of a previous company pension plan before January 1,1958 when the Labatt Retirement Plan became effective, your credited service to December 31,1957 is the period from your date of employment to December 31,1957 but excluding any periods when you were eligible to but did not contribute to the previous plan.
64
5.	CALCULATION OF BASIC PENSION CREDIT
You receive credit for a monthly basic pension payable from
your normal retirement date (age 65) calculated as follows:
a)	for service after June 1,1990 — $28.00 multiplied by the number of years of your credited service after June 1, 1990
b)	for service from June 1,1989 to May 31,1990 — $27.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
c)	for service from Junel, 1988toMay31,1989—$26.00 for one year of credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
d)	for service from Junel, 1987 to May 31,1988—$20.00 for one year ‘*1* credited service ora prorated amount or less than one year;
e)	for servicefrom June 1,1986 to May 31,1987 — $19.50 for one year credited service or a prorated amount for less than one year;
f)	for service from June 1,1985toMay31,1986 — $19.00 for one year of credited service or prorated amount for less than one year;
g)	for service from Junel, 1984toMay31,1985—$17.25 or one year of credited service or prorated amount for less than one year;
h)	for service from June 1,1983toMay31,1984 — $16.50 for one year of credited service or prorated amount for less than one year;
i)	for service from Junel, 1982toMay31,1983 — $15.00 for one year of credited service or prorated amount for less than one year;
j)	for servicefrom Junel, 1981toMay31,1982 — $14.00 or one year of credited service or prorated amount for less tftari “he year;
k)	for service from Junel, 1980toMay31,1981 —$13.00 for one year of credited service or prorated amount for less than one year;
l)	for service to May 31,1980 — the amount of monthly basic pension to your credit for service to May 31.1980 determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan in effect to May 31,1980.
65
6.	AMOUNT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT PENSION
When you retire at your normal date (age 65) you will receive a monthlv basic Dension from the Labatt Retirement Plan in an amount equal to the sum of your basic pension credits determined as explained in Section 5. In addition you will receive any pension which is payable to you under a previous plan (see Section 16) and any statuatory pension (such as C.P.R and O.A.S.) which is payable to you under government plans. You may also qualify for a supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan under the minimum pension provision explained in Section 7.
7.	MINIMUM PENSION AT NORMAL RETIREMENT
If you retire at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service, you are entitled to a minimum monthly pension from Company Plans and the Canada Pension Plan combined 01:
a)	$1,440, if you retire on or after June 1,1988;
b)	51,500, if you retire on or after June 1,1989;
c)	$1,560, if you retire on or after June 1,1990;
These amounts represent the minimum monthly pension payable from Company Plans and the Canada Pension Plan combined before allowing for the provision of a spousal survivor pension. The Company Pension will be adjusted to provide a survivor pension unless the spouse who will benefit from that survivor pension waives his/her right to receive it in writing.
You will receive a minimum lifetime pension supplement from the Labatt Retirement Plan equal to the amount, if any, required to be added to your accrued basic pension from all Company Plans and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits determined at the date of your retirement to provide the above minimum monthly pension.
If you retire at age 65 with less than 30 years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated bv the ratio of the number of years of credited service, the lifetime supplement shall be the amount by which the minimum pension at normal retirement exceeds the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits, prorated by the ratio of the number of years of credited service to 30 years and reduced by your accrued pension.
66
To determine what, if any, amount of supplement is needed, your basic pension from Company Plans is the basic amount payable before the amount of the survivorship pension is calculated, and your C.P.R pension is the amount you are entitled to receive when you first become eligible at Normal Retirement age, whether or not you actually make application for such benefits, but disregarding any increase in your C.RR pension after its date of commencement
8.	SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT
If you are age 60 or over and you have 30 or more years of credited service you may elect Special Early Retirement, in which case you will be entitled to an immediate accrued basic pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of early retirement, without reduction for your earlier age of retirement This pension will be supplemented by an amount necessary to provide the minimum monthly pension amounts set out below, until you first become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits:
a)	if you retire on or after June 1,1988 — $1,354
b)	if you retire on or after June 1,1989 — $1,400
c)	if you retire on or after June 1,1990 — $1,439
Once you become eligible to receive unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement benefits (on attaining age 65) the supplement will be recalculated as the amount required to be added to your accrued basic pension and the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefits, determined as the actual date of your retirement, to produce the following monthly pension:
a)	if you retire on or after June 1,1988 — $1,440
b)	if you retire on or after June 1,1989 — 31,500
c)	if you retire on or after June 1,1990 — $1,560 (Once again, both sets of figures above do not take account of the reduction required to produce a survivor option for the surviving spouse.)
This recalculated supplement shall become your lifetime supplement
In addition to this recalculated lifetime supplement, you may be entitled to receive a further supplement if you retire before May 31,1991. This further supplement will represent the amount necessary to produce a total pension from the Company Plans equal to the pension that would be payable
67
if you were then retiring at normal retirement, based on the normal retirement minimum pension and full unreduced Canada Pension Plan retirement benefit both determined as of that date, your accrued pension including any escalation thereof and your actual credited service at the date of your retirement. This further supplement shall then be added to and form part of your lifetime supplement.
9.	85 POINT RETIREMENT
If you retire after having reached age 55 and your combined age and years of total service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement), you are entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount of your vested accrued basic pension for service to the date of early retirement reduced by 1/3% per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month that retirement precedes the date you would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or Normal Retirement, whichever first occurs.
In addition, you shall be entitled to a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 65 on your date of retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the normal retirement minimum pension, all determined as of your actual date of retirement.
The lifetime supplement so calculated will then be reduced by 1/3% per month (i.e. 4% per year) for each month retirement preceded the date you would have become eligible for Special Early Retirement or Normal Retirement, whichever comes first.
10.	OTHER EARLY RETIREMENT
At any time after you are age 55, you may request early retirement and elect to draw your pension. If you retire after having reached age 55 but prior to having qualified for other forms of Retirement, you are entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount of vested accrued basic pension to your credit for service to the date of your retirement, reduced by 1/3% for each month (i.e. 4% per year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
In addition, you will be entitled to receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 65 on the date of your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Bene-
68
fit and the normal retirement minimum pension determined as at your actual date of retirement This lifetime supplement so calculated will also be reduced by 1/3% or each month (i.e. 4% per year) you are under age 65 when your pension commences.
11.	DISABILITY RETIREMENT (before age 65)
As long as you are eligible to receive disability benefits under the Group Insurance Plan you will receive service and basic pension credits under the Labatt Retirement Plan and you will not be retired. However, if you become partially disabled and you do not qualify for insurance benefits you may not qualify for Disability Retirement Retirement under this provision requires that:
a)	you are at least age 50 and have completed 10 years of service, and
b)	you are certified to be partially disabled and thereby prevented from performing any work available with nib Company, and
c)	it is mutually agreed by you and by the Company that you be retired under the Disability Retirement provision.
On retirement under the disability, provision vou are entitled to an immediate pension equal to the amount of basic pension to your credit for service to your date of disability retirement without reduction for your earlier age of retirement In addition, until you qualify for the earlier of receipt of C.RR disability benefits or the attainment of age 65, you will receive a monthly disability supplement equal to $7.00 multiplied by the number of years or credited service up to 30 years.
At age 65, you will then receive a lifetime supplement calculated as if you had reached age 65 on the date of your retirement, but using your current unreduced vested accrued basic pension and your related credited service, the full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefit and the Normal Retirement minimum pension determined as.o* vra/.'carJuaLdaJ^of cet'amen*.
12.	DEATH AFTER RETIREMENT:
JOINT AND SURVIVOR PENSION
Your vested accrued basic pension and minimum supplements are payable for as long as you live and cease as of the first day of the month in which your death occurs.
If you have a spouse, as defined by the Manitoba Pension Benefits Act, when you retire your basic pension will automatically be paid in a reduced amount to you during your lifetime until 66 2/3% of such pension being paid to your spouse following your death. The reduced amount of pension paijahJeJn. you wiJ! be determined based on the ages of you and your spouse. If you do not want your basic pension paid in this manner, you must file the waiver form signed by your spouse; the form is prescribed by law and is available from your Personnel Department
The Labatt Retirement Plan has another spouse pension option available if you have a spouse at time of retirement.
Provided you have waived, using the prescribed form, the 66 2/3% spouse pension option described in the preceding paragraph, a Plan member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point, Disability or Other Early rettamaft shall receive a joint andsun'jmr1peosiVw.i'olo,« the member delivers to the Plan Administrator (through your employee Relations Office) a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the 12 month period immediately preceding the commencement of the payment of the pension benefit
Unless waived, your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be reduced by 10% during your lifetime. Upon your death, your eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 60% of your reduced accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, (subject to a further actuarial reduction if your spouse is more than 10 years younger than yourself).
13.	DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
If you should die while in the service of the Company and after you have reached age 65 and have 10 years of service your eligible surviving spouse will receive a pension for her remaining lifetime. Her pension will be equal to the amount of pension she would have received from the Plan had you retired as of your date of death and elected a reduced joint survivorship pension, but her basic pension and lifetime supplement will be subject to a reduction if she is more than 10 years younger than you. Pension payments to your eligible surviving spouse are guaranteed to return any required contributions you have made to the Plan with interest to your date of death.
70
14.	IF YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY
If your service is terminated (other than by retirement or death) and if yog bflYfi completed at least s years of credited service with the Company. you will be entitled to a deferred monthly pension at age 65 equal to the accrued basic pension and lifetimesupplement to your credit Instead of this deferred pension entitlement you may elect to transfer the commuted value of your pension to your registered Savings Plan. Any amount so transferred may be subject to Provincial locking-in requirements.
In accordance with Manitoba legislation, if you die before your pension commences and your spouse is not entitled to a pension as explained in the preceding paragraph, the value of your vested basic pension earned from Januaiy 1, 1985 to your date of death, together with any contributions you have made with interest to your date of death, will be paid to the beneficiary you have named or, failing such, to your estate. You may change your beneficiary from time to time as permitted by law by completing a form which is available from your Personnel Department If you were a member of the Plan before January 1,1975 when your service is terminated you may either:
a)	leave all of your contributions in the Plan and receive at age 65 a monthly pension equal to the basic pension to your credit to December 31,1974, which is included in the pension referred to above, or
b)	withdraw your contributions plus interest to your date of termination of service in which case you forfeit your credited service to December 31,1974, and any pension in respect of such service which is included in the pension referred to above.
15.	ESCALATION OF PENSION AFTER RETIREMENT
If you retired prior to January 1,1988, from the service of the Company pursuant to any of the types of retirement listed above, your pension will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your retirement date. Your accrued basic pension shall be increased by the lesser of the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year and 2%.
If you retire on or after January 1,1988, from the service of the Company pursuant to any of the types of retirement listed above, your pension and lifetime supplement will be reviewed from January 1st of each year which follows your
71
retirement date. Your accrued basic pension and lifetime supplement, if any, shall be increased on each January 1st following your retirement by the lesser of the percentage increase in the Consumer Pnce Index for the preceding year and 2%.
Any'SpOUSal pension Witt also bo tfsijaia'itiu applying ilia same formula, with the first increase occuring on the January 1st following your death.
16.	PREVIOUS PLANS (before January 1,1958)
If you were a member of a previous Company pension plan (Government Annuity and Monarch Life) in effect before January 1,1958, your benefits from that plan are payable in accordance with the provisions of that previous plan and are in addition to the benefit you receive from the Labatt Retirement Plan.
Since your period of membership in the previous plan is i rrc/cAjfeu' iIt determinliiy-yuuntntfl 'creul Hsu1 service, any basic pension to your credit under the previous plan is taken into account in determining the amount of any minimum pension supplement you are entitled to receive. Since your pension from the previous plan will be actuarially reduced if you retire before age 65, your basic L.R.R pension will include an amount equal to the difference between your actuarially reduced previous plan pension and the amount of the basic previous plan pension at age 65 reduced by the same factors lL<\sftai)r)!iicahJ!t*ft,'y3jrJ.R.PHorRff8??as'«r'ptai-ied in Sections 8,9,10 or 11, as the case may be.
For these purposes your basic previous plan pension has been determined and fixed as that amount of pension payable from age 65 and guaranteed for a minimum of 5 years which would be available in accordance with the terms of the previous plan in effect at December 31,1957 but excluding any pension purchased by voluntary contributions you may have made to that plan. Any increase in the amount of your Government Annuity which has resulted from an increase in interest rate from 1975 is not considered as a part of your basic previous plan pension and would be payable as an extra benefit ever and above your basic pension.
After retirement your total basic pension which is subject to escalation as explained in Section 15 includes the amount of basic previous plan pension determined as explained above.
72
17.	OTHER INFORMATION
(a)	Annual Statement — You will receive a statement following each calendar year end showing the amount of benefits to your credit under the Plan.
(b)	Benefits Not Assignable — the benefits provided under the Plan are not assignable except as is specifically provided with respect to death benefits nor may you borrow against them at any time. Similarly, except as specifically provided at termination of service or in connection with death, no benefit can be surrendered.
(c)	Deferred Retirement — If you continue in the service of the Company after your normal retirement date, payment of your pension will bedeferred to commence when you retire. However, due to Revenue Canada restrictions, you must commence payment of your pension before you attain age 71 and such date will be your deemed retirement date. In accordance with Manitoba legislation, you will continue to earn additional pension credits for your service after normal retirement date up to the date of your retirement The amount of pension payable to you on your retirement date will be determined based on the Retirement Plan provisions and CPP provisions in effect at that date, but will be at least equal to the amount of pension which would have been payable from your normal retirement date determined in accordance with the Retirement Plan provisions and CPP regulations then in effect plus the additional basic pension credits as described in Section 5 earned for your service while you defer your retirement.
(d)	Eligible Surviving Spouse — Your spouse is eligible for the surviving spouse’s pension under Section 12 or 13 provided you have been married for at least one year before your retirement or death, whichever is earlier. Under certain circumstances a common-law spouse may qualify and the Personnel Department will answer your questions in this respect
(e)	MarriageBraakdown — In accordance with Manitoba legislation, if your marriage or common-law relationship should break-up, the pension credits accumulated during the years of the relationship would be split on a 50/50 basis between you and your spouse.
The beginning and ending dates of a common-law relationship will be determined from the dates the Per-
73
sonnel Department is notified by you using the forms prescribed.
(f)	income Tax — All pension payments received from Company pension plans are considered as income for tax purposes in the year in which received. Your C.RP. and Q.A.S. pensions must also be reported as taxable income when you file your annual tax return. Similarly, all monies received in lump sum withdrawals or death benefits must be declared as income for tax purposes in the year in which received and are taxable unless such monies are transferred to a registered retirement sattrigs plan.
18.	GOVERNMENT PENSION PLAN
Statuatory benefits from government plans such as the Canada Pension Plan (C.RP) and the pension under the Old Age Security Act (O.A.S.) are in addition to the benefits payable under the Labatt Retirement Plan.
Your spouse will also receive Q.A.S. pension benefits payable from age 65 subject to the same residency requirements specified above.
Application must be made to receive benefits from the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security and the applications should be filed 6 months in advance of your date of eligibility or such pensions to ensure prompt commencement of your benefits. As well as retirement pensions, the Canada Pension Plan provides certain disability, death and survivor benefits and further information can be obtained from your local Canada Pension Plan Office.
19.	EXCERPTS FROM THE MANITOBA PENSION BENEFITS ACT AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER ACT: Section 26— Inspection of Plan by Member
A member of a registered pension plan or his agent authorization in writing may inspect and make extracts, once in any 12 month period, from the pension plan or any documents related thereto in accordance with the regulations.
Regulations^ Section 21 (2) — Documents Available for Inspection
For the purpose of Section 26 of the Act, the following documents shall be available at the offices of the commission at any time during business hours or from the administrator of the pension plan:
(a)	all provisions of the pension plan;
74
(b)	the amendments to the plan;
(c)	the annual information return;
(d)	an abstract of the latest actuarial valuation showing at least the following information:
i)	the official name of the plan;
ii)	employer and employee contributions required for future service;
iii)	the balance of all actuarial deficiencies or liabilities, the annual special contributions required to liquidate such unfunded liabilities, and the amortization periods, and;
iv)	the surplus, if any, and;
(d) the latest financial statements in the case of uninsured plans.
Under certain legislation your C.RR pension is payable when you reach age 65, or as early as age 60 on a reduced basis. The amount of your C.P.R pension is dependent upon the amount of your earnings on which you have made C.RR contributions and the period during which you contributed. To illustrate, an employee who retires at age 65 in 1988 and who is entitled to maximum benefits under the Canada Pension Plan receives a pension of $543 per month when he retires. After C.RR pension commences it is subject to adjustment each following January 1st depending upon increases in the Consumer Price Index.
Your O.A.S. pension is also payable from age 65 but if you take up residence outside Canada your QA.S. pension may be discontinued unless you have been a Canadian resident for a prescribed number of years. If you plan to move out of Canada you should check into these requirements. The amount of QA.S. pension is subject to quarterly adjustment upward if the Consumer Price Index increases. In January, 1988 the QA.S. pension was $311 per month.
75