Collective Agreement
between
Labatt Alberta Brewery
and
Local 250 Brewery Workers
March 23,2000 To
March 22, 2004
INDEX
ARTICLE 1 BARGAINING UNIT AND DEFINITION..................
ARTICLE 2 BARGAINING AGENCY AND RECOGNITION...............
ARTICLE 3 SENIORITY.......................................
3:1 Seniority Defined.....................................
3:2 Seniority List........................................
3:3 Procedure Regarding Lay-Offsand Recalls...............
3:4 Definition of Employees ..............................
3:5 Job Postings..........................................
3:6 Seniority Respecting Overtime.........................
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK...................................
4:1 Hours of Work and Overtime............................
4:2 Saturday Work.........................................
4:3 Shift Schedules.......................................
4:4 Sunday Work...........................................
4:5 Lunch Break...........................................
4:6 Call-In...............................................
4:7 Friday Shift Schedule.................................
4:8 Banking Overtime......................................
ARTICLE 5 WAGES...........................................
5:1 Pay Day...............................................
5:2 Wage Classifications..................................
5:3 Substituting of Higher or Lower Rated Jobs............
5:4 Shift Premiums .......................................
ARTICLE 6 PLANT HOLIDAYS..................................
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS ......................................
ARTICLE 6 VACATION BONUSES................................
ARTICLE 9 WELFARE.........................................
9:1 Life Insurance/Medical/Dental.........................
9:2 Sick leave/Weekly Indemnity/LTD.......................
9:3 Rest Periods..........................................
9:4 Pension Plan..........................................
ARTICLE 10 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............................
ARTICLE 11 WORK STABILIZATION.............................
11:1 Guaranteed Wage Plan.................................
11:2 Manpower.............................................
11:3 Job Training and Re-Training.........................
11:4 Technological Change.................................
ARTICLE 12 SECURITY OF PRINCIPLES.........................
12:1 Picket Line..........................................
12:2 Union Label..........................................
12:3 Union Malt...........................................
12.4 Contracting Out .....................................
ARTICLE 13 GENERAL........................................
13:1 Jury Duty............................................
13:2 Bereavement Pay......................................
13:3 Uniforms, Coveralls, Safety, etc.....................
13:4 Leave of Absence.....................................
13:5 Job Rotation - Bottleshop............................
13:6 T-4 Slips............................................
ARTICLE 14 SEPARATION PAY.................................
ARTICLE 15 EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PREMIUM REBATE.
ARTICLE 16 DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS........................
ARTICLE 17 DURATION OF AGREEMENT..........................
17:1 Duration Defined.....................................
. .2 ... 4 .. .7 .. .7 .. .8 .. B .10 ..11 ..13 .. 13 .. 13 . .14 .. 15 . .16 . .16 ... 16 .. 17 .. 17 .10 .18 . .18 .20 .20 .21 .23 ..27 . 27 27 . 29 .36 . .36 ..40 .. 44 .. 44 . .44 .. 44 .. 45 . 48 .48 48 .49 ...49 .50 .50 .. 50 . 50 . .51 . .52 .52 . .52
.5 5 .56 .56
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this___day of___________
in the year of our Lord Two Thousand
BETWEEN:
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited. (Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”).
AND
Local 250 Brewery Workers Retail, Wholesale Canada Canadian Service Sector CAW
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
WITNESSETH:
In consideration of the mutual terms and covenants hereafter contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - BARGAINING UNIT AND DEFINITION
Section 1 :1
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the certified Bargaining Unit.
Section 1:2
The use in the agreement of the words, he, his, or him shall be construed to include the feminine gender unless otherwise stated.
Section 1:3
The Bargaining Unit shall consist of all employees of Labatt Alberta Brewery in Edmonton, Alberta, excluding chemists, field representatives, office staff, foremen and those above the rank of foremen.
Section 1:4
Wherever herein the expression “employees, journeymen, help or men” is used, it shall mean the personnel in all departments of the Company other than chemists, field representatives, office staff, foremen and those above the rank of foremen.
Section 1:5
nd employee of the Company other than a member of the Union shall do any of the work performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit except in cases of extreme emergencies and for training of trainers in the Bargaining Unit. “Extreme emergencies” shall not be abused by such people and at no time or point shall such emergencies be allowed to become a regular or frequent development.
Section 1:6
For the purpose of clarification and without affecting the meaning and intent of the foregoing Section 1:3, Bargaining Unit work shall be expanded to include the following duties:
1:6:1 - Snow Removal
This work shall consist of the removal of snow from office entrance stairs, sidewalks around the plant, and the sidewalks that are immediately in front of the Regional Office.
1:6:2 - Social Room
An employee will clean the Social Room as required.
1:6:3 -Painting
Painting the plant and regional office.
1:6:4 - Gardening
One gardener shall be assigned to work on Company grounds surrounding the plant.
1:6:5 - Central Store Section 1:7
The Company shall designate and make known to the Union the Supervisory Employees.
ARTICLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY AND RECOGNITION
Section 2:1
Only members in good standing of Local Union 250 shall be employed in all departments, save those employees coming within the exceptions set forth in Section 1:3, hereof.
Section 2:2
The Company shall be permitted to employ other men temporarily on permit card, as long as such employment does not cause a layoff at anytime to the regular Union members.
4
All such extra help must obtain a permit card from the Union before starting work.
The Company may hire temporary employees during the periods of the third Monday in March to the Friday before Labour Day and for a four (4) consecutive week period in November/December. The Company may hire temporary employees outside of the temporary period to replace full-time employees on Wl, WCB, soft LTD or leave of absence. The following options will also be considered by the Company on a case by case basis: cover absence with overtime; cover absence with available people from
other departments. An employee on Wl, WCB or soft LTD will not be relieved by a temp for more than 2 years. The temporary employee at the top of the temp list will be offered this opportunity. If it becomes apparent that a regular employee will not be returning to work, a decision to hire full time may be made.
A temporary employee shall not do work in the plant until he has first gone through an orientation program agreed to by the Company and the Union.
Section 2:3
It is understood that in the event the Company needs a new employee and there is no employee on layoff, the Company shall contact the Secretary of the Local Union 250 to determine if the Union can supply a competent candidate for the job vacancy. Preference will be given to such candidate if available and suitable.
Section 2:4
No employee shall be discriminated against for any reason, or discharged for his activity as a Union member, or for serving on a committee or doing any other work in the interest of the Union. Members shall be granted the necessary time for
such work without pay provided notice is given the Company and the time required for such work is not unreasonable. Employees who are committee members or officers of the Union shall receive their regular wages from the Company when away from their job as above granted on Union business pertaining to the Union and the Company.
Section 2:4:1
When practical, the Union President shall be assigned day shift. He will be given reasonable time off with pay to attend to Union business, and one (1) day off, preferably Friday will be given to the President or a Union officer for plant tours. However, when the Union Presidents job responsibilities are not compatible with this arrangement, a similar appropriate arrangement will be worked out between the Company and the Union President.
Section 2:5
2:5:1 - Check-Off
Having received signed authorization cards from employees, each month the Company shall deduct from the pay of each employee covered by this Agreement, a sum in the amount of the current monthly Union dues and assessments. A written list of employees' names and the relative amounts so deducted shall be submitted by the Company to the Union Financial Secretary not later than the 12th of each month. The Union will notify the Company of the amount of the established dues and assessments where applicable to be deducted and will further notify the Company thirty (30) days in advance of any change with respect to the amount of dues and assessments where applicable to be deducted.
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in Sub-Section (2:5:1), there shall be no financial or other responsibility on
the part of the Company for dues of an employee unless
there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
The Company will Indicate on statements of income (T-4 slips) required for the purpose of taxation by the Federal Government, Union dues and dues increases deducted from an employee's wage.
ARTICLE 3 SENIORITY Section 3:1 - Seniority Defined
3:1:1
Seniority is defined as the length of an employee's full-time service with the Company, calculated as the elapsed time from the date he was first employed, unless his seniority was broken, in which event such calculation shall be from the date that he returned to work following the last break in his seniority.
A new full-time employee must successfully complete a sixty working day probationary period before being placed on the seniority list. At that time, his seniority date will be the first day worked as a full-time employee.
3:1:2
Seniority shall be considered broken by virtue of the following reasons only:
3:1:2:1
If an employee terminates his employment voluntarily.
3:1:2:2
If an employee is absent for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the Company.
3:1:2:3
If an employee is laid off and fails to report for work within seven (7) days after written notice by double registered mail to report to work has been mailed to his last address registered with the Company; provided that when an employee is recalled to work and does not report within forty-eight (48) hours, the Company may recall the next employee in line, but he is subject to being displaced if the first employee does report within seven (7) working days.
3:1:2:4
If an employee has been discharged for just cause not reversed by grievance procedure.
3:1:2:5
If an employee has been laid off for a period of twenty-four (24) months.
3:1:3
Seniority will not be broken when:
3:1:3:1
An employee is on authorized leave of absence.
3:1:3:2
An employee is laid off for less than a twenty-four (24) month period.
3:1:3:3
An employee is absent due to certified sickness or injury.
Section 3:2 3:2:1 - Seniority List
The Company shall maintain and post a seniority list on the plant bulletin board within thirty (30) days from the date of this Agreement being signed and shall post a new
seniority list within two (2) weeks of a new employee being eligible for placement on the list. Such list shall contain only the names and the seniority of those employees in the established Bargaining Unit.
Section 3:3 Procedure Regarding Lay-Offs and Recalls
Plant seniority shall apply in the event of it becoming necessary to reduce staff. All layoffs shall be made impartially and in strict order of seniority, provided the senior employee is willing and able to perform the work required of him. The last man hired shall be the first to be laid off, and so on in that order.
3:3:1
Should it become necessary to reduce the work force, all permit card help must be laid off before any Union members are laid off,
3:3:2
If further reduction of staff is necessary, then the Union members shall be laid off in the order of their seniority as defined in Sections 3:1:1,3:1:2, and 3:1:3 of Article 3.
3:3:3
When staffs are augmented after lay-off, members shall be recalled to work on the basis of seniority, provided they are willing and able to do the work available, the member with the greatest plant seniority being recalled first, and so on in that order.
Section 3:4 Definition of Employees
3:4: 1
A REGULAR employee is defined as any full time employee covered by this Agreement who has been placed on the seniority list.
3:4:2
A TEMPORARY employee is one who is hired for certain periods in order to provide the necessary manpower required to fill temporary production needs.
All temporary employees shall be paid the temporary employee rate for all time worked within the temporary period. Only temporary employees replacing for Wl, WCB or LTD will be paid the appropriate full-time rate outside of the temporary period. Temporary employees replacing for leaves of absence will be paid the temporary rate.
The order on the temporary employee list will be frozen as of March 20,2000. This order will be used as a guide to calling in temporary employees. However, departmental needs for trained operators may alter the call back/layoff order of temps.
When permanent production manpower requirements exist, the temporary employee at the top of the temp list will be offered full-time employment. The production rate or the rate for the job classification, whichever is applicable, shall apply.
3:4:3
For reasons other than those listed in 3:4:2, before hiring a temporary employee outside of the above time periods, the Company and the Union will mutually agree to the proposed hiring.
Section 3:5 Job Postings
3:5:1
Whenever a job vacancy is created in any of the departments of the company's operations, the company shall post a standard notice on the bulletin board in each department for at least five (5) working days, soliciting the names of employees who wish to apply to fill such a position.
3:5:2
Any employee covered by this Agreement may apply in this manner and the vacancy or new position, etc., shall be filled by the applicant having the most seniority, provided he shows willingness and initiative. Such senior applicant shall be given a thirty (30) day trial period in order to qualify for the job. After thirty (30) days’ service on the job, the employee shall receive the top rate of pay for such job.
The positions of Packaging Quality Analyst, Handyman (part-time), and any new positions which may be created during the term of this agreement, will be filled by the most senior applicant who successfully fulfills the posting requirements developed jointly by the Company and the Union. These requirements may include but not be limited to means testing.
3:5:3
Should a more senior employee than the selected applicant be absent from work during the total period of the job posting he shall be permitted to apply for such job within a period of two (2) calendar weeks after the expiry date of the job posting.
3:5:4
If, after working on the new job, the applicant at any time finds the job has been discontinued, he shall be transferred back to the job position which he last held and he shall retain all his rights as if he had never left such last job position.
If an employee requests to drop a job posting for other reasons he shall be transferred to an unposted position in the packaging department and will be ineligible to post for another position for a six (6) month period.
3:5:5
The standard application form to be used for posting on the bulletin boards shall specify the type of job vacancy, outline of work required, and wherever possible the approximate conditions of temperature and humidity to which the employee will be exposed, and space for the applicants signatures.
3:5:6
In the event differences arise which cannot normally be settled, as to which of the applicants should be given a trial to fill the posted vacancy, the matter shall, within three (3) days after the said differences arise, be dealt with under
12
Grievance Procedure, Article 10 of this Agreement, starting with Section 10:4:2 thereof.
3:5:7
In all cases where it is necessary to transfer to another job in the Company’s operation, employees who have acquired some physical deficiency, and who do not qualify under Section 3:5:4 hereof, the Company and the Union will mutually decide upon which job position such employee will be transferred to.
Section 3:6 Seniority Respecting Overtime
Overtime work shall be allocated equitably among those employees able to do the work required.
Overtime work shall not be compulsory provided that any employee not desiring overtime work can be replaced with another employee of equal ability.
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS OF WORK Section 4:1 - Hours of Work and Overtime
4:1:1
For all employees eight (8) hours shall constitute a days work and five (5) days, namely forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week’s work. An employee who is ordered to work for less than eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be considered as temporarily laid off.
13
4:1:2
Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours during any day, Monday through Friday inclusive, shall be overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
4:1:3
Except in cases of emergency, an employee shall not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours in a day.
Section 4:2 - Saturday Work 4:2:1
For all work performed on Saturdays the premium rate of double time shall be paid to employees.
4:2:2
The company shall, wherever possible, give employees at least two (2) working days notice of Saturday work involving production.
4:2:3
In the event it is necessary to work overtime, the Company shall, wherever possible, provide four (4) hours’ notice of such overtime.
4:2:4
Wherever possible, no employees shall be requested or allowed to work overtime while regular employees are receiving less than forty (40) hours’ pay per week. Mechanical repairs being the only exception.
14
Section 4:3 - Shift Schedules
4:3:1
The regular day shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Any shift commencing after 9:00 a.m. and before 5:00 p.m. shall be considered the p.m. shift. Any shift commencing at or after 5:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered the night shift.
4:3:2
The schedule of hours to be worked each day shall be posted by 1:00 p.m. Thursday, and finalized by 10:00 a.m. Friday of the week preceding the next work week and scheduling shall provide for at least twelve (12) hours elapsed time between the close of each man’s shift and the start of his next shift, If the said elapsed time is not granted the employee shall be paid overtime rates for those hours worked within the twelve (12) hour period.
Midnight shift employees will be informed by their Supervisor of their scheduled hours of work for the following week prior to the completion of their Thursday Midnight shift. The locked bulletin board in the lunchroom will be used for purposes of crew scheduling and for such other purposes as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
4:3:3
When an employee's scheduled starting time is changed, all hours worked in his originally scheduled shift will be paid at regular time; all other hours worked outside of this time period will be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
15
4:3:4
There shall be a minimal amount of progression of starting times for different employees during the day, p.m. and night shifts.
Section 4:4 - Sunday Work
For all work performed on Sundays, the premium rate of double time and one-half shall be paid to all employees.
Section 4:5 - Lunch Break
All employees shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour off for the mid-day meal, which half hour shall be included in the working hours above stipulated.
Section 4:6 - Call-In
4:6:1
A regular employee must be notified four (4) hours before quitting time if he is not to report for work the next day. If he is not notified, work shall be provided the following day.
4:6:2
Any employee called out to work for less than a half (1/2) day shall receive not less than one-half days wages.
4:6:3
Emergency Call-In:
When an employee is called in for breakdown or emergency work after completing his scheduled shift and
16
before returning to work for his next regular shift, he shall be paid for at least four (4) hours at the appropriate rate, minimum of four hours at double time.
Should this call-in period immediately precede his regular shift, he will be paid straight time for the hours worked on his regular shift.
Regular Call-In:
When an employee is called in for other than breakdown or emergency work within four (4) hours preceding his regular shift, he is entitled to an overtime payment at the appropriate rate for the time period worked prior to the commencement of his regular shift. He will then be paid straight time for the hours worked on his regular shift.
Section 4:7 - Friday Shift Schedule
It will be the practice to arrange Friday shift schedules in the bottleshop and canline so that the afternoon shift will have completed their work by 9:00 pm. This schedule should be utilized whenever production levels allow for it and will be accomplished by starting the afternoon shift 3 hours early.
The Company will indicate whether or not production requirements will allow for the early start with as much notice as possible, and will confirm no later than 2:00 pm Wednesday of that week.
Section 4:8 - Banking Overtime
Banking of overtime hours and premium hours will be granted to all employees as per Letter of Understanding No. 1.
ARTICLE 5 -WAGES
Section 5:1 - Pay Day
Wages shall be paid on every second Thursday, during working hours, to employees on the day shift and the night shift. Employees on the "p.m." shift shall be paid during their Wednesday shift. In the event the said Wednesday or Thursday is a holiday, wages shall be paid on the preceding workday. If Friday of pay week is a holiday, payday will be the preceding Wednesday.
Section 5:2 -Wage Classifications
5:2:1 Wage Classification See attached schedule.
5:2:1:2 Cost of Living Clause
Applies each year from 2001 - 2004:
A Cost of Living Allowance in a lump sum payment will be paid to regular employees for all hours worked, including vacations and statutory holidays, in the period from April 1, 2000 to March 31, 2001, the first pay period following publication of the March 2001 Consumer Price Index, on the basis of one (1) cent per hour for each full 0.3 change in the Consumer Price Index, (1986 = 100) in the period from April 1, 2000 to March 31, 2001 calculated by subtracting the Consumer Price Index for the month of March 2000, after adding thereto 4% of the March 2000 Consumer Price Index, from the Consumer Price Index for the month of March, 2001.
18
Wage Classification CLASSIFICATION
March
23/00
Temporary Employee	11.18
(permit cards)
Production Employee	25.30
Bottleshop Rotation,	25.35
Warehouse
Brewing	25.49
Racking	25.42
Janitor	25.35
Machine Operator,	25.65
includespasteurizer Maintenance Mechanic	28.63
Electrical/lnstrumentation	28.63
Bottleshop Technician	25.35
Oiler	25.55
Gardener	25.35
Stores Attendant	25.55
Painter (part-time)	25.55
Bottleshop Utility	25.50
Operator
Handyman (part-time)	25.55
Third Class Steam Eng.	28.73
Millwright Apprentice On completion of 30	25.90
day trial
On completion of first	26.10
period
On completion of	26.30
second period
On completion of third	26.50
period
On completion of	28.63
fourth period Reclassification to Maintenance mech.
EFFECTIVE
March	March
23/01	23/02
11.43	11.68
25.80	26.40
25.85	26.45
25.99	26.59
25.92	26.52
25.85	26.45
26.15	26.75
29.13	29.73
29.13	29.73
25.85	26.45
26.05	26.65
25.85	26.45
26.05	26.65
26.05	26.65
26.00	26.60
26.05	26.65
29.23	29.83
26.40	27.00
26.60	27.20
26.80	27.40
27.00	27.60
29.13	29.73
19
March
23/03
11.93
27.00
27.05
27.19 27.12
27.05 27.35
30.33
30.33
27.05
27.25
27.05
27.25
27.25
27.20
27.25 30.43
27.60
27.80
28.00
28.20
30.33
5:2:2 Lead Hand
Thirty ($.30) cents in addition to the employee’s current wage rate.
Section 5:3 - Substituting of Higher or Lower Rated Jobs
Any employee substituting on a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay while so doing, but any employee substituting on a lower rated job shall not have his regular rate of pay reduced, unless such employee is transferred on a lower rated job as a result of the operation of the seniority provisions contained in this Agreement.
Section 5:4 - Shift Premiums
5:4:1
For all work performed on the p.m. shift, a premium of seventy ($0.70) cents per hour shall be paid on all hours worked.
5:4:2
For all work performed on the midnight shift, a premium of one dollar and ten cents ($1.10) per hour shall be paid for all hours worked.
5:4:3
When new types of production equipment or new jobs related thereto, or new classifications of work for which rates of pay are not covered by this Agreement are put into use or effect, rates governing such operations shall be established by agreement between both parties. If the parties cannot agree to such rates the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
ARTICLE 6 PLANT HOLIDAYS
Section 6:1
The following shall be considered as Plant Holidays on which employees shall not be required to work:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday K-Day
and all other statutory holidays as may be declared by the Provincial or Federal Governments. Employees shall be paid for the above-mentioned plant holidays at the regular rates.
Full-time employees shall be entitled to a one (1) day floating holiday (K-Day) during a calendar year. This day shall be used as the first vacation day taken by the employee in that year.
Temporary employees who work the entire periods of the third Monday in March to the Friday before Labour Day and a four (4) consecutive week period in November/December will be entitled to a cash payment in lieu of this holiday.
Seniority will govern in the selection of days off in the event of disputes.
Section 6:2
All employees will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of such holidays without being required to work on such days provided that:
6:2:1
The employee has worked at least five (5) days during the twenty (20) working days immediately preceding the day on which such holiday is observed, and
6:2:2
The employee has not been absent without permission on the last work day scheduled for him immediately prior to the day on which the said holiday is observed or the first work day scheduled for him immediately after the day on which the said holiday is observed.
Where an employee is unable to seek the required permission due to extenuating circumstances beyond his control, then that required permission may be sought after his return to work.
Section 6:3
The employee shall be entitled to receive plant holiday benefits when absent in cases involving sickness and accident up to one hundred and four (104) weeks’ duration from commencement of disability. Employees who are qualified for weekly indemnity on a day on which a statutory holiday falls, or who qualify for weekly indemnity subsequent to the statutory holiday, will be entitled to top-up pay for this statutory holiday.
22
Section 6:4
For all work performed on the aforementioned plant holidays, double time and one-half shall be paid to all employees in addition to holiday pay.
Section 6:5
If a plant holiday falls during an employee's vacation period, an extra days holiday with pay will be granted on the work day immediately prior to or following his vacation, or at a time mutually agreed to between the employee and his Supervisor.
Section 6:6
If a plant holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the work day or days prior to or immediately following these days shall be observed as the plant holiday.
ARTICLE 7 - VACATIONS
Section 7:1
In an employee's first year on the seniority list, vacations shall be pro-rated to the date of seniority. Vacation will not be taken during an employee's probationary period.
Section 7:2
All employees on the Seniority List for one (1) year or longer shall be granted two (2) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:3
All employees shall, after completing three (3) years on the Seniority List, receive three (3) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:4
All employees shall, after completing eight (8) years on the Seniority List, receive four (4) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:5
All employees shall, after completing fifteen (15) years on the Seniority list, receive five (5) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:6
All employees shall, after completing t wenty (20) years on the Seniority list, receive six (6) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:7
All employees shall, after completing twenty five (25) years on the Seniority List, receive seven (7) weeks’ vacation per year with full pay.
Section 7:8
To compute the three (3), eight (8), fifteen (15), twenty (20) and twenty-five (25) years on the Seniority List mentioned
24
respectively in paragraphs 7:3,7:4,7:5,7:6 and 7:7 above, for the purpose of the qualifying date for the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh weeks of vacation, such seniority shall be considered to have commenced on January 1st of the year in which the employee commenced employment.
Section 7:9
In the case of employees receiving three (3), four (4), five (5), six (6), or seven (7) weeks’ vacation, one (1) week, two (2) weeks or three (3) weeks, whichever is applicable, must be taken within the periods January 15th to April 30th or September 1st to November 15th, the employee to state in January the date he prefers to take this week(s).
Exceptions to the foregoing will be granted upon request to the employee’s immediate Supervisor, provided that the request is consistent with Section 7:11.
Section 7:10
Employees are not required to take their vacations during the calendar year in which they become eligible for such; but must have all of their vacation entitlement scheduled by November 30 of each year and use their entitlement by March 31 st of the following year.
Section 7:11
Provided this does not interfere with the operation of the plant, vacations shall be taken at the time or times most desired by the employee concerned. Seniority shall govern the selection of vacation dates in cases of disputes.
25
Section 7:12
The vacation list will be posted in each year from January 1 to March 15 to cover the time period April 1 to March 31. Employees shall indicate thereon the choice of dates for their vacation. This list will be taken down March 16 and finalized by March 31. Once all vacations are finalized all further vacations will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Changes can be made when mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee concerned.
Section 7:13
In the event that an employee becomes ill or is injured after having commenced his vacation he shall at that point have the remainder of his vacation cancelled for that period and rescheduled at a later date. In order to implement this clause, the employee must first contact his Supervisor immediately he becomes ill or is injured, and he must be able to meet the Weekly Indemnity requirements.
Section 7:14
No paid vacations will be established for an employee who is absent for more than one hundred and four (104) weeks.
Section 7:15
Notwithstanding any other Article of this Agreement, an employee's annual vacation must be taken as prescribed by the Collective Agreement. Employees who are in receipt of disability compensation allowances, such as Workers' Compensation, Weekly Indemnity, Company-paid sick leave, etc., shall, within the first 104 weeks of such absence, have added to such allowance, by the Company, vacation wages so that the
26
employee receives, during his vacation period, the full amount he would have received had he not been disabled, sick, etc., but in no event shall he be entitled to receive more in combined compensation and vacation wages than he would have received were he not in receipt of such disability compensation allowances.
ARTICLE 8 ■ VACATION BONUSES
Section 8:1
Employees who have qualified for three (3) or more weeks annual vacation shall be eligible to receive a vacation bonus in cash and equal to twenty (20) per cent of such employee’s normal vacation entitlement.
Section 8:2
Vacation bonus credits shall only be used as time off in periods as designated by the Company (for example, low production periods, shutdowns, mini-overhauls, Christmas). Whenever possible, the Company will give the Union thirty (30) days’ notice of the designated time periods. Employees who do not take their vacation bonus credits during these periods will be paid out their remaining credits on December 15. If, however, the employee decides to use the vacation bonus entitlement as a straight cash supplement to vacation, the bonus will be paid in cash at the time of the employee’s vacation between the period of January 1 to December 15.
ARTICLE 9 -WELFARE Section 9:1 - Life Insurance/Medical/Dental
The Company shall furnish each employee who has become a regular employee, and who has attained seniority, a welfare plan whereby each employee shall receive the following coverages. Benefit entitlement will be provided only after successful completion of a 60 day probationary period.
27
Life Insurance for employees
The amount of Life Insurance remains unchanged from March 23,1999 at $45,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day.
Employees not actively at work on the above-mentioned day shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
9:1:2
Life Insurance for future pensioners $4,000.00
9:1:3
Accidental death and dismemberment
The amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment remains unchanged from March 23,1999 at $45,000.00 for employees actively at work on that day. Employees not actively at work on the above-mentioned day shall only be provided increased insurance coverage upon their return to active employment.
9:1:4
Medical care and surgical coverage for employees (Alberta Health Care Insurance)
9:1:5
Semi-private hospital coverage as provided by the Alberta Blue Cross Plan. In addition full cost of the existing premium for Blue Cross Combined Hospital and “Other Services” benefits.
28
9:1:6
Dental Cars Plan - The maximum per year for basic services is $700 for eligible expenses. Reimbursement -100% of the cost of eligible basic services, as now defined, up to the yearly maximum.
The combined lifetime maximum for Restorative and Orthodontic Services will remain unchanged at $6,000. There is a provision for an annual re-instatement of up to $500 at the beginning of each calendar year, if required, to restore such lifetime maximum to the maximum level.
Reimbursement: 100% of the cost of eligible restorative services as now defined and 50% for orthodontics as now defined, up to the lifetime maximum stated above.
9:1:7
Sick Leave, Insured Weekly Indemnity, and Insured Long Term Disability benefits as described in Section 9:2.
Section 9:2 - Sick Leave/Weekly Indemnity/LTD
9:2:1
Sick Leave:
When requested, employees will furnish a doctors certificate proving disability to the satisfaction of the Company. Employees who achieve regular employee status shall be entitled, upon attainment of regular employee status, to a maximum of nine (9) paid sick day credits per calendar year. Sick time will be allocated on a pro-rated basis during the year in which an employee attains regular employee status. These sick day credits will not accumulate from one calendar year to the next, however, all unused credits will annually be valued and set in the employee’s top-up bank to provide up to full pay to cover for paragraphs (b) and (c) below.
29
This sick leave shall be applied to provide full pay by supplementing Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation payments for working days lost during:
(a)	the three (3) waiting days prior to start of Weekly Indemnity payments resulting from illness;
(b)	the period of Weekly Indemnity payments resulting from
sickness or non-occupational accidents or Workers’ Compensation accidents, in which cases sick pay will be used to supplement Weekly Indemnity, Workers’ Compensation up to full pay;
(c)	days of absence, to a maximum of the employee’s top-up bank for non-occupational disabilities which are covered by W.I.orL.T.D.
9:2:1:2
An employee’s maximum entitlement of sick days shall be reduced by one (1) hour for each hour or part hour of sick leave when supplementing Weekly Indemnity payments or Worker’s Compensation payments.
9:2:1:3
Full pay for an employee shall mean the equivalent of his standard daily hours times his job rate of pay, and the payment of sick pay shall not result under any circumstances in an employee receiving more than full pay on any lost working day.
9:2:1 A
The Company at its discretion may appoint the Doctor to examine the employee. Abuse, misrepresentation or any
30
misuse of the above clause by the employee shall be sufficient grounds for his dismissal.
9:2:2
Insured Weekly Indemnity (Calculated on a five (5) day work week).
Where an employee is disabled due to a sickness or a nonoccupational accident, a weekly benefit amounting to 75% of wages (applicable classified hourly rate X 40) in effect during the 26 week period will be paid to an employee who is off work and under the care of a doctor.
Payments will commence on the first day of the disability, if due to an accident, and on the fourth day, if due to a sickness, and will continue to a maximum of 26 weeks for any one (1) period of disability.
9:2:3 Insured Long Term Disability
9:2:3:1
Should the disability, described above, continue beyond the end of the 26th week, the insured Long Term Disability Plan will commence at the 27th week and will continue until recovery, or age 65, whichever occurs first.
31
Where an employee has received Workers’ Compensation payments for a 26 week period, the Long Term Disability Plan will commence at the 27th week and will continue until recovery or age 65, whichever occurs first.
9:2:3:3
The L.T.D. Plan will provide the payment of 60% of wages (applicable classified hourly rate X 40) in effect during the first 78 weeks of the Long Term Plan.
9:2:3:4
Should the disability continue past the 104 week period (26 weeks + 78 weeks) the future weekly benefit will be calculated at 60% of wages (hourly rate X 40) in effect at the 104th week of disability.
9:2:3:4:1
If an employee is on L.T.D. for a period in excess of 104 weeks, but is capable of performing some position in the Bargaining Unit, the Company will agree to assign him to that position as long as seniority provisions can accommodate the assignment.
9:2:3:5 Rehabilitation Benefits
If an employee's Monthly Indemnity ceases because he is no longer disabled to the extent required by this provision and he immediately enters a rehabilitation program, then during such program the insurance company will pay to him a monthly rehabilitation income as set out in the following paragraph for a period of not more than 12 months.
32
The amount of monthly rehabilitation income will be the amount of monthly indemnity which the employee has been receiving prior to entering his rehabilitation program reduced by 50% of any compensation received by him for work performed during the program, except that if at any time the employee's total monthly income arising from the sum of his monthly rehabilitation income, his compensation during rehabilitation and any income received from sources referred to in Item 1 to 5 of the Schedule below exceeds 75% of his earnings from the employer as set out in 9:2:3:3 or9:2:3:4 of L.T.D. Plan during his disability period, then in such event the employee's monthly rehabilitation income will be reduced by the extent of such excess.
9:2:3:7 Income Schedule 9:2:3:7:1
1.	Salary or wage
2.	Indemnity from other Group Insurance Plan
3.	Company Retirement Plan
4.	Government Benefits
5.	Workers’ Compensation
9:2:3:7:2
For the purpose of this provision a “rehabilitation program” means a program of vocational training or a period of work for the purpose of rehabilitation, either of which is approved in writing by the insurance company.
9:2:3:8
Coverage under Insured Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plans. Coverage will be continued:
33
9:2:3:8:1
For the first one hundred and four (104) weeks of a disability provided the employee is unable to perform his own job.
9:2:3:8:2
In excess of 104 weeks, provided the employee is unable to perform any job for any employer for which he is reasonably qualified by training, education, or experience, or experience to perform, as determined by the insurance carrier.
The Weekly Indemnity plan and long term disability plan will be of a standard nature underwritten by an insurance carrier and will include an offset clause for integrating statutory payments such as Canada Pension Plan, Employment Insurance, and, in the case of long term disability, will also include an offset clause for integrating Workers' Compensation.
Employee benefits payable will be reduced by the monies received from any of the sources listed above. If no application is made by the employee in a timely manner, the employer may deny the benefit or reduce the amount payable by the net amount the employee would receive if the application was made.
9:2:3:9 Employees Absent on Effective Date
Employees who are absent from work on Weekly Indemnity on the effective date of the new sickness and accident plans, and
34
9:2:3:9:1
Recover and return to work for at least a 2 week period prior to the expiry of their 104 weeks, shall then be covered by the revised Weekly Indemnity and insured Long Term Disability Plan, or
9:2:3:9:2
Recover and return to work for at least one (1) day prior to the expiry of their 104 weeks in the case where the latest disability absence cannot be connected with the causes of any of the prior disability absences, shall be covered by the revised Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability Plan.
9:2:3:10 Pension Accrual
The Company will provide the necessary monies to build up the pension of any employee receiving benefits from the insured Long Term Disability Plan at the rate of pension accrual in effect at the commencement of the disability.
9:2:4
Employees absent due to sickness or non-occupational or occupational accident shall be paid every plant payday. Employees will be required to submit completed Weekly Indemnity and Workers' Compensation claim forms as requested by the company and made payable to the company to receive pay in subsequent pay periods. Employees will pay for charges for the completion of the first medical form required per occurrence and the company shall pay for medical forms thereafter required.
35
Section 9:3 - Rest Periods
All present amenities both now and in the past enjoyed by the employees shall be kept in force.
The word “amenities” shall cover among other things rest periods, wherein every employee shall receive two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods in each full shift. Wherever possible the first rest period shall be taken midway through the first half shift and the second such period midway through the second half shift.
All employees shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period before commencing one (1) hour of overtime work and shall receive an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period after each additional two (2) hour period.
In the event that ten (10) or more hours of work are required on any given day, a hot meal shall be provided by the Company before commencing overtime.
Section 9:4 - Pension Plan
The following provides a summary of the Labatt Retirement Plan for hourly employees in Edmonton. A more detailed description of the Plan is contained in the official Plan text, which is the governing document for this plan. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact your Human Resource Department.
The Current Pension Plan is amended to reflect the following changes. It is further agreed and understood that all other provisions of the pension plan shall remain unchanged and further, that no other amendments shall be made to the plan to be effective prior to March 23,2004.
36
Minimum Pension at Normal Retirement A member retiring at age 65 with at least 30 years of credited service is entitled to a pension which consists of:
1.	The member’s Labatt pension, before reduction for provision of the spousal pension.
2.	The full unreduced Canada Pension Plan Retirement Benefits, determined at the date of the member’s retirement, regardless of the member's actual Canada Pension Plan entitlement at the date of retirement.
The sum of these two components will produce a minimum monthly pension of:
On March	23,2000	$2965
On March	23,2001	$2965
On March	23,	2002	$2965
On March	23,2003	$2965
NRD (age 65 w/30 years service)	SER (age 55 w/30 years service)
$2965/month, includes CPP	$2965/month
Note: $762.92 is the 2000 maximum CPP figure
Pension Examples: The following examples are based on the Labatt Retirement Plan provisions as amended March 23,2000 and assume the employee is credited with at least 1800 hours in each year until retirement.
85 Points (age 59 w/26 years of servicel - minimum 55 years of age
A member retiring on or after March 23,2000, and after having attained age 55 and whose age plus years of credited service total 85 or more (but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement) is entitled to an immediate monthly pension equal to:
37
($NRD Amount - CPP) x (# of years service/30)
($2965 - $763) x 26/30 = $1908/month
Note: $762.92 is the 2000 maximum CPP figure
Other Early Retirement faae 59 w/20 years service!
- minimum 55 years of age
A member retiring on or after March 23,2000, and after having attained age 55 but prior to having qualified for Special Early Retirement or 85 Point Retirement is entitled to an immediate monthly pension equal to:
($NRD Amount - CPP) x (#years service/30) less 1/3% per month before age 65
($2965 - $763) x 20/30 x 76% = $1116/month
Note: $762.92 is the 2000 maximum CPP figure
Death Before Retirement - (after 10 years of continuous service: calculation assumes 85 points)
If a member dies after having attained 10 years of continuous service but before he has started to receive pension payments, his spouse shall receive an immediate pension equal to 60% of the pension the member would have received if he had qualified for 85 Point Retirement.
($NRD Amount - CPP) x (#years service/30) x 60%
Example: age 45 w/20 years of service ($2965 - $763) x 20/30 x 60% = $881/month Note: $762.92 is the 2000 maximum CPP figure
38
Crossover Benefit
When a member retires under Special Early Retirement or 85 Point Retirement, their pension benefit will be recalculated at their Normal Retirement Date. The minimum monthly pension benefit and the full unreduced CPP retirement benefit, in effect on the members Normal Retirement Date, will be used to determine whether a member’s Labatt pension benefits will be increased from that day forward.
Major Medical and Retiree Life Insurance Benefits
Employees who retire at age 55 or over, with 10 years of continuous service, qualify for retiree major medical and retiree life insurance.
Eligible major medical expenses incurred by employees who retire after March 22,2000, beyond the $10,000 maximum will be reimbursed by the company to a maximum total of $15,000 inclusive.
Termination of Employment (Vesting)
A member’s pension shall be completely vested upon completion of two (2) years of credited service and is payable at age 65.
Joint and Survivor Pension
A member with an eligible spouse who takes Normal, Special Early, 85 Point or Early Retirement on or after March 23,2000, shall receive a joint and survivor pension unless the person entitled to the joint and survivor pension delivers to the Plan Administrator a written waiver of such entitlement in the prescribed form within the period of twelve (12) months immediately preceding the commencement of the pension benefit.
Unless waived, the member’s Labatt pension shall be actuarially reduced during his lifetime. Upon his death, his eligible surviving spouse shall receive a pension of 66 2/3% of the member’s reduced pension.
39
Escalation of Benefit
Commencing with the January 1st following a member’s actual retirement date, the members pension shall be increased each January 1 by the percentage set out in the existing pension escalation formula.
Any spousal pension will also be escalated on the existing formula, with the first increase occurring on the January 18t following the member's date of death.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 10:1
Five (5) Shop Stewards, one of whom shall be the Chief Steward, who shall be regular employees of the Company, shall be elected by the Union and recognized by the Company.
Section 10:2
There shall be a Grievance Committee consisting of up to three (3) employees designated by the Union, who are actually then in the employ of the Company, and who will be afforded such reasonable time off as may be required to attend Grievance meetings held at the request of the Management or the Grievance Committee.
The Union shall advise the Company of the names of members of the Grievance Committee and Shop Stewards in writing, and also of any changes from time to time.
40
Section 10:3
The Company or the Union, or aggrieved employees, can file grievances for processing under this Agreement.
Letters of Understanding signed by the Company and the Union shall be deemed to be pat-t of the Agreement for the purpose of enabling a grievance to be processed under this Agreement.
Section 10:4
In the case any grievance arises, an honest effort shall be made to settle the differences.
Grievances arising out of a dismissal of an employee will be submitted directly to the third step of the grievance procedure and all other grievances shall be handled in the following manner:
10:4:1
First: the aggrieved employee, who may be accompanied by the Shop Steward, shall within ten (10) working days of the grievance arising or becoming apparent discuss the matter with his immediate Supervisor. Failing a satisfactory settlement, the grievance shall be put in writing on the forms provided by the union and shall be signed by the Shop Steward.
Within a further five (5) working days the Supervisor shall schedule a meeting with the grievor and the Shop Steward in an attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement.
The Supervisor shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 1 meeting.
41
10:4:2
Second: if the answer at Step 1 is not satisfactory the grievance may be advanced to the Department Head within five (5) working days of receipt of the answer at Step 1. The Department Head or his designate shall schedule a meeting with the Shop Steward, who may be accompanied by the grievor, within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to advance the grievance to Step 2.
The Department Head or his designate shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 2 meeting.
10:4:3
Third: if the answer at Step 2 is not satisfactory the grievance may be advanced to the Plant Manager within five (5) working days of receipt of the answer at Step 2. The Plant Manager or his designate shall schedule a meeting with the grievance committee, who may be accompanied by the grievor, within five (5) working days of receipt of the notice to advance the grievance to step 3.
The Plant Manager or his designate shall answer the grievance within five (5) working days of the Step 3 meeting.
10:4:4
Fourth: if the answer is not satisfactory at Step 3, the grievance may be advanced to arbitration within thirty (30) working days of receipt of the answer at Step 3.
42
10:4:5
Fifth: The grievance shall be submitted to a single arbitrator to be agreed upon by the parties. Should the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator the Provincial Minister of Labour shall be requested to appoint an arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator as to the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement shall be final and binding on the Company and the Union.
Where an arbitrator finds in favour of an aggrieved employee, such employee shall receive full back pay for the time lost arising out of the grievance, and full reinstatement in his former job, including all benefits and entitlements held prior to the grievance having arisen.
Where an employee has been suspended, dismissed, or disciplined, the arbitrator may confirm, modify or set aside the decision.
The arbitrator shall have the power to decide if a question before him is arbitrable. The Company and the Union shall share equally the cost of the arbitrator.
In the case of a grievance being filed by either the Company or the Union respecting any grievance as distinguished from the first tendered by an aggrieved employee, the parties shall commence discussions at the second step of the grievance procedure, and the grievance shall be put in writing by the aggrieved party should settlement not be reached in that step.
10:4:6
The time limits specified in Steps One to Five may be extended by mutual agreement in writing. If any of the time periods are not adhered to by either party, the grievance shall automatically proceed to the next step.
43
10:4:7
All disciplinary records will be removed from the employee’s personnel folder and destroyed after a period of two (2) years from the date of issuance of such discipline and thereafter shall not be relied upon for any purpose. However, verbal warnings shall be removed from an employee’s personnel file after only one (1) year as long as there has not been any other discipline on file within the one (1) year period.
Prior to effecting a discharge or suspension of an employee the Company shall notify the Union in writing as to the reason for the action being taken.
ARTICLE 11 - WORK STABILIZATION
Section 11:1- Guaranteed Wage Plan
The Company will provide a guaranteed wage plan, a copy of which is attached as Appendix “A” which shall be an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 11:2 Manpower
The Company will as far as possible provide full employment for its employees. To this end extra shift or extra employees will not be used at any time to subsequently curtail the full-time work possibilities.
Section 11:3 Job Training and Re-Training
11:3:1
Employees shall be given reasonable training in all jobs within the Bargaining Unit, in the interests of the longer term employees not suffering from layoff because of not
44
having had the opportunity to train or retrain for the more steady jobs.
Employees will be eligible for refund of tuition costs (including prescribed text books) of educational courses provided that:
11:3:2:1
The course is given by a recognized school and is approved by the Human Resources Manager prior to the taking of the course and is a contribution to the development of the employee;
11:3:2:2
The course is likely to contribute to the employee's performance or advancement within the Company; and
11:3:2:3
The employee offers proof of successful completion of the course.
Section 11:4 Technological Change 11:4:1
In the event that, during this Collective Agreement, the Company plans to introduce a major technological change, which it anticipates will directly result in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees, the following shall apply:
45
(a)	The Company will give the Union notice of such
technological change at least sixty (60) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected. After giving notice, the Company shall identify by job classification, the number of jobs to be displaced. The jobs to be displaced shall be grouped by the Company for the purposes of paragraph (c) herein.
(b)	The Company will meet and discuss with the Union the redeployment of the affected regular employees in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and the provisions as set out in the Guaranteed Wage Plan (GWP); and, in so doing, shall designate the employees to be indefinitely laid off;
(c)	During the first thirty (30) days of the notice period and prior to effecting any layoffs or separations under the Collective Agreement, the Company shall canvass employees eligible for Special Early Retirement (“eligible employees”) as to their willingness to elect Special Early Retirement. Such eligible employees shall be approached within each group determined in paragraph (a) in order of seniority and, if they choose to take Special Early Retirement within the above thirty (30) day period and actually retire within thirty (30) days thereafter, will receive a Technological Change Bonus (TCB). The TCB will be determined by dividing the total amount of the separation pay entitlement of all the employees designated for indefinite layoff in paragraph (b) above, by the total number of employees so designated. The number of special early retirees in any group who may receive the TCB will not exceed the number of jobs in that group which are to be permanently displaced by the technological change and, if a greater number of eligible employees in any group so elect to take
46
Special Early Retirement, the TCB will only be paid to the most senior of them.
11:4:2 If
(a)	the number of eligible employees in any group who elect to take Special Early Retirement is less than the number of jobs in that group to be permanently displaced by the technological change, or
(b)	the Company did not anticipate the number of layoffs but the introduction of the major technological change actually directly results in the indefinite layoff of ten (10) or more regular employees,
the following provisions shall apply:
(i)	the employees ultimately designated for
indefinite layoff hereunder will be permitted to elect separation and to terminate from the Company prior to their scheduled date of layoff. Those employees so electing and terminating from the Company shall be entitled to receive the amount of separation payment calculated in accordance with Section 14.1 hereof. If any of those employees were classified as regular employees prior to May 5, 1988, their separation payment calculation shall include an additional One Thousand Dollars ($1,000);
(ii)	those employees designated for indefinite layoff hereunder who do not elect to terminate from the Company pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and who are eligible for participation in the Guaranteed Wage Plan, shall receive the benefits provided for under that Plan. In addition, such employees shall receive an additional eight (8)
47
weeks of benefit entitlement under that Plan, subject to the following conditions:
an employee may use the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement only once during his employment, and notwithstanding Section 8 of the Plan, the eight (8) weeks can never be restored;
the additional eight (8) weeks of entitlement shall be the first weeks used.
ARTICLE 12 - SECURITY OF PRINCIPLES Section 12:1 Picket Line
There shall be no lockout on the part of the Company and likewise there shall be no sympathetic strikes staged by the Union while this Agreement is in force and effect provided the Company shall not request or require Its employees to handle, process or deliver goods coming from, belonging to, or for delivery to any establishment at which a legal strike or legal lockout is in progress, and it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for employees to refuse to handle, process or deliver such goods, or to refuse to cross an established bona fide picket line.
(A)
(B)
Notwithstanding anything contained herein the Union will provide skeleton crews to operate the engine room and to protect the Company's property and products during any form of labour disturbance which may arise.
Section 12:2 Union Label
The Company agrees to use the Union label on its bottles, cans and packages.
48
Section 12:3 Union Malt
Only Union made malt may be used when available. Wherever practicable the Company shall endeavour to see that all materials used by the Company shall be materials which are processed by Union Labour in respect to their manufacture and subsequent wholesaling and handling.
Section 12:4 Contracting Out
It is agreed that the Company will not contract out work if it can be agreed that the Union is able to do the work within a competitive time period and at a competitive cost. Where timing and pricing are reasonably equal, the Union will be given the work.
Prior to full discussion with the Union, the Company will provide the Union with outside contractors' costing (i.e., estimates/quotes) unless sealed bids are tendered.
After full discussion with the Union, if it is necessary for the Company to contract work to outside firms, preference will be given to firms employing Union people, provided price and timing are reasonably equal.
In the event the parties cannot agree and the Company commences or continues to contract the work, the matter may be referred to the grievance procedure, commencing at the third step of the grievance procedure.
At the completion of the job, all final costing of the project will be shared with the Union.
49
ARTICLE 13 - GENERAL
Section 13:1 Jury Duty
When an employee is required to serve on a regular or coroner's jury, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, during his normal working hours he shall be granted a leave of absence. During this leave of absence he shall receive the difference between his straight time rate of pay, (for hours necessarily absent and during which he would otherwise have been working), and the amount received for such jury duty or for attending as a Crown witness.
Section 13:2 Bereavement Pay
When an employee attends the funeral (or memorial service if there is no funeral) of an immediate relative he shall receive leave of absence for not less than three (3) consecutive days (one of which days shall be the day of the service) and shall receive eight (8) hours straight-time rate of pay for each of such days absent on which he would otherwise have been working.
For the purpose of this Section 13:2 “immediate relative” shall mean one of the following: Wife, Husband, Daughter, Son, Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grandparents (of the employee or his wife), Brother-in-law, Sister-in-law, Nieces and Nephews.
Section 13:3 Uniforms, Coveralls, Safety, etc. 13:3:1
The Company will pay the cost of providing and laundering three (3) sets of uniforms (bearing the Union label) per week.
50
13:3:2
Employees are required to present a clean and neat appearance at all times. An employee will be responsible for paying for preventable loss or damage to uniform or safety glasses.
13:3:3
The Company will also provide required protective work clothing, safety glasses and will subsidize the cost of safety shoes allowance with respect to regular employees up to a maximum of $175.00 per year.
13:3:4
No employee shall be required to undertake any job, or lift excessive weights which may endanger his health, without receiving protective clothing or device.
13:3:5
A plant Safety Committee shall be continued, with equal representation from Management and the Bargaining Unit. This committee shall recommend programs, practices, and devices to eliminate unsafe work practices and hazardous conditions. Where mutually agreed, the Company shall implement such recommendations.
Section 13:4 Leave of Absence
An employee wishing a Leave of Absence, not covered elsewhere in the contract, shall apply in writing through his immediate Supervisor, stating the reason for the leave and the period of leave required. Each request will be judged on its own merits, taking into account the cause for the leave and the requirements of the operation.
51
All Leaves of Absence will be mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union before being granted.
Employees granted Leave of Absence will be required to pay dues covering the period of leave to Local 250 in advance, unless otherwise agreed to.
Changes in Leaves of Absence granted in this section will only be made in cases of emergency.
Section 13:5 Job Rotation - Bottleshop
There will be a full rotation within wage classifications in the bottleshop area except in those instances where it can be established that portions of such rotation are detrimental to the efficient operation of the plant. Frequency of change not to exceed two (2) weeks unless mutually agreed.
Section 13:6 T-4 Slips
T-4 slips to be given to employees by the end of February. ARTICLE 14 - SEPARATION PAY
Section 14:1
14:1:1	A Regular Employee shall be entitled to
separation pay as set out in subsection 14:1:3 provided he has not been excluded by subsection 14:1:2 and provided he meets any of the following eligibility provisions:
(a)	if he is terminated for a reason other than set out in subsection 14:1:2;
(b)	if he is laid off and on any date during his layoff the hours scheduled for him during the
52
previous twelve (12) consecutive months were less than fifty percent (50%) of normal full time hours provided he is not eligible for any Company or Government pension or for benefits under the Company's insured Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans:
(c)	in special cases where a laid off employee appears to have little prospect of recall to regular work within a period of six (6) months he may request immediate termination and separation pay, and, with the concurrence of the Company and the Union, this may be granted notwithstanding the eligibility clause in
(b)	above;
(d)	if he is ultimately designated for indefinite lay off as a result of a major technological change as provided in Section 11:4.2;
An employee eligible for a separation payment hereunder must apply for it not later than six (6) months after he first becomes eligible therefor; otherwise his right to such payment shall be cancelled.
Notwithstanding the above if the Company permanently discontinues an operation, an employee laid off as a result thereof must apply for and shall receive any separation pay to which he is entitled without waiting the six (6) month’s period.
14:1:2	Notwithstanding subsection 14:1:1, a n
employee shall be excluded from separation pay eligibility
if:
(a)	he quits;
(b)	he is terminated for just cause;
53
14:1:3
(c)	he is terminated under Section 3:1:2 (loss of seniority provision) of this collective agreement;
(d)	he has been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations; unless
(i)	the direction or decree is the result of an illegal act committed by the Company or one of its representatives, or
(ii)	the direction or decree purports to change the method of beer retailing within the Province;
(e)	he has been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God;
(f)	he is laid off and has arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of his layoff;
(g)	he is in receipt of income replacement benefits under the Weekly Indemnity or Long Term Disability Plans or the Workers' Compensation Act:
(h)	he is entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
The amount of separation payment of an eligible employee shall be equal to two (2) weeks base earnings (computed on the basis of his hourly rate in effect as of the time of separation) multiplied by the number of completed years of seniority as of the last day he actively worked in the Union to a
54
maximum of 30 years seniority. The definition of seniority, for the purposes of this article, is that used for vacation entitlement.
14:1:4	The Company shall be authorized to deduct
from any separation pay payable to an employee hereunder the amount of any Guaranteed Wage Plan payment made to such employee which the employee was not entitled to receive.
14:1:5	If an employee applies for and accepts a
separation payment hereunder, his employment is terminated and his seniority and other rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement are cancelled.
ARTICLE 15 - EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE PREMIUM REBATE
Section 15:1
The employee's share of any Employment Insurance Premium Rebate will be retained by the Company to offset a portion of the cost of the benefit improvements contained in this agreement.
ARTICLE 16 ■ DUPLICATION OF BENEFITS
An employee shall not receive wages or other allowances such as holiday pay, vacation pay, Weekly Indemnity, LTD, Workers’ Compensation, or other similar benefits from more than one source for the same day or part of the day.
An employee receiving a benefit such as Sick Leave, Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WCB, GWP etc. will continue to receive these benefits, while eligible, in lieu of any other monies or benefits under the collective agreement.
55
ARTICLE 17 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 17:1 - Duration Defined
This Collective Agreement and the appendices and letters of understanding attached to it shall remain in force until March 22,2004, and thereafter from year to year unless either party serves notice of termination or amendment not greater than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 22, 2004, or if such notice has not then been served, then not greater than one hundred twenty (120) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to the 22nd of March in any subsequent year thereto.
All conditions of this Collective Agreement shall remain in force and effect until the earlier of a ratified amended Collective Agreement or the mediation proceedings pursuant to The Labour Relations Code have been exhausted.
There shall be no retroactive application of any of the provisions of this settlement and the resulting amendments to the Collective Agreements except as expressly provided for herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused their respective proper officers to set their hands on the day first above mentioned.
For the Company:
For the Union:
APPENDIX “A’
Guaranteed Wage Plan
AGREEMENT BETWEEN:
Labatt Alberta Brewery, Division of Labatt Brewing Company Limited, a company duly incorporated under the Laws of the Province of Alberta, having its head office in the City of Edmonton, in the Province of Alberta (hereinafter called the “Company”)
- and -
Local 250 Brewery Workers Retail, Wholesale Canada Canadian Service Sector CAW
WHEREAS The Company has entered into a Collective Agreement with the above named Union.
AND WHEREAS the Parties hereto have agreed to make this supplementary Agreement which is to be a supplement to the said Collective Agreement, and any grievances arising out of the administration of this supplement may be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto agree to the continuation of the Guaranteed Wage Plan as hereinafter set forth with such continuation to become effective on the 23rd day of March, 1991 or any later date on which approval for continuation has been received from the Federal Government holding that:
a)	The Plan meets the requirement of Employment and
Immigration Canada with respect to Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plans,
b)	Payments by the Company pursuant to this Plan will be classed as deductible expenses for corporate income tax purposes, and,
57
c)	The receipt by employees of the benefits provided by this Plan will not disqualify such employees from receiving any part of the Employment Insurance Benefits to which they would otherwise be entitled.
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this plan is to provide a method of guaranteeing income to certain employees who are laid off.
2.	Eligibility of Participation in the Plan
An eligible employee entitled to participate in this Plan is an hourly rated employee who has:
(a)	actually worked for the Company as such for a period in excess of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a calendar year, and
(b)	has completed at least one (1) year of Benefit Service
determined as of the 23rd day of March immediately preceding his layoff.
(c)	Notwithstanding the above, employees not classified as regular employees prior to May 5,1988 shall not be eligible to participate in this plan until March 23 of the year following the employee’s attainment of three (3) years of benefit service.
For purposes of the plan, Benefit Service shall be computed as the length of service of such employee subsequent to a date six (6) calendar months prior to the date on which he completed working one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a calendar year.
50
3. Exceptions
This plan has no application to and provides no benefits for:
(a)	Employees who have been laid off for disciplinary reasons and if such lay-off is questioned under the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement. Final disposition of any grievance will determine the employee's status under the Plan.
(b)	Employees who have been laid off because of any strike, lockout, slowdown, picketing or other action by employees of this Company or by employees of any other employer who are represented for collective bargaining purposes by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union or by any Local Union thereof, or by the Brewery, Malt and Soft Drink Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by the Brewery, Beverage and Soft Drink Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union or any Local Union thereof, or by the Western Union of Brewery, Beverage, Winery and Distillery Workers or any Local Union thereof, or by any successor of any of the aforementioned.
(c)	Employees who have been terminated because of specific direction or decree from any Government authority which has the effect of curtailing any of the Company’s operations.
(d)	Employees who have been laid off because of any act of war or the hostile act of any foreign power or by any act of sabotage or insurrection or by any act of God.
(e)	Employees who are laid off and who have arranged with the Company to take leave of absence without pay for a specific period in lieu of their layoff. These employees will be deemed to have opted out of the Plan for such period.
4.	Disqualification for Benefits
An employee who has been laid off and who would otherwise be
eligible for participation in the Plan shall not receive any
payments under the Plan for any week:
(i)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to apply for E.l. benefits, or in which he has been disqualified or disentitled from E.l. benefits by any reason other than sewing a two (2) week waiting period.
(ii)	In which he has been on layoff and has failed to keep himself registered for employment with the Canada Manpower Centre in those cases where such registration is necessary to qualify for E.l. benefits or for reduction of E.l. waiting period.
(iii)	In which he has failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable for him by the Employment Insurance Commission.
(iv)	In which he has failed to accept and report for any appropriate work assignment of at least one (1) normal working day unless excused for reasonable cause.
(v)	In which he is in receipt of a benefit provided by the Company's Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan, Insured Long Term Disability Plan or other benefit plan of the Company.
(vi)	After he has become entitled to receive any pension under the Company or Government Pension Plan.
(vii)	In respect of which he is qualified for compensation from the Worker’s Compensation Board for any compensable accident or illness.
5.	Definitions
For the purposes of this Plan:
“Wages” shall mean actual earnings for work performed and vacation pay, payment for any leave of absence with pay granted, e.g. jury duty, bereavement pay, payment for Statutory Holidays and call-in pay.
“Week” shall mean the Company's payroll week.
“Compensated and available hours” means as applied to any particular week for any employee:
(a)	All hours worked by the employee for the Company or for any other employer in such week, plus
(b)	All hours not worked by the employee in such week but for which he receives wages from any employer, plus
(c)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is not on layoff and which he Has not worked for any reason other than lack of work, plus
(d)	All hours scheduled in such week for an employee who is on layoff and which he has not worked for any reason other than lack of work after being given reasonable notice according to the established practice of the Company that such scheduled hours were available to be worked by him.
“Week of Layoff” means a week in which the employee’s compensated and available hours are less than forty (40).
6.	Benefits Provided for Laid off Employees
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as herein set out, each eligible employee who is laid off from the Bargaining Unit shall receive in addition to any wages earned in the week a benefit from the Plan for each week of layoff calculated by
61
determining the product of items 1, 2 and 3 below and deducting from such product the sum of item 4 below.
(1)	Seventy percent (70%) for eligible employees as herein
above defined.
(2)	The straight time hourly rate of the employee in effect as of the time of layoff.
(3)	The excess of forty (40) over the compensated and available hours of the employee.
(4)	The actual benefit, if any, for which such employee is
eligible under the Employment Insurance Act for such week.
7.	Welfare Benefits During Layoff
An employee who is laid off continues to participate in the Welfare Plan of the Company applicable to employees in his Bargaining Unit to the end of the month following the last month in which he has worked in the Bargaining Unit, or until the end of the last month during which he has drawn a benefit under this Plan, whichever is the latter. Welfare Plan for the purpose of this section does not include the Pension Plan or the Company's Sick Leave Plan, Insured Weekly Indemnity Plan or Insured Long Term Disability Plan which covers only indemnity for wages actually lost because of illness or accident.
An employee on layoff who, pursuant to the above, has ceased to participate in the Welfare Plan is restored to participation immediately upon completion of eight (8) hours work in the Bargaining Unit.
8.	Duration of Benefits
The maximum benefit entitlement of an employee at any time shall not exceed that benefit established in accordance with Table “A”. However, the employee's actual benefit entitlement
62
will be less than the maximum benefit entitlement if he has used any benefits and has not subsequently restored them.
Weeks of benefits are restored based upon the formula of l/l Oth of a week for each eight (8) full hours during which the employee earned wages from the Company up to the employee’s maximum benefit entitlement set out in Table “A” below. No credits towards future benefit entitlements are allowed for wages earned during any period in which the employee is already entitled to the maximum benefit set out in Table “A”.
Table A
Completed Years of Benefit Service determined as of the March 23
immediately preceding his layoff
15 Years or More 10 Years or More 5 Years or More 4 Years or More 3 Years or More
Maximum Benefit ____________Entitlement
78 Weeks of benefits
65 Weeks of benefits
52 Weeks of benefits
45 Weeks of benefits
35 Weeks of benefits
The maximum number of weeks of benefits which an employee may use during any twelve (12) month period commencing March 23 shall not exceed his Maximum Benefit Entitlement determined as of that March 23 in accordance with Table “A” above.
Each eligible employee’s weeks of benefits shall be decreased by one (1) week for each week in respect of which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than thirty-two (32) hours; and by 4/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than twenty-four (24) hours;
63
and by 3/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than sixteen (16) hours; and by 2/5ths of one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for more than eight (8) hours; and by 1/5th of a week in which he is on layoff and in receipt of benefits for eight (8) hours or less; and his weeks of benefits shall also be decreased by one (1) week for each week in which he is on layoff but was disqualified for any of the reasons set out in subsections (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.
9.	Deductions
Any payment made under this Plan shall be subject to any deductions required by Federal, Provincial or Municipal authority or by the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or by voluntary authorization from the employee concerned.
10.	Applications
Employees shall be required to observe such rules and follow such procedures and make such reports and applications as shall be prescribed by the Company after consultation with the Union. The willful falsification of any fact material to the determination of an employee’s benefit rights under the Plan shall result in the forfeiture of any benefit rights he may have under the Plan for a period of twelve (12) months subsequent to the discovery of such falsification, and this shall not preclude any other disciplinary action which may be imposed subject to the Grievance Procedure of the Collective Agreement.
11.	Reporting
The Company will make periodic reports to the Union weekly while employees are laid off and receiving benefits under the Plan and quarterly if no employees are on layoff, giving the Union complete information as to the number of employees who have been laid off, the duration thereof, the payments made to each individual under the Plan, the number of ineligible and disqualified employees, and such other similar information as may be relevant.
64
12.	Duration of Agreement
This agreement shall continue until March 22,2004.
During negotiations for renewal of the relevant Collective Agreement, the Union is free to request amendments to this Agreement which shall also be part of such negotiations, but on the understanding that any amendments to this Agreement will not take effect any earlier than March 23,2004.
DENTAL CARE BENEFITS FOR WAGE EMPLOYEES OF LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
Dental care benefits are provided for you and your eligible dependents subject to the limitations and exclusions described herein. Dependents eligible for such benefits are your spouse and unmarried children who are under 21 years of age and dependent upon you for support.
1. ELIGIBLE DENTAL EXPENSES:
Eligible services are those reasonable and customary dental services which are recommended as necessary and performed by a qualified dentist or by a dental mechanic when operating within the scope of his license. Eligible dental services are classified under three major categories as listed below. Non-listed services will be provided for on the basis of special reports by the dentist to the insurer.
(a) Basic Services:
(1)	Diagnostic services, including oral examination and consultation
(2)	X-rays, including
-	bitewing films once each year for routine examination and as required where special need is indicated.
-	full mouth or panoramic films not more than once in each two year period for routine examination.
-	follow-up x-rays and retakes
-	oral cytology examination
66
(3)	Preventative services, including
topical application of fluoride once in each year.
patient education in diet, oral physiotherapy.
prophylaxis, scaling and polishing not more than once each year.
(4)	All fillings of silver amalgam, synthetic porcelain and plastic; gold inlays but only in such cases as cannot be fully restored by standard filling materials.
(5)	Standard surgical services
(6)	Children's dentistry, including coverage for services listed above as well as space maintainers and habit inhibitors.
b)	Restorative services:
(1)	Periodontics-treatment of the supporting structures of the teeth as required.
(2)	Standard endodontics procedures-root canal therapy.
(3)	Crowns and bridges including repairs to and
reoementing of existing crowns and bridges.
(4)	Prosthetics, including
-	complete and partial dentures
-	relining and repairing existing dentures
-	replacement of dentures if professionally indicated; each subsequent replacement denture is eligible only if made more than 5 years following the
67
placement or replacement of a denture for which
benefits have been paid under this plan.
c)	Orthodontic Services - proper fitting of natural teeth and prevention or correction of irregularities of the teeth.
2.	AMOUNT OF BENEFITS:
You will be reimbursed for 100% of the cost of eligible Basic Services incurred by you or your dependents, 100% of the cost of Restorative Services and 50% of the cost of Orthodontic Services. Benefits will be paid on the basis of the lesser of the actual fee charged or the amount stated in the current Dental Association Schedule of Fees in the province of Alberta. If optional procedures are possible, benefits will be payable in accordance with the procedure involving the smallest fee.
The maximum benefits payable are defined in Section 9:1:6.
3.	SERVICES NOT COVERED:
Dental care benefits are not payable for prescription drugs, hospital charges except for those items listed as eligible expenses, charges of an anesthetist or anesthesiologist while the insured is hospitalized, those services provided for under the Alberta Health Insurance Act or other government legislation, services eligible for payment from another source such as Workers' Compensation, a government agency or any other insurer, expenses incurred principally for cosmetic purposes, expenses resulting from an act of war, or any service for which an employee or dependent does not have to pay.
4.	CANCELLATION OF INSURANCE:
Your dental care insurance will be cancelled as of the date you retire, die or terminate service with the Company. Dental coverage is extended for 31 days of further treatment after the date on which your insurance is cancelled but only for any condition covered by the plan for which you or an eligible dependent had received an examination and authorization for
ee
treatment and/or to allow for completion of treatment already initiated while insured. No new treatment may be authorized during this 31 day period.
5.	HOW TO CLAIM:
When you or any of your dependents are entitled to receive insured benefits you should obtain the necessary claim forms from your Supervisor. When you have completed the employee's portion of the claim form you should have your dentist complete his section. Then give the completed form to your Supervisor for him to forward for settlement.
Claims must be submitted by the end of the calendar year following the year in which the expense was incurred except that proof of claim must be submitted within 90 days of the date on which your insurance is cancelled for any reason. A separate claim form must be filled out for each member of your family for whom you are making claim. The dentists statement of this form, or any bill supporting your claim, must show the patient's name, dates and nature of the treatment and the charge. Failure to submit your claim together with the dentists report or other itemized statements within the above time limit will result in the rejection of your claim.
6.	DEFINITION OF A “YEAR”
The parties agree that in interpreting the dental plan language both within the body of the Collective Agreement and attached to it, that the definition of a “year”, unless otherwise specified as a “calendar year”, shall be deemed to mean “a rolling 12 month period”. For example: on page 59 of the Collective Agreement it reads: “topical application of fluoride once in each year” -effective immediately the parties shall interpret this as once in a rolling 12 month period. That is, if the employee received the above mentioned treatment on April 5,1992, he would be eligible again on April 5,1993.
69
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 1
Banking of Overtime
It is understood and agreed that an employee may at his discretion apply all or a portion of his overtime hours towards an equivalent of hours time off, that is, an employee who works one hour of double time his regular rate shall be reimbursed in one of the following ways:
1)	Paid at two (2) times his regular wage rate, or;
2)	Upon his request to his Supervisor, the employee would be granted two (2) hours time off at his regular wage rate.
The following controls will apply to the banking of overtime:
a)	The maximum number of hours that may be banked in a calendar year by any employee shall be 80 hours. These hours may be taken as time off or cashed out.
b)	The intent of this plan is that employees take significant blocks of time off at any one time, i.e. one (1) week. Time off for periods as short as one (1) day will be granted on occasions where reasonable notice is given and shift change premium is not required for the man's replacement.
c)	Banked time is accumulated over a calendar year. Employees are not required to take their banked time off during the calendar year in which it was accumulated but must use their entitlement by March 31 st of the following year. To qualify for using this entitlement in the period December 1 to March 31, the employee must have previously scheduled his vacation entitlements. Banked time off not taken by the March 31st deadline will be paid at the rate it was banked. Banked time off may be taken between September 1st and April 30th. Time off will be arranged by requests to the immediate Supervisor, and
70
such requests shall be accommodated where time off does not interfere with the operation of the plant. Following the finalization of the vacation schedule on March 31 of each year, requests for remaining vacation and banked time off will be considered and approved on a first come first served basis. The scheduling process of vacations prior to March 31 shall take preference over the scheduling process of banked overtime in the event of any conflict. Requests for banked time will be approved only after the banked time has been accumulated.
d)	Maintenance department employees may not take their
accumulated time off during the annual overhaul periods, but their requests for time off outside September 1st to April 30th will be granted where possible.
e)	Employees may, at their discretion, request payment in
cash for overtime hours banked. All such requests must be made in writing and signed by the employee making the request. Overtime monies will be included in the employee’s regular pay cheque following the request provided a minimum of one (1) weeks notice is received prior to the issuing of pay cheques. This Letter will remain in effect as long as current practices exist, but will expire March 22,2004 unless renewed by mutual agreement.
71
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 2
It has been agreed between the parties that:
1)	Not less than thirty (30) days before the annual plant overhaul, the Company and the Union will mutually agree to the maintenance helpers to be designated for the purpose of overhaul.
2)	The company shall continue with its present practice of providing pay advances to employees for reasons of vacation for payment covering the vacation period and in emergency situations if circumstances warrant. An advance shall be subject to the approval of either the Plant or Human Resources Manager.
3)	The Company agrees to continue with its present pay practice with respect to the “Bottleshop Utility Operator" in relation to the wage rate of a “Machine Operator”.
72
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 3
The company will give the union six (6) months notice of its intention to permanently close the brewery.
73
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4
Sick Credit Top-up Bank
The following will outline how this bank will operate.
Regular status employees will on an annual basis bank all unused sick day credits in the sick credit top-up bank. These employees may use this bank to provide for top-up pay to bring the employee’s weekly rate up to regular full pay while the employee is on W.I., W.C.B., or L.T.D. The employee is not allowed to use this bank to earn more than his regular hourly rate while on any of the programs mentioned above (for example, the employee's daily rate shall not exceed 8 hours multiplied by his regular hourly rate).
Credits that go into the bank will be valued at the employee’s hourly rate as of December 31 of the year the credits are from (for example, if the employee has 8 hours of credit to go into the bank and his hourly rate is $22.10, the value that goes into the bank is $176.80). This calculation will be done in January of each year.
74
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 5
Compressed Work Week
The parties agree that the Company has the right to implement a Compressed Work Week consisting of four (4) consecutive 10 hour shifts. An example of this type of shift configuration is as follows:
Packaging and Warehouse
Mon./Tues./Wed./Thurs.
Maintenance
T ues./Wed./Thurs./Fri.
Prior to implementing the Compressed Work Week, the Company will notify the Union at least two (2) weeks in advance of its start, and meet with the Union to review the reasons for the implementation. The same notice is required to switch back to the conventional shifts. This notice period may be changed where mutually agreed upon.
The following will be in effect when a Compressed Work Week has been implemented:
-	Overtime paid for:
-	work performed over 10 hours in any work day
-	all hours worked over 40 hours a week
-	a scheduled day off
-	Plant Holiday plus 8 hours straight time holiday pay at his rate.
■ Sick time -- on an hour for hour basis
-	Vacation Utilization -- on an hour for hour basis
-	Bereavement -- to a maximum of three (3) consecutive
days
75
-	Weeks in which one or more statutory holidays fall will automatically revert back to a conventional shift structure unless otherwise mutually agreed upon.
-	Lunch break — 30 minutes
-	Rest periods - three 15 minute rest periods
-	Meal allowance - meal money will be provided only if
the employee works for 11 or more hours
-	Shift premiums -- as per agreement
-	the Compressed Work Week may be used in any
department or sub-department.
-	Union and Management will hold open dialogue to
monitor the Compressed Work Week once it is implemented
76
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 6
Weekend Workforce (W.W.F.)
The purpose of the Weekend Workforce is to provide the Company with the opportunity for a seven (7) day work week. The regular workforce would run Monday to Friday, working three (3) eight (8) hour shifts. The W.W.F. would run Saturday and Sunday working one (1) or two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts being paid thirty-six (36) hours at job rate.
Staffing
Jobs to be awarded through posting procedures in the plant as separate and distinct crews.
Regular work week (R.W.F.) vacancies created by the W.W.F. will be filled on a relief posted basis.
Upon W.W.F. wind up, employees will return to their previous posted job.
Employees will have a one-time opportunity per year in the month of September to move back to the R.W.F. from the W.W.F. Employees may trade crews with other similarly skilled workers, provided no additional costs are incurred by the Company and the trade is approved by the employee's manager.
If the required skill sets are not present on the W.W.F., the Company can schedule the most junior employee(s) to work the W.W.F.
Where possible, unscheduled weekend vacancies will be filled one (1) week in advance. The employee would likely work 7 days straight to have 7 days off.
Should the Company be unable to fill vacancies during the running of the 7 day work week, the Company may use temporary employees to fill these vacancies.
Shifts
- When implemented, the plant will run on three (3) eight (8) hour shifts Monday to Friday, and one (1) or two (2) twelve
77
(12) hour shifts on Saturday and Sunday. Other arrangements of R.W.F. and W.W.F. shift levels may be mutually agreed to, such as two (2) eight (8) hour shifts Monday to Friday and one (1) or two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts on Saturday and Sunday.
-	Shifts must run for a minimum of four (4) weeks to provide full rotation.
-	The Company will provide the Union with thirty (30) days’
notice before moving to the W.W.F.
-	The Company and the Union agree to mutually establish the start-up times for the W.W.F.
-	Employees working the W.W.F. would receive the following
breaks:
Coffee-Lunch-Lunch-Coffee
-	The Company and the Union will re-visit this arrangement
once the W.W.F. is in practice.
Benefits:
-	W.W.F. employees are eligible for benefit coverage.
-	For the purposes of the W.W.F., the compensated and
available hours referred to in the GWP plan shall be amended to provide that thirty-six (36) hours shall equal 100% of said weeks compensation.
-	Any Local 250 members not eligible for the Labatt Benefit Plan would need to meet the 150 day eligibility requirement expressed as hours. A new employee would take fifty (50) weekends (1200 hours) to reach benefits status.
-	W.W.F. employees are eligible for full pension credit within the Labatt Pension Plan.
-	Sick bank is converted to hours and utilized as eighteen (18) hours/shift.
-	W.l. qualification would not change and the benefit would be paid out at 75% of the wage rate.
-	Statutory holidays would be paid out at eight (8) hours pay in addition to the weekend work (i.e., paid 36 plus 8 hours stat pay).
-	If a statutory holiday falls on the weekend and is not moved (i.e., Christmas Day), the employee receives eighteen (18) hours pay and does not work the day.
78
Trigger:
-	Option to move to the W.W.F. in the plant when Edmonton
achieves production levels of 850,000 hectolitres of packaged product (Bottle + Can + Keg).
-	Option to move to the W.W.F. in the Brewing department and the Maintenance department when Edmonton achieves brewing levels of 750,000 diluted hectolitres.
-	By mutual agreement, the Company and the Union may
implement the W.W.F. at levels of production less than the above.
Temporary WWF Postings:
When the canline or the bottleshop temporarily requires a 7 day work week, a notice will be posted. Employees from that department interested in working a temporary weekend workforce must sign the posting and will then be selected by seniority to work on the temporary weekend workforce (maximum of four (4) people in the bottleshop and four (4) people in the canline). When the weekend workforce is no longer required these people shall return to their previously posted jobs within the department. These people would be subject to the same contractual terms as full-time WWF employees while working the temporary WWF. The only exception being an in-out notice period of 14 days. Temporary WWF will not take place outside the "temp’’ period.
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 7
Best Practices
The Company and the Union recognize that in order for Labatt Alberta Brewery to remain a viable operation, we must achieve “Best Practices” as defined through the National Long Range Plan and within the established time frame (by April 30, 1997).
Both parties agree to jointly address the Best Practices issues facing the Edmonton Brewery, focussing on the following key areas:
CREWING LEVELS: We agree that we will operate all of our departments with the optimum number of employees as defined by Best Practices. We agree to maintain our commitment to achieve high efficiency production of a quality product in a safe and healthy environment.
EFFICIENCY AND PRODUCTIVITY: We agree that our brewing and packaging lines will achieve the highest efficiency and productivity of all breweries operating in our markets, including U.S. and domestic operations.
PRODUCT AND MATERIAL LOSSES:	We agree to
significantly reduce costs associated with present level of product and material waste.
MAINTENANCE PRACTICES:	We agree to achieve
maintenance effectiveness and cost performance through improvements to preventative maintenance, overhaul strategies, and operator involvement in basic maintenance support of equipment and processes with the active participation and commitment of the maintenance department.
80
UTILITIES, ENERGY REDUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:	We agree that while our present
performance in these areas has shown progress, the moving targets resulting from legislation, competition and cost pressures will be met and exceeded. The parties are committed to address these issues on an ongoing basis.
All of the above initiatives will result in overall cost reductions in the Edmonton Brewery operation of $2.1 million annually by April 30. 1997.
The parties agree that the key elements involved in attaining the committed cost savings include:
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN THE PROCESS: Both parties agree that an initiative of this magnitude will require the involvement and commitment of the entire work force. We will involve our existing framework of in-house committees and teams to help steer action in the appropriate areas, and develop new teams as required to ensure widespread employee participation, communication of goals and results, and to assess our progress and achievements.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PHILOSOPHY: Both parties agree to continue to build upon the progress made in continuous improvement over the past five years; Union Management Problem Solving; Single Sourcing; and Working in Teams are examples of on-going initiatives to which we will commit in order to encourage the Continuous Improvement Process.
CASHBACK:	Both parties agree to maximize their efforts
towards Gainsharing as an ongoing vehicle to encourage waste reduction and overall improvement in all areas so that Labatt Edmonton employees may share in the attainment of Best Practices.
If any part of the current Collective Agreement is deemed to adversely affect either party or the attainment of Best Practices, the parties agree to meet to resolve the issue using our problem solving format.
81
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 8
Letter of Intent
Should mandatory retirement at age 65 be no longer permitted by law in this province and a regular employee continues in employment beyond his normal retirement date, the following conditions shall govern such employment and be added to the Collective Agreement.
1.	The Pension to which the employee has become entitled at his normal retirement date (the “Pension”) shall be frozen as of the employee's normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan.
2.	The employee's Pension shall become payable as of the first day of the month immediately following the month the employee ceased to be employed with the Company or as of the first day of the month immediately preceding the employee’s seventy-first (71st) birthday whichever shall first occur (the “Pension Date”).
3.	The employee’s Pension will include any escalation benefits which occur from his normal retirement date to this Pension Date.
4.	No contributions to the Pension Plan will be made after the employee has reached his normal retirement date and no service shall be credited after the aforementioned date.
5.	An employee’s Pension will not be affected by any amendments made to the Pension Plan after the employee’s normal retirement date.
6.	An employee’s Pension benefits will be actuarially reviewed effective as at the Pension Date having regard to the employee’s Pension having been deferred since his normal retirement date.
82
7.	For purposes of calculation any minimum pension
supplement, the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security benefits, where applicable, will be taken into account at the level in effect at the employee's normal retirement date.
8.	An employee who continues in the employ of the Company after his normal retirement date as defined in the Pension Plan, shall be entitled to only the insured welfare benefits provided to employees on retirement as at his normal retirement date.
83
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 9
HANDYMAN
To: Rick Gain
This letter will confirm the company's commitment to schedule the part-time Handyman to carpentry and general repair duties for a period of no less than fifteen (15) weeks per year.
(This letter will not form part of the contract).
84
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 10
DAYS OF REST LEGISLATION RESPONSIBILITY FOR TRACKING AND COMPENSATION
This memo outlines the understanding between the parties as it relates to the responsibility for days of rest tracking and compensation.
It is agreed that Labatt must comply with the days of rest legislation contained in the Alberta Employment Standards Code (including the”Scheme of Employment Permit” issued to Labatt by the Director of Labour on May 22,1997).
It is also agreed that employees of Labatt are responsible to monitor their days to ensure that the legislation/permit is not violated. One day of rest must be taken in each work week (7 days) or two consecutive days of rest must be taken in each period of 3 consecutive work weeks (21 days).
In the event that an employee works past 19 days without 2 consecutive days off, as a result of an employee not accurately tracking their days, the employee will be required to take the appropriate number of days off at their own expense. Vacation bonus, banked time and/or regular vacation may be accessed if available and agreeable to both parties.
85
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 11
AGREEMENT ON MILLWRIGHT DAY POSITION INTENT
This memo is intended to outline the understanding between the parties as it relates to the posted positions of Brewhouse and Packaging Millwright day positions.
It is agreed by both parties that there should have been one posting for the two positions that were posted as Brewhouse and Packaging Millwright Day Positions. Because all names that were signed to the postings were the same, there will be no need to re-post for placement. It is agreed that the positions are to be assigned based on seniority i.e. the senior most individual has the choice of Packaging or Brewing to start the rotation. Should a position be discontinued, either in Packaging or Brewing, the senior most individual will remain as the Day Position Millwright if he/she so chooses.
It is also understood by both parties that the rotation will be agreed upon by the Day Position Millwrights and Management. This rotation will be discussed after the two positions have been in effect for a term of six months from the commencement date of March 29,1998.
It was agreed upon by the two Local 250 employees that have accepted the two Day Millwright Positions (Peter Kobewka and Dennis Cox) that they will not hold any relief posting positions while they are in these roles.
86
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 12
INTERPRETATION OF SECTION 3:5:4 (CLARIFICATION)
This memo outlines (and clarifies) the agreement reached by the union and the company concerning the interpretation of the last sentence of Section 3:5:4 of the current collective agreement.
The interpretation has changed to reflect that all positions in the brewery are now posted positions.
The interpretation is now as follows:
An employee who wants to drop his/her posting must bid out on an active posting or wait to bid out on a posting that becomes available as a result of the dropping of their own posting. An employee who drops a posting will be ineligible to post for another position for a six (6) month period.
87
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 13
BEER ROOM CLOSURE SETTLEMENT
This memo outlines the agreement that was reached by the union and the company concerning the consumption of beer in the Employee Beer Room (Rumours Lounge) and the fact that it is no longer permitted, effective Friday, March 29,1996.
Employees will receive the following increase in take home beer as part of the terms of the closure. And employee promotional beer will cease to exist as of December 31,1996.
1996	30 dozen (total 60 dozen)*
1997	and thereafter 22 dozen (total 52 dozen)
*new employees will receive a pro-rated portion of the increase, based on their start date.
The 1996 increase will be issued to employees before Christmas 1996.
es
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 14
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
The parties agree that the following will clarify the length of leave referred to in Article 13:2 of the Collective Agreement. It is a requirement for the employee to attend the funeral (or memorial service if there is no funeral) of the “immediate relative” to qualify for said leave.
. Three (3) consecutive days if funeral (or memorial service) is in Alberta.
. Four (4) consecutive days if funeral (or memorial service) is outside of Alberta but within Canada.
. Five (5) consecutive days if funeral (or memorial service) is outside Canada.
89
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 15
CHIEF ENGINEER
The parlies agree that this letter is intended to provide an opportunity for two (2) Steam Engineers to gain experience as a Chief Engineer during the periods when Labatt does not employ an out-of-scope Chief Engineer.
The following will outline a number of the specifics relative to this position.
General-
1.	The primary duties of the Chief Engineer are to coordinate the operation of the powerhouse in such a way as to ensure optimum operation of this department and to ensure that the plant is operated in accordance with the Boiler and P.V. Act and Regs.
2.	The Chief Engineer will report to the Plant Engineer.
3.	Requirements are a Second Class Certificate of competency, and the ability to effectively coordinate the activities of others.
4.	At this time there are two individuals with the qualifications so it is the intent that they share this position in a rotating manner with a frequency of at least four (4) months.
5.	To ensure adequate department coordination and contact with internal and external individuals, this will be a day shift position.
6.	It is agreed that either party can terminate this Letter of Understanding upon giving the other patty thirty (30) day’s written notice.
90
7.	It is agreed that the position of Chief Engineer and the related duties does not fall under the reference of Bargaining Unit Work. However, it is understood that while this letter is in effect the employee performing the duties of Chief Engineer is covered by the Collective Agreement.
8.	Should Labatt decide to hire a permanent Chief Engineer, that position will be a management position and this Letter will be terminated.
9.	While a member of the Bargaining Unit is acting as the Chief Engineer, he will be compensated by receiving a half hour paid at the regular overtime rate. This will only be paid for hours in the role worked between Monday to Friday or hours actually worked in the plant in the role of Chief Engineer on the weekend.
Job Duties:
Job duties will include but will not be limited to the following:
1.	Ensure that an adequate preventative maintenance program is implemented and that proper records are kept.
2.	In conjunction with Production Managers' plans, schedules other Shift Engineers to ensure that plant utility needs are met.
3.	Assists the Plant Engineer with the preparation of capital department operating and plant utility budgets for the powerhouse. Assists the Plant Engineer with any budget reviews and with keeping the department to its financial targets. Assists Maintenance managers with the general factory budgets.
4.	Implements some or all aspects of related minor capital projects from budget preparation to tendering and construction supervision.
5.	In conjunction with the Plant Engineer, provides assistance to National Office Engineering on specific capital projects, specifically with regard to areas of the Act and Regulations.
6.	Actively participates with plant Energy Conservation and Environmental issues.
7.	Ensures that the plant is operated in accordance with the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Act and Regulations and acts as a liaison to the Boiler inspector. This entails the following, as examples:
•	Ensures that proper records are maintained for:
. Vessel inspections
•	Safety testing
•	Boiler audits
•	Ensures that all new construction adheres to the Act by assisting the Plant Engineer to ensure that the design and construction groups carry out the proper drawing review, procurement, construction, and testing procedures.
8.	Other related duties as assigned.
92
u>
U)
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 16 OVERTIME RATES SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS
The following examples are intended to clarify how overtime rates will be applied when an employee is working a regular work week (i.e. Monday to Friday, 8 hours per day) and works overtime hours on the weekend.
Example 1
Shift		Pay
		Hours x Rate
4 pm Friday - 4 am Saturday	Friday 4 pm - Midnight	8x1
	Friday Midnight - 4 am Saturday	4x2
8 [Saturday - Midnight	Saturday 8 pm - Midnight	4x2
Example 2
Shift		Pay
		Hours x Rate
4 pm Friday - 4 am Saturday	Friday 4 pm - Midnight	8x1
	Friday Midnight - 4 am Saturday	4x2
4 pm Saturday - Midnight	Saturday 4 pm - Saturday Midnight	8x2
Example 3
Shift		Pay Hours x Rate
Friday Midnight - 8am Saturday	Friday Midnight - 8 am Saturday	8x2
8 pm Saturday - 8 am Sunday	Saturday 8 pm - Saturday Midnight	4x2
	Saturday Midnight - 8 am Sunday	8x2.5
D. King Pay Scenario
Shift		Pay Hours x Rate
11 pm Friday - 7 am Saturday	11 pm Friday - Midnight	1 x2
	Friday Midnight - 7 am Saturday	7x2
7 pm Saturday - 7 am Sunday	Saturday 7 pm - Midnight	5x2
	Saturday Midnight - 7 am Sunday	7x2.5
Example 4
Shift		Pay
		Hours x Rate
8 pm Saturday - 8 am Sunday	Saturday 8 om - Saturday Midniaht	4x2
	Saturday Midnight - 8 am Sunday	8x2.5
Example 5		
Shift		Pay
		Hours x Rate
Friday Shift Monday - Friday	Sunday 11 om - Sunday Midniaht	Tx2!5
Startina Sunday 11 Dm - 7 am	Sunday Midnight - Monday 7 am	7x1
Same Employee Working	Friday 11 pm - Friday Midnight	1 x2
Friday 11 pm - Saturday 7 am	Friday Midnight - Saturday 7 am	7x2
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 17
APPRENTICESHIP
(not to be contained In the Collective Agreement)
This letter will serve as the interpretation of the process the parties have agreed to in regards to apprenticeship in the maintenance department.
In respect to the employment conditions for apprentices that are not specified in this letter, all other clauses of the Collective Agreement will remain in effect.
Program Administration
1.	The company reserves the right to determine the need to staff an apprentice position.
At no time will the number of apprentices within the plant exceed one (1) at any one time, unless otherwise mutually agreed.
It is understood and agreed that, provided the Company has one (1) apprentice on staff, they may hire dual-ticketed trades people from outside the Company to fill vacancies.
2.	It is agreed that, provided the Company has one (1) apprentice In the program, it has the right to hire dual-ticketed millwrights from outside the Company to fill any vacancies and/or new positions. Provided there are no reductions to the present level of millwright staffing (presently 10) due to business conditions, we will have at least one apprentice in the department until March 22,2000.
96
3.	Vacancies may be filled in the Electrical Department by Dual-Ticketed tradesmen from outside the Company if one or more person(s) leaves the Company without sufficient notice (or goes on permanent disability).
4.	An apprenticeship committee, consisting of two Union and two Company representatives, will administer selection of candidates and assessment of apprentice work performance. Decisions of the committee will not be subject to the grievance procedure.
5.	The apprentice must maintain satisfactory work performance (assessed by the Apprenticeship Committee every six (6) months) and academic standing in the program. Failure to do so will result in removal from the program.
6.	In the event of a non-decision by the apprenticeship committee, the Company reserves the right to the final decision and the union has the right to grieve the decision.
7.	It is agreed that for the next two vacancies that occur in the maintenance department, from March 22,1994, the Company at its discretion may hire two dual-ticketed millwrights from outside the Company.
Employment Conditions
1.	Apprentices will be subject to layoff as per the conditions of the Collective Agreement and will be laid off by plant seniority, but before journeymen.
2.	Apprentices will not participate in the equalization of departmental overtime until the apprentice goes on full shift rotation (normally 4th year) with the exception of planned maintenance shutdowns.
3.	It is intended that apprentices in the program would receive the equivalent of normal pay or wages while in school (no premiums would apply). Candidates must apply for and fulfill
97
all ongoing requirements for any Provincial or Federal support programs. With the continuance of full pay to the candidate according to the regular pay schedule, candidates are required to turn all monies received from the Provincial and/or Federal programs over to Labatt.
4.	Wages will not be paid to applicants for time spent in the application process, excepting the testing procedure for final candidates. The number of candidates will be determined by the selection committee but will not exceed 10.
5.	Any apprentice who fails any exam may, at the discretion of the Apprenticeship Committee, be removed from the program. However, should an apprentice fail the same exam on the second writing, he shall automatically be removed from the program. There will be no exceptions unless mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
Selection Criteria
1.	To determine if an applicant is physically suited to the position, an appropriate medical (format determined by the Company) administered by a physician, must be passed. This medical is to be taken before any aptitude tests or N.A.I.T. entrance requirements are initiated and all costs for the medical will be borne by the applicant.
2.	Government aptitude tests must be taken and result in a favourable report. This will mean that of those seven specifications which are underlined to mean they are essential to the trade, the candidate must meet or exceed those ratings.
3.	Applicant must meet N.A.I.T. entrance requirement and will be required to write N.A.I.T. entrance exams.
4.	Of the applicants who qualify, the most senior man or men will be placed in the apprenticeship program.
9B
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 18
PAY WHILE ON UNION/MANAGEMENT BUSINESS
The following is intended to outline the policy of payment of wages for the Union Executive while in Union/Management meetings:
. Monthly Union/Management Meeting:
. Labatt will pay for 4 hours . Union will pay for 4 hours
. Problem Solving Meetings:
. Labatt will pay for the time spent in the meeting, i.e. if meeting is 4 hours long, Labatt will pay for 4 hours. Employees are expected to work the remaining 4 hours in order to receive a full day's pay or take time off or banked time.
99
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 19
TRIAL PERIOD - REPOSTING
The parties agree that the D.P. Jones QC. Arbitration Award dated November 19,1991 will not change the current practice as it relates to the 30 day trial period, Section 3:5:2 of the Collective Agreement (referred to in paragraph 2 on page 15 of the Award).
The accepted practice is as follows:
. At the completion of the 30 day trial period should the applicant not be successful in the position, and it is either removed or removes himself from the position, then the position will be reposted.
. If at any time during the 30 day trial period the applicant be removed or removes himself from the position, then the position does not have to be reposted and the next applicant will be chosen from the original posting.
100
LABATT ALBERTA BREWERY
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 20
PAINTER
This letter will confirm the Company's commitment to schedule the part time painter to painting duties for a period of no less than 20 (twenty) weeks per year.