Canada
Imperial Tobacco Leaf Inc.
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 10
Effective on the 5th day of December, 2002
INDEX
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	Recognition................................. 3
2.	Hours of Work .............................. 4
3.	Overtime ................................... 7
4.	Grievance Procedure ........................ 8
5.	’	Arbitration.............................  11
6.	”	Disciplinary Procedure ...................13
7.	Absence from Work ..........................15
a.	Transfers...................................15
9.	Shop Stewards...............................16
10.	Seniority ..................................17
11.	Vacations ..................................25
12.	Wages.......................................26
13.	Job Classification .........................27
14.	Union Notices...............................27
15.	Management..................................27
16.	Strikes or Lockouts ........................27
17.	Membership in the Union ....................28
18.	Check-off of Union Dues.....................28
19.	Validity of Agreement.......................29
20.	Jury Duty...................................29
21.	Holidays ...................................29
22.	Bereavement Leave...........................31
23.	Technological Change .......................32
24.	Occupational Health and Safety .............33
25.	Pregnancy and/or Parental Leave of Absence ..34
26.	Plant Closure ..............................35
27.	Duration of Agreement.......................36
Appendix " A Rates and Classifications.....37
Letters of Intent..........................43
2
THIS AGREEMENT entered into on the 5tb, day of December2002
BETWEEN:
IMPERIAL TOBACCO LEAF INC.
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART - and ■
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 10,
Acting on behalf of the employees of Imperial Tobacco Leaf Inc. in the plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario (hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
1.	RECOGNITION
1.01	The term "employees" as used in this Agreement refers to all processing employees of the Company below the rank of Foreperson or Supervisor, working in the Plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario, save and except Forepersons and Supervisors, persons above the rank of Foreperson or Supervisor, clerical, office, technical, grading and buying staff, nurses, security guards, persons covered by the other collective agreement between Imperial Tobacco Leaf Inc. and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union. Local 364T.
3
1.02	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the employees in the bargaining unit as defined in Section 1.01 of this Clause.
1.03	Forepersons will only perform work which is normally done by "employees", as defined in paragraph 1.01 of this clause, in cases of emergency, experimentation, training or when "employees" are not qualified or available to perform the work.
2.	HOURS OF WORK
2.01	(a) (i) The following is intended to define the normal
hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or days of work per week. The normal work-week shall be 40 hours - 5 days of 8 hours scheduled as follows:
1- shift operation	From 7:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.;
one half (112) hour for a meal
2-	shift operation
1 st (Day) shift
From 7:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.; one half (112) hour for a meal. 2nd (Afternoon) shift From 3:30 P.M. to 12:00 P.M.; one half (112) hour for a meal.
4
1st (Day) shift
From 7:00 A.M.to3:00 P.M.
2nd (Afternoon) shift From 3:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M.
3rd (Night) shift From 11:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M., commencing on Sunday night.
For employees working on a 3-shift operation, a one-half (1/2) hour meal period shall be paid at the employee's regular rate.
(b)	The Company may change the above scheduled hours, but employees starting two (2) hours or more prior to 7:00 A.M. shall be considered as working on the 3rd (night) shift and be entitled to the 3rd (night) shift premium for all hours worked during that day.
(c)	In the event that the Company decides to change the above scheduled hours for the plant or a department thereof, the Union will be advised prior to the change going into effect and the reasons for the change will be explained to the Union.
3-shift operation
(ii)
5
2.02
(a)
(b)
2.03
(a)
(b)
Employees working on the 2nd (afternoon) shift, when the plant or a department thereof is operating on a 2-shift operation, will be entitled to a shift bonus of 550 for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 550 per hour bonus for overtime hours worked.
Employees working on the 3rd (night) shift, when the plant or a department thereof is operating on a 3-shift operation, will be entitled to a shift bonus of 700 for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 700 per hour bonus for overtime hours worked.
REST PERIODS:
Each employee shall be granted two (2) rest periods during their normal daily hours of work: one in each half of the shift.
When an employee works three (3) consecutive hours or more of overtime, a rest period shall be granted.
6
3.	OVERTIME
3.01
(a)	The following shall be considered overtime and paid at time and one-half:
(i)	Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on Monday to Friday inclusive.
(ii)	Time worked on Saturday before noon, except for the employees working on the 3rd (night) shift of a 3-shift operation and for whom the normal work-week commenced on Monday, where overtime worked on Saturday before noon shall be paid at time and one-half.
(iii)	Time worked in excess of four hours and one quarter (4 1/4 hours) on Friday during the non-processing season, but excluding the cleaning period at the end of the processingseason.
(b)	The following shall be considered overtime and paid at double time:
(j)	Time worked after 12 o'clock noon on Saturday.
7
(ii)	Time worked on Sunday, except for the employees working on the 3rd (night) shift at the start of their regular shift on Sunday evening.
(iii)	Time worked on statutory holidays, except for the employees working on the 3rd (night) shift at the start or the finish of their regular shift on a statutory holiday.
(iv)	Overtime worked in excess of two (2) consecutive overtime hours on any one day.
3.02	When an employee is called in for an emergency situation, the employee shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours at double time. If this emergency situation forms a continuousperiod with the employee’s regularly scheduled hours, the employee shall be paid according to clause 3.01.
3.03	Overtime shall be on a voluntary basis, however, it is recognized that Marketing requirements are paramount and it is understood and agreed that there shall be no concerted effort by the Union, employees, or groups of employees to refuse overtime.
4.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.01	Any grievance arising out of employer/employee
relationship shall be handled in the following manner:
a
(I)	Employee accompanied by the Shop Steward or a member of the Grievance Committee, or Shop Steward with the Foreperson.
(II)	Employee accompanied by the Shop Steward or a member of the Grievance Committee, or Shop Steward with the Forepersonand Process Manager.
(III)	Grievance Committee with Process Manager and Manager, Leaf Operations.
(IV)	Board of Arbitration (Sole Arbitrator).
4.02	The Company will give a decision to the employee and the Union within three (3) working days at stage (I)and within ten (10) working days at stage (II). At stage (III), the Company will also give a decision within ten (10) working days, but this period may be extended for a further thirty (30) working days if both parties indicate their acceptance.
4.03	After the Foreperson has given a decision at stage (I) and it is desired that the grievance be processed to stage (II), it shall be submitted in writing to the Forepersonwithin seven (7) working days after the Foreperson has given a decision at stage
(I)-
9
4.04	After the Foreperson and Process Manager have given their decision in writing at stage (II), and it is desired that the grievance be processed to stage (III), it shall be submitted to the Process Manager within ten (10) working days after the Foreperson and Process Manager have given their decision at stage (II).
4.05	No grievance may be initiated as such under the Grievance Procedure if more than forty-five (45) working days have elapsed from the date the cause of the grievance originated.
No time limitation shall apply when a wage payment is alleged to be inconsistent with the rate to which an employee is entitled.
4.06	The Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to investigate grievances referred to it in accordance with the procedure set out above. The names of the members of the Grievance Committee and any subsequent changes in membership of this Committee shall be submitted to the Company, in writing, prior to such Grievance Committee member commencing such duties.
4.07	The Chief Steward may attend all stage (II) grievance meetings.
4.08	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or the Union may file a grievance which arises out of Company/Union
10
relations, and which involves the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such grievances shall be processed in accordance with the Grievance Procedure set out above, except that an employee need not be present at stages (l)and (II), and the grievance shall be signed after stage (I)by the Union, or by the Company, as the case may be.
4.09	No member of the Grievance Committee shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of the Foreperson, which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed.
4.10	Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prevent any individual employee from discussing any matter affecting them with the Foreperson, Process Manager, or the Manager, Leaf Operations or to prevent the grieving employee from accompanying the Grievance Committee at any stage of the Grievance Procedure.
5.	ARBITRATION
5.01	The Board of Arbitration or Sole Arbitrator. to which shall be referred such grievances as may properly be referred to it in accordance with the Grievance Procedure, or any question arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement or any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, shall be constituted and governed by the following procedure:
11
5.02	The party wishing to submit the matter to arbitration shall, within thirty (30) days following the failure to reach a settlement at stage (111) outlined in Clause 4, notify the other party, in writing, of its intention to submit the matter to arbitration, setting out the issues to be arbitrated and informing the other party of its nominee to the Board of Arbitration or of its nominee to act as Sole Arbitrator.
5.03	Within ten (10) days of receipt of this notice, the other party shall appoint its nominee to the Board of Arbitration or its nominee to act as Sole Arbitrator, according to the choice made in Clause 5.02 by the party submitting the matterto arbitration.
5.04	In the event of failure of one of the parties to appoint its nominee to the Board of Arbitration or in the event of failure of the parties to agree on a Sole Arbitrator within the time limits described above, the Minister of Labour may be requested to appoint a nominee or Sole Arbitrator, as the case may be.
5.05	Where a Board of Arbitration is used, the Chairperson shall be agreed upon by the Company and the Union nominees appointed to the Board within ten (10) days of their appointment. In the event that these persons cannot agree upon a third member within ten (10) days, the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario shall be requested to appoint the third member to act as Chairperson.
12
5.06	The decision of the Board or Sole Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and shall be rendered within sixty (60) days after the appointment of the Chairperson or Sole Arbitrator.
5.07	The decision of the Board shall be determined by majority vote. If there is no majority, the decision of the Chairperson shall prevail.
5.08	The Board of Arbitration or Sole Arbitrator shall not have any jurisdiction to alter or change this Agreement, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof, and shall be limited in their decision to the issues involved in the dispute as set out in accordance with paragraph 5.02 of this Clause.
5.09	The expenses of the Chairperson of the Board or Sole Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
6.	DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
6.01	Any grievance arising as a result of a disciplinary measure may be dealt with through the Grievance Procedure.
13
6.02	When an employee is suspended or discharged as a disciplinary measure, the Union will be advised and be given an opportunity to interview the employee before the employee leaves the premises and, upon request, the Company will make available to the Union the facts of the case as they are known to the Company. The Union, if in possession of additional or other facts, will likewise make such facts available to the Company. When such employee is advised of such suspension or discharge, the Union President or his/her designate will be present.
6.03	In the event that any employee covered by this Agreement is laid off, suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion as a disciplinary measure, and a Board of Arbitration or Sole Arbitrator, as provided in Clause 5, finds that the employee has been unfairly laid off, suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion, the employee will be restored to service with seniority rights unimpaired and shall be paid the wages and granted the advantages of which the employee may have been deprived in the manner and to the extent indicated by the Board or Sole Arbitrator.
6.04	In an effort to reduce the level of absenteeism and lateness, the Union will be provided with the names of those individuals whose level of absenteeism or lateness is sufficient
14
to warrant disciplinary action (suspension or discharge), prior to such disciplinary action occurring.
6.05	The Union will receive a copy of any disciplinary letters given to employees. An entry made on an employee's personnel record arising as a result of a disciplinary measure shall not be used as evidence in taking disciplinary action two (2) years from the date of such entry provided that there has been no recurrence' of the same misconduct during the same two (2) calendar years.
7.	ABSENCE FROM WORK
7.01	Any employee absent from work must notify the Company. Failure to do so, without justification, may result in disciplinary action.
8.	TRANSFERS
8.01	When an employee performs another job for a continuous period of one hour or more, the employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he/she is transferred from the first hour of transfer.
15
8.02	Notwithstanding paragraph 8.01, when an employee performs a lower rated job on a temporary basis (as defined below) or on overtime, the employee's rate shall not be decreased.
8.03	Temporary transfers (as defined below) will not be subject to the provisions of Clause 10 - Seniority.
8.04	A temporary transfer is a transfer of an employee to another job for reasons such as sickness, accident, vacation or absence. A temporary transfer shall not exceed twenty (20) working days. This period may be extended if both parties indicate their acceptance.
8.05	Experience gained on a job through temporary transfers will not be used to circumventthe provisionsof Clause 10.08.
9.	SHOP STEWARDS
9.01	One (1) Shop Steward may be elected or appointed from the employees for each department. The Shop Steward may investigate, as provided in this Agreement, any grievance arising in the department which they represent. No Shop Steward shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of the Foreperson, which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed.
16
9.02	A list of all Shop Stewards, and any change caused by a subsequent election or by an appointment when a regular Steward becomes unable to perform their duties, shall be submitted to the Company prior to such Shop Stewards commencing such duties.
10.	SENIORITY
10.01	(i) Seniority shall be defined as the number of
accumulated days worked by the employees since last date of hiring.
(ii) Seniority shall continue to accrue for days that could have been worked, but were missed due to a compensated industrial accident which occurred on the Company premises, Jury Duty (Article 20), a holiday (Article 21), Bereavement Leave (Article 22), Pregnancy, Parental and Emergency Leave (Employment Standards Act, 2000) (Article 25), verified illness or verified accident and leave of absence for Union business.
(Iii) Notwithstanding the above, seniority shall not accumulate for days worked prior to the opening and subsequent to the closing of the processing operations or for overtime hours worked.
17
(iv) Whenever seniority is taken into consideration, it shall be in accordance with the current seniority list, as defined in Article 10.02 of this Agreement.
10.02	(i) The employees' seniority list shall be revised,
posted and given to the Union once a month during the operating season.
(ii)	The names of employees having completed their
probationaryperiod during the current operating season shall be added to the employees' seniority list in the order of completion of their probationaryperiod.
(iii)	The names of employees carrying the same number of accumulated days worked shall be entered on such list in alphabetical order.
10.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation and during the probationary period, they are to be considered probationary employees only and, as such, during this period, these employees shall have no seniority rights and may be subject to discharge at the sole discretion of the Company without any recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Once an employee has accumulated forty (40) days worked during two (2) consecutive operating seasons, the employee shall, if retained by the
18
Company, be considered as having served the required probationary period. The name of the employee shall then be added to the employee's seniority list and the number of days worked accumulated during the probationary period shall be considered in establishing their seniority, as defined in Section 10.01 of this Clause.
10.04	Seniority shall not be affected by a legally recognized change of name.
10.05	Employees shall lose their seniority under circumstances such as:
-	Voluntary quit
-	Discharge for cause
-	Failure on the part of the employee to work during one operating season, unless such employee was not recalled to their posted job during the season
-	Failure on the part of the employee to answer a notice of recall within ten (IO) days from the date the notice of recall was sent
■ Failure on the part of the employee to accept a late recall by December 1.
19
10.06	An authorized absence shall not cause employees to lose their seniority provided such absence is not for one (1) whole operating season. Absence from work on account of accident or verified illness shall not cause employees to lose their seniority. However, seniority will not accumulate after two whole operating seasons.
Employees on pregnancy, parental, or emergency leaves continue to accrue seniority.
10.07	Any employee who is transferred or promoted to an occupation excluded by Clause 1 of this agreement shall retain his/her seniority and the number of accumulated days worked at that time shall be provided to the Union. Any employee who is so transferred shall only transfer back to an occupation that is vacant.
Notwithstanding the above, any employee transferred to a supervisory position after October 31, 1980 shall lose their seniority. The Company agrees that when a supervisor is recalled to the C.E.P, unionized environment, it will not affect another member's recall rights.
10.08	In making transfers or promotions, except to occupations excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, seniority
20
shall govern provided the eligible employees have approximately equal ability or efficiency.
10.09	Seniority shall not apply in making transfers or promotions to occupations excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement.
10.10	When decreasing the work force, the Company will retain at work the employees having the greatest seniority, provided that these employees have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work available.
10.11	(a) When increasing the work force, employees having
the greatest seniority shall be recalled first, provided that they have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work available and provided also that they have not reached their sixty-fifth (65th) birthday. If the recalled employees do not report for work or decline to accept the job offered to them, the Company will be allowed to by-pass them and recall the next employee on the seniority list who is qualified, available and willing to report for the work available. The employees so by-passed shall be 21
10.12
10.13
recalled for the next job for which they have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work.
(b) Employees who are recalled and report for work at the beginning of the processing season shall perform the duties assigned to them by the Company until their regular job becomes available. The employees shall then, as soon as possible, without unjust delay, be transferred to their regular job.
Notice of recall will be sent by registered mail, to the employee's last address known to the Company. It shall be the employee's responsibility to notify the Company of any change cf address.
(a)	Employees who are laid off, in accordance with section 10.10 of this clause, shall be advised at the beginning of their current daily work period.
(b)	The Union and the Company agree that a lay-off of any employee under this agreement will continue (up to) 35 weeks from the date the lay off begins. Employees that are not recalled by the end of 35
22
weeks may elect to retain their seniority rights or be given severance the greater of:
•	One weeks severance pay for each 130 days of accumulated service, not to exceed 39 weeks of basic wages
21
•	Employment Standards Act 2000 severance provisions
Employeesvoluntarily electing to take a late (December 1st) recall that results in their lay off being longer than 35 weeks will not trigger severance obligations.
Any employee who receives severance pay shall be considered as having elected to give up their recall rights and will be deemed to have terminated their employment with the Company.
10.14 Employeeswho report for work for their regular shift and for whom no work is available. shall be paid for time worked or a minimum of three (3) hours at their regular rate, whichever is greater, unless they have been advised by the Company not to report far work in accordance with section 10,13.
23
10.15 (a)	Within two (2) working days of a vacancy occurring among occupations other than those excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, such a vacancy will be posted on the plant notice boards for two (2) working days, to provide employees with an opportunity to apply for such a vacancy.
(b)	Employees may successfully apply for a vacancy in their own job on another shift only once during each processing season.
(c)	Employees absent due to verified sickness or accident will be reinstated to their former positions where such positions continue to exist upon their return to work. Their positions will be posted on a temporary basis upon notification to the Company that the absence will exceed twenty (20) working days.
10.16	The above sections shall be waived and not binding upon the Company if the lay-off is caused by circumstances beyond the Company's control, such as power failure, fire, flood, work stoppage, slowdown, or act of God.
10.17	Any employee (not in excess of one (1)) who leaves the employment of the Company to become an officer of the Communications, Energy and Papetworkers Union of Canada, or of its Local, shall retain seniority.
24
11.	VACATIONS
11.01	In view of the seasonal nature of the work performed by the employees, they shall not be granted paid vacations, but they shall be entitled to a vacation indemnity which will be paid in weekly installments.
11.02	This vacation indemnity is based upon wages earned by the employee since the most recent date of recall and the number of days worked accumulated by the employee since last date of hiring and paid accordingto the following table:
■	4% for Iessthan600 accumulated days worked,
■	6% for 600 but less than 1200 accumulated days worked,
-	8% for 1200 but less than I800 accumulated days worked,
-	10% for 1800 but less than 2400 accumulated
days worked,
-	12% for 2400 but less than 3000 accumulated
days worked,
■	14% for 3000 accumulated days worked, or more.
25
12.	WAGES
12.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept, during the term of this Agreement, the wage rates shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix " A and which are made part of this Agreement and are signed for identification by the parties hereto.
13.	JOB CLASSIFICATION
13.01	The job classification is shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix "A, which is made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto.
13.02	The Company will classify new or changedjobs and will advise the Union of such classification. Such classification will be effective on the date the new or revised job was first performed. Any disagreement arising out of the application of this paragraph shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration. The Union may make representation to the Company on changedjobs and the rate that should apply to the new classification.
26
14.	UNION NOTICES
14.01	The Company agrees to permit Union notices to be posted on the Plant Notice Boards, provided such notices be approved by management prior to being posted and restricted to activitiesof the Union.
15.	MANAGEMENT
15.01	The management and operation of the business, the employment, discharging, direction and promotion of employees shall be vested exclusively in the Company: however, the Company can only exercise these rights insofar as they do not conflict with the rights and privileges of the employees which have been acquired under this Collective Labour Agreement or the law.
16.	STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS .
16.01	There shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lockouts, either complete or partial, during the term of this Agreement.
27
17.	MEMBERSHIP IN THE UNION
17.01	All employees who are members of the Union, or hereafter become members, shall remain members during the term of this Agreement and be subject to the provisions of Clause 18,
17.02	All new employees hereafter employed shall, once having served their probationary period, become members and remain members during the term of this Agreement as a condition of employment and be subject to the provisions of Clause 18.
18.	CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
18.01	The Company, upon receipt of a written authorization from any of its employees, in the form agreed to between the Company and the Union, will deduct and continue to deduct until the termination of this Agreement, from such employees' pay earned for each week, the sum authorized by the employees for payment of Union dues.
18.02	A cheque in favour of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, Local 10, for the amount of dues so collected, will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of the Union on or before the end of the month in which the deductions are made.
28
19.	VALIDITY OF AGREEMENT
19.01	Any provision in this Agreement which is contrary to law or regulation in force from time to time shall have no force or effect, but this Agreement shall not be invalid by reason of any such provision.
20.	JURY DUTY
20.01	When an employee is summoned to serve as juror or witness in legal proceedings, a leave .of absence shall be granted and, upon presentation of a statement showing the amount received from the court, a payment will be made to compensate the difference between what the employee would otherwise have earned as regular wages, and the amount received from the court.
21.	HOLIDAYS
21.01	For each year of this Agreement, holidays shall be:
-	Christmas Day,
-	Boxing Day,
-	New Year's Day,
-	Good Friday,
-	Victoria Day,
-	Canada Day,
-	Labour Day,
-	Thanksgiving Day.
29
21.02	a) All employees who have accumulated twenty (20) days worked, or who have completed their probationary period, and who work the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and on the work day immediatelyafter each of the above listed holidays shall receive pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable) for the number of scheduled daily hours in that day.
b) Probationaryemployees with less than twenty (20) accumulated days worked, and who work the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and immediately after each of the above listed holidays shall receive pay in accordance to ESA 2000: Total amount of regular wages and vacation pay in the four (4) work weeks before the work week in which the holiday occurred divided by 20.
21.03	However, under special circumstances such as:
-	Verified illness,
-	Death in immediate family,
-	Jury Duty,
-	Written permission,
-	Lay-off,
-	Justified lateness,
-	Justified absence,
30
payment will be made to an employee who has not worked the full scheduled hours on the work day immediately before or on the work day immediately after the holiday, providing the employee is not absent on both of these days.
21.04	For employees who would have been scheduled to work hours for which they would normally have received a shift premium, such premium shall be included when calculating holiday pay.
22.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.01	In the event of the death of an employee's Father (step), Mother (step), Husband, Wife or Child, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee 'will be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable), not to exceed one (1) normal workweek.
22.02	In the event of the death of an employee's Mother-InLaw, Father-in-Law, Brother or Sister, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate
31
(including experience pay if applicable) not to exceed three (3) normal working days.
22.03	In the event of the death of an employee's Grandparents, Son-in-Law, Daughter-in-Law, Grandchildren, Brother-in-Law or Sister-in-Law, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Human Resources Department, such employee shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable) not to exceed two (2) normal working days.
22.04	Should a paid holiday occur during a period cf leave with pay granted under this clause, the employee shall receive pay for such holiday under Clause 21 of this Agreement.
22.05	When calculating pay for bereavement leave, "shift premium" will be included if the employee would have been entitled to such shift premium had they been working.
23.	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
23.01	(a) The Company will advise the Union of any technological changes which will significantly affect the employment status of employees as soon as possible prior to the introduction of the change. However, in the event the change is introduced during the non-processing season. the Union will be advised at the start of the current processing season.
32
(b) When an employee begins to perform a lower rated job due to the introduction of technological change, the employee will continue to be paid the rate of their former job for a period of three (3) months. For a further period of three (3) months, the employee will be paid an adjusted rate which will be mid-way between the rate of their former job and the new permanent job rate. At the end of this six (6) month period, the employee will be paid the rate of the new permanentjob.
24.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
24.01	The Company and Union recognize that, notwithstanding the Occupational Health and Safety Act, they have a mutual interest and responsibility in ensuring the health and safety of all employees while at work.
The parties have agreed, therefore. to establish and maintain a Health and Safety committee composed of Company representatives and representatives appointed by the Union. It is further agreed that this committee shall meet twice per month during the processing season and it shall be the committee's responsibility to promote health and safety in the work place. Some members of the committee shall tour the plant prior to each safety meeting.
24.02	Three members of the committee, one from each representative group, shall investigate all lost time accidents or
33
accidents and shall make recommendations to management on their findings. The members of the investigation committee may vary according to the shift on which the accident or incident occurred.
25.	PREGNANCY AND/OR PARENTAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
25.01	(a) The Company shall grant, at the request of an employee, a pregnancy leave andlor parental leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of the EmploymentStandardsAct, 2000.
(b)	An employee who has been granted a pregnancy andlor parental leave of absence shall continue to accrue seniority for days that could have been worked but were missed due to pregnancy and/or parental leave, for the period of approved leave. In addition, upon expiration of the leave of absence granted to her/him under 25.01 (a), an employee will be reinstated to her/his former positionwhere such position continues to exist.
(c)	Failure of the employee to return to work upon expiration of the approved leave of absence shall automatically terminate employment.
34
26.	PLANT CLOSURE
26.01	In the event that the Company permanently closes its plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario, resulting in the termination of employees, the Company shall provide to each employee so affected the greater of:.
a)	One weeks severance pay for each 130 days of accumulated service, not to exceed 39 weeks of basic wages
or
b)	Employment Standards Act 2000 severance provisions
One week's severance pay shall be based on current hourly rate for the number of regular non-overtime weekly hours.
Any employee who receives severance pay shall be considered to have given up their recall rights with the Company.
35
27.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.01	This Agreement shall be in force and effect from the time that it is executed up to and including October 31, 2003 and, unless written notice to the contrary is given by either party to the other within a period of time which shall not be more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination hereof, this Agreement shall continue thereafter from year to year.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 5lh day of December, 2002
IN THE PRESENCE OF:	IMPERIAL TOBACCO LEAF	INC.
Serge Mainville	By: NeilBossuyt
COMMUNICATIONS. ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA. LOCAL 10
Glenn Sonier	By:	RonClunas
Dave Stradeski NickNeufeld Frank Gray
36
APPENDIX "A"
IMPERIAL TOBACCO LEAF INC.
AYLMER PLANT
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 10
SEASONAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
GROUP	Wage Rates for duration of Agreement
Group 1	$19.04
Probationary Employee
Group 2	$19.10
General Labour Pool Sweeper Cleaner, Receiving Cleaning Racks (temp)
Bale Paper Window Opener (temp)
Group 3	$19.15
Trucker Weigher, Picking Line Trucker Weigher Relief, Picking Line Sweeper Relief, Bale Feed Sweeper Relief, Picking Line Searcher VS Picker, Picking Line
37
APPENDIX "A" (Cont'd)
Group 4	$19.20
General Help, Receiving
Trucker Storing, Receiving
Housekeeping Team
Relief, Receiving
Black Fat (temp)
Group 5	$19.31
Case Sorting
Paper, String & Search
Search Station Attendant
General Help, Bale Feed
Men's Washroom Attendant/Bale Handler Relief
Plant Clean-up
Assembling Cases (temp)
Poly Insertion Sweeper Relief CTCM Operator (temp)
38
APPENDIX "A" (Cont'd)
Group 6
Operator Relief, Bale Feed Moisture Tester Freas Tester Pilot Plant Quality Assurance Utility General Help, Quality Assurance Mac Vac Operator/Trucker Weigher Unloading Trucks, Receiving Bale Handler to Racks, Receiving Bale Handler, Bale Feed Bale Handler, Leaf Storage Weigher Recorder, Receiving Butting (temp)
Pre-market samples (temp)
Group 7
Posted General Labour Pool Marshaller, Warm Storage Fork Truck Operator, Pile Down Operator Relief, Picking Line Case Sorting/Fork Truck
39
$19.37
$19.48
APPENDIX" A (Cont'd)
Group 8 Group 9
Marshaller, Leaf Storage Train Operator, Bale Feed Train Operator/Warehouse Sweeper Clamp Truck Operator
Group 10
Group 11
Skilled Labour Pool Packing Team
Skilled jobs
C & C/Redrier Operator
40
$19.60
$19.74
$19.86
$19.99
$20.89
FOR THE DURATION OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT:
Wages:	C.P.I. protection based on C.P.I. as of September of
the current year, published by Statistics Canada.
This will not be in effect for the term of the agreement.
FIRST YEAR OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT:
Cash Lump Sum:	Up to $950, based on organizational and
plant results and payable at the end of the season.'
FOR THE SECOND YEAR OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT:
Cash Lump Sum:	Up to $1100, based on organizational and
plant results and payable at the end of the season.*
There will be an opportunity for employees, on an optional basis, to deposit all or part of their incentive (cash lumpsum) into the Company Great West R.R.S.P. Plan or transfertheir incentive monies to the union administered Benefit Fund (as per Letterof Intent# 8).
All incentive (cash lump sum) payments are subject to C.P.P. and E.l. deductions.
41
EXPERIENCE PAY
Employees who have accumulated, through consecutive operating seasons, 75, 150 or over 225 days worked will receive Experience Pay on the following basis:
(a)	Less than 75 accum ulated days worked Basic Rates only
(b)	75 but less than 150 accumulated days worked Basic Rate plus:
60 per hour worked
(c)	150 but less than 225 accumulated days worked Basic Rate plus:
120 per hour worked
(d)	225 accumulated days worked and over Basic Rate plus:
200 per hour worked
SIGNED	RonClunas
SIGNED	NeilBossuyt
December 5lh, 2002
42
LETTEROF INTENT# 1
December 5th, 2002
Mr. RonClunas President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union cf Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Clunas,
This is to confirm that during the 1980 negotiations, the Company agreed to introduce a Weekly Indemnity Plan to provide a source of income in the event cf a certified illness, hospitalizationor non-industrial accident, effective November 1, 1981.
The general terms of the plan are as follows:
Level of Benefit:	60% cf wages
Duration:
Fifteen (15) weeks or lay-off by seniority at the end of the processing season (excluding clean-up)', whichever comes first.
-2-
For each full week worked after the absence, one week of benefit entitlement is reinstated up to the maximum.
* For the duration of this 2001-2003 collective agreement, each claim for Weekly Indemnity benefits involving the clean-up periods at the beginning and end of the processing season, will be addressed on an individual basis, in consultationwith the Union Executive
Commencement of Benefit Payment:
(a)	On the first working day in the event of a certified non-industrial accident or hospitalization on an overnight basis.
(b)	After three (3) working days in the event of certified illness.
Eligibility requirements:
200 accumulated days worked or more.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
44
LETTER OF INTENT# 2
December 5r. 2002
Mr. RonClunas President,
Communications, Energy and Papetworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Clunas,
In order to protect future export business and thereby protecting the future job security of the employees, the Company will, from time to time, have a volume of tobacco to be processed which is in excess of the plant capacity. In these situations, it will be necessary to have that tobacco processed outside the Aylmer plant inorderto prevent the loss of customers.
The Unionwill be advised prior to this tobacco being processed outside the Aylmer plant and will be informed of the reasons, quantities involved and the timing. The Union will also be consulted in determining ways and means of minimizing the quantities involved through methods which would be appropriate under the circumstances, such as additionalovertime shifts.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
45
LETTERCF INTENT#3
December 5'”, 2002
Mr. RonClunas President
Communications. Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Clunas,
This is to confirm that the Company has agreed to the proposal of shutting operations down for the Christmas period to allow employees the opportunity to spend time with their families.
For the duration of this agreement, the minimum shutdown period(s) will be as follows:
Purina the first year:
December24, 2001 December25, 2001*
December 26, 2001*
December 27, 2001 December28, 2001 December31,2001 January 1,2002'
Purina the second Year: December 24, 2002 December 25, 2002* December26, 2002* December27, 2002 December30, 2002 December31,2002 January 1,2003'
* These days will be paid in accordance with Article 21 of the Agreement
46
-2-
As a result of the new agreement to extend the qualifying days for payment of the Christmas shutdown, the qualifying days under Article 21 of the Agreement would be interpreted as follows for the Christmas period Statutory Holidays:
. Each employee's last scheduled day prior to Christmas Day will be considered their personal qualifying day, but not earlier than December 15th
. Each employee's first scheduled day following New Year's Day will be considered their personal qualifying day, but no later than January 10th.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
47
LETTEROF INTENT# 4
December 5ln, 2002
Mr. Ron Clunas,
President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Clunas,
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached in negotiations that in the event it should become necessary to reduce significantly the number of weeks per season or the number of employees required as a result of a change in production requirements, the Company will meet the Union to explore ways and means of minimizing the impact on those employees affected including the offering of voluntary severance packages not to exceed the cost of the bottom up seniority based layoff.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
48
LETTER OF INTENT# 5
December 5m, 2002
Mr. RonClunas President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
DearMr.Clunas,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to the implementationof the New Work Environment.
The Team Conceptwill gradually be implementedinthe Aylmer Plant, under the direction of the Joint ImplementationTeam.
The Joint Implementation Team will be composed of the Joint Companv/Union Representatives:
•	Senior Management Representatives plus Work Organization Coordinator
•	National Union Representative and Industrial Relations Representative (as requested)
•	Union or Management employees (as required)
49
-2-
The major responsibilities of the Implementation Team will
include:
•	Team	implementation/Work	Organization/Process
Management changes
•	Revise roles and positions to support Work Organization/Process Management changes
•	Training/Education/Learning in support of the New Work environment
•	Impact of the new environment on Health & Safety and W.S.I.B., Quality, Productivityand Customer Service
•	Communication
•	Quality
•	Collaboration
•	When needed, revise system to compensate employees in Work Organization
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
50
LETTER OF INTENT# 6
December 5th, 2002
Mr. Ron Clunas President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
DearMr. Clunas,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to the buyout option (Severance).
In the event that the Company alters the working conditions due to technological change or workplace reorganization at its plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario resulting in the permanent termination of employees, the Company agreed to provide a buyout option of two weeks per season (110 days worked) for employees not able to cope with the New Work Organization. Four months prior to the effective date of the change, the Companywill notify the Union.
The Company will establish the number of reductions and the timing within the duration of this agreement. A joint Company/Union committee will review candidates using the established eligibility to determine recipients of the severance. This letter of intent is valid until October31,2003.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
51
SEVERANCEPROGRAM
RULES:
1.	Severance package will be offered by Company in numbers equal to permanently eliminated jobs (excludes reductions due to production requirements)
2.	Name must be submitted to Union Office before closing date of each offer
3.	Anyone eligible for recall entitled to consideration
4.	Employees who meet the selection criteria: the formula for payment istwo weeks per season (110 days worked)
PRIORITIZED ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:
1.	Employees who are unable to fit into the New Work Organization
2,	Seniority
NOTE:	Employees who receive severance shall be
considered to have given up their recall rights with the Company
52
LETTERQF INTENT# 7
December 5th, 2002
Mr. RonClunas President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Clunas,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to a jointly developed Policy and Procedures Book.
The Company and the Union agree that there are policies and procedures that have been jointly developed for the benefit of all employees. These items will all be centralized into one book.
Such policies and procedures may be evaluated and modified through joint consultation. Such changes, when jointly agreed to by both parties, will be entered into the Policy and Procedures Book.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
53
LETTEROF INTENT#8
December 5lh, 2002
Mr. Glenn Sorrier National Representative Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr, Sonier,
Re: Transfer of Incentive fCash Lump Suml Option
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding the transfer of earned incentive monies to a Union Administered Benefit Fund.
It was agreed that should the Union establish a Benefit fund with a third patty, that at the end of each season where incentive monies are earned, an employee can elect to receive full payment from the company directly or have the full amount transferred to the identified third party.
In either option, the Company is required to withhold deductions at source.
It was further agreed that the Union would examine its options and advise the Company of the outcome. If no decision is
54
-2-
reached by the Union prior to the payout of any incentive, the Company will pay the incentive amount directly to each employee.
Finally, the parties agree that should the Union establish such a plan, the Company will have no responsibility for the management or administration of any such program but will assist in the “option” process for the employees and in the technologicalaspects of any money transfer.
Yours truly,
Neil Bossuyt
Manager, Leaf Operations
55