nsi
AGREEMENT
El
ol
soimct,
%
nm. Zgaoi i jo
N o. O f
BMPlOVScS ~K&7>VRS~
his
LP
between
Imperial Leaf Tobacco Division of Imasco Limited
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union cf Canada Local 10
Effective on the 29th day of September 1999
006^2 08
AGREEMENT
between
Imperial Leaf Tobacco Division of Imasco Limited
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10
Effective on the 29th day of September 1999
1
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
1.	Recognition.......................................3
2.	Hours of Work.....................................4
3.	Overtime........................................  7
4.	Grievance Procedure...............................8
5.	Arbitration.......................................n
6.	Disciplinary Procedure...........................13
7.	Absence from Work................................15
8.	Transfers........................................15
9.	Shop Stewards....................................16
10.	Seniority........................................16
11.	Vacations........................................23
12.	Wages............................................24
13.	Job Classification...............................24
14.	Union Notices....................................25
15.	Management.......................................25
16.	Strikes or Lockouts..............................25
17.	Membership in the Union..........................25
18.	Check-off of Union Dues..........................26
19.	Validity of Agreement............................26
20.	Jury Duty........................................27
21.	Holidays.........................................27
22.	BereavementLeave.................................28
23.	Technological Change.............................30
24.	Occupational Health and Safety...................30
25.	Maternity Leave of Absence.....................  31
26.	Plant Closure....................................32
27.	Duration of Agreement............................33
Appendix “A” Rates and Classifications...........35
Letters of Intent................................41
1
THIS AGREEMENT entered into on the 291*1 day of September 1999
BETWEEN:
IMPERIAL LEAF TOBACCO ■ DIVISION OF IMASCO LIMITED
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
LOCAL 10,
Acting on behalf of the employees of Imperial Leaf Tobacco - Division of Imasco Limited, in the plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario (hereinaftercalied the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
1.	RECOGNITION
1.01	The term “employees” as used in this Agreement refers to all processing employees of the Company below the rank of Foreperson or Supervisor, working in the Plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario, save and except Forepersons and Supervisors, persons above the rank of Foreperson or Supervisor, clerical, office, technical, grading and buying staff, nurses, security guards, persons covered by the other collective agreement between Imperial Leaf
3
2.01
(c) In the event that the Company decides to change the above scheduled hours for the plant or a department thereof, the Union will be advised prior to the change going into effect and the reasons for the change will be explained to the Union.
2.02
(a)	Employees working on the 2nd (afternoon) shift, when the plant or a department thereof is operating on a 2-shift operation, will be entitled to a shift bonus of 550 for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 550 per hour bonus for overtime hours worked.
(b)	Employees working on the 3rd (night) shift, when the plant or a department thereof is operating on a 3-shift operation, will be entitled to a shift bonus of 700 for each hour worked, including overtime hours, but no overtime premium will be paid on this 700 per hour bonus for overtime hours worked.
2.03	REST PERIODS:
(a)	Each employee shall be granted two (2) rest periods during their normal daily hours of work; one in each half of the shift.
(b)	When an employee works three (3) consecutive hours or more of overtime, a rest period shall be granted.
6
3. OVERTIME
3.01
(a)	The following shall be considered overtime and paid at time and one-half:
(i)	Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on Monday to Friday inclusive.
(ii)	Time worked on Saturday before noon, except for the employees working on the 3rd (night) shift of a 3-shift operation and for whom the normal work-week commenced on Monday, where overtime worked on Saturday before noon shall be paid at time and one-half.
(iii)	Time worked in excess of four hours and one quarter (41/4 hours) on Friday during the nonprocessing season, but excluding the cleaning period at the end of the processing season.
(b)	The following shall be considered overtime and paid at double time:
(i)	Time worked after 12 o’clock noon on Saturday.
(ii)	Time worked on Sunday, except for the employees working on the 3rd (night) shift at the start
7
the grievance be processed to stage (III), it shall be submitted to the Superintendent within ten (10) working days after the Foreperson and Superintendent have given their decision at stage (II).
4.05	No grievance may be initiated as such under the Grievance Procedure if more than forty-five (45) working days have elapsed from the date the cause of the grievance originated.
No time limitation shall apply when a wage payment is alleged to be inconsistent with the rate to which an employee is entitled.
4.06	The Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to investigate grievances referred to it in accordance with the procedure set out above. The names of the members of the Grievance Committee and any subsequent changes in membership of this Committee shall be submitted to the Company, in writing, prior to such Grievance Committee member Commencing such duties.
4.07	The Chief Steward may attend all stage (II) grievance meetings.
4.08	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or the Union may file a grievance which arises out of
10
Company/Union relations, and which involves the interpretation, application or alleged violation of the Agreement. Such grievances shall be processed in accordance with the Grievance Procedure set out above, except that an employee need not be present at stages (I)d (II), and the grievance shall be signed after stage (I) by the Union, or by the Company, as the case may be.
4.09	No member of the Grievance Committee shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of the Foreperson, which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed.
4.10	Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prevent any individual employee from discussing any matter affecting them with the Foreperson, Plant Superintendent, or the Plant Manager, or to prevent the grieving employee from accompanying the Grievance Committee at any stage of the Grievance Procedure.
5. ARBITRATION
5.01	The Board of Arbitration or Sole Arbitrator, to which shall be referred such grievances as may properly be referred to it in accordance with the Grievance Procedure, or any question arising out of the interpretation of this Agreement or any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, shall be constituted and governed by the following procedure:
n
Company will make available to the Union the facts of the case as they are known to the Company. The Union, if in possession of additional or other facts, will likewise make such facts available to the Company. When such employee is advised of such suspension or discharge, the Union President or his/her designate will be present.
6.03	In the event that any employee covered by this Agreement is laid off, suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion as a disciplinary measure, and a Board of Arbitration or Sole Arbitrator, as provided in Clause 5, finds that the employee has been unfairly laid off, suspended, discharged, demoted or denied a promotion, the employee. will be restored to service with seniority rights unimpaired and shall be paid the wages and granted the advantages of which the employee may have been deprived in the manner and to the extent indicated by the Board or Sole Arbitrator.
6.04	In an effort to reduce the level of absenteeism and lateness, the Union will be provided with the names of those individuals whose level cf absenteeism or lateness is sufficient to warrant disciplinary action (suspension or discharge), prior to such disciplinary action occurring.
6.05	The Union will receive a copy of any disciplinary letters given to employees. An entry made on an employee’s personnel record arising as a result of a disciplinary measure shall not be used as evidence in taking disciplinary
14
action two (2) years from the date of such entry provided that there has been no recurrence of the same misconduct during the same two (2) calendar years.
7.	ABSENCE FROM WORK
7.01	Any employee absent from work must notify the Company. Failure to do so, withoutjustification, may result in disciplinary action.
8.	TRANSFERS
8.01	When an employee performs another job for a continuous period of one hour or more, the employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he/she is transferred from the first hour of transfer.
8.02	Notwithstanding paragraph 8.01, when an employee performs a lower rated job on a temporary basis (as defined below) or on overtime, the employee’s rate shall not be decreased.
8.03	Temporary transfers [as defined below) will not be subject to the provisions of Clause 10 - Seniority.
8.04	A temporary transfer is a transfer of an employee to another job for reasons such as sickness, accident, vacation, absence. A temporary transfer shall not exceed twenty (20)
is
working days. This period may be extended if both parties indicate their acceptance.
8.05	Experience gained on a job through temporary transfers will not be used to circumvent the provisions of Clause 10.08.
9.	SHOP STEWARDS
9.01	One (1) Shop Steward may be elected or appointed from the employees for each department. The Shop Steward may investigate, as provided in this Agreement, any grievance arising in the department which they represent. No Shop Steward shall leave their job to investigate a grievance except with the permission of the Foreperson, which shall not be unnecessarily withheld or delayed.
9.02	A list of all Shop Stewards, and any change caused by a subsequent election or by an appointment when a regular Steward becomes unable to perform their duties, shall be submitted to the Company prior to such Shop Stewards commencing such duties.
10.	SENIORITY
10.01 (a) (i) Seniority shall be defined as the number of accumulated days worked by the employees since last date of hiring.
16
(ii)	Seniority shall continue to accrue for days that could have been worked, but were missed due to a compensated industrial accident which occurred on the Company premises, Jury Duty (Article 20), a holiday (Article 21), Bereavement Leave (Article 22), Maternity Leave of Absence (Article 25), Parental Leave (Ontario Employment Standards Act), verified illness or verified accident and leave of absence for Union business.
(iii)	Notwithstanding the above, seniority shall not accumulate for days worked prior to the opening and subsequent to the closing of the processing operations or for overtime hours worked.
(iv)	Whenever seniority is taken into consideration, it shall be in accordance with the current seniority list, as defined in Article 10.02 of this Agreement.
10.02	(a) (i) The employees’ seniority list shall be revised, posted and given to the Union once a month during the operating season.
17
(ii)	The names of employees having completed their probationary period during the current operating season shall be added to the employees’ seniority list in the order of completion of their probationary period.
(iii)	The names of employees carrying the same number of accumulated days worked shall be entered on such list in alphabetical order.
10.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation and during the probationary period, they are to be considered probationary employees only and, as such, during this period, these employees shall have no seniority rights and may be subject to discharge at the sole discretion of the Company without any recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Once an employee has accumulated forty (40)days worked during two (2) consecutive operating seasons, the employee shall, if retained by the Company, be considered as having served the required probationary period. The name of the employee shall then be added to the employee’s seniority list and the number of days worked accumulated during the probationary period shall be considered in establishing their seniority, as defined in Section 10.01 of this Clause.
10.04	Seniority shall not be affected by a legally recognized change of name.
18
10.05	Employees shall lose their seniority under circumstances such as:
-	Voluntary quit
-	Discharge for cause
-	Failure on the part of the employee to work during one operating season, unless such employee was not recalled to their posted job during the season
-	Failure on the part of the employee to answer a notice of recall within ten (10) days from the date the notice of recall was sent
-	Failure on the part of the employee to accept a late recall by December 1.
10.06	An authorized absence shall not cause employees to lose their seniority provided such absence is not for one (1) whole operating season. Absence from work on account of accident or verified illness shall not cause employees to lose their seniority. However, seniority will not accumulate after two whole operating seasons.
10,07	Any employee who is transferred or promoted to an occupation excluded by Clause 1 of this agreement shall retain his/her seniority and the number of accumulated days worked at that time shall be provided to the Union. Any employee who is so transferred shall only transfer back to an occupation that is vacant.
19
Notwithstanding the above, any employee transferred to a supervisory position after October 31, 1980 shall lose their seniority.
The Company agrees that when a supervisor is recalled to the C.E.P. unionized environment, it will not affect another member’s recall rights.
10.08	In making transfers or promotions, except to occupations excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, seniority shall govern provided the eligible employees have approximately equal ability or efficiency.
10.09	Seniority shall not apply in making transfers or promotions to occupations excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement.
10.10	When decreasing the work force, the Company will retain at work the employees having the greatest seniority, provided that these employees have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work available.
10.11
(a)	When increasing the work force, employees having the greatest seniority shall be recalled first, provided that they have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work available and provided also that they have not reached their sixty-
20
fifth (65th) birthday. If the recalled employees do not report for work or decline to accept the job offered to them, the Company will be allowed to by-pass them and recall the next employee on the seniority list who is qualified, available and willing to report for the work available. The employees so by-passed shall be recalled for the next job for which they have the necessary qualifications for the efficient performance of the work.
(b)	Employees who are recalled and report for work at the beginning of the processing season shall perform the duties assigned to them by the Company until their regular job becomes available. The employees shall then, as soon as possible, without unjust delay, be transferred to their regular job.
10.12	Notice of recall will be sent by registered mail, to the employee’s last address known to the Company. It shall be the employee’s responsibility to notify the Company of any change of address.
10.13	Employees who are laid off, in accordance with section 10.10 of this clause, shall be advised at the beginning of their current daily work period.
21
10.14	Employees who report for work for their regular shift and for whom no work is available, shall be paid for time worked or a minimum of three (3) hours at their regular rate, whichever is greater, unless they have been advised by the Company not to report for work in accordance with section 10.13.
10.15
(a)	Within two (2) working days of a vacancy occurring among occupations other than those excluded by Clause 1 of this Agreement, such a vacancy will be posted on the plant notice boards for two (2) working days, to provide employees with an opportunity to apply for such a vacancy.
(b)	Employees may successfully apply for a vacancy in their own job on another shift only once during each processing season.
(c)	Employees absent due to verified sickness or accident will be reinstated to their former positions where such positions continue to exist upon their return to work. Their positions will be posted on a temporary basis upon notification to the Company that the absence will exceed twenty (20) working days.
10.16	The above sections shall be waived and not binding
22
upon the Company if the lay-off is caused by circumstances beyond the Company’s control, such as power failure, fire, flood, work stoppage, slowdown, or act of God.
10.17	Any employee (not in excess of one (1)) who leaves the employment of the Company to become an officer of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, or of its Local, shall retain seniority.
11.	VACATIONS
11.01	In view of the seasonal nature of the work performed by the employees, they shall not be granted paid vacations, but they shall be entitled to a vacation indemnity which will be paid in weekly installments.
11.02	This vacation indemnity is based upon wages earned by the employee since the most recent date of recall and the number of days worked accumulated by the employee since last date of hiring and paid according to the following table:
-	4% for less than 600 accumulated days worked,
-	6% for 600 but less than 1200 accumulated days worked,
-	8% for 1200 but less than 1800 accumulated days worked,
-	10% for 1800 but less than 2400 accumulated days worked,
-	12% for 2400 but less than 3000 accumulated
23
days worked,
14% for 3000 accumulated days worked, or more.
12.	WAGES
12.01	The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept, during the term of this Agreement, the wage rates shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix “A” and which are made part of this Agreement and are signed for identification by the parties hereto.
13.	JOB CLASSIFICATION
13.01	The job classification is shown in the Wage Schedule and Classification as Appendix “A”, which is made part of this Agreement and is signed for identification by the parties hereto.
13.02	The Company will classify new or changed jobs and will advise the Union of such classification. Such classification will be effective on the date the new or revised job was first performed. Any disagreement arising out of the application of this paragraph shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure and Arbitration. The Union may make representation to the Company on changed jobs and the rate that should apply to the new classification.
24
14.	UNION NOTICES
14.01	The Company agrees to permit Union notices to be posted on the Plant Notice Boards, provided such notices be approved by management prior to being posted and restricted to activities of the Union.
15.	MANAGEMENT
15.01	The management and operation of the business, the employment, discharging, direction and promotion of employees shall be vested exclusively in the Company; however, the Company can only exercise these rights insofar as they do not conflict with the rights and privileges of the employees which have been acquired under this Collective Labour Agreement or the law.
16.	STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
16.01	There shall be no strikes, slowdowns or lockouts, either complete or partial, during the term of this Agreement.
17.	MEMBERSHIP IN THE UNION
17.01	All employees who are members of the Union, or hereafter become members, shall remain members during the term of this Agreement and be subject to the provisions of Clause 18.
25
17.02	All new employees hereafter employed shall, once having served their probationary period, become members and remain members during the term of this Agreement as a condition of employment and be subject to the provisions of Clause 18,
18.	CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
18.01	The Company, upon receipt of a written authorization from any of its employees, in the form agreed to between the Company and the Union, will deduct and continue to deduct until the termination of this Agreement, from such employees’ pay earned for each week, the sum authorized by the employees for payment of Union dues.
18.02	A cheque in favour of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, Local 10, for the amount of dues so collected, will be forwarded to the Financial Secretary of the Union on or before the end of the month in which the deductions are made.
19.	VALIDITY OF AGREEMENT
19.01	Any provision in this Agreement which is contrary to law or regulation in force from time to time shall have no force or effect, but this Agreement shall not be invalid by reason of any such provision.
26
20.	JURY DUTY
20.01	When an employee is summoned to serve as juror or witness in legal proceedings, a leave of absence shall be granted and, upon presentation of a statement showing the amount received from the court, a payment will be made to compensate the difference between what the employee would otherwise have earned as regular wages, and the amount received from the court.
21.	HOLIDAYS
21.01	For each year of this Agreement, holidays shall be:
-	Christmas Day,
-	Boxing Day,
-	New Year’s Day,
-	Good Friday,
-	Victoria Day,
-	Thanksgiving Day.
21.02	All employees who have accumulated twenty (20) days worked, or who have completed their probationary period, and who work the complete scheduled hours on the work day immediately before and on the work day immediately after each of the above listed holidays shall receive pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable) for the number of scheduled daily hours in that day, if the holiday falls on a Monday to Friday inclusive.
27
21.03	However, under special circumstances such as:
-	Verified illness,
-	Death in immediate family,
-	Jury Duty,
-	Written permission,
-	Lay-off,
-	Justified lateness,
-	Justified absence,
payment will be made to an employee who has not worked the full scheduled hours on the work day immediately before or on the work day immediately after the holiday, providing the employee is not absent on both of these days.
21.04	For employees who would have been scheduled to work hours for which they would normally have received a shift premium, such premium shall be included when calculating holiday pay.
22.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
22.01	In the event of the death of an employee’s Father (step), Mother (step), Husband, Wife or Child, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Personnel Department, such employee will be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable), not to exceed one (1) normal workweek.
28
22.02	In the event of the death of an employee’s Mother-inLaw, Father-in-Law, Brother or Sister, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Personnel Department, such employee shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable) not to exceed three (3) normal working days.
22.03	In the event of the death of an employee’s Grandparents, Son-in-Law, Daughter-in-Law, Grandchildren, Brother-in-Law or Sister-in-Law, and the employee furnishes reasonable proof of such death to the Personnel Department, such employee shall be granted a reasonable leave of absence, with pay at their current rate (including experience pay if applicable) not to exceed two (2) normal working days.
22.04	Should a paid holiday occur during a period of leave with pay granted under this clause, the employee shall not receive pay for such holiday under Clause 21 of this Agreement.
22.05	When calculating pay for bereavement leave, “shift premium” will be included if the employee would have been entitled to such shift premium had they been working.
29
23.	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
23.01	(a) The Company will advise the Union of any technological changes which will significantly affect the employment status of employees as soon as possible prior to the introduction of the change. However, in the event the change is introduced during the nonprocessing season, the Union will be advised at the start of the current processing season.
(b) When an employee begins to perform a lower rated j ob due to the introduction of technological change, the employee will continue to be paid the rate of their former job for a period of three (3) months. For a further period of three (3) months, the employee will be paid an adjusted rate which will be mid-way between the rate of their former job and the new permanent job rate. At the end of this six (6) month period, the employee will be paid the rate of the new permanent job.
24.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
24.01	The Company and Union recognize that, notwithstanding the Occupational Health and Safety Act, they have a mutual interest and responsibility in ensuring the health and safety of all employees while at work.
30
The parties have agreed, therefore, to establish and maintain a Health and Safety committee composed of Company representatives and representatives appointed by the Union. It is further agreed that this committee shall meet twice per month during the processing season and it shall be the committee’s responsibility to promote health and safety in the work place. Some members of the committee shall tour the plant prior to each safety meeting.
24.02	Three members of the committee, one from each representative group, shall investigate all lost time accidents or serious incidents which could have resulted in lost time accidents and shall make recommendations to management on their findings. The members of the investigation committee may vary according to the shift on which the accident or incident occurred.
25.	MATERNITY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
25.01	(a) An employee who becomes pregnant and who has served her probationary period with the Company shall be granted, at the request of the employee, a Maternity Leave of Absence in accordance with the provisions of the Ontario Employment Standards Act, 1974.
(b) An employee who has been granted a Maternity Leave of Absence shall continue to accrue seniority
31
for days that could have been worked but were missed due to Maternity Leave, for the period of approved leave. In addition, upon expiration of the leave of absence granted to her under 25.01 (a), an employee will be reinstated to her former position where such position continues to exist.
(c) Failure of the employee to return to work upon expiration of the approved leave of absence shall automatically terminate employment.
26.	PLANT CLOSURE
26.01	In the event that the Company permanently closes its plant at John StreetNorth, Aylmer, Ontario, resulting in the termination of employees,the Company shall provide a severance pay to each employee so affected who has at least five (5) seasons of service with the Company.
Such employees will receive one week’s severance pay for each 260 days of accumulated service, not to exceed 26 weeks of basic wages. One week’s severance pay shall be based on current hourly rate for the number of regular nonovertime weekly hours.
Any employee who receives severance pay shall be considered to have given up their recall rights with the Company.
32
X'
27.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
27.01	This Agreement shall be in force and effect from the time that it is executed up to and including October 31, 2001 and, unless written notice to the contrary is given by either party to the other within a period of time which shall not be more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination hereof, this Agreement shall continue thereafter from year to year.
33
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 29^ day of September 1999.
IMPERIAL LEAF TOBACCO - DIVISION OF IMASCO LIMITED
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
CHRIS THOMPSON	By: JeffGuiler
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 10
Glen Sonier	By:	Dave Ramsey
Ron Clunas Dan Dyck Nick Neufeld David Stradeski
34
APPENDIX “A”,
IMPERIAL LEAF TOBACCO ■ DIVISION OF IMASCO LIMITED, AYLMER PLANT COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPER-WORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 10
SEASONAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND CLASSIFICATION
GROUP	NOV. 1/98
Group 1	$18,07
Probationary Employee
Group 2	$18.13
General Labour Pool Sweeper Cleaner, Receiving Cleaning Racks (temp)
Bale Paper Window Opener (temp)
Group 3	$18.18
Trucker Weigher, Picking Line
Trucker Weigher Relief, Picking Line
Sweeper Relief, Bale Feed
Sweeper Relief, Picking Line
Searcher VS
Picker, Picking Line
35
Group 4	$18.23
General Help, Receiving Trucker Storing, Receiving Housekeeping Team Relief, Receiving Black Fat (temp)
Group 5	$18.32
Case Sorting
Paper, String & Search
Search Station Attendant
General Help, Bale Feed
Men’s Washroom Attendant/Bale Handler Relief Plant Clean-up Assembling Cases (temp)
Poly Insertion Sweeper Relief CTCM Operator (temp)
Group 6	$18.38
Operator Relief, Bale Feed
Moisture Tester Freas
Tester Pilot Plant
Quality Assurance Utility
General Help, Quality Assurance
Mac Vac Operator/Trucker Weigher
Unloading Trucks, Receiving
Bale Handler to Racks, Receiving
36
Group 6 cont’d
Bale Handler, Bale Feed Bale Handler, Leaf Storage Weigher Recorder, Receiving Butting (temp)
Pre-market samples (temp)
Group 7
Posted General Labour Pool Marshaller, Warm Storage Fork Truck Operator, Pile Down Operator Relief, Picking Line Case Sorting/Fork Truck
Group 8
Group 9
Marshaller, Leaf Storage Train Operator, Bale Feed Train OperatorAVarehouse Sweeper Clamp Truck Operator
Group 10
Group 11
Skilled Labour Pool Packing Team
37
$18.49
$18.60
$18.73
$18.85
$18.97
Skilled jobs	$19.82
C & C/Redrier Operator
FOR THE FIRST YEAR OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT:
Wages:
The wage rate schedule will be increased by 2% retroactive to November 1, 1998, for employees on payroll on date of ratification
Cash Lump Sum:
Up to $1,500, based on organizational and plant results and payable at the end of the season."
FOR THE SECOND YEAR OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Wages:
The wage rate schedule will be increased by the greater of 2% or C.P.I. protection based on C.P.I. of September 1999, published by Statistics Canada
Cash Lump Sum:
Up to $750, based on organizational and plant results and payable at the end of the season.*
38
FOR THE THIRD YEAR OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT:
Wages:
The wage rate schedule will be increased by the greater of 2% or C.P.I. protection based on C.P.I. of September 2000, published by Statistics Canada
Cash Lump Sum:
Up to $950, based on organizational and plant results and payable at the end of the season.*
There will be an opportunity for employees, on an optional basis, to deposit all or part of their incentive into the Company Great West R.R.S.P. Pian.
All incentive payments are subject to C.P.P. and E.I. deductions.
39
EXPERIENCE PAY
Employees who have accumulated, through consecutive operating seasons, 75, 150 or over 225 days worked will receive Experience Pay on the following basis:
(a)	Less than 75 accumulated days worked Basic Rates only
(b)	75 but less than 150 accumulated days worked Basic Rate plus:
6b per hour worked
(c)	150 but less than 225 accumulated days worked Basic Rate plus:
12b per hour worked
(d)	225 accumulated days worked and over - Basic Rate plus:
20 b per hour worked
SIGNED JeffGuiler
SIGNED David Ramsey September 29, 1999
40
LETTER OF INTENT # 1
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr, Ramsey,
This is to confirm that during the 1980 negotiations, the Company agreed to introduce a Weekly Indemnity Plan to provide a source of income in the event of a certified illness, hospitalization or non-industrial accident, effective November 1, 1981.
The general terms of the plan are as follows:
Level of Benefit:
60% of wages
Duration:
Fifteen (15) weeks or lay-off by seniority at the end of the processing season (excluding clean-up)*, whichever comes first.
For each full week worked after the absence, one week of benefit entitlement is reinstated up to the maximum.
41
*For the duration of this 1998-2001 collective agreement, each claim for Weekly Indemnity benefits involving the clean-up periods at the beginning and end of the processing season, will be addressed on an individual basis, in consultation with the Union Executive
Commencement of Benefit Payment:
(a)	On the first working day in the event of a certified non-industrial accident or hospitalization on an overnight basis.
(b)	After three (3) working days in the event of certified illness.
Eligibility requirements:
200 accumulated days worked or more.
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
42
LETTER OF INTENT # 2
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
In order to protect future export business and thereby protecting the future job security of the employees, the Company will, from time to time, have a volume of tobacco to be processed which is in excess of the plant capacity. In these situations, it will be necessary to have that tobacco processed outside the Aylmer plant in order to prevent the loss of customers.
The Union will be advised prior to this tobacco being processed outside the Aylmer plant and will be informed of the reasons, quantities involved and the timing. The Union will also be consulted in determining ways and means of minimizing the quantities involved through methods which would be appropriate under the circumstances, such as additional overtime shifts.
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
43
LETTER OF INTENT # 3
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
This is to confirm that the Company has agreed to the proposal of shutting operations down for the Christmas period to allow employees the opportunity to spend time with their families.
For the duration of this agreement, the shutdowns will be as follows:
During the first year:
December 24,1998 December25,1998*
December 28,1998*
December29,1998 December 30,1998 December 31,1998 January 1,1999*
During the second year:
December 24,1999 December 27,1999* December 28,1999* December 29,1999 December 30,1999 December 31,1999*
During the third year:
December 25,2000* December 26,2000* December 27,2000 December 28,2000 December 29,2000 January 1,2001*
44
•	These days will be paid in accordance with Article 21 of the Agreement
As a result of the new agreement to extend the qualifying days for payment of the Christmas shutdown, the qualifying days under Article 21 of the Agreement would be interpreted as follows for the Christmas period Statutory Holidays:
•	Each employee’s last scheduled day prior to Christmas Day will be considered their personal qualifying day, but not earlier than December 15 th
•	Each employee’s first scheduled day following New Year’s Day will be considered their personal qualifying day, but not later than January 10th
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
45
LETTER OF INTENT # 4
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey,
President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached in negotiations that in the event it should become necessary to reduce significantly the number of weeks per season as a result of a change in production requirements, the Company will meet the Union to explore ways and means of minimizing the impact on those employees affected.
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
46
LETTER OF INTENT # 5
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to the implementation of the New Work Environment.
The Team Concept will gradually be implemented in the Aylmer Plant, under the direction of the Implementation Team.
The Implementation Team will be composed of the Joint Company/Union Site Team Members:
•	Senior Management Team plus Work Organization Coordinator
•	Union Committee
•	National Union Representative and Industrial Relations Representative (as requested)
47
•	Union or Management employees (as required)
The major responsibilitiesof the
Implementation Team will include:
•	Team implementation/New Work Organization changes
•	Roles and positions to support the New Work Organization
•	Training/Education/Leaming in support of the New Work environment
•	Impact of the new environment on Health & Safety and W.S.I.B.
•	Communication
•	Quality
•	When needed, revise system to compensate employees in the New Work Organization
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
48
LETTER OF INTENT # 6
September, 29, 1999
Mr, Dave Ramsey President
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 10 Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to the buyout option (Severance).
In the event that the Company alters the working conditions due to technological change or workplace reorganization at its plant at John Street North, Aylmer, Ontario resulting in the permanent termination of employees, the Company agreed to provide a buyout option of two weeks per season (110 days worked) for employees not able to cope with the New Work Organization. Four months prior to the effective date of the change, the Company will notify the Union.
The Company will establish the number of reductions and the timing within the duration of this agreement. A joint Company/Union committee will review candidates using
49
the established eligibility to determine recipients of the severance.
This letter of intent is valid until October 31, 2001.
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
50
SEVERANCE PROGRAM
RULES:
1.	Severance package will be offered by Company in numbers equal to permanently eliminated jobs (excludes reductions due to production requirements)
2.	Name must be submitted to Union Office before closing date of each offer
3.	Anyone eligible for recall entitled to consideration
4.	Employees who meet the selection criteria; the formula for payment is two weeks per season (110 days worked)
PRIORITIZED ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:
1.	Employees who are unable to fit into the New Work Organization
2.	Seniority
NOTE: Employees who receive severance shall be considered to have given up their recall rights with the Company
51
LETTER OF INTENT # 7
September 29, 1999
Mr. Dave Ramsey President,
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada,
Local 10,
Aylmer, Ontario
Dear Mr. Ramsey,
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union during the 1998 negotiations with regards to a jointly developed Policy and Procedures Book.
The Company and the Union agree that there are policies and procedures that have been jointly developed for the benefit of all employees. These items will all be centralized into one book.
Such policies and procedures may be evaluated and modified through joint consultation. Such changes, when jointly agreed to by both parties, will be entered into the Policy and Procedures Book.
Yours truly,
J. Guiler,
Plant Manager
52