» «_ U juit C I CXAJl,
2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, dated this 14th day of June, 2001, between Uniroyal Goodrich Manufacturing, Kitchener, Ontario, herein called the “Company” and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of Local Union #677, hereinafter called the “Union” for the occupational classifications
represented by the Union as defined in Article II, subsection 2.01 of the current Collective Agreement now in effect between the Company and the Union.	-------------
................. i
Subjectto the conditions hereinafter mentioned, the Company and the Negotiating Committee	ura0n/ I
do hereby agree to acceptthe following terms and conditions as the final settlement of all demancjrgf	I. •
Unicn as expressed in their submissions of April 2001, which entertained demands for:	TTt.-.i.	\2 I •
' ~9Sd 1
(a)	Revised Collective Labour Agreement
(b)	RevisedPensionPlan Agreement
(c)	Revised Insurance Program Agreement
<4> Revised S.U.B, Agreement and Separation Agreement
(e)	Revised SeveranceAward Agreement
(f)	Revised Dental Care Sal Agreement
(8)	Revised Side-Agreements (Letters of Understanding)
(h)	Miscellaneousand Economic Issues
of
mPIO . ££
.•iom-.re" o\ ov
The negotiating committee of the Union do hereby agree to recommend the acceptance of the following terms to the executive board and also recommend to the executive board that they recommend such acceptancetothe membership of the Union at a meeting to be called for this purpose on or before Junel8, 2001.
Change all dates within the respective agreements to reflect a three (3)year agreement.
Change any and all references, either direct or related to the UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCEACT to reflect the change of the name of the Act to the "EMPLOYMENT INSURANCEACT".
* 2001UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
7001
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page #2
TERM:
Expires May 31,2004
WAGES:
•	GWI:
S .25 effective 1 June 2001; $ .20 effective 1 June 2002, and $ .20 effective 1 June 2003.
•	Skilled Trades:
$ ,50 at all Levels below Level 4 including Powerhouse; $1.00 at Level 4 certification; S1.00 at Level 5 certification; payable over and above the GWI.
PENSION:
•	Increase pension multiplier for employees retiring on or after 1 June 2001 fern. $42,00 to $50.00 times years of service; $51.00 per years of service for those retiring on or after November 1,2001
•	Pension Plan Amendments -Financial(two amendments)
•	$ .12 COLA Diversion
BENEFITS:
• In recognition of cost containment in the prescription drug program, a S .01 permanent COLA diversion is taken.
VISION:
•	Fixed 24 month benefit (vs. sliding) January to January.
♦	Reimbursement up to a total of $200.
MASSAGE THERAPY:
• Increase to maximum $350,
LIFE INSURANCE:
•	Basic S35K to $40K
•	AD & D $35K to $40K
Optional Contributory Life Insurance:
•	Lower Rates to $ .40/$ 1,000.
•	Spouse $ 1 OK - $20K
•	Dependant$5K-$10K
2001 UGIM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
2001
MEMORANDUM QF AGREEMENT
Page #3
SURVIVIOR INCOME BENEFIT:
•	$450 per month
•	$8,100 total
SICKNESS & ACCIDENT:
•	Article 4.01 “delete” the applicable employment insurance maximum. Replace vdth $450.00.
SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH • Syn-yisc
DENTAL:
•	Establish 2000 dental fee schedule effective on the date of the agreement with a $.01 COLA diversion effective29 Sept 2001.
•	Establish 2001 dental fee schedule effective 01 January 2002, and a $.01 COLA diversion effective 29 June 2002.
•	Establish 2002 dental fee schedule effective 01 January 2003, and a $.01 COLA diversion effective 28 June 2003.
•	Provide coverage for porcelain fillings at 100% coverage
•	Provide coverage for fissure sealant at 100% coverage
OTHER
1) Memorandum’s of Agreement
•	M.O.S.T. and Pay Plans
♦	Maintenance Day Assignment
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #4
2)CLA ITEMS: Article 3.01 Article 5.16 Article 6.05 Article 6.09 Article 6.09 Article 6.10 Article 6.10 Article 7.01 Article 7.27 Article 8.06 Article 8.19 Article 8.25 Article 9.10 b Article 9.10 c Article 9.11 c Article 9.12 Article 10.10 Article 10.11 b Article 11.05 Article 11.07 Appendix B AppendixD & E Appendix F Letter# 1 Letter #3 Letter# 5 Letter # 7 Letter #7 Letter # 9 Letter# 13 Letter# 14 Letter# 15 Letter# 16 New Letter New Letter New Letter Housekeeping	Dues Deduction Grievance #111 Sunday Premium Time & Arbitration Ruling Civic Holiday Holiday Pay/Time Off Worker Compensation Exceptions Stat Pay for Workers Compensation Copies of Information Bereavement Exception Delete Part Time Reference Delete 2nd Last Paragraph Return to Work Safety Committee Training Ergonomics 1998 Memo Language (Work Apparel) Safety Work Refusal 1998 Memo Language (Vacation Schedules) Parental Leave Summer Shutdown Union Dues/Vacation Pay COLA ~ Formula and date changes COLA ~ $.12 diversion for cost containment Delete License Trades; TNA Deletion; Tool Allowance; PowerHouse License Fee; Level 4 Flexibility; Condense the Level Steps Curing Efficiency Bonus • Delete Union Dues - Supervisory Safety Shoes Union Time Study (Memorandum) Union Time Study Committee Rate of Pay for Union VP (still deduct hours from pool) Update Schedule List Lateral Seniority Relationships Bumping Students Possible Pension Plan Amendments Job Evaluation (Modified) Day Assignment for Union Representatives Date Changes & Print Errors
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14. 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #5
3:01 Add at end “ Union dues deductions will be shown as one entry on weekly pay stubs.”
5:16 Add after last sentence “For example:”
a)	When more investigation is needed, the employee could continue to work pending the investigation until level of discipline is decided. Some examples of progressive discipline to point of suspension: absenteeism, quality and performance related issues where the employee had been advised ofthe problem.
b)	When investigation is required, but the supervisor feels the employee(s) must be restricted from work pending the investigation. Some examples are: fighting, disruptive behaviour, refusing work assignments.
6;05 2nd paragraph - move “12 Hour Core ScheduleNon-Voluntary Premium Shift Qualifer”... to follow 2nd paragraph under clause 6:01, _
Change the word “overtime” to “premium”.
Insert language as 2nd paragraph. “Employees who are scheduled off by their current crew schedule (reference article 6:01) on a statutory holiday are eligible to count the hours worked on the statutory holiday toward the eligibility for double time payment forother work performed on another scheduled day off in the same pay week.”
6:09 Holidays
Add in the 3rd paragraph after the first sentence,
“Four months advance notice will be provided regarding the placement of the
Civic Holiday, Should the placement of the Civic Holiday fall on a Sunday, the crews normally
scheduled will be paid twelve (12) hours.”
6:09 Holidays
Add at the end of 6:09 a new sentence to read,
“When an employee’s floater/vacation day falls upon a Sunday and the hours between 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. are not scheduled for production, s/he, with the supervisor’s approval, shall be ableto reschedulethe four hours.
6:10 Under EXCEPTIONS, item #2, page 29,
Stop the 2nd sentence afterthe word “case.”
Delete “and provided the employee is not entitled to payment under Workers Compensation.”
Cnpage 30,2nd paragraph afterthe word “benefits” (lines 2 and 5), add “or Workplace Safety and Insurance Board benefits.”
7.01 Individual base rates and hourly rate ceilings in effect on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in effort-, during the life of this Agreement, except ttst a change in any rate may be made by mutual agreement. Job descriptions will be accessible to the affected employees and the Union time study. Copies of pending and futurejob evaluations will be shared with the Union Upon request all information will be copied or duplicated and furnished to the union with the understanding that information not pertinent to the evaluation will not be included in the copy. Information
2001 VGTWUSWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #6
jooi
information not pertinent to the evaluation wll not be included in the copy. Information furnished will not be disclosed to any party not directly concerned with the evaluation in question ortheadministration of the union.
121 fin employee on the payroll of the Company who is excused by the Company solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of the employee, or the spouse’s grandparents, great-grandparents, brother-in-law and sister-in-law (the category of relatives herein specified includes legal and blood relationships, halfrelatives, and step-relatives and foster parent and foster child) she shall be compensated as follows:
a)	Incentive employee at his/her average earnings.
b)	Hourly-rated employee, at his/her customary hourly rate, for time so lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule within the normal work week by reason of such absence, up to three consecutive calendar days for each such death centered around the funeral for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours of scheduled work time off and pay to a maximum of 36 hours of scheduled time off andpay. For clarificationpurposes, ifthe funeral fallsonthe Saturday and the employee is scheduled to woric, sA\t is entitled to 36 hours of scheduled time off and pay; otherwise, she is entitled to 24 hours of scheduled time off with pay,(Except that on the death of an enployee's registered spouse or dependent child, such employee shall be entitled to 36 hours of scheduled time off and pay.)
If, however, the funeral is not attended, s/he will be paid for lost time on only one ofthe above mentioned days.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral. If the employee is eligible for any other form of-remuneration (exceptions: vacation and-floaters) to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this Section for such day or days. The appropriate time off listed above shall be scheduled and taken immediately following the scheduled vacation or floater.
It is understood that “in-law”relationshipswill be broken by divorce but not death ofthe blood relativewho established the “in-law“relationship,unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
8.06 Delete l“ two (2) paragraphs.
8.19 Delete 2nd to last paragraph regarding 1991 memorandum.
Add “TUO Specialist” afterword “Counter Verifier” in fourth paragraph.
8:25 Delete item #4. Re-number current #5 to be #4. Add to #4 a), b) and c) as shown.
Placement of Employees with Permanent Partial Disabilities
a) fin employee with a permanent partial disability will, where appropriate, be returned to his/her regular j ob where the employee i s able to perform the essential duties and/or can be reasonably accommodated on thejob.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #7

b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, if the employee is not able to return to his/her ownjob, then s/he may be placed on another availablejob on the following basis;
i)	Consideration will be given first to other available jobs, which are within the capability of the employee.
ii)	If there are none, then consideration will be given to other available jobs of which the worker is able to perform the essential duties or with reasonable accommodation.
iii)	The worker may be placed on a temporary work trial on anotherjob if appropriateto determine suitability or capability.
iv)	The worker may be evaluated to determine physical capability as appropriate, before placement
v)	The employee may be assigned to other suitable tasks or available work elements that provide meaningful work to the company, as set out above on a temporary basis while working toward medical recovery and/or awaiting suitable placement.
vi)	In placing an employee under this subsection (b), s/he shall not displace an employee who has more credited service,
c)	A worker member of the WSIB Committee and one other person shall be designated by the union and shall meet with management representativesto obtain information and to provide consultation regarding the potential placement of workers with permanent partial disabilities. The scope of the designated representative's role shall include:
Being informed by management of employees with permanent partial disabilities who may be the subject of placement under this subsection 8.25 (b),
ii)	Meeting with management representativesto review limitations/capabilities, job requirements and opportunities for suitable placements and
iii)	Consulting with Management representatives regarding accommodation and placement of employees ort suitablejobs.
9:10 Joint Health and Safety Committee
(a)	A Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall be appointed consisting ofup to eight (8) individuals;up to four (4) representing the employerand selected by the Company and up to four (4) representing the workers and selected by the Union. Each party will designate an individual from their representatives on the committeeto provide for co-chairmanship. Additionally, the parties may each designate up to two alternate representativesto serve on the Committee in the temporary absence of regular representatives.
(b)	The Company will provide health and safety training to Committee members to enable them to fulfill their role within the Committee. This will include general training on the provisions of the Legislation and Regulation governing health and safety in the workplace and where applicable, training on specific workplace hazards. Where prescribed by legislation, at least one member representingthe workers and one member representing the employerwill b e certified. The certified members will normally be the Committee co-chairs. Additionally, the Company will endeavour to certify one additional worker and management Committee member.
(c)	The function of the Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall include the following:
(j)	To facilitate the promotion of occupational health and safety in the workplace;
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #8
9.001
(ii)	To make a monthly inspection of the plant orplaceofemploymentforthe purpose of determining hazardous conditions, to check unsafe practices and to receive complaints and recommendations with respect to these matters;
(iii)	To investigate promptly all critical accidents and any unsafe conditions or practices which may be reported to it;
(iv)	To conduct regular meetings at least monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of preventing their recurrence, and reports of investigations and inspections;
(v)	To keep records of all investigations, inspections and recommendationstogether with minutes of meetings. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to recommendationspreviously make, and if no action has been taken, the reasons therefore shall be given;
(vi)	The Union Chairperson of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, or designate, shall have the right to accompany all authorized Ministry of Labour Safety Inspectors on tour of the plant and shall receive copies of any reports sent to the Company pertainingto such inspections and to participate in distribution, pickup, and calibration of industrial hygiene monitors.
(vii)	Accident, injury, and occupational illness records shall be kept by the Company, and shall be made available to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee. These records shall include all reports required by the Ministry of Labour under the Occupational Health and Safety Act or Sections 9.10 and 9.12 ofthis Agreement. The Company also agreesto make availableto the Committee upon request, the trade name and/or technical description (including chemical analysis, if available) of WHMIS controlled materials in the plant.
(viii)	Due consideration will begiventorecommendationsofthe Safety Committee. Any questions concemingthe adoption ofrecommendationsofthe Safety Committee may, at the discretion of the union members, be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3. Members of the Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
(ix)	Differences not resolved within the Committee regarding occupational health safety problems may be referred to the grievance procedure at Step #3 for adjustment. Members of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee will be permitted to attend grievance meetings regarding such problems.
(x)	Members of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee shall be permitted to enterthe plant when off shift forthe purpose of investigatingoccupational health and safety matters in accordance with Article V, Clause 5.11, of the present Agreement. In the event that a Union member of the Occupational Health & Safety Committee is requested by the Company, or because of a necessity which is specified under the Occupational Health and Safety Act or Sections9.10 or9.12 ofthis Agreement,to report for work outside his/her normal working hours, s/he shall be compensated at the appropriate premium pay as per Article VI clause 6,05.
(vi)	The Union may designate one member of the Joint Health & Safety
Committee to participate with management in the identification, assessment
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #9
and control of ergonomic hazards in the workplace. This designated member shall be invited to participate with management representatives, as appropriate, in the following activities;
(i)	Incorporation of ergonomics into new equipment,
(ii)	Determining trends in occupational illness resulting from workplace design hazards,
(Hi) Investigating and following up with occupational illnesses resulting from ergonomic factors,
(Iv) Making recommendations concerning ergonomic improvements and
(v) Provide information back to the Joint Health & Safety Committee regarding ergonomic matters.
The Company will provide training for this designated member in order to carry out this role.
(d)	Notice of the occurrence of an accident in the plant will be furnished to the Occupational Health & Safety Committee representative.
(e)	If a problem arises requiring a member of the Safety Committee to contact employees during his/her working hours, such contact shall be arranged by such memberthrough either his/her immediate supervisororthe department/am manager concerned.
(f)	A Union Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee member will, at their discretion, be involved in the safety orientation for new hires and replacement employees.
9:11	(a) An employee will report to his/her supervisor, or management representative, any unsafe
condition or actions which s/he believes may endanger him/herself or any other employee.
(b)	All employees shall follow the Company safety rules at all times while on the Company premises and use or wear the personal protective devices that the Company requires to be used or worn.'
(c)	The Company shall supply all protective clothing and other personal protective devices (excluding safety footwear and regular work clothing) deemed necessary by the Companyto protect employees from injuries arising from their employment with the Company. The exclusion of regular work clothing does not include coveralls or other clothing currently supplied to Mixing, Maintenance and Press Room.
9:12 Safety Work Refusal
(a)	An employee may refuse to work or do particular work where s/he has reasonto believe that:
(i)	any equipment, machine, device or thing s/he is to use or operate is likely to endanger him/herself or another employee, or
(ii)	the physical condition of the wade place orthe part thereofin which s/he works or is to work is likely to endanger him/herself.
(b)	If as set down in Article 9,12(a), an employee refusesto work or do particular work, s/he shall promptly report the circumstancesand reasons for his/her refusal to his/her supervisor, or management representative, who, in the presence of the refusing employee, shall forthwith investigate the report with a union representativeofthe Occupational Health and Safety Cannitbee, or if not readily available, another knowledgeable union representative. Until the investigation is completed, the employee shall remain in a safe place near his/her work station.
2001 UGTM/VSWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
'■"'u
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page #10
(C)	Following the investigation and any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that
(d)	caused the employee to refuse to work or do particular work, if the employee continues to have reasonable grounds to believe that carrying out the work waild endanger him/herse!f or another employee, then an inspector representingthe Ministry of labour, shall be notified to investigate the refusal to work and they shall give their decision in writing as soon as practicable. Pending the investigation and decision of the inspector, the employee shall remain in a safe place near his or her workstation during his/her normal work hours, unless the Company, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, assigns reasonable, alternate work during such hours, or where re-assignment is not practical, gives other direction to the employee.
(«)	Pending the investigation and decision ofthe inspector, no employee shall be assigned to use oroperate the equipment, machine, device orthing orto work in the workplace or the part thereof which is being investigated, unless in the presence of a Union member ofthe Occupational Joint Health and Safety Committee, or if none available, another knowledgeable Union representative, the employee has been advised of the other employee’s refusal and the reasons for the refusal.
(0	No disciplinary actin or reprisal shall be taken against any employee by reason of the fact that s/he has exercised the right conferred upon him/her under any let or Sections 9,10, 9.11, and 9,12 ofthis Agreement, respecting the occupational health and safety of
10:10	employees. Add 2^ paragraph. "fitermsof absence” under Article X shall not impact on other employees opportunity to select vacation or floater days per the allotment qf the vacation or floater schedules.”
10:11 (b)	Parental Leave of a maximum of thirty-five (35) wastes (after taking a pregnancy leave) ora maximum of thirty-seven (37) weeks (if no pregnancy leave was taken) is available to each parent of either a natural or an adopted child. The Parental leave of a natural mother must begin immediately following the expiration of the Pregnancy Leave.
	If you are a father or adopting parent parental leave must commence within fifty-two (52) wedcs ofthe date ofthe child’s birth or coming into custody, care and control ofthe parent. Parental leave ends either thirty-seven (37) veds after commencement or thirty-five (35) vodcs after commencement (if followings pregnancy leave) or on an earlier date provided the employee advises the Company, in writing, at least four (4) weeks in advance of an earlier return date.
11:05 *	Change the date of such closing down by “February 1**” ofthe currentyear.
11:07 (b)	Understanding in memo of Agreement that 'Duason lump sum payments such as profit / //) Q • Q-sharing, grievance settlements and arbitration awards and other like payments are calculated separately. Dues on lump sum payments are equal to 1.3% of such payments for the month without consideration of a maximum” IE no cap on maximum PILO vacation would also be subject to union dues at 1,3% with no maximum.
2001UGTM/USWA NbgofciAtncns June 14, 2001
''Ol
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page#11
LETTER #3
LETTER #5
LETTER#7
LETTER# 9
LETTER# 13
For the handling of employees who are members of the bargaining unit and who accept assignment to supervisory duties.
Add H5: “In all of the above assignments, employees will continue to pay union dues when on temporary assignment to salary or supervisory duties.”
Change to SI 60.
Delete item # 2 and insert “Handle unusual/exceptlonal cases individually”
Insert new #5 “The Company shall pay up to 12 hours per week (regular average earnings) for Union Time Study Committee.”
Insert new #6 ”At least monthly, the plant Industrial Engineering Manager and the local Union Time Study Representative will meet to revlew/dlscuss existing industrial engineering plans, project results, and issues. This interchange is in addition to the regular contractually required communications associated with new and/or revised labour standard initiatives,”
Delete “at his/her average hourly rate x 40 houn/week”,
Insert" He/she shall be reimbursed by the Company for 40 hours per week at the second highest hourly rate in the plant, plus any applicable interim increases.”
EXCEPTIONAL SHIFT SCHEDULES Add Downstairs T rucker (Mixing)
Add AR (Mixing)
Change Banbury Cleaner
Revise Documenter/Tralner (as required)
Revise Safety Co-ordinator (as required)
Revise Maintenance Co- ordinator (as required)
Revise Johnstone Slitter
Add Mold Cleaning
Delete WSW Rework/Final Classify
Delete Bass. Repair (R3)
Revise Lab Specialist
Delete Raw Material Inspector
Delete LabTechnican
Revise Storeskeeper
Revise Receiving Stores
Revise Powered Sweepers/Scrubber
Delete Maximizer
2 Crew/12 Hour Days 2 Crew/12 Hour Days Change to 2 Crew/12 hour days 1 Crew/8 Hour Days 1 Crew/8 HourDays
1	Crew/8 HourDays
2	Crew/12 HourDays 2 Crew/12 HourDays
2 Crew/12 HourDays
2 Crew/12 HourDays 1 Crew/%HourDays 1 Crew/8 Hour Days
Also add to Exceptional Shift Schedule:
Centra! Maintenance	1 Crew/8 Hour Days (Monday - Friday)
# 1 Tread Tuber	2 C rew/12 Hour D=ys
Shunters	2 Crew/12 Hour Days
WMS Billing Clerks	2 Crew/12 Hour Days
Powerhouse (3”* Class)	I Crew/8 HourD^ (Monday - Friday)
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
2001
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page #12
Powerhouse Maintenance	l Crew/8 Hour E&ys
Miscut	1 Crew/8 Hour Days (Monday - Friday)
LETTER# 14 Insert at end of Letter "DEPARTMENTS- Final Finish 64571, Warehouse 83511, Maintenance 64131 (see inter department agreements)”
Replace existing Letter #15 withnew LETTER# 15 (new)- Labour-ManagementRelationships
Improved labour-management relationships at the Kitchener Plant was atopic for considerable discussion between the parties during the 2001 Collective Agreement negotiations. The outcome of those discussions was to conclude that a Constructive relationship is beneficial to all parties involved, importantto the ongoing success of the Plant as a whole, and that specific direction is necessary in order to accomplish/maintain that objective.
It was concluded that certain basic fundamentals must be observed by the parties in order to establish a constructive labour-management relationship. These include:
•	Commitment to comply with the terms, conditions, and spirit of the Collective Labour Agreement.
•	Acknowledgement of the Unions’ obligation to represent their membership and the need for pertinent informationto fulfill that responsibility.
•	Professional conduct by labour and management representatives.
•	Integrity, credibility, and mutual respect., .earned confidence and trust.
In keeping with the foregoing, the parties agreed to adopt the following actions:
1)	Conduct a regular two (2) day, cff site, semi-annual labour-management conferenceto share/discuss Plant business plans, performance, challenges, objectives, employment issues, and othermatters of mutual concern. A pre-planned agenda will dedicate required time to topics presented by the Union, plant specific business matters, and Company-wide business information. Participants will include the Local Union Executive Committee, the Plant Manager and selected staffrepresentatives, and a Corporate Labour Relations representative. The first such meeting will be scheduled at a mutually agreeable time in the Fall, 2001,
2) .	Continuation, including renewed efforts of the partiesjoint commitmentto Health & Safety for
plant employees and their families. This ongoing mission requires fresh thinking and initiatives in orderto maintain vitality and effectiveness. Ajoint labour-management report at the first semiannual labour-management conference will review status and direction generated by this action element.
3)	More clearly defined interface and information exchange between the Company industrial engineering function and the Union Time Study representatives. This includes regular periodic meetings to discuss current/future projects, issues/solutions, study findings, and business results.
4)	Adopt a schedule of quarterly Maintenance Department labour-management meetings. A preplanned agenda would include area project status, downtime planning, overall maintenance function direction, and issues identified by the Union. Special topics such as training and scheduling would be discussed, including matters pertaining to the Powerhouse.
Given that establishing constructive labour-management relationships is ajoint objective, the parties will dedicate a segment of the semi-annual labour-management conferenceto review and discussion of this mission.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
'll
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page#13
LETTER# 16 STUDENTS
Add new item.
“Students working on incentivejobs are subject to being bumped (once trained) ifa full time or replacement incentive employee requires work.”
LETTER #19 UNION ASSIGNMENT
At the request of the Local Union, the company will grant a Local Union Representative a day shift assignment (Monday to Friday/40 hrs-week) at his/her average hourly rate x forty hours per week.
JThe Local Union President shall determine the length of assignment and will inform the Area Manager of such time. The representative shall be available to perform work for the Local Union at anytime during this assignment.
Work performed for the Local Union during the assignment, shall be paid from the Union pool of hours.
No more than one individual per week may be on this assignment. There must be a need of a least sixteen (16) hours per week tojustify the assignment of an individual.
APPENDIX B
INTERIM INCREASE FORMULAE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement.. .
The base for calculation: shall be set for the life of this agreement: The average C.P.I. for the months of March 2001, April 2001 and May 2001.
The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing S^benber 29, 2001, It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June 2001, July 2001 and August 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on Deoember 29,2001. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I, forthe months of September,2001, October, 2001 andNovember, 2001 exceeds the base for calculation
A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on March 30,2002. It rail. reflect one cent (10) for each full .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December, 2001, January, 2002 and February, 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
A fourth adjustment, if any, will be calculated and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 29,2002. It will reflect one cent (10) fix each M .083 point that the average CP.I, for the norths of March 2002, April 2002 and Hay 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
2001 UGTMUSWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
ooi
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #14
2.	Second !tac of Agreement...
a)	The base for calculations: is the average C.P.L for the months of March 2001, April 2001 and May 2001 plus accumulated COLA calculations generated during the first year of the agreement.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 28,
2002.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each fill .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of June 2002, July 2002 and August 2002 exceedsthe base for calculation.
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 28,2002. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P.L for fte months of September 2002, October 2002 and November 2002 exceedsthe base for calculation.
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as ofthe pay period commencing on March 29, 2003. It will reflect one cent (1$ for each full .083 point that the average C.P, I. for the months of December 2002, January 2003 and February 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation.
e)	A fourth adjustment,if any, will be calculated and will be carried over throughout the second year of this agreement, and paid as of the pay period commencing on June 28,2003. It will reflect one cent (10) for each fill .083 point that the average C.P,I. for the months of March 2003, April 2003 and May 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation.
3,	Third Ifea: of Agreement...
a)	The base for calculations: is the average C.P.L for the months of March 2001, April 2001 and May 2001 plus accumulated COLA calculations generated during the first and second year of the agreement.
b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 27,
2003.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .083 point that the average C.P,I. for the months of June 2003, July 2003 and August 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation
c)	A second adjustment will be calculated, replace the first adjustment, if any, and paid as of the pay period commencing on December 27,2003. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each fill .083 point that the average CE.I. for the months of September 2003, October 2003 and November 2003 exceedsthe base for calculation
d)	A third adjustment will be calculated, replace the second adjustment, if any, and paid as ofthe pay period commencing on March 27,2004. It will reflect one cent (10) for each fill .083 point that the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2003, January 2004 and February 2004 exceeds the base for calculation
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately fern other wage payments on the employee'stime sheet.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made et the beginning ofthe first pay period following receipt ofthe index
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by StatisticsCanada
8.	Continuationofthe interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability ofthe official Statistics Canada Consumer Pries Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for February 2001.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #15
9.	Interim increase payments will be based on hours worked and hours paid for, including earnings for any payment under the S.U.B. Agreement and overtime.
10.	Future COLA payments, during the life of this Agreement, will be rolled into the wage rates on a yearly basis, effective June 1st of each contract year. They will be rolled into the rate structures on a straight cents per hour basis.
Notwithstanding the provisions for Interim Wage Increases as set out above, payment of COLA amounts generated will be made ONLY after due consideration of the provisions set cut in the 6th latter of Understanding to the Pension Plan.
11.	An advanced COLA of 17£ per hour will be granted and the total value of that advanced COLA that would otherwise have been applied to the wage rate structure effective June 1,1992 shall be applied as set out zithe 6thLetterofUnderstandingtothePensionPlan.
Recovery of the COLA advanced will be as follows:
(a) 5£ from the Interim Wage Increase due September28,1992, plus
(b)
8,1992, plus
(c) from the Interim Wage Increasedue March 29,1993
Should the Interim Wage Increase calculations at the above dates fail to produce an increase equal to or greaterthan the recovery instalment due on the respective effective date of adjustment, the balance due on said instalment(s) will be	forward and deducted from the next subsequent interim Wage
Increase^) in which there is a sufficient increase to cover the advanced amounts.
APPENDIX D,E Delete
APPENDIX F	MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT (APPENDIX F - Page 109)
(APPENDIXF-Page 110-delete last 2 sentences of paragraph)
The in-house Skilled Trades TrainingProgram will provide the training opportunities to achieve the required certification by the Regulations and T.S.L.C. The TNA (Training Needs Assessment) will be utilized to deter mine and prioritize training needs. AH skilled trades employees will be required to perform a TNA, except those who are eligibleto retire within 5 years.
COMPRESS LEVELSTEPSTONINE (9)
Combine Level M3, M3-1 moves to Level M3-2 rate =$23.26 Combine Level M3-4 moves to Level M3-5 rate =$25.26
FLEXIBILITY
Those employees certified and working at Level 4 will have access to day shift rotation on the same basis as other Skilled Trades employees.
TOOL ALLOWANCE (new)
The Company will replace any personal broken tools up to $100 per year, required in the performance of the employeesjob. Provided the broken tool is stenciled with the employee's name and replacement is verified by receipt from a reputable supplier. In addition, the company shall provide a tool allowance of $100 per year to each tradesperson upon proof of purchase.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page § 16
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
This MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT entered into this 14th day of June, 2001, by and between the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Manufacturing in behalf of its plant in Kitchener, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and the International Union of the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, Local Union # 677, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.”
Witnesseth:
The parties hereby agree to conduct a one time wade shift realignment process for skilled trades employees
for the purpose of establishingtwelve (12) day shift assignments in the plant maintenance department. The
parameters of this process are as follows:
1)	Day shift assignments to be established by shop area: Area 1 - five (5jjobs (3 Mech,/2 Elec,); Area 2 - three (3)jobs (2Mech, 1 Elec.); Area3 - four (4) jobs (2 Mech./2 Elec.).
2)	Grandfathered Skilled Trades employees will have one time first bid rights for any shop area day shift assignment. Remaining unfilled day shift assignments will be posted by shop area and filled by the most senior Skilled Trades bidders from within each area.
3)	Successful day shift bidders will retain their current rate of pay.
4)	Successful bidders must accept training which may be necessary to perform the work required of a day shift employee in the shop areas involved.
5)	Day shift employees will continueto perform temporary rotating shift relief and emergency assignments as required.
6)	The one time posting will occur on September 1, 2001 and the realignment process will be completed not later than December 30, 2001.
7)	None of the above may be interpreted as restricting or limitingthe right ofthe Company to determine manning levels as required by business/customer requirements.
For the Company
For the Union
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page#17
"01
Pension Agreement 6.01 (2) New Language
2 (a) Based upon the amounts recommended by the actuary and subject to
subparagraph 2 (b), the Company will contribute to the pension fund such amounts as are required in accordance with, and within the time limits specified in the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario and any regulation pursuant thereto (the “Applicable Pension Laws”).
(b)	At the discretion of the Company and subject to the provisions of Applicable Pension Laws and the Income Tax Act any surplus determined by the actuary, or a portion thereof, may be used to offset or eliminate the contributions of the Company under the Pension Plan.
(c)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, contributions made to the Pension Plan by the Company after 1991 must be in accordance with all legislative requirements under the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario and the Income Tfex Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the Company must take whatever steps are required by the legislative authorities to ensure that the Pension Plan remains registered.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #18
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING - PENSION
Add New 6,
MIn view of the Company’s having increased the basic pension benefit above the S42.00 level as set out in Article I, Section 1.01(2)(a), the parties agree that the increase in liability applicable to past service and the ongoing expense for future service generated by the aforementioned increase in benefit level will be funded by the permanent non-recoverable reduction of COLA of S .12 that would otherwise have been a portion of a fourth subsequent adjustment in the third year of the 1998 Collective Labour Agreement as described under Appendix B, paragraph 4, thereof.”
Add New 7,
During the 2001 negotiations the Company agreed to certain pension increases which are detailed in Section 6.01 (2) of the Pension Plan Agreement. The Union acknowledges that these pension increases will be costly and in consideration for the Company’s agreement to provide such increases the Union agrees as follows:
i)	In the Company’s discretion, subject to the provisions of the Income Tax Act and applicable Provincial pension laws, an alternative form of funding the Pension Plan obligations may be created through amendment to the Pension Plan and/or other existing Company pension plans in Canada which may include utilizing the structure and assets of the various Company pension plans in Canada.
ii)	In the event the Company decides to utilize an alternative form of funding as contemplated above, the Company will meet with the Union to advise the Union of its decision and the amendments required and the Union shall give its unqualified consent and shall provide such assistance as is required to amend and implement such amendments and to obtain such regulatory approvals as are required in the circumstances.
2001 UGTMUSWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
'>-'01
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page #19
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This is to confirm agreement between the parties that the j ob classifications for U1 Banbury Operator, #1 Banbury Relief,and Sidewall Relief will be slotted in the plant job/wage structure at position level JL6 and will be paid accordingly. Also, thejob classifications for Creel Room Attendant will be slotted in the plant job/wage structure at position level JL4 and will be paid accordingly. Those employees eligible will receive retroactive pay back to their date of certification.
Furthermore, the Company agrees to begin a process to reassess the structure of the Job Evaluation System, including thejob factors involved. This process will take place during the month of August, 2001. This process will be conducted through meetings between the IE Manager and the Uricn Time Study Representative. The Labour Relations Manager and the Union President (or designated representative) may also be asked to participate in the meetings. Having accomplished this modification/review, the Company will re-evaluate the followingjob classifications to ensure that the evaluations are up-to-date:
e Creel Room Attendant e Bead Coder Operator e #1 Banbury Millmadwig-wag
•	Sidewall Relief Operator e Lab Specialist
e Waste Recovery Specialist e Waste Control e Receiver/Trucker
•	Nailgard Mixing e Nailgard FF
e TUO Attendant
In keeping with the foregoing agreement, it is further understood that the current grievances and arbitration concemingjob levels will be withdrawn and are considered resolved.
If the EE Manager and Union Time Study Representative are unable to come to a resolution on the Job Evaluation System, a committee will be assembled to identify issues and come to a resolution. This committee may solicit the assistance of a mediator.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM CF AGREEMENT
Page #20
■’"'1
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
An outcome of the 2001 Collective Labour Agreement negotiations was agreement between the Company and the Union that the Kitchener Plant needs to establish operational efficiencies which would justify and attract capital investment for future modernization, product line diversification and improved competitive position. Tb this end, the parties agreed to adopt the following new wage payment incentive plan action program:
1)	Form a four (4) person labour-management committee comprised of Company and Union representatives, Including the Manager of Industrial Engineering and the Labour Relations Manager and the Union Time Study representative and Union President (or designate). This committee’s mission is to jointly develop and oversee the process by which a new wage payment incentive plan can be implemented.
2)	Utilizing the M.O.S.T. based wage incentive payment plan discussed during the 2001 CLA negotiations, the joint committee will develop a three (3) month pilot implementation plan for a limited number of operators/machines (not to exceed three (3)) in order to assess the operational effectiveness and impact on employees of the new wage incentive system.
3)	Given that the newM.O.S.T, based wage incentive pay plan is designed to ensure the opportunity for employees to retain at least current earnings levels, those employees participating in the three (3) month pilot implementation plan will be guaranteed their average straight time hourly earnings as a minimum rate of pay,
4)	The pilot implementation plan referenced herein will be targeted to commence November 1, 2001, In connection with this implementation timing, the labour-management oversight committee will assure that appropriate M.O.S.T, based labour standards have been developed and that a comprehensive communication/training program for all employee personnel involved will be conducted in advance.
5)	Upon completion of the pilot implementation period referenced herein, the labour-management oversight committee will determine where, how and when to apply the new wage incentive payment plan in additional segments ofthe plant production operations. This determination will include a transition period during which employees will be guaranteed average straight time hourly earnings while adapting to the new wage payment incentive system.
2001 UGTM/USWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Page m
'O01
The parties herein agree to the terms ofthis Memorandum of Agreement as constituting full settlement of all matters in dispute.
The undersigned representatives of the parties do hereby agree to recommend complete acceptance of all the terms ofthis memorandum to their respective principals.
The parties herein agree that the terms of the collection agreement shall expire May31,2004.
The parties herein agree that the said collective agreement shall include the terms of the previous collective agreement which expired on May 31,2001, provided, however, that the foregoing amendments are incorporated.
Dated at Kitchener, Chtario, this 14th day of June, 2001.
FOR THE UNION:
AXVW\-
B

rkee Mnwu
S\
)
2001 UGTMAJSWA Negotiations
June 14, 2001