> Mo,
O F
*	tT5

|
beeeeSJJ
GATES CANADA INC.
EsiEirSM! (SteBaiiffl©
Mdj life
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA Local Union No. 733 AFL-CIO-CLC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I	Recognition..........................3
Article II	Discrimination...................... 3
Article III	No Strike or Lockout.................4
Article IV	Hours of Work........................5
Article V	Wages................................7
Article VI	Overtime............................21
Article VII	Vacations...........................30
Article VIII	Grievance Procedure.................33
Article IX	Seniority...........................40
Article X	Leave of Absence....................56
Article XI	Miscellaneous.......................59
Article XII	Union Security......................63
Article XIII Duration of Agreement
Supplemental Agreements..
Letters of Understanding.
Summaries of Benefit Plans
Calendars................
C.L.A. Index.............
Notes....................
..67
..87
123
131
136
141
AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 28th day of April, 1997
BETWEEN
GATES CANADA INC.
in Brantford, hereinafter referred to as "the Company"
AND
LOCAL NO. 733 OF THE UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA AFL CIO/CLC
hereinafter referred to as "the Union"
2
ARTICLE I
Recognition
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all the employees of the Company, save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, uniformed security guards, Chief Engineer, office and sales staff.
1.02	All provisions between Gates Canada Inc. and U.S.W.A., Local 733 shall be consistent with all Ontario legislation and any applicable Federal legislation.
Allegations of any inconsistency under this provision may be pursued through the grievance procedure and/or arbitration.
ARTICLE II
Discrimination
2.01	The Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practised by the Company or by the Union by reason of any activity or lack of activity, past or future, of any employee with or in respect to membership or nonmembership or activity or lack of activity in the Union.
2.02	The Company agrees that it will not by any means, directly or indirectly, persuade or influence, or attempt to persuade or influence any employee against membership or activity in the Union. The Union agrees that it will not solicit membership on Company time.
3
2.03	The Company and the Union agree to maintain the policy of no discrimination by reason of age, sex, race, colour, creed or national origin.
ARTICLE III
No Strike or Lockout
3.01	The Union agrees to the no-strike provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario which says, "No employee bound by the Agreement shall strike", and "No employee shall do any act if he/she knows or ought to know that, as a probable and reasonable consequence of the act, another person or persons will engage in an unlawful strike." Under the Act a "strike includes a cessation of work, a refusal to work or continue to work by employees in combination or in concert or in accordance with a common understanding, or a slowdown or other concerted activity on the part of employees designed to restrict or limit output."
3.02	The Company agrees that it will not take over the processing of materials from any other firm at which a strike is in progress, with the purpose of assisting that firm in breaking the strike. Employees under the bargaining unit, will not be required to cross the picket lines of other firms where duly sanctioned strikes are in progress.
3.03	The Company agrees there shall be no lockout so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
4
ARTICLE IV
Hours of Work
4.01	The normal weekly schedule of the factory is a five day, forty hour week, Monday to Friday inclusive, but this shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week. Each employee is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work and number of shifts per day. Weekly starting times and shift starting times will be scheduled in accordance with production requirements. In the event production conditions require that a major change be made in starting times as set forth above, the Union Executive will be advised of the change and reason therefore. Normal shift schedules will be as follows:
Material Preparation Department, Belt Department, Hose Department and Maintenance:
Day Shift:	7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - 20 minutes
paid lunch period.
Afternoon Shift:	3 p.m. to 11 p.m. - 20 minutes
paid lunch period.
Graveyard Shift:	11 p.m. to 7 a.m. - 20 minutes
paid lunch period.
5
Warehouse:
Day Shift:
Afternoon Shift: Lab:
Day Shift: Afternoon Shift:
7	a.m. to
and/or
8	a.m. to 4 p.m. -
and/or
9	a.m. to 5 p.m. -3 p.m. to 11 p.m.
20 minutes paid lunch period.
20 minutes paid lunch period.
20 minutes paid lunch period.
20 minutes paid lunch period.
8 a.m. to 4 p.m. - 20 minutes paid
lunch period.
and/or
7 a.m. to 3 p.m.« 20 minutes paid
lunch period.
3 p.m. to 11 p.m. - 20 minutes paid
lunch period.
On operations where production conditions make it advisable, such as warehouse and Power Plant, other starting times may be used.
3 p.m. -
4.02	Two IO-minute rest periods will be allowed each shift with smoking privileges.
4.03	The following job operations will be allowed special clean up:
1.	Banbury crew.
2.	Car unloaders when unloading carbon black.
3.	Mechanics, Helpers, and Oilers when working on Banburys.
4.	Employees working in the Banbury area who
6
are subjected to excessive carbon black by handling, or because of a mishap.
5.	Lead extruder crew.
Employees working on the above operations will be given twenty minutes in which to wash up, without loss of pay. Whether or not they complete their shift before such wash up will be left to the discretion of their foremen. If they are required to finish out their shifts, instead of leaving work twenty minutes early, they will receive twenty minutes extra pay for the shift just completed, but the extra twenty minutes will not count as time worked for overtime equalization. If the employee doesn't clean up, he/she will not receive the clean up allowance.
ARTICLE V Wages
5.01	Definitions
1.	Satisfactory Effort
For the purpose of this agreement an employee will be considered to have put forth satisfactory effort by working at E.I.E. effort level or above (limit being CAP) for all productive time available during his/her shift excluding standard allowances.
5.02
(a)	The establishment of all new cost standards or changes in standards will be either through stop watch readings or from consistent achievement of production levels in cells or group areas. These cost standards will be expressed at 126% on the Company's effort rating scale.
7
(b)	All present and future cost standards will be calculated so that an operator working under machine or cycle restricted times can maintain CAP productivity.
(c)	In establishing cost standards, consistent standard data will be used and applied by the Company.
(d)	Interference times set by the Company by using manuals will be spot checked by stop watch readings before they are included in the cost standards for an operation. If interference times cannot otherwise be agreed upon they will be subject to a joint time study at the request of the Union.
5.03	Changes in cost standards on operations will be made when the job content changes are of a fairly significant magnitude. Smaller changes will be accumulated and periodically operations will be cleaned up with the net effect of the changes rolled into the cost standards. In cells or group areas, cost standards will be reviewed and discussed by the groups and changed as required, normally twice yearly.
5.04	(INACTIVE)
5.05
(a)	Any mathematical error in a cost standard will be changed as it is discovered.
(b)	A requestfor a check on any cost standard will be honoured. It is the Company's intention to have cost standards which reflect our true labour costs.
5.06	It is agreed that the Company shall base its cost standards on the full use of an employee's time, which consists d full productive time on the job less reasonable allowances.
8
5.07	The department steward concerned will be notified of new or changed cost standards.
5.08	In the event a dispute between the parties involving a cost standard is appealed to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, the Company upon receiving written requestfrom the Union, will permit a qualified USWA International Time Study Engineer, approved by the International Union, to enter the plant for the purpose of making studies of the rate or standard in dispute in order that the Union may be in a position to properly present its case to the employer for further negotiations. The employer's industrial engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union Methods Engineer.
5.09	The Company will recognize a qualified Local Union Methods Engineer who is a member of Local 733, and whose function it will be to investigate disputed cost standards on behalf of the Union. The Local Union Methods Engineer will represent the Union in discussions of timestudy matters with the Company Industrial Engineering Department, and may take timestudies of operations on which cost standards are subject to protest. It is understood that a Company Industrial Engineer shall be present at all times during such studies or observations by the Union Methods Engineer. The Company will pay the Union Methods Engineer when it removes him/her from his/her job to discuss time study matters or when it asks him/her to check-study a cost standard.
5.10	(a) The following rules shall govern the implementation of new and revised cost standards:
(1)	The supervisor of the department or the
Industrial Engineer shall present a copy of the
9
proposed procedure to the employees and the Union Methods Engineer and/or his/her designee so that they may review how the Company wants the job performed. The purpose of this review is to allow the employees the opportunity to study the procedure, become familiar with it, and to suggest changes. The operator shall have 16 hours to work on the proposed procedure before a time study is commenced. This 16 hour break-inperiod may be increased or decreased by mutual agreement with the employee(s) involved. The operator will initial and date the procedure which will indicate his/her understanding of it. All employees are required to adhere to the standard operating procedure for the purpose of determining a new or revised cost standard.
(2)	It is understood that new or revised cost standards set through time studies shall be based on time studies taken under normal conditions, and not under any specially created circumstances.
(3)	Following the time study and after the study has been broken down, a pre-posting discussion will be held among the Union Methods Engineer and/or his/her designee, the employee(s) who was studied, the Industrial Engineers involved, and other appropriate Company and/or Union representatives to explain the result of the study and the proposed cost standard. If at this time, any questions of quality are raised, they will be resolved. The Union Methods Engineer shall be furnished copies of spread sheets and standard data sheets.
10
5.11	It will be the practice for the Company Industrial Engineer to contact the Steward or Union Methods Engineer in the department, giving him/her a brief outline of what study is to be made in the department.
5.12	A classified worker temporarily transferred at the request of the Company while his/her regular work is available will be paid CAP of his/her classification or CAP of the job transferred to whichever is the higher.
An unclassified employee so transferred will be paid his/her regular rate or the rate of the job transferred to, whichever is the higher.
An employee requested to perform experimental work will be paid CAP.
The allowances under this clause will apply when individual operators or crews are involved in training employees who are other than their own replacements. Training of an employee's own replacement is covered under Section 5.23.
All the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the temporary job.
5.13	Where an employee is advised by the supervisor or foreman, after having worked four (4) hours or more on his/her regular shift, that there is no further work available on his/her operation or group of operations for the balance of the shift, the employee may elect to go home or accept another job assignment at the prevailing rate cf the job assigned for the four (4) hours or less in the remainder of the shift.
5.14	A classified operator will be paid for the following conditions occurring within his/her shift when such a condition exists for longer than .1 hour.
11
CAP will be paid for the following conditions:
(a)	Mechanical downtime (including preventive maintenance).
(b)	While awaiting stock, liners, etc.
(c)	While working with malfunctioning equipment.
(d)	While working with defective stock.
(e)	While following a prescribed non-standard procedure.
All of the above allowances will be paid only if the employee makes satisfactory effort on the job.
5.15	If an employee reports for work at his/her regular scheduled time and there is not four hours' work available for him/her on his/her regular job, or if he/she works less than four hours on his/her regular job, he/she will be given either four hours' work at some other job at the rate of the job assigned, or his/her rate, whichever is higher, or four hours' pay at his/her unclassified rate or his/her rate if a classified worker, unless he/she has received two hours' prior notification not to report to work. If the Company elects to give the employee four hours' pay as aforesaid, the employee will be permitted to leave the plant at once. This report-in pay provision does not apply if there is no work because of power failure, breakage of major equipment (Banbury unit, Calender unit), catastrophe, violation of 3.01, or where the employee failed to keep his/her correct telephone number on file with his/her supervisor, or cannot be reached by telephone. Report in pay will be calculated at the applicable rate of pay for the day involved.
12
5.16	Shift premium will be paid as follows:
For all hours worked on the scheduled swing shift
-	$ .40 per hour.
For all hours worked on the scheduled graveyard shift
-	$ .40 per hour.
In calculating overtime payment, the shift premium will not be included.
5.17	All employees shall be paid weekly and the employees working on the night shift will receive their wages on pay day before leaving the plant.
"In the event a day shift employee is released from work as a result of lack of production on a normal pay day, and he/she requests that he/she be paid before leaving the plant, every reasonable effort will be made to comply with this request. The employee shall not be entitled to pay for the time spent waiting on his/her cheque."
5.18	If an employee is injured in the factory, or on Company property, if the injury would be covered under the Workers' Compensation Act, and as a result of such injury loses time from the shift on which it occurred, he/she will be paid for such lost time, provided:
(a)	He/she reports such injury to his/her supervisor or the plant nurse, providing a plant nurse is employed, as soon as possible after its occurrence; and
(b)	He/she immediately seeks medical attention for such injury; and
(c)	He/she is excused for the balance of the shift by his/her supervisor, a doctor of medicine, or a registered nurse on duty in the emergency room of a Brantford hospital.
d) If the incident occurs on a regular shift, pay-
13
ment will be at straight time. If on an overtime assignment, payment will be at the applicable overtime rate. If the employee is unable to return to the Company premises before the end of the shift he/she will also receive payment for the time between the end of the shift and the time of return. Such payment will be at straight time if the accident occurs on a regular shift and at the applicable overtime rate if it occurs on an overtime shift. An exception to this will occur when the accident happens on a regular shift and the employee is already scheduled to work overtime at the end of the shift, In such cases, the employee will receive payment at the applicable overtime rate following the end of his/her regular shift until the time of return to the Company premises. If the accident occurs on an overtime shift immediately preceding a regular scheduled shift the employee will receive payment at the overtime rate for the balance of the overtime shift followed by payment at straight time rate until the time of return to Company premises.
In the even that an employee is sent directly home without returning to the plant, payment will cease at the end of the shift on which the injury was incurred, whether straight time or overtime.
In the even that an employee is confined to hospital, payment will cease at the end of the period he/she was scheduled to work, whether straight time or overtime. Forthe purpose cf this paragraph “confined to hospital” shall mean that the employee is assigned a hospital bed and remains in hospital for a minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours thereafter.
14
All of the above terms and conditions apply only to the date on which the injury is actually incurred and only if covered under Worker's Compensation.
Payment for time lost under the circumstances described above will be made at CAP in the case of a classified worker or at his/her hourly rate in the case of an unclassified worker.
5.19	Standard operational procedures provided by the Industrial Engineering Department will be made available in each Department. Ali employees are required to adhere to the standard operational procedures.
5.20	New or modified equipment (taken out of production), or a new product, will be released for regular production on a form and a copy of the release will be given to the Local Union Methods Engineer.
5.21	An employee will be paid for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by the employer. In the case of a qualified classified worker such payment will be made at CAP or at attained progression rate for a unclassified worker or a non-qualified classified worker.
Employees taking tests required by the Company outside regular working hours will be paid at straight time for the actual time spent taking such tests, excluding travel time. Payment will be made as set forth previously in this clause.
5.22	Changes in established cost standards from standard data will be made within seven (7) working days following a change in job content, unless otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where an employee increases his/her efficiency through his/her own skill and effort, it shall not be
15
interpreted as being a change in job content, provided he/she follows the standard operational procedure and maintains quality standards.
5.23
(a)	An inexperienced employee working in an experienced classified crew operation will be paid his/her training rate.
(b)	An experienced crew working with an inexperienced crew member will be paid their CAP.
(c)	An experienced classified employee assigned to train an inexperienced employee will be paid his/her CAF?
(d)	An experienced employee required by the company to be trained on unfamiliar methods or equipment within his/her classification will be paid CAP during such training periods.
(e)	The training guarantee rate for a new unclassified employee in progression will be his/her attained progression rate. Such guarantee for an employee who has completed his/her progression will be the job rate of the operation on which he/she is training. On non cellular classified operations, the employee will be paid his or her job rate while under direct training and CAP once he or she is removed from direct training.
On cellular classified operations with long training jobs, the employee will be paid 105% of his or her E.I.E. for the specified training period and then be considered experienced.
5.24	Employees' time records shall be completed daily. If the Company makes an adjustment to the payroll record, the employee will be notified in writing on his/her next shift following the day on which the change is made. If the
16
employee is not in agreement with the change, the supervisor, employee and shift steward will make a reasonable effort to settle any differences. If no satisfactory determination of the point is made it may be processed through the regular grievance procedure.
5.25	A new employee will progress from the starting rate to the job rate of his/her classification in increments of ten cents ($.10) per hour per week if employed in an unclassified job. The starting rate for classified jobs is the job rate of the classification.
5.26	In order to be eligible for payment under the guarantee provisions of this Agreement, an employee must be qualified in the classification(s) where such guarantees may be claimed except where covered elsewhere in this Agreement.
(a)	In order to establish his/her qualifications for payment in a given classified operation, an employee must have completed his or her direct training period and, in the case of cellular classifications, the specified training period.
(b)	An employee who has established (or reestablished) and has continued to maintain his/her qualifications for payment in a given classification will be said to have qualified for that classification and will carry that qualification for payment until such time as he/she has not performed satisfactorily in that classification for a period of six months.
(c)	An employee(s) assigned to a classified job (hired, bid, or displaced) in which he/she has had prior satisfactory service within the six (6) month period immediately prior to his/her reassignmentto this classification will be considered an experienced employee(s) for pur-
17
poses of guarantee payments under Clause 5.14 of this agreement.
5.27	Interim Wages Increases (In April 1980-
April 1983 Contract)
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971=100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.J.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1980, March 1980 and April 1980.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 27,
1980.	It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1980, May 1980 and June 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on October 26, 1980. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1980, August 1980 and September 1980 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 25,
1981.	It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1980, November 1980 and December1980 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April
18
26, 1981. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January 1981, February 1981 and March 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1981, March 1981 and April 1981.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 26,
1981.	It will reflect one cent ($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1981, May 1981 and June 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 25, 1981. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1981, August 1981 and September 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 31,
1982.	It will reflectonecent($.01) perhourfor each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1981, November 1981 and December 1981 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 25, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January 1982, February 1982 and March 1982 exceeds the base for calculaiion.
19
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1982, March 1982 and April 1982.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 25,
1982.	It will reflect one cent
($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April 1982, May 1982 and June 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 31, 1982. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 1982, August 1982 and September 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 30,
1983.	It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .4 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October 1982, November 1982 and December 1982 exceeds the base for calculation.
5.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee'stime card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be
20
made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for April 1980.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third year of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the third year of the Agreement.
10 All of the above provisions in Article 5.27 are not applicable during the life of this Agreement.
5.28	Classification and wage rates are attached hereto as Schedule "A" and form part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Overtime
6.01	Time worked outside of an employee's regular eight hour shift in any 24 hour period from the time he/she is required to start work will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Time and one-half will be paid for Saturday work.
6.02	Overtime does not include:
(a) Time worked by employees substituting for another at their own request.
21
(b)	A change of an employee's working hours at his/her own request in writing.
(c)	In no case will overtime be pyramided.
6.03	Employees, after two weeks of service, shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift for each of the following eleven holidays:
New Year's Day
Good Friday
Victoria Day
Canada Day
Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Children's Christmas Party
Christmas Day
Two Floaters to be designated for each year. The actual dates on which the foregoing holidays will be observed are set out in Supplemental Agreement No. 2.
6.04	If a holiday falls on Sunday, the next following work day shall be observed as a holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Company may, at its option in each such case, elect to celebrate the holiday on the Saturday on which it falls or the Friday immediately preceding, or the Monday next following such Saturday. If a holiday falls within a period when an employee is on vacation, he/she will have the choice of (1) receiving holiday pay without taking the holiday, or (2) taking the holiday on either his/her last shift prior to his/her vacation or the first shift after his/her vacation. However, this choice must be declared to his/her supervisor at least two full calendar weeks prior to the date on which such vacation is
22
scheduled to begin. In departments where a seven-day schedule is required and/or in the maintenance departments, the minimum of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time, emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer lost time.
When an employee works on a holiday, he/she will be paid double his/her regular rate for the hours actually worked plus holiday pay, if he/she qualifies under the provisions of this Article.
Employees in classified classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his/her E.I.E. Employees in unclassified classifications will be paid holiday pay based on his/her current hourly rate. Employees in split job classification where the regular job consists of part time classified and part time unclassified operations, will be paid daily holiday pay based on the E.I.E. of the classified part of classification. Only the employee actually at work for at least the minimum number of hours required on his/her last regular scheduled shift before, and at least the minimum number of hours required on his/her first scheduled shift following the holiday, shall receive holiday pay, except where the employee is on vacation, or is absent due to death in the immediate family as per Clause 10.02, personal injury, proven unavoidable illness, jury duty, or excused by supervision. The minimum number of hours required is defined as one
(1)	hour less than the number of hours scheduled for that shift.
An employee shall receive Holiday pay while off work due to a Plant accident. His/her holiday pay will be based on classified or unclassified classification under whichever classification the employee is listed at time of the Plant accident.
23
6.05	Double time shall be paid for all autho-
rized work performed on Sunday (12 midnight Saturday night to 12 midnight Sunday night), except the Graveyard and Afternoon shifts will be paid double time as follows:	Sunday for a Graveyard Shift
employee will start Saturday night at the same time his/her regular Graveyard Shift starts during the week. Sunday for an Afternoon Shift employee will end Sunday night at the same time his/her regular Afternoon Shift ends during the week.
6.06	If an employee is called into the plant for work during hours outside his/her regularly scheduled shift, and his/her response to such call results in his/her having to make an unscheduled additional trip to the plant, he/she shall receive a minimum of three hours of pay as a result of such trip. The minimum rate of pay to which the employee may be entitled under this provision will be his/her regular hourly rate. Hours paid for under this clause will be subject to the premium payment provisions found elsewhere in Article VI of this Agreement. Upon resolution of the emergency, the employee will be released from work.
This clause does not apply when an employee comes to work early and works into his/her regular shift.
6.07	Employees who work overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
6.08
(a)	Employees will be notified forty hours in advance if required by the Company to work overtime, except in emergencies.
(b)	In the Maintenance Department the weekend work schedule will be posted no later than 1:00 p.m. on Thursday of the week involved. This schedule will cover the requirements
24
which can be foreseen prior to such Thursday; requirements which arise subsequent to the determination of the aforementioned schedule will be treated as emergencies under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this clause 6.08.
6.09	Applicable guarantees will be paid during time worked on Saturday and Sunday.
6.10(a)
1.	The purpose of this procedure is to provide, insofar as is reasonably possible, a balance of opportunities for overtime among individuals within any given classification.
2.	Overtime shall be offered first to the required number of individuals who hold a classification where overtime is required and who are capable of performing the work to be done starting with the employee who has the least amount of hours credited to his/her record and for whom the necessary equipment is available.
3.	If a sufficient number of employees within the classification are not available under No. 2 above then the overtime may be offered to any individual outside of the classification at the Company's discretion.
4.	Records of overtime offered, accepted, refused and actually worked will be kept in each department and will be made available to employees on request. Hours paid under the call-in pay provision of the C.L.A, which exceed hours actually worked will be recorded for balancing purposes.
5.	If an individual is offered work and accepts, the amount of such overtime actually worked will be recorded for balancing purposes. If he/she is absent for all or part of the assign-
25
merit he/she has previously accepted, the full amount of overtime offered will be recorded for balancing purposes.
6.	If an individual is offered overtime work and refuses, the amount offered or that actually worked by another employee accepting the same assignment, whichever is greater, will be recorded for balancing purposes.
7.	Overtime worked by an individual outside of his/her classification in accordance with No. 3 above will not be shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification.
Overtime worked by an individual outside cf his/her classification subsequent to reporting for duties within his/her classification will be shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification.
Overtime worked by an individual within his/her classification subsequent to reporting for duties outside his/her classification will not be shown on his/her record for balancing purposes within his/her classification.
8.	Time paid for such purposes as attending meetings, taking tests, wash up, weekend startups, etc., will not be shown on an employee’s record for balancing purposes.
9.	There will be no obligation on the Company to balance overtime hours at different premium rates, i.e. whether any given overtime assignment is at time and one half or double time will be immaterial.
10 When an employee enters a classification and qualifies under No. 2 above he/she will be assigned a cumulative record equal to the average for all other persons in that classification,
26
11.	Employees who do wish to be offered overtime may sign a form to this effect. This form will remain in force until revoked in writing and will waive his or her right to be offered available overtime during the time it is in force. If revoked, the employee shall then be treated as if he/she was entering the classification under No. 10 above.
12.	In crew situations where one or more members refuse overtime offered and replacements) cannot be found, the records of all members of the crew will be handled as in No. 6 above.
13.	Classifications in the Skilled Trades, Technical Division and Apprentices will be considered as separate classifications and will be balanced within their facility only, i.e. there will be no obligation on the Company to offer overtime at one facility to individuals normally assigned to another facility. Similarly, movement from one facility to another in the same classification will be considered as entering a classification under No. 10 above.
14.	Eligibility for overtime during periods of absence will be governed by the following:
a)	SICKNESS OR INJURY
Eligibility to be offered overtime will not become effective until the employee has actually returned to active duty.
b)	JURY DUTY
Eligibility will be effective on weekends and on any week day that the employee actually reports to work on his/her regular shift.
c)	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
An employee will not be eligible for overtime during the period covered by the three or
27
fewer working days that the leave is in effect. For example, a bereavement leave beginning on a Thursday and continuing through Monday would exempt an employee from eligibility through that full period, including the weekend.
d)	VACATION, PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE OR UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
An employee will not be eligible for overtime during his/her entire vacation or leave period. The vacation or leave period will be deemed to start at the conclusion of his/her last shift of work and continue to the end of the last scheduled shift of absence. If this last shift occurs on a Friday, then eligibility will be restored as of 11:00 p.m. on the Friday.
e)	DISCIPLINARY SUSPENSION
An employee will not be eligible for overtime during any period of disciplinary suspension without pay unless otherwise determined through the grievance procedure.
15.	Any overtime opportunities which occur during an employee's absence for any of the reasons outlined in No. 14 above will be recorded for balancing purposes in accordance with No. 6 above. The exception to this will be during Leaves of Absence for Union Business. Overtime opportunities occurring during such leaves will not be recorded as refused.
6:10	(b) If an employee is not offered
overtime he/she was entitled to, the following procedure will be used.
1.	For a violation to have occurred the following conditions must exist:
(i) There must be a difference of more than eight (8) accumulated overtime hours
28
between the employee with the fewer hours and the employee who worked the overtime hours.
(ii)The difference in hours referred to in (i) above will be calculated based on the accumulated hours held by each of the two employees before the overtime is actually worked and recorded.
2.	Violations as defined under No. 1 above will require making the affected individual whole.
3.	Overtime hours paid for under No. 2 above will be added to the accumulated overtime hours of the individual receiving payment.
4.	(a) On all shifts where daily overtime due to
absenteeism may be required at the beginning of the following shift it will first be offered to employees within the classification on the shift then at work; if not filled it may then be offered to other employees on the shift then at work outside the classification; if not filled it may be offered to employees in the classification not at work.
(b)	AII recorded overtime hours shall be reduced to zero on January 1st. of each year.
(c)	Designated Company and Union representatives shall meet monthly to review overtime records and make adjustments as necessary. Meetings may be held more or less frequently as necessary.
29
ARTICLE VII
Vacations
7.01	All employees who prior to December 31st of the current year have been continuously employed for the following periods, receive vacation with pay as follows:
(1)	Employees with less than one year service must complete one year before they are entitled to time off for a vacation.
(2)	One year but less than five year's service -two weeks of vacation with pay at 4% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(3)	Five years but less than fifteen year's service - three weeks vacation with pay at 6% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(4)	Fifteen years but less than twenty years service - four weeks vacation with pay at 8% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(5)	Twenty years or more of service - five weeks vacation with pay at 10% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
(6)	Twenty-Five years or more of service - six weeks vacation with pay at 12% of total earnings for the previous calendar year.
Employees hired after May 1, 1991 will follow the same vacation schedule as above except they will have a maximum of four(4) weeks entitlement. This shall apply during the term of this agreement.
7.02	Total earnings include regular and overtime pay, vacation and holiday pay, Weekly Indemnity payments made in the previous year, Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums which are paid by the Company on behalf of the employee, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment
30
Benefits Plan, Workers' Compensation Payments for lost time including FEL Supplement payments for lost time, and bonuses for the twelve month period prior to January of the current year. In the vacation year of 1993 and thereafter, Worker's Compensation Payments for lost time received during the twelve (12) month period ending on October 31st of the preceding year will be used in calculating that portion of total earnings.
The value of Ontario Health Insurance premiums will be the same as those that were in effect during December 1989. Beginning in January 1991, an employee will be credited on a monthly basis with the applicable single or family premium rate for the purpose of vacation pay calculation at year end. The employee's status will be determined each month by his/her status then in effect under the extended health care program.
7.03	An employee whose employment with the Company is severed, shall receive any vacation pay then due him/her under the provisions of sections
7.01	and 7.02, and in addition shall receive vacation pay based on the appropriate percentage according to his/her service (as provided in section 7.01) of his/her total earnings (as defined in section 7.02 but applied to the current year only) received in the year in which his/her employment is severed.
An employee whose employment with the Company is severed and who has less than one year of service at the time of such severance, will be paid vacation pay in accordance with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario.
7.04	Vacation will betaken at anytime during the calendar year, at such times as is most convenient to the Company, but every reasonable effort shall be made
31
to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
In any event employees who are entitled to two or more weeks of vacation will be given the opportunity of taking two of these weeks together.
A vacation shutdown may be scheduled between July 1 st and August 31st. and/or on days that would otherwise be scheduled for work during the Christmas and NewYears period.
Employees off on weekly indemnity or Workers' Compensation during previously scheduled vacation time will be allowed to submit a request for alternative time off under an unpaid leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of the existing guidelines for vacation scheduling.
7.05	When an employee of one or more years seniority, has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year, because of verified sickness or injury, and for that reason only, his/her vacation pay, calculated in accordance with Section 7.01, is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per week, the vacation pay to which he/she is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he/she has worked a minimum of three months in the vacation year.
7.06	Vacation payments will be made as vacations are taken, and in amounts corresponding to the amount of vacation being taken at a given time.
32
ARTICLE VIII
Grievance Procedure
8.01	The Union Bargaining Committee shall consist of five members. The composition of said committee shall be as follows:
The President and Vice-president of the Local Union and three Divisional Chairpersons.
8.02
(a)	For the purpose of adjusting grievances, the
Bargaining Unit shall consist of three divisions one of which encompasses all Bargaining Unit employees at the Iroquois Street facility, (exclusive of Skilled Trades), a second encompassing all Bargaining Unit employees at the Henry Street facility exclusive of Skilled Trades, and a third which consists of the Skilled Trades. Each such division will have a Divisional Chairperson designated by the Union.
(b)	The Union shall be permitted to appoint Stewards to a maximum number of one (1) for each twenty (20) employees in the Bargaining Unit. Adjustments to the number of Stewards may be made once each three (3) months based on the number of employeesappearing on the most recent seniority list. The Union must provide the Company with a complete list of appointed Stewards detailing the area(s) each is responsible to represent and must keep the list up to date at all times.
8.03	Any employee with a grievance shall discuss it with his/her supervisor and give the supervisor twenty-four (24) hours, (the 24 hours shall
33
be extended to a maximum of 48 hours if requested by the supervisor), in which to adjust or reject the grievance. If the employee is not satisfied with the answer or he/she wishes to take the grievance through the grievance procedure, it shall be dealt with as follows:
Step 1 -The employee's Steward or in his/her absence an alternate Steward will first discuss the matter with the employee's supervisor and will give the supervisor 48 hours in which to adjust or reject the grievance. If the Steward feels that the employee's presence is necessary to the resolution of the grievance, the employee may be present at this meeting.
Step 2 -Failing settlement at Step 1 then within five (5) working days from the Step 1 answer the grievance shall be reduced to writing, signed by the employee and Steward, dated and presented by the Divisional Chairperson to the employee's Department Manager. The written grievance should state the relief desired in settlement of the grievance, (it is understood that the granting by the Company of the relief requested in the grievance, shall resolve the grievance.)
The Department Manager shall hold a meeting within five (5) working days of receiving the grievance, with the Divisional Chairperson, Steward and Supervisor, where the grievance will be reviewed.
Within two (2) working days of such meeting, the Department Manager will provide the Divisional Chairperson with a written answer to the grievance.
Step 3 -Failing settlement at Step 2, the grievance shall be submitted by the Union President or his/her designee within five (5) working days
34
of the Step 2 answer to the Human Resources Manager or his/her designee. The grievance shall be processed to the next regular meeting of the Union-Management Committee. Such Committee shall meet on the 1st and 3rd Wednesdays of each month from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. and shall be composed of the Union President, Vice-president, the appropriate Divisional Chairperson and the Human Resources Manager.
The Human Resources Manager shall render a written decision within five (5) working days after the meeting.
It is understood that at Step 3, the Company may bring in persons necessary to assist in settlement of the grievance and the Union may bring in appropriate Local and International Union officials who are necessary to settle the grievance. It is further understood that the time limits referred to herein exclude Saturday, Sunday and holidays. Extension of these time limits may be granted upon written request by either party.
Step 4 -Either party may, within thirty (30) full working days of the date of the Company's Step 3 answer, request that any difference as hereinbefore provided be submitted to arbitration, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within ten full working days thereafter the other party shall nominate an arbitrator and notify the other party. The Company and the Union shall attempt to select by agreement a chairperson of the arbitration board. If they are unable to agree on such a chairperson within a further period
35
of three working days they will draw a name from the agreed upon list of arbitrators. The list will be kept current by an annual review by the parties.
The parties may, by mutual agreement on a case by case basis, use a single arbitrator in lieu of the three person board provided herein.
8.04	No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
8.05	The arbitration board or single arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. No matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not been properly carried through all previous steps of the Grievance Procedure.
8.06	The proceedings of the arbitration board or single arbitrator will be expedited by the parties hereto, and the decision of the majority of such board or of the single arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties thereto.
8.07	Each of the parties hereto will bear the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the chairperson of the arbitration board.
8.08	Any and all time limits under this agreement may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.
8.09	In disciplinary cases, either party has the right to request the presence of the aggrieved
36
employee at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
8.10	If a senior employee is discharged or suspended and he/she feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/sh© shall within five working days notify the Company and the Union in writing. It shall then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with under the Grievance Procedure, starting at Step 3. If, subsequently, it is settled in favour of the employee, he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position and shall be compensated for all time lost less pay for any penalty time decided upon, and less any pay he/she has received during the time he/she was off. Employees discharged or suspended shall have the privilege of discussing their position with the Steward before leaving the plant. In the event that an employee is "suspended pending investigation" the Company will waive the five (5) working day time limit for filing a grievance specified above.
The above time limit will be deemed to start at the point in time that the final decision regarding formal suspension or discharge is rendered and communicated to the employee.
8.11	A Steward, or Union Methods Engineer, or the Local President, or a member of the bargaining committee, or if necessary, any combination of two of these individuals will be provided an opportunity to investigate a grievance within the last half hour of his/her shift on which a request to do so is made to his/her supervisor. However, if a Steward cannot be excused without an undue loss of production an alternate Steward will be excused for such purpose.
If a grievance involves health and safety the Union Safety Representative may also be excused along with the Steward. If a grievance involves cost standards the Local Union Methods Engineer may partic-
37
ipate in the investigation along with the Steward. Union representatives will be paid by the Union for time spent away from work under this provision.
8.12	Once a grievance has been submittedto the Bargaining Committee, it shall be settled only through the Bargaining Committee or with the consent and approval of the Committee.
8.13	No grievance, verbal or written, withdrawn or dropped by the Union or granted by the Company prior to Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure will have any precedent value. A grievance may be settled by the Company and the Union during Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure, or at any time after Step 3 but prior to arbitration, with no precedent value, provided both the Company and the Union agree in writing.
8.14	Notwithstanding the foregoing, grievances protesting new or revised cost standards will be filed at Step 3 of the grievance procedure and will be processed in the following manner:
(a)	The grievance will be assigned to the Local Union Methods Engineer and the Company Industrial Engineering Department and a meeting will be held within ten (10) working days from the date the grievance is filed for a thorough review of the problem. During this review, either party upon requestwill be granted a joint Company-Union time study.
(b)	If the grievance is not resolved in the above manner, the Union may submit the dispute to a review by the Company Industrial Engineering Department and a full time USWA InternationalTime Study Engineer. During this review, upon request, either party will be granted a joint Company/Union time study.
38
(c)	At any stage during this procedure, if the Local Union Methods Engineer or International Time Study Engineer and the Company Industrial Engineer agree in writing that the other's rate is correct, then the matter will be settled on that basis.
(d)	If the matter is not resolved in the manner described above, either party may request that the dispute be submitted to arbitration. Within twenty (20) working days of such request, the parties shall attempt to select by agreement an arbitrator to hear the matter. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, then within ten (10) working days thereafter each party shall select a nomineefor the purpose of naming an arbitrator to hear the dispute. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator they must then request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator. The arbitrator must be a qualified Industrial Engineer if one is available. No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who is or who has served in the employment of Gates Rubber Company or the United Steel Workers, or who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance. The Arbitrator will hear evidence submitted by the parties and may conduct such further investigation as he/she may feel necessaryfor resolution of the dispute. Upon the completion of the hearing and his/her investigation, the Arbitrator will issue an award which affirms the position of the Company or the position of the Union. The Arbitrator shall not be empowered to make any award other than to affirm, in its entirety, the final position of the Company or the Union. The award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties.
39
(e)	In the event the Local Union does not have a qualified Local Union Methods Engineer available, an International Time Study Engineer may assist with a grievance filed under this Section 8.14, as outlined in subsection 5.08 (a).
8.15	It is understood that a grievance arising directly between the Company and Union will be considered a policy grievance and may be filed either by the Union President, or his/her designee, on behalf of the Union or by the Human Resources Manager, or his/her designee on behalf of the Company and will be processed beginning at the third step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX
Seniority
9.01	New employees will be considered probationary until they have been employed for three months. Seniority shall then be credited as of the date of first entry into the service of the Company. At the Company's discretion, the employee's probationary period may be extended for a one (1) month period, subject io notification to the Union. An employee's probationary period may be extended by the amount of time spent on any modified work assignments) recommended by a physician and/or by the entire length of any period of absence when the period of absence exceeds five (5) consecutive working days. The Union Presidentwill be notified in writing when an employee's probationary period is being extended and the date to which the extension will apply.
An employee who has completed his/her probationary period will be known as a senior employee.
40
9.02	Seniority lists shall be posted in each Department of the plant. The Union shall be furnished with a copy of the Seniority list every three months.
9.03
(a)	When a vacancy occurs, it shall be posted in the Plant where it exists for a period of two working days. Only senior employees within such Plant will be eligible to bid on this vacancy and the job will be awarded to the most senior bidder who is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period. An employee on light duty because of a temporary medical restriction who signs a job posting must be medically capable of beginning training within ten (10) calendar days of accepting the bid in order to be the successful bidder. If additional medical information is required by the Company, this time limit will be extended accordingly if the information is not received back within the ten (10) day time limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, vacancies in the Warehouse, Laboratory, Skilled Trades Division and in the Transport Driver classification will be posted in all Plants with the understanding that the qualification requirements contained in the appropriate Supplemental Agreements must apply. For the purpose of this clause, the Warehouse shall be deemed to be a part of the Plant containing the Belt and Millroom Departments. Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal of the bid, the employees who signed the bid will be contacted regarding acceptance or rejection of the job. Contact will not be further required after the job has been awarded.
(b)	When an employee is advised that he/she is entitled to a job under this provision, he/she
41
must immediately accept or reject the job, and his/her failure to acceptor rejectthejob immediately shall be considered as a rejection of the job. (At any time prior to the bid being removed from the posting, the employee may remove his/her name from the bid by having a supervisor initial his/her name removed.) An employee who is offered the job, and who either accepts or rejects it, will not be permitted to bid on another opening for eighteen (18) months.The foregoing time limits will not apply to an individual who wishes to bid on another job within his/her classification on his/her shift or on another shift. A notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder on the job.
(c)	The following rules shall govern in the application of the restrictions found in Clause 9.03
(b).
1.	The time restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b) commence running on the calendar date the employee signs the certification indicating his/her acceptance or rejection of the job.
2.	If an employee is the successful bidder on a job (referred to hereafter as the original job) thereby accepting the time restrictions imposed by Clause 9.03 (b), and that job to which he/she has bid is subsequently eliminated or he/she is bumped from it, his/her bidding rights will be restored at the time of such elimination or bump, subject to the following conditions:
If he/she is offered recall to the original job under the provisions of Clause 9.07 and he/she accepts or rejects such recall, the original bidding restrictions will be reimposed with the same beginning date as the bidding
42
restrictions referred to in the preceding paragraph.
(d)	Job vacancies created by the awarding of bids shall not exceed two transfers in any one chain. Any vacancies created after two transfers shall be filled in the following manner:
1.	If the vacancy created is a day shift job, it will be offered by seniority to employees within the same classification on other shifts.
2.	The Company will offer the vacancy by seniority to the employees who have filed self-requested transfers to the Plant where the vacancy exists; who are capable of performing the job within a reasonable training period.
3.	The remaining vacancy may be filled in the following manner: The Company shall be permitted to transfer one bargaining unit employee provided he/she is agreeable, to fill the vacancy before hiring a new employee to fill the vacancy.
4.	Before proceeding under No. 3 above, a maximum of two (2) additional day shift jobs will be posted. If a third day shiftjob remains it will be offered by seniority within the classification to employees on the afternoon and night shifts.
(e)	If a vacancy is awarded to an employee under the provisions of Paragraph 2 or 3 above, the employee filling the job will accept the bidding restriction found in Clause 9.03 (b) unless such employee is newly hired under Paragraph 3 as an unclassified employee in which case bidding rights will be granted in accordance with Clause 9.04.
In the event that an employee is awarded a job through a job posting bid, self-requested transfer or company option and fails to qualify on that job within a reasonable training period
43
he/she shall be returned to his/her previous job with the balance of his/her bid restriction in force.
The vacancy thus created will be posted as a new opening.
The employee affected by the return of the employee who failed to qualify shall be returned to his/her previous job and his/her bidding rights will be restored. If such job has been eliminated, the affected employee will be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
In the event that an employee is awarded a job through displacement or recall from layoff and fails to qualify on that job within a reasonable training period he/she shall be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
An employee(s) who has qualified in his/her job and who subsequently becomes unable to perform that job because of substantiated chronic medical reasons or other legitimate reasons determined to be beyond his/her control shall be treated as a displaced employee and will place him/herself in accordance with the terms of Clause 9.06 of the Collective Labour Agreement. If the failure to qualify is caused by a serious injury or impairment from his/her employment with the Company and results in permanent disability, the terms of Clause 9.14 of the Collective Labour Agreement shall take precedence.
(fj No vacancy will be posted if there are employees in displaced status requiring placement
44
as provided in 9.06 (e) (See Clause 9.16, Paragraph (b) for meaning of the word "displaced".)
(g) In any event, once a bid chain has begun, it may not be interrupted to accommodate a displaced employee or an employee holding rights under Clause 9.07 except by mutual agreement between the parties.
9.04	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.01 and 9.03 (a) probationary unclassified employees with at least 30 days of service will be allowed to sign for a posted classified vacancy in their respective departments, and in the event no senior employee has bid for and accepted the job, it will be awarded to the probationary bidder who has the greatest service. If a probationary employee is awarded a job under this provision, he will accept the bidding restrictions contained in Clause 9.03 (b). Nothing in this clause is to be construed as granting seniority to an employee prior to the completion of his/her probationary period.
9.05	(a) For the purpose of seniority application, the Bargaining Unit will be divided into three
(3)	seniority groups
1.	Maintenance
2.	Lab
3.	Other departments in the Bargaining Unit which at present are: Belts, Hose, Material Preparation, and Warehouse.
9.06
(a)	When it becomes necessary to reduce the work force, probationary employees shall first be laid off and then a sufficient number of senior employees shall be laid off, in reverse
45
order of seniority, to reduce the work force to its proper number.
(b)	When the strength of a department is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees will be removed (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remain.
(c)	When the strength of a classification is to be reduced, the appropriate number of employees will be removed, (by layoff or displacement) so that the required number of employees remain.
(d)	An employee displaced from his/her classification will be placed as follows, (unless taking step (2) would place him/her on a less preferred shift in which case he/she may skip step (2). (For the purpose of this paragraph Day Shift is the most preferred, Graveyard shift is the second preference and Swing is the least preferred.) An employee may also skip step 2 to remain on his/her shift provided such move results in the employee remaining in the same department. If an employee volunteers to go to a less preferred shift he/she will fill an available opening or take a job in his/her classification in accordance with his/her seniority.
(1)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 9.03
(a), if a vacancy exists at the time of his/her displacement, which vacancy would otherwise be posted under the provisions of said Clause 9.03 (a), he/she will be given the option of filling such vacancy or placing him/herself under the procedure described elsewhere in this Clause 9.06 (d).
(2)	Take a job on which he/she has had satisfactory prior service, in accordance with his/her
46
seniority, or failing this
(3)	Take a job in accordance with his/her seniority.
(e)	He/she will displace the employee with the least seniority in another seniority group providing he/she has adequate seniority and is capable of doing the job within a trial period of two weeks, or, failing this
(f)	He/she will be laid off from the plant.
(g)	The term "Prior Satisfactory Service" as used in this Article shall mean:
(1)	In the case of unclassified jobs, the employee has held the classification for three consecutive months during the most recent twelve month period prior to his/her claiming prior satisfactory service.
(2)	In the case of classified jobs, the employee carries an active E.I.E. in the classification where he/she claims prior satisfactory service. In conjunction with the General Agreement on Implementation of a Non-Rated Payment System the term "prior satisfactory serve" shall mean the direct training period for each job classification plus an additional four (4) weeks.
Further, in the case of classified jobs, the employee must have held such classification on a full time basis.
(h)	To determine what is meant by "equal or lower rated classification," E.I.E. will be used for classified classifications and Job Rate for unclassified classifications.
(i)	Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article IX, an employee in the following classifications, which are long training jobs, shall not be subject to replacement by another
47
employee (having more seniority)for displacement, layoff or recall unless the other employee has the necessary prior satisfactory service to enable him/her to do the work satisfactorily: Lead Extruder Operator
Should an employee be laid off out of seniority under this clause, he/she would receive S.U.B. payments starting the first full week of layoff. At such time as his/her S.U.B. payments may be exhausted he/she would be recalled consistent with his/her plant seniority.
9.07	Where an employee has been displaced from his/her job due to a cut in production and such job is resumed again within a three month period from the day he/she is displaced, he/she will be offered such job before it can be declared vacant. If during said three-month period the employee bids and is granted another job, he/she will forfeit his/her right to his/her former job.
9.08	Laid off senior employees will be recalled in accordance with their seniority before any new employees are hired.
In the event that ten (10)or more employeesare to be recalled from layoff at the same time to the same plant or if a total of twenty (20) or more employeesare to be recalled at the same time to more than one plant, the following procedure will be applied following the completion of any bid chains then in process:
(a)	The provisions of Clause 9.03 (f) and 9.07 of this agreement shall be applied before final job vacancies are determined.
(b)	Subjectto the application of (a) above, vacancies will be posted under the provisions of Clause 9.03 of this agreement only if they are day shift jobs.
48
(c)	Thereafter,
i)	Employees will be recalled to work and assigned at the Company's discretion to fill vacancies on which they have held an Active E.I.E. within the last twelve (12) months of recall date.
ii)	Employees not assigned under i) above will be offered the choice of remaining vacancies in order of seniority.
iii)	Any vacancies remaining after ii) above has been completed will be posted under the provisions of Clause 9.03 of this agreement prior to hiring new employees.
9.09	Senior employees on lay off will be eligible for recall for a period of two years. Seniority shall accumulate for two years provided such seniority accumulation shall not exceed his/her actual service at time of lay off. A probationary employee who is laid off will have no recall rights, but if he/she is rehired within a six month period he/she shall accumulate service for the time worked and it shall be credited to his/her probationary service.
9.10	An employee will lose his/her seniority for the following reasons:
(1)	Voluntarily quitting.
(2)	Discharge, not reversedthrough the grievance procedure.
(3)	Absence from work for three (3) working days without notifying the Company, unless a good reason is given for not notifying the Company.
(4)	Failureto return to work or notify the Company of his/her intent within three (3) working days after receiving notice of recall, but in any case he/she must return within seven days of recall notice unless he/she has a good reason for
49
needing a longer time.
(5)	An employee who is laid-off with less than five years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Company during the following two year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority. An employee who is laid-off with five years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Company during the following five year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
9.11	The President, Vice-president, Secretary, Treasurer, Union Methods Engineer and the Bargaining Committee with one years continuous service shall not be laid off as long as there is work in the plant which they are capable of doing. Additionally, Divisional Chairpersons shall not be laid off or displaced from their Division so long as there exists work within their Division which they are capable of doing. The Company shall be kept informed of the personnel of the officers, Bargaining Committee and Stewards.
9.12	It is the intent of the Company to give Senior Employeesfive days advance notice of layoff, except where it is impracticable to do so. If notice is not given as provided above, the employee will be paid his/her attained hourly rate in lieu of work for that part of five days during which work was not made available.
9.13
(a) Any employee presently in, or who has been in, what is now the Bargaining Unit, who transferred to a supervisory position or any position outside of the Bargaining Unit directly connected with the operation of the plant and who has completed his/her probationary period in the Bargaining Unit, or what is now the
50
Bargaining Unit, will continue to accumulate seniority for the time spent on such supervisory or other position. If such employee is transferred back into the Bargaining Unit, he/she shall be returned to the department in which he/she last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his/her accumulated seniority, as "an employee displaced from his/her classification", underthe provisions of 9.06 (d).
(b)	On the first occasion an employee transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work on or after April 28,1985, he/she shall retain and accumulate seniority for a period of up to six (6) months from the date he/she was transferred out of the Bargaining Unit after which time he/she will retain but not accumulate seniority’
On the second and subsequent occasions he/she transfers from the Bargaining Unit to non-bargaining unit work on or after April 28, 1985 he/she will retain but not accumulate seniority.
If the Company elects to return any such employee to the Bargaining Unit, he/she shall be returned to the department in which he/she last held a Bargaining Unit job, and will then be placed, exercising all of his/her retained seniority, as "an employee displaced from his/her classification", underthe provisions of 9.06 (d).
(c)	In the application of Clause 9.06 (d) (3) as provided for in this Clause 9.13, the employee returning to the Bargaining Unit will be assumed to carry the classification rate, ("A", "B" or "unclassified") which he/she carried at the time of his/her transfer out of the
51
Bargaining Unit.
9.14	Any employee who suffers a serious injury or impairment from his/her employmentwith the Company, which results in permanent disability, and he/she is unable to continue working on his/her own operation, the Company will endeavour to place him/her on a suitable job for which he/she is qualified and capable of performing, in accordance with his/her seniority; once so placed, seniority may be waived in case of other employees displacing such employee. If super seniority is to be awarded pursuant to this section, the terms and conditions of the job placement shall be mutually agreed to in writing by the Company and the Union.
9.15
(a) An employee absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Company and Union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(1)	A senior employee who has less than two (2) years continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service up to the maximum period he/she is entitled to receive weekly sickness and accident benefits.
(2)	A senior employee who has two (2) years or more but less than ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (1) year.
52
(3)	A senior employee who has ten (10) or more years of continuous service with the Company will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) years.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall in no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an employee who is receiving Workers' Compensation Benefits.
An employee will not be subject to automatic termination at the end of his/her seniority accumulation period. It is understood, however, that this in no way restricts the right of the Company to terminate an employee for just cause.
9.16
(a)	"Lay off means to terminate an employee's employment due to a reduction in the size of the work force. "Laid off' shall have like meaning.
(b)	"Displace" means to remove an employee from his/her job classification either as a result of lack of work in that job or as the result of another employee exercising his/her seniority as provided in 9.06. A displaced employee, as contrasted with a laid-off employee, has enough seniority to remain on the payroll at time of cut back while the laid-off employee does not. To displace or to be so displaced shall have like meaning. The term "displaced" may also be used to describe an employee removed from his/her department due to a reduction in production.
9.17	When employees are recalled from layoff, they will be given their choice of available openings in order of their seniority. If, in this process, an employee selects an A or B job, he/she cannot bid on
53
another job for a period of six months. If he/she selects an unclassified job, he/she has immediate bidding rights.
9.18	An employee having at least six (6) months of seniority who is interested in being considered for a transfer from one department to another, may advise the Company on a form which may be obtained from the Production Office.
Such requests shall be kept on file in the Human Resources Department. A copy of each request filed will be given to the employee and the Union. An employee shall not have more than one such request on file at any time. The Company will honour such request by seniority providing the request is on file within twenty-four (24) hours from the occurrence of the vacancy to be filled by self-request, and further providing the employee is capable of doing the job within a reasonable training period before hiring from the outside subject, however, to the restrictions contained in Paragraph (a), below:
A transfer effected under the provisions of this Clause
9.18	shall be known as "self-requested transfer".
If an employee accepts a self-requested transfer, he/she accepts with it the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b).
The remaining vacancy may be filled in the following manner:
The Company shall be permitted to transfer one bargaining unit employee provided he/she is agreeable, to fill the vacancy before hiring a new employee to fill the vacancy.
(a) An employee shall not be eligible for a self-requested transfer if:
(1) He/she carries the bidding restrictions found in Clause 9.03 (b). (This does not preclude an
54
employee's filing a request pending the expiration of his/her bidding restrictions.)
(2) In the case of transfers to the Transport Driver Classification or to the Laboratory or Maintenance departments, he/she does not meet the qualifications set forth elsewhere for entry into those departments.
If an employee declines to accept a self-requested transfer for which he/she is eligible, then his/her request which established such eligibility shall be voided and he/she cannot file another to replace it for a period of six months.
9.19	If an operation is transferred from one department to another or from one shift to another, the employee(s) assigned to such operation immediately prior to such transfer will be given the opportunity of transferring with it. Should this opportunity be declined, such employee(s) will be placed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 9.06.
9.20
(a) Employees will be allowed to exercise their shift preference by seniority within their classification once each year under the following schedule:
Employees will be given the opportunity to select their shift preference to be effective on the first Sunday following February 1 st of each year during the life of the agreement. On January 1st, of each year, the Company will make available a form, to be submitted by the employee no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the shift preference change. An employee displaced from his/her shift through the operation of this clause will remain in his/her classification and immedi-
55
ately exercise his/her opportunity for shift preference by seniority. An employee when exercising shift preference will bump the junior employee in the classification on his/her preferred shift.
(b) In the event an employee is displaced under clause 9.06, his/her option to exercise shift preference will be restored and applied immediately within his/her existing or new job classification.
ARTICLE X
Leave of Absence
10.01	Seniority shall accumulate during any approved leave of absence.
10.02	In the event of the death of a member of an employee's family, the employee will be granted a leave of absence for a reasonable time and will be reimbursed for lost time at his/her Cap rate if on a classified job or unclassified rate if on an unclassified job up to the maximum number of days shown below, one of which is the day of the funeral. The term "member of an employee's family" means a husband, wife, child, parent, parent-in-law, brother or sister, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren or grandparents of the spouse. To qualify the employee must attend the funeral.
Family Member Maximum Paid Leave husband,wife, child	5 days
all others	3 days
If the day of the funeral of a husband, wife or child
56
falls on a day that the employee is not regularly scheduled to work then four (4) days of paid leave are allowed. These must betaken on consecutive scheduled work days immediately preceedlng or following the date of the funeral or a combination thereof. For all other members of an employee’sfamily as defined above, the maximum paid leave allowed in such circumstances will be two (2) days subject to the same principles of flexibility In scheduling.
If, however, the date of the funeral of a husband, wife or child Is a regular scheduled work day for the employee, then five (5) days of paid leave are allowed. One (1) day of the paid leave must occur on the date of the funeral and the other four (4) days must be work days adjacent to the date of the funeral. Again, some flexibility is allowedfor the employee to choose when the five (5) days will be taken provided that the leave is taken on consecutive scheduled work days immediately preceedlng cr following the date of the funeral or a combination thereof. For all other members of an employee’s family as defined above, the maximum paid leave allowed in such circumstances will be two (3) days subject to the same principles of flexibility in scheduling.
Payment is based on the number of days for which an employee is entitled to paid leave regardless of the number of hours scheduled for those days. In other words, the length of shift involved on an eligible day (4, 8,10 or 12 hours) is payable to compensate the employee for his/her full loss of pay.
For the purposes of this Section, a stepparent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a stepson or daughter or foster son or daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only where the stepparent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relations to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
57
10.03	Leaves of absence may be granted to employees for personal reasons for a period not to exceed three (3) months, upon application of the employee and approval of the Company, so long as the services of the employee are not required, and there are employees available in the plant capable of doing his/her work.
10.04	Jury Duty Pay - The Company agrees to pay an employee who serves as a juror in a legally constituted court the difference between his/her earnings as a juror and his/her Cap rate or unclassified rate he/she would have realized had he/she worked his/her scheduled shift. In order to be eligible for payment employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty and must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
10.05	A senior employee elected or selected as a full time officer or representativeof Local 733, the USWA, CLC or OFL upon request in writing to the Company, will be granted a leave of absence for whatever time is necessary. Should he/she request reinstatement within 30 days after the termination of the Union position, he/she will be reinstated in his/her former job. If his/her former job has been eliminated, he/she will be offered an available opening or have his/her seniority rights restored under Clause 9.06 (d).
10.06	A senior employee selected or elected to attend the convention of the International USWA, CLC or OFL or for specific Union duties or Municipal elective duties will be granted a leave of absence upon application in writing at least one week prior to the day the leave starts. Not more than three employees at a time from Local 733 shall be off work for the
58
purpose of attending the above convention, and the leave of absence shall not exceed three weeks. The Company will grant a leave of absence for up to five delegates elected to attend the R-P.I.C. Convention of the USWA. The Union will provide to the Company at least two weeks notice in writing of such leave.
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous
11.01	Subject to the terms and conditions of this Labour Agreement, the operation of the plant and the direction of all the employees, including the making and enforcing of reasonable rules to assure orderly and efficient plant operations, the determination of employee competency, the right to hire, to transfer, to promote, to demote, to suspend or discharge for just cause, to lay off for lack of work, are rights vested exclusively in the management of the Company. It is further agreed that the direction of the working forces, the right to plan, direct, and control plant operations, the right to relocate or close the plant, the right to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities, the amount of employees or supervision necessary, the right to place work with outside contractors, combining or splitting up department, schedules of production, establishment of standards of quality and quantity, determination of the extent to which the plant will be operated, and production or employment to be increased or decreased are vested exclusively in the Company.
The above rights of management are not to be considered as all inclusive, but are examples of some of the types of matters or rights or functions which the Company has not granted and are still part of the inherent rights of management. All of the rights, pow-
59
ers, authority, etc., that the Company had prior to the signing of this Agreement are retained by the Company, except those clearly spelled out as granted by management in this Agreement. If the Company in exercising its inherent rights to manage, violates any of the express provisionsof this Agreement, the Union may file a grievance.
11.02	Presence of all employees on the job is necessary if regular production lines are to be kept running and full-time jobs are to be provided. Absenteeism on one job will adversely affect other employee's jobs. The Company and the Union agree that regular attendance will be required of all employees.
If an employee desires to be excused from work, he/she shall obtain permission of his/her supervisor in advance. In case of emergency where it is not possible to make previous arrangements, he/she shall notify the department or shift supervisor at the earliest possible moment. Absence without leave, or report, or without reason for non-reporting, or cases where the cause of absence is misrepresented will be reason for disciplinary action by the Company. Excessive unexcusableabsenteeism may be the cause for discipline including dismissal.
11.03	One bulletin board will be provided in each Bargaining Unit Department for the exclusive use of the Union. These boards will be used for notices of meetings and other Union business or affairs. All material posted on these bulletin boards must bear the approval of a designated representative of the Human Resources Manager before being posted.
11.04	The Company shall provide proper safety devices and maintain sanitary conditions in the
60
plant, and agree insofar as possible to eliminate conditions hazardous to the health and welfare of the employees. The employees will co-operate in keeping all areas of the plant and grounds in a clean and sanitary condition, and will be responsible for keeping their own work areas in a clean and orderly condition.
Three representatives of the Union shall participate in the plant Safety Program and will be paid their A.H.E. or their job rate whichever is the higher up to four (4) hours per month for meetings with the Company and safety inspection throughout the plant.
11.05	The Company shall provide and have printed at its own expense sufficient copies of this Agreement and letters of understanding to fill the needs of the Union and the Membership.
11.06	Amendments - Any of the provisions of this Agreement may be amended by mutual consent of the parties in writing.
11.07	There shall be one regular meeting between the Company and the Union each month.
11.08	When a derogatory notation is placed in an employee's personnel record, the employee will be given a copy cf the notation and a copy will be furnished to the President of the Local Union. If the employee feels that the notation is unjustified or inaccurate, the problem may be processed through the regular grievance procedure. Derogatory notations for offenses, except those for violation of Article III, not repeated within one year will be disregarded in the administration of discipline, and will be removed from the employee's department personnel record.
Any employee who is called into the supervisor's office or the Human Resources Department to be reprimanded, disciplined, or discharged, shall be remind-
61
ecf in advance of such meeting of his/her right to have his/her Union Steward or Representative present at such meeting. Any discipline administered without a Steward except where the employee refused the presence of a Steward will be removed from the employee's record and the employee will be made whole. If the employee does refuse the presence of a Steward, the employee shall sign an appropriate notation to this effect.
11.09	The parties have executed separate agreements covering Letters of Understanding, the Retirement Plan, Insurance, SUB, Skilled Trades, Apprenticeship Program, and Laboratory Job Classifications, Schedule "A" and Separation Payment Plan which form part of this agreement.
11.10	Persons not in the Bargaining Unit shall not work on jobs which are included in the Bargaining Unit exceptfor the purpose of instruction, experimenting, temporary fill-ins during the shift, or in emergencies.
11.11	The CoTnpahtf ';hn£ly appoint Lead - '* Hands. The rate for lead-band duties, shall be.$.30
added to his/her regular rate of pay. Names of lead.-■-hands appointed will be posted ,in their respective:' departments. A copy wilPbe provided to the Union.
11.12	Where the term "working days" appears in this Agreement, it shall mean regularly scheduled working days exclusive of Saturdays,"' Sundays, Holidays and days on which the plant is shut down.
62
ARTICLE XII
Union Security
12.01	Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment.
Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union within 30 days of the signing date of this Agreement as a condition of continued employment.
Any employee hired or transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall within 30 days become a member of the Union as a condition of employment and maintain his/her membership in the Union.
12.02
(a)	The Company shall deduct from the pay of each member of the bargaining unit weekly, such union dues, fees and assessments as established by the constitution of the Union.
(b)	The Company shall remit the amounts so deducted prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following, by cheque, as directed by the Union and payable to the ‘International Treasurer, United Steelworkers of America’.
(c)	The monthly remittance referred to in (b) above shall be accompanied by a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay dues deductions have been made, their total gross earnings and the total amount deducted for the month.
63
Such statements shall also list the names of employees for whom no deductions have been made and the reason why, along with any forms reasonably required by the International Union.
(d)	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims or other forms of liability that may arise out of, or by reason of, deductions made or payments made in accordance with this article.
(e)	The Company agrees to record total union dues deductions paid by each employee on his/her T-4 Income Tax Receipt.
(f)	The Company shall provide the Union, monthly, with a list of those employees:
Recalled to work Newly Hired Quit
Who submitted change of address Laid off
12.03	Authorizations for dues deductions will be signed by the union member on a form furnished by the Union and a copy of the authorization will be given to the Company. Authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement.
12.04	Authorization for Union deductions shall be automatically revoked upon: (a) Termination of employment; (b) Transfer of employment into an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
64
ARTICLE XIII
Duration of Agreement
13.01 This Agreement shall be effective from the twenty-eighth day of April. 1997 and shall continue in force until the twftntv-sftvftnth day of April 2000. and shall continue automatically thereafter for annual periods of one year each, unless written notice is given to either party not more than ninety (90) days immediately prior to the expiration date or the anniversary date of any yearly period, that it is desired to terminate or to amend the Agreement. In the event such notice is given, the parties shall commence negotiations within fifteen (15) days thereafter.
The final termination cf this Agreement will be in accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Collective Labour Agreement as cf the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J.Yardy C. Scime
GATES CANADA INC.
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
65
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 1
WAGE AGREEMENT
In settlement of all wage demands presented against
the Company during these negotiations, the following
adjustments will be made:
1.	Effective April 28th, 1997 a general wage increase of $.33 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
2.	Effective April 28th, 1998 a general wage increase of $.35 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
3.	Effective April 28th, 1999 a general wage increase of $.40 per hour to be incorporated in the wage structure, plus a wage adjustment in the amount of $.10 per hour to be boxed on the side.
4.	SkilledTrades Inequity increases as follows to all employees holding Journeyperson classifications, including Oiler Mechanic:
Effective April 28th, 1997 - $.20 per hour.
Effective April 28th, 1998 - $.10 per hour.
67
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.	GATES CANADA INC.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy C. Scime	B.	Kelley R. Sedman C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
68
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 2
HOLIDAY OBSERVANCE DATES
The purpose of this Agreement which is supplemental to the Collective Labour Agreement executed concurrently herewith, is to set forth the dates on which the holidays provided for in Clause 6.03 of the said Collective LabourAgreementwill be observed.
1.	Holidays referred to above will be observed on the dates indicated below:
a.	New Years Day
b.	Good Friday
c.	Victoria Day
d.	Canada Day
e.	Cmc Hciday
f.	Labour Day
g.	Thanksgiving Day
h.	Christmas Day
i.	FbaferNo. 1
j.	Floater No. 2
k.	FloeterNo. 3
1997	1998
	Jan. 1
	Apr. 10
May 19	May 18
June 30	June 29
Aug. 4	Aug. 3
Sept 1	Sept. 7
Oct. 13	Oct. 12
Dec. 25	Dec. 25
Dec. 24	Dec. 23
[fee 26	Dec. 24
[fee 31	Dec. 31
1999	2000
Jan. 1	Dec.31 (Jan.1)
Apr. 2	Apr. 21
May 24 June 28	
Aug. 2 Sept. 6 Oct 11 Dec. 24	
[fee 22 (Dec. 25)	
Dec. 23	
Dec. 30 (Dec. 31)	
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J.Yardy C. Sctme
GATES CANADA INC
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
69
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 3
QUALIFICATIONS FOR TRANSPORT DRIVER CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as a Transport Driver a person must:
1.	Possess a valid chauffeur's driving permit or, when required, a valid Class "A" driving permit as designated by the appropriate Governmental licensing authority.
2.	Possess and maintain a driving record indicative of a competent, safe and accomplished driver.
3.	Have had satisfactory experience driving a single axled gas powered transport truck or other comparable model within the most recent five years prior to entry into the classification.
4.	Be bondable.
5.	Be age 25 or older.
6.	Be and must remain medically fit as determined by medical examination at time of entry into the classification and at twelve month intervals thereafter, or as otherwise required.
In addition to the foregoing, he/she must successfully pass a test of his/her proficiency in operation of the equipment he/she is to drive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement on Qualifications for Transport Driver Classification as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
GATES CANADA INC.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A. G. MacDonald
70
B. Kelley
R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J.Yardy
C.Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
R. Sedman
C. Scime
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 4
QUALIFICATIONS FOR STOREPERSON CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as a Storepersona person must:
1.	Have a minimum educational level of Grade 10 graduation.
2.	Score within the acceptable range on the required aptitude test.
3.	When a job bid occurs, all eligible applicants who hold a grade 10 education or better will complete the required test as at present. The job will be awarded to the highest seniority applicant who scores at the 50th percentile or higher on the test.
4.	In the event that an employee wishes to bump into the classification under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement he/she will be required to have completed at least a grade 10 education and score at least at the 50th percentile on the required tests.
5.	Except for employees who hold recall rights to the classification, those who have previously held the job and who wish to return either through the bid procedure or by bumping will be required to qualify under either 3, or 4, above as applicable.
71
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this
Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
Q.	MacDonald
R.	Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble
J. Yardy C. Scime
GATES CANADA INC.
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 5 HEALTH AND SAFETY
The following has been agreed to during 1994 contract negotiations:
(a)	The Company and Union agree that it is in the best interest of both parties to work together cooperatively to identify and recommend reasonable measures to protect the health and safety of employees.
It is recognized that input from employees and the Union through discussion, formulation and communication of recommendations is important to the success of Health and Safety efforts at Gates Canada Inc.
(b)	A training session will be arranged for members of the Joint Health and Safety Committees to provide the knowledge necessary to be able to
72
read and understand the internal environment testing reports furnished by the Gates Corporate Industrial Hygienists. Such training will be arranged through the Corporate Safety Department as early as is practical.
(c)	When the annual visit to conduct internal environmental testing is made by the Gates Corporate industrial Hygienist, the co-chairs of the Joint Health and Safety Committees will be given an adequate opportunity to discuss with him/her any specific concerns, questions or requests they may have,
(d)	Union Health and Safety Representatives will continue to be paid their normal rate of pay for time spent on health and safety matters at the request of the Joint Health arid Safety Committees or by the management of the company.
(e)	The parties agree that every reasonable effort
will be made to maintain one (1) replacement Certified Worker	Health	and	Safety
Representative at each of the three main Brantford facilities. This will be subject to continuation of a requirement in law for certified representatives and the availability of certified training programs.
(f) Supervisors and	Health	and	Safety
Representatives will receive at least one (1) Joint Health and Safety Training Course in each year of the Collective Labour Agreement. Subjects for training will be recommended by the Joint Health and Safety Committee and may vary in content between facilities. The content, duration and scheduling of such courses will be subject to approval by the Company.
73
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy C, Scime
GATES CANADA INC.
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 6
SAFETY FOOTWEAR AGREEMENT
The parties hereto agree that the following shall govern the payment of subsidies by the Company to hourly employees toward the purchase of safety footwear:
1.	The wearing of safety footwear by all hourly employees while working in Gates Canada Inc. shall remain compulsory.
2.	All safety footwear must be of a type approved by the Canadian Standards Association for
74
industrial use. The running shoe type of safety footwear will not be permitted.
3.	The Company agrees to subsidize employees safety footwear cost as follows:
a)	All hourly employees on the active payroll on May 1, 1997 will receive the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Such payments will likewise be made to employees on the active payroll on May 1st. of each year thereafter.
b)	Employees on layoff status on May 1st. of each year will receive the subsidy upon return from layoff for the year in which they are recalled.
4.	Employees will be free to purchase safety footwear from the supplier of their choice providing it meets the standard set out in 2) above.
5.	This Agreement supersedes any previous Agreements made regarding safety footwear and is made without prejudice to any other agreements between the Company and Union.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A. GATES CANADA INC.
G. MacDonald R, Sardinski R. Schmidt
C. Torelli B. Blair M. Duteli
B. Kelley R. Sedman
C. Noble J.Yardy C. Scime
75
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 7
CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS AGREEMENT
The parties hereto agree to the following provisions for continuous operations:
1. The company may implementa continuous operation schedule in the Material Preparation department and/or the Hydraulic Hose production area (Tube Cover, Braiders, Finishing, Mandrel Lube and Hose Cure (excluding Open Steam Cure)) and/or the BCM area along with the required support areas for these operations. In continuous operations areas, the normal weekly schedule will be as described in item 2. below. If the need arises to implement a Continuous Shift Operations schedule in any other area of the operations, the parties will work together in a good faith attempt to reach mutual agreement.
Except as specified in this agreement all terms and provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement shall continue to apply.
2. WORK SCHEDULES Shift Mon. Tues Wed.				Thurs.	Fri.	Sat.	Sun.
A 7 am-5 pm	10	10	10	10	off	off	off
B 9 pm - 7 am	10	10	10	10	off	off	off
C 7 am - 7 pm	4	off	off	off	12	12	12
D 7 pm - 7 am	off	off	off	4	12	12	12
76
The four hour shift for C shift will begin at 5 pm on Monday and end at 9 pm.
The four hour shift for D shift will begin at 5 pm on Thursday and end at 9 pm.
3. CONTINUOUS OPERATION WAGE SUPPLEMENT
The supplemental payment for C and D shift employees will be ten percent (10%) of his/her straight time (AHE) hourly earnings for each hour worked.
The continuous operation wage supplement will not be included in calculations of pay for paid plant holidays, bereavement leave, jury duty pay and will not be used in calculating overtime payment.
An employee who holds an A or B shift job or an employee who does not normally work on a continuous operation job who is transferred either through a company benefit transfer (C.B.T.) or the application of clause 6.02(a) of the Collective Labour Agreement to a C or D shift job and paid at straight time for such assignment will be paid the continuous operation wage supplement for time so worked. An employee who holds a C or D shift job will receive the continuous operation wage supplement for all hours worked, regardless of shift, except where he/she has been transferred to a shift other than C or D at his/her own request under clause 6.02(a) or 6.02(b) of the Collective Labour Agreement. In no case will an employee transferred under a C.B.T. be asked to work less than his/her regularly scheduled hours for that day as a result of the C.B.T.
77
4. REST PERIODS
One ten minute rest period will be allowed on each four hour shift.
Three ten minute rest periods and a twenty minute paid lunch will be allowed on each ten hour shift.
Three ten minute rest periods and two twenty minute paid lunch periods will be allowed on each twelve hour shift.
Smoking will be allowed on all rest periods and lunches.
5.	REPORT IN PAY
Report in pay as described in article 5,15 of the Collective Labour Agreement will be based on one-half the hours scheduled for that shift.
In clause 5.15 of the collective labour agreement the reference to breakage of major equipment will not be applied to continuous operation areas.
6.	SHIFT PREMIUM
Shift premium as described in article 5.16 of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply.
7.	OVERTIME
Employees will receive time and one-half for the first day of work outside their regular scheduled work week and double time for any work on the second consecutive or third consecutive day outside of their regular scheduled work week. In addition an employee working on a Sunday and outside of their regular scheduled work week will be paid double time.
The second consecutive or third consecutive day mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall be inter-
78
preted such that double time will be paid as follows:
A shift ■ for all time worked from midnight Friday to midnight Sunday
B shift - for all time worked from midnight Friday to midnight Sunday
C shift * for all time worked from midnight Tuesday to midnight Thursday
D shift ■ for all time worked from midnight Monday to midnight Wednesday
Time and one half will be paid for all other hours worked outside of regularly scheduled work hours.
With respect to the provision of clause 6.10(a) 14(a) of the Collective Labour Agreement an employee will become eligible for overtime offered after notification has been given to the Company via the answering service that he/she is available.
8.	PAID HOLIDAYS
If a holiday falls on an employee's regular work day, the employee takes the time off and is paid for his/her regularly scheduled hours for that day or for eight (8) hours, whichever is greater.
If the holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, the employee will be paid eight (8) hours for that holiday and will return to work on his/her normally scheduled shift.
D shift employees will receive the same number of hours off work with pay to observe a plant holiday as is received by C shift employees. The scheduling of such time off with pay will depend on the circumstances and will be determined on each occasion.
79
9.
VACATIONS
A week of vacation as described in Article VII of the CLA is defined as a period of forty (40) consecutive regularly scheduled work hours.
10.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
The Union shall be permitted to appoint one Steward per shift in each facility in each department where continuous operations are in effect.
It is agreed that all references in article 8 to 24 hour periods shall mean 1 regular working day and all references to 48 hour periods shall mean 2 regular working days.
11.	JOB POSTINGS, BIDDING AND BUMPING
Time requirements for all postings will accommodate all shifts in continuous operations.
Shift preference rights as described in clause 9.20 of the Collective Labour Agreement may be exercised for all other shifts in the continuous operations.
Upon implementation of continuous operations, clause 9.19 of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be applicable to the employees in the affected department. Such employees shall have the opportunity to exercise the right to be displaced from the classification at any time during the six month period following the implementation date. Any bid restrictions in effect for such employees will be suspended for the six month period.
Upon implementation of continuous operations, all employees remaining in the affected operations will be given the opportunity to exercise shift preference as per clause 9.20 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
80
For the purposes of filling job vacancies under clause 9.03 of the Collective Labour Agreement, shifts A and C in the continuous operations schedule will be considered to be the same as day shift.
12.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
An employee will be compensated on the basis of actual time lost through the application of clauses 10.02 and 10.04 (jury duty, bereavement pay) of the Collective Labour Agreement.
13.	DEFINITION OF WORKING DAY
In the application of clause 11.12 (definition of working day) of the collective labour agreement for continuous operations, the definition shall be regularly scheduled working days exclusive of holidays and days on which the plant is shut down.
14.	WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Weekly indemnity benefits for partial weeks shall be prorated based on the percentage of the hours lost versus the hours scheduled for that week. It is not the intent of the parties that an employee be paid less weekly indemnity solely because he/she is working on a continuous operation.
15.	SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The continuous operation wage supplement will be included in calculating the average hourly earnings for the supplemental unemployment benefit. Payment of short work week S.U.B. benefits will be based on a regularly scheduled work week ratherthan a forty (40) hour week.
81
16.	LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING NO. 4 OF 23
PICNIC AND CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS PARTY -employees regularly scheduled to work during the hours of the picnic and/or the children's Christmas party will be allowed up to four (4) hours off work at their regular rate of pay, excluding the wage supplement, to attend. Payment and time off will be contingent upon attendance at the event and will be subject to verification.
NO. 9 OF 23
If the Union President works on a continuous operation schedule, the company will pay the local union his/her regular scheduled hours for one work day per week at his/her regular rate of pay, including the continuous operation supplement, if applicable.
17.	TIME CHANGES
During the change from standard to daylight savings time, employees working the shift beginning at 7:00 pm will be scheduled for eleven (11) hours and will be paid for time worked.
During the change from daylight savings to standard time, employees working the shift beginning at 7:00 pm will be scheduled for twelve (12) hours and will be paid for time worked.
18.	UNION MEETINGS
An employee working on continuous operations will be granted up to two (2) hours off without pay to attend a regularly scheduled monthly Union membership meeting.
82
19. TRANSITION
When an employee is transferred from one shift to another on a company benefit transfer (C.B.T.) or through the bidding, bumping or displacement procedures of the Collective Labour Agreement and he/she is required to start the new shift schedule within forty eight (48) hours following the end of the last scheduled shift of his/her former schedule, he/she will receive payment at time and one half for all hours worked on the first full shift cf the new schedule. Time and one half will not be payable if the first shift of the new schedule is observed as a plant holiday or if the change of shift results from the application of clause 6.02(a) or 6.02(b) of the Collective Labour Agreement. To qualify for payment at time and one half, an employee must work the full last scheduled shift of his/her former schedule unless that shift has been observed as a plant holiday.
This provision applies to individual shift transfers only. When continuous operations are newly introduced to an area, the following provisions will govern payment for employees transferring to either C or D shift:
(a)	when continuous operations are being newly implemented in an area or operation, this will officially become effective at eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. on a Sunday designated by the company. Employeesassigned to the C and D shifts will be required to report for work at the starting time on that Sunday as specified in this agreement.
(b)	Payment for the Sunday under (a) above will be at double time for all time worked before eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. The continuous shift premium will not be payable for these hours. At eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. overtime payment shall cease and payment as speci-
83
tied in this agreement will begin and continue for the duration of continuous operations in the area or operation.
20. ESCAPE CLAUSE
The parties agree to work together in good faith to resolve issues of interpretation, application or administration of this supplementary agreement using all current avenues available. If the parties are unable to resolve an issue after exhausting the above avenues, either party may cancel the terms of this supplementary agreement by written notice at least 1EO days in advance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy C. Scime
GATES CANADA INC
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
E4
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 8
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OILER, MECHANIC’S-HELPER CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as an Oiler, Mechanic’s-Helper a person must:
1.	Score within the acceptable range on the required aptitude test.
2.	When a job bid occurs, all eligible applicants will complete the required aptitude test. The job will be awarded to the highest seniority applicant who scores within the acceptable range on the test.
3.	In the event that an employee wishes to bump into or return to the classification under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement, he/she will be required to complete the required aptitude test and score within the acceptable range in order to enter the classification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy C. Sclme
GATES CANADA INC.
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
85
19.	TRANSITION
When an employee is transferred from one shift to another on a company benefit transfer (C.B.T.) or through the bidding, bumping or displacement procedures of the Collective Labour Agreement and he/she is required to start the new shift schedule within forty eight (48) hours following the end of the last scheduled shift of his/her former schedule, he/she will receive payment at time and one half for all hours worked on the first full shift of the new schedule. Time and one half will not be payable if the first shift of the new schedule is observed as a plant holiday or if the change of shift results from the application of clause 6.02(a) or 6.02(b) of the Collective Labour Agreement. To qualify for payment at time and one half, an employee must work the full last scheduled shift of his/her former schedule unless that shift has been observed as a plant holiday.
This provision applies to individual shift transfers only. When continuous operations are newly introduced to an area, the following provisions will govern payment for employees transferring to either C or D shift:
(a)	when continuous operations are being newly implemented in an area or operation, this will officially become effective at eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. on a Sunday designated by the company. Employees assigned to the C and D shifts will be required to report for work at the starting time on that Sunday as specified in this agreement.
(b)	Payment for the Sunday under (a) above will be at double time for all time worked before eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. The continuous shift premium will not be payable for these hours. At eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. overtime payment shall cease and payment as speci-
83
tied in this agreement will begin and continue for the duration of continuous operations in the area or operation.
20.	ESCAPE CLAUSE
The parties agree to work together in good faith to resolve issues of interpretation, application or administration of this supplementary agreement using all current avenues available. If the parties are unable to resolve an issue after exhausting the above avenues, either party may cancel the terms of this supplementary agreement by written notice at least 180 days in advance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Supplemental Agreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardinski R. Schmidt C. Noble J. Yardy C. Scime
GATES CANADA INC
B.	Kelley R. Sedman
C.	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
84
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. 8
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OILER, MECHANIC’S-HELPER CLASSIFICATION
In order to qualify as an Oiler, Mechanic’s-Helper a person must:
1.	Score within the acceptable range on the required aptitude test.
2.	When a job bid occurs, all eligible applicants will complete the required aptitude test. The job will be awarded to the highest seniority applicant who scores within the acceptable range on the test.
3.	In the event that an employee wishes to bump into or return to the classification under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement, he/she wilt be required to complete the required aptitude test and score within the acceptable range in order to enter the classification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this SupplementalAgreement as of the twenty-eighth day of April, 1997.
LOCAL 733, U.S.W.A.
G. MacDonald R. Sardlnski R. Schmidt C. Noble J.Yardy C. Scime
GATES CANADA INC.
B.	Kelley
R. Sedman
C,	Torelli B. Blair M. Dutell
85
April as, 1997
Mr, Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733 U.S.WA.
Letter of Understanding No. 2 of 26 RE: Miscellaneous Matter to be Printed in the CL ft Booklet
Dear Mr. MacDonald
in the negotiations iust completed we agreed that we would include in the printed CLA booklet brief summaries of the benefits provided under the following
SUB Agreement
Health and Life insurance Agreement Separation Payment Plan Yours trujy,
B. Kelley
Manager Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733. U-S.W.A.
88
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 3 of 26 RE; Application of Certain COLA Provisions
Dear Mr. MacDonald;
In the 1974 negotiations, we reached certain understandings with respect to the interim increase (COLA) language to be incorporated in our new Collective Labour Agreement.
1.	it is agreed that the adjustments provided for at periodic intervals under said language do not pyramid on each other.
2.	The Company has taken the position that payments under the COLA provisions are subject to reduction. It is the Union's position that there can be no reduction in any such payments.
3.	In view of the foregoing it has been agreed that any dispute which may arise in regard to reducing COLA payments will be subject to arbitration.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733. U.S.W.A.
89
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 4 of 26 RE: Practices to be Continued
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
This confirms certain commitments made by the Company during the contract negotiations just completed.
The Company will:
1.	Continue to sponsor the picnic pretty much as we have done in the past if there continues to be enough interest in it to make it worthwhile
2.	Supply safety boots, rubber aprons and eye protection without charge for jobs as required.
3.	Sell Gates merchandise to employees at lowest published catalogue leve plus applicable taxes.
4.	Provide gloves without cost to employees occupying the classifications listed below, with the understanding that stringent controls will be set up to prevent abuse of the privilege:
a.	Belt Vulcanizers
b.	Open-end Press Operator
c.	Helper Classifications in Crews
d.	Lead Extruder Crew
e.	Curved Hose Cure Operators
f.	Horizontal Wire Braider Operators
5.	Sell gloves at one-half Gates cost to employees not covered in 4, above, for use in their jobs.
90
6.	Supply and launder coveralls for employees on jobs listed in Clause 4.03 of the Agreement
7.	Keep sets of coveralls available which will be issued to any employee assigned to the following jobs, as required:
a.	Clean and degrease braider. This involves a complete wash down of the machine; not simply a cleaning of the deck outer surfaces.
b.	Clean curved hose cure area and pit.
c.	Lead Extruder crew.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
91
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald
President
Local No. 733 U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 5 of 26 RE: Application of Clause 9.07
Dear Mr MacDonald:
in our recently completed negotiations we reached
the following understandings with regard to the application of Clause 9.07:
1.	The-word “job11 as it is used in 9.07 means all positions within a given classification;
2.	An employee may secure recall rights under 9.07 as a result of:
a.	Being displaced from his/her job due to a reduction of strength in that classification; or
b.	Being bumped from his/her job by another employee.
3.	If more than one employee has recall rights to a given job, such rights will be exercised in accordance with seniority.
4.	if an employee holds recall rights to a given job and he/she refuses recall when the job again becomes available to him/her. he/she thereupon forfeits his/her recall rights and that job becomes a vacancy.
5.	if an employee is displaced within the meaning of 9.07,-accordingly holding recall rights to the job and shift from which he/she was displaced, and is subsequently displaced from another job while holding recall rights to the former, he/she
92
must, at the time of the latter displacement, declare to which job he/she wishes his/her recall rights to apply, i.e. he/she cannot hold recall rights to more than one job.
The term recall as used in this interpretive letter means the return of an employee, displaced from his/her ob but not laid off, to a job from which he/she was displaced, it bears no relationship to the recall rights covered in Clause 9.08. Recall rights' as used In connection with 9.07 apply only to moves within the plant while the recall rights provided in 9.08 refer to returning a person to the payroll from laid off status. Rights granted under 9.07 do not survive layoff.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEP TED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Lacal No. 733, U.S.W.A.
93
April 28,1987
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 6 of 26 RE: Application of Clause 5.12
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
in our negotiations just completed, we agreed that we would combine the contents of our 1971 letters of understanding, (Numbers 11 and 22) which pertain to applications of Clause 5.12 into this single letter. This we have done, with new modifications to 1971 letter No. 22.
A. Old letter No. 11 provided as follows:
This is to record an understanding reached during our recent negotiations regarding the application of Section 5.12 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
We have agreed that the phrase "the rate of the job transferred to", where it appears in the second sentence of Section 5.12 shall be given the meanings described in numbered paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 below:
If an unclassified worker is transferred to another unclassified operation, the phrase "rate of the job transferred to" shall mean the rate of the job transferred to as shown in Schedule "A".
If an unclassified worker is trarsferred to a classified operation on which he/she has had prior satisfactory service, as defined in Section 9.06 (h), the phrase "rate of the job transferred to" shall mean the rate structure of the job transferred to including the job rate, E.I.E. and CAP and the guarantees found in
94
Section 5.14, when such guarantees are applicable.
if an unclassified worker is transferred to a classified operation on which he/she has not had prior satisfactory service, as defined in Section 9.06 (h), the term “rate of the job transferred to" shall mean the job rate of the job transferred to.
it is also agreed that:
This letter only interprets the phrase referred to in its second paragraph.
This letter has no application to any situation other than those specifically described in numbered paragraphs 1,2 and 3 above.
The contents of this letter will not be used as a basis for interpretation of any other provision of the agreement or modification of any existing, accepted practice.
B. Old letter No. 22 provided as follows:
There have been Company Benefit Transfers which were of excessive duration. (e.g. the one year example), and there have been lengthy transfers across shifts which may have created an undue hardship.
Without losing sight of the fact that this language in Clause 5.12 provides a vital flexibility to the Company which cannot be seriously impaired, we have agreed that we will give consideration to bidding in anticipated long term situations and that we will avoid crossshift Company Benefit Ttens.ers of more senior employees (where a substantial length of time is involved), where within the shirt transfers will suit the purpose equally well, without an undue disruption of production.
It is recognized, however, that developmental work presents a different problem from the ordinary Company Benefit Transfer, and that in these cases the
95
Company must reserve the complete right to select the operator(s) for such work.
C.	Normally, we will not Company Benefit Transfer an employee for a period longer than one month unless the employee so transferred is willing to accept such transfer for a longer period of time. This thought must be applied with due regard to the qualifications of available personnel.
Where a long term Company Benefit Transfer may be anticipated, we will, before bidding, as suggested in the second paragraph of old letter No. 22, offer the employees within the classification involved an oppor tunity to reposition themselves on more desirable shifts.
D.	Where a C.B.T. has surpassed twenty-one (21) days in duration and it appears that it may extend beyond the normal thirty (30) days limit, the Department Manager and Divisional Chairperson will review the situation to determine if there are other qualified people available to take over the C.B.T. assignment and to make appropriate arrangements. This would, of course, not be necessary if the individual involved has already agreed to accept the assignment beyond the thirty day limit.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
96
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733. U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 7 of 26 RE: Payment for Union Representatives
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
in the negotiations just ended, we have agreed that the Company will pay Union Representatives for time lost as follows:
1.	The Company will pay each member of the Bargaining Committee up to two hours for Step 3 meetings.
2,	The Company will pay each member of the Bargaining Committee one hour each in advance of each Step 3 meeting.
Yours truly
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733. U.S.W.A.
97
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 8 of 26 RE: Application of Clause 10.02 of the Collective Labour Agreement
Dear Mr MacDonald:
it was agreed in 1977 contract negotiations that in conjunction with Clause 10.02 of the C.L.A. that in special circumstances approved by the Company, an employee may be granted a one day leave of absence in the event it is not possible for the employee to attend the funeral of a designated relative.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733. U.S.W.A.
98
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 9 of 26 RE: Partial Pay for Union President
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The President of Local 733, U.S.W.A. will be off work on Fridays to conduct affairs of the Local Union. The Company will pay the Local Union eight hours pay at his/her regular rate of pay. When a paid holiday is observed on a Friday, the Union President's last regular scheduled work day preceding the holiday will be substituted for the Friday.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
99
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733. U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 10 of 26 RE: Vacation Replacement Employees
Dear Mr. MacDonald;
it is agreed that in the future during the period from June 1 through September 1, the Company may hire vacation replacements in fhe Warehouse at contractual starting rates and they will progress aa per the Collective Labour Agreement. Vacation replacement employees so hired may be assigned to any job, any shift. They will not be covered by the Company for Extended Healtn Care. Dental. Weekly indemnity and Life insurance. The hourly reduction of the COLA float that funds the dentaLplan will be reimbursed to students employed as vacation replacements in the Warehouse at the end of their temporary employment. This will not apply to regular employees recalled from layoff for vacation replacement assignment.
Employees on layoff from other departments may elect to refuse recall to the Warehouse as vacation replacements, in the event that an employee so elects, he/she will retain his/her recall rights but will not be eligible for further opportunities for recall to the Warehouse as a vacation replacement employee in that calendar year. Vacation replacement employees may then be hired to fill the remaining vacent positions.
Yours truly,
B Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No 733, U.S.W.A.
100
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733. U S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 11 of 26 RE: Job Vacancy for Posting
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
During the 1977 negotiations, the parties discussed what would constitute a job vacancy for the purpose of posting.
As a result of our discussion, it was agreed that a vacancy exists and must be posted when such job is worked in excess of thirty (30) hours a week.
if a special circumstance arises where the thirty (30) hours must be extended, the Department Head and Division Chairperson will meet before the expiry of the thirty (30) hours to try to arrive at a mutually agreed upon solution.
Yburs tru y,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald President Local No. 733, U,S.W,A.
101
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.8.W.A.
Letter of Understanchg No. 12 of 26 RE; Partial Pay for Union Methods Engineer
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
The Company will pay up to a maximum of twenty (20) hours per week at his/her regular rate of pay for the actual time the Union Methods Engineer is off his/her regular job and engaged in duties required of him/her as Union Methods Engineer, in order to be eligible for the payment set forth above, the Union Methods Engineer must have attended and graduated from the International Time Study School or from an equivalent program recognized by the Union and Company.
if the Union Methods Engineer is required by the Union to engage in time study duties in excess of twenty (20) hours in a week, he/she will be released for the required time but without pay by the Company.
The Company may assign work to the Union Methods Engineer for the balance of hours in the week during which he/she is not engaged in time study activities with payment at his/her regular rate of pay or the rate of the job to which he/she is assigned, whichever is higher.
All Company payment for time study activities will be subject to reasonably detailed documentation of the time spent.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
102
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 13 of 26 RE: Application of Clause 9.03 (f) of the Collective Labour Agreement
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
in the 1969 negotiations, there was a lot of discussion about the application of this section, and I want to reiterate our thoughts in regard to its application in the way it was negotiated.
The purpose of 9.03 (f) is to allow placement of employees who must be placed under the provisions of Section 9,06. This means that before 9.03 (f) can be applied, there must be a need for its application in order to utilize 9.06.
The Union is concerned that we might misapply 9.03 by displacing an employee when a vacancy occurs in order to avoid bidding the vacancy. This would be an obvious misuse of 9.03 (f) and far from its intent, particularly since the job occupied by the displace would soon have to be filled. Such a dodge would be transparent, and not condoned by the Committee or by me.
We have assured the Union that wo wilt not "play games" with this language.
I will expect you to see to it that we use this language only in the spirit in which it was intended.
Yours truly,
B. Keliey
Manager, Human Resources ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A,
103
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 14 of 26 RE: Adjustment of Pay Cheque Errors
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
Pay cheque errors will be adjusted as soon as possible after notification has been furnished to the Company by the employee bur, at any rate, not later than three (3) working days after the error has been established.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
104
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 15 of 26 RE: Vacation Schedule Policy
Dear Mr. MacDonald.
The existing Vacation Schedule policy will continue to provide for a maximum of 15% - of the employees being off on vacation subject to the other provisions remaining the same.
Yours truly,
B Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
105
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.S.W,A.
Letter of Understanding No. 17 of 26 Re: Notification of intentions to Contract Out Work
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
if the Company is considering contracting out work, they will advise the designated Union Representative.
Such notification will be made in advance of arrangements being made, wherever practical to do so, to allow an opportunity for input on the use of skilled trades employees, if it is mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, the work involved may be performed by skilled trades employees. Otherwise the work will be performed as designated by the Company.
When it is not practical to give advance notification, the Company will provide subsequent notification to the designated Union Representative.
Yours truly,
B. Kelley
Manager, Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
106
April 28,1997
Mr. Garry MacDonald President
Local No, 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understanding No. 18 of 26 Re: Expediting Bid Chains
Dear Mr. MacDonald.
All paperwork to be processed in 48 hours (two {2} working days) after bid removal
Divisional Chairperson to meet with Department Head to discuss expediting movement as quickly as possible.
The Company will make a good faith effort to have a pool of approved applicants available to fill job openings as they may occur.
if a job is being closed off in a bid or displacement, then training of the employee saving that job will com-mdTO^w^Sn^^^^|ei<s.	.......
Normally all movement will be done in the time frame corresponding witfcactual training time: per classified? tion. '	''	'
jhe^iegpjng irdflfitf to review at the request of
Manager Human Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry. MacDonald, President
Local No*733, U.S.W.A.
107
April 28,1997 ' . : -
Mr. Garry MacDonald ' President" — ::	.
Local No. 733, U.S.W.A.
Letter of Understand%i Re: General Agraempt 6 i / of a Non-Rated:J?ayrT e
Dear Mr, MacDonald:;
The-parties hereto agree tbaWI conditions shall^ remold fjw^^ under tj
1. Unless speGlfaliy:rnddifia er ...................
No. 19 of 26 Implementation >nt System
es^pllp^|:fermsAnd |ach^bperatjpn'thatis e incentiyesystem by
d under this oranoth anf portions of
2.
Doiiective^	jnt: will apply.
^^rt^nfibr^lpsrier^ia ^cap^rate# tK$ operation all hours worked on such overtime. EmpLoyees =w such opefatioh(s) and wh E.I.E.- in the classiflcatio specified training * period which they will be corisi will receive cap rate.. '
3.
Employees who hol&the who act as-reliaf operator! or during other absence < sharing duties normally pj tor will receive cap payme ail-such hours.of wprkr Eli will begin when the ernpjd: forming the^perationrwitl i byra'trajhSn>bul1ng^j(^ t
^t^rsMHbe^Lthe umbet(S) involved for operation(s) Including o require training on do not hold Ah active will be paid for the at-job rate following red experienced and
\ itility^Giassiflcationand t break periods f the pperatondrwhile rformed by the opera? it for that operation for j| jibjlity for cap payment yee is Capable of per-lout direct supervision i, the employee
ar rate, of pay or job rate training Is.
^	1 M
Higher
Ei^^lp^eea jir^iidxpecte j to produce top quality
products uSIrlgSrRC.as
is/qaeifity.::AtVall -tlmesr


outlined in theoperallon
importance. .'•••-•• ' to work at a satisfecto-
are expected to work as
ly :effort;|wei-10fli|| prod -ictiy© ti rri © avai Ijabljs du r-ih& theft slHi^	ttie usual standard
Nai§^nicefv|^^
.....
transferred
wh Ichever# Higf^r
fe^xppri^^i defjfieci^in

working io a team t on that area will, if 5. laofthe^UA^iOah adMin€KJtearp,:rejseiye n^a^ifioatiorirQfcj^-. apseS.^, wHiohevaiMs:
ifc^plo^le^^^pigi ir
agj^nieHt^hHWS^\ rill Be offered theoptidn to leavBthe p)pht under t ie terms of Clause 5.13 ioH^^^lle^^l^topL r Agreement provided there^s\no other produ ;tiv© work avallaBle on
a team defined in-the
ari^ other ope^tioiT^nciu 'atefc	;■
:	pNLjrpO^^l^iH^ 0
shall be defined i§s;fjerfo|l'
ted in the defined team
ause, productive work ming duties directly on
a product and ’does, not jn "faell i|i©0 such" a.e cidan
If an emplpyee -Is notoffet!	option to leave,
paVm®nf^l$eat^p5fe^ ^operation assignee!
dr ^oap. fo^tbp |roploy©< : whiehever^anigher/ v
lude i/vorH; .pertaining p, p^inting,vetG. "
Sj own classification, © optiopto leaya^ahcl
fn©htjrt r.-i^iof ttft© COllectiv© 7rt^or'^^©fn©nte S S>'.-•'•-•,	, - '.,
option	y§© :5. i 3 :a© equitably
nplpyess in ..a. ejassif I-. ^oaiiph op^a^ftr^	r':	- -,
JecMo d4©ami defined
SI S8§
ypali	|t©rmav of efaps© §15
: ^l apply " ;	.'•’"’1-|.\ : ’. > ' •	.'.
iRart of the^jpb will ©posJ? Ldptlrn©^©^id© for discussion^ ©iroed at%pr p\rfng all aspects of the jpp In afeas^ pf ^palityi- quantity, .work environ
" ’	.... * ' .......... ipaintena'nce that
b©,Oon©^by tif©rop©fators to ensure high quality5 production,	......
Record keeping rin SiRC ductlonrSivyn^jnne, tontpnitof non-rated system.
and statistics of promote, wiilb© us©d as ve th© effectiveness of
.rty give© notiGSiOf ter-ireemenf relating/to a.
rriinatioo of;a: Specitic hon-rat©d:‘ar©4i “ o6i|fpahy and Union will cooperated ^	incentive rates
> as ;aoon •	bdssibie^to ? iloli: operation in-that
12.
area that wa^ formerly incentive rated. if this cannbt.be a^^pyshec on any given operation within ttfe tbufteeh-(14) day notice period then payment wiliicoiifinue oi i such operation as out-
lined ir» Item' aiof tt time as the rafale ins
io,
it.
The Company^ has; set concerning tfejtemoval ter dated May T*;.1989 a
is agreement until such tailed.
out general intentions of. incentive rates ih let-id May 11,1989.	:
me< t
Thepartiesagree to any unforeseen "items tt period this agreement ment may basamended agreement between the
in
All guarantee^j)Ube p non^atedpaymehtaysts ee ls eligible t^be^paid work being performed w ation arises : ‘: -
13.
All specific:; agnaements General Agree^eilt;
■ ;	■ -Yours trul
and attempt to resolve at may arise during the in effect. This agree-at any time by mutual parties.	: :
s d
at cap rate under the m provided the employ-I at the dap rate for the |ien the guarantee situ-
relating to non-rated ated along with this
: Bf koliey
jlShegeri luman Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED: Garry MacDonald, President
Local No. 733, ,U.S. WiA.
'■ 'i "■ t ■i- :	iu ,'b'	'.i-. ' ■ i
1 .^v,, • A ••mi!'-, •’ . r.y-..-. [
' ’ i1 ".i '.-• l. '/. 1
■■M1'.-.'v ■J.: ti..i	j-:' .1',",'i.'■ l ■i.v.LV’.. . 1 .	’> ...	\	■1 1 t :.i V.' V',., 1 !■'' i!"
,v
* "• 1	i- '! '| 1	'I • ' •	. :	-j • . . I i** , |" | I	U '	!• 1 i ..I*'. .*1 V	' j'm I ’ j	I !’ 1	1 ■ ' '	ij.iji | f ' , * 7 ' "	1 ’■	.	1 ' I . 1	j i’11,	'	• Vj; "	‘ . •	•1	’ |.. *	. ;.
;,VI ■'-,1. :: ■r;ivi.a 7>Sri;;;,.i	a1'	,i-::	-aa;;
^	VV:/." A'.',A1''n‘V--.S.v.'. '.V,AV"/"	.''’.'V.■
'■Ay'V.1:'■ ;-.'L'Wv;-/rr'i;.:.-'A1.-;A''7-'A A'.A'7- A'	A
-f .....'S-Sfilftfe11''A'	' /’m .vV-A A. A. . AV- A ■	■/., .
■/ fsr:f	V' ' ’ ' ■'.‘■'-Sti' III. ..UititZiMi.'	.'-V,V .'IS'-; rVi'Mi...
'" '■	'1 ■ 111111': ■. ' 1 ** ' •■•■!' •"••;■• r»>W • -I V1 .'■lU.-vV-ui	v ,'■ . .■ 1 V- ’ 1	!i '  ■ ,.
aiiTt;:,-Aa 51 i-'A''rj^i-,m^■'jy:,,A;7aVi W" ■:1 ■■■■; '. 1v; :'V; at ■A'oii'.l '••/■■■ 7.
V v':••'rx.■-
i'VV'4- .•■■■oi( lA'iA.nSi'''A^1 •'■'■	'”’■1^	f';''■ A'''l-ii-'1 /’''A, V '■'/	■> ,i ■lA,;1' 'I'-tA''-' •'
' r r ■''',- 1 - - 1 'TZZm. ’ . •	'!!|i I.;	!. '...iH'.,, .,'v I'l'vr'1	1	il'Sr■'l$Sil>.',|i ''	•’■■l | >i!'|i '|,i"ii r' '',j. ii',,	j.' >.,,’J :rjjIlgS-j1 <!/'• ’i1 ^'■ vi'\v! 1	i’.i; 1 .• 'a, ' ■ '•'l iI . !" i• ,	1
r^i',i1 A.'''.I	|i.j.„ i-r ■Jga^T^fWgm^.uSfe	■ - ■ - •, t-f \ • j"j/ v^-'i..	,•/.	-’•*•' * P&.4 y i-i-Vr- ■■< "■	’-’v!
;•*i’5,•-'1-JTiAi'“■ V' 'V'y ■AAi :■*	\■ -:.i	■•. A '' /'	;ii:11.'|!AlA: ■■\'s ,'i.
;; ife:; 'S./y'5^
; A1--.-,	aA i •	^ .At'^T1	’-:-i ■l•,.il, 1 “>i. a,i;'' '" ';	>;.’•■•!• av' .A .>'■■;/''a-' ■>■a;j.a .,	..■>
' i1'	i. , j.	'•	,!' - A|'•: '.	! '!/ A m i I.,,' .. _!_ ' _ ; ,1i‘ !*|,1 ..! _ 1 i ,'■ **-l ;.'"i V, Vi’i 11.’jl11• 11’1^ •,Vi'1 i' •' r 1 • • I1',' •'' |.’' • i / " ,' r1' ' -l' .n	V .. m . ’n '1 ’. ', ’ ‘ ' • , :.;''! , i, I' , t •,• '	i	: 1
'' ' >/r .r'^ ’■ 7	,'^.v i.,''';	'j, l.:!.' 1>' 'y '■ a-V.- ■■:	7;'r'	:''^r|,;'ii ^;i:J	; 1	1 ■■'1'':'p1*1' ■''. :?.i\l:, ■,il, ' - . '■ ‘ri ' ■', i'	V-	■ j 1 :‘i /	.1	^	^ .' .
Mr. Garry MacDonald: President: - •. 1_	’
Local ^
Letter of Understand Re: Shift Chang
DeanMr. MacDohaldf
Asyout<nowl‘Qlau8'a6;p2 (b a change in.::WoiM^; Hours request without tlm:rieces rates.. '	;
^We^Sibee^a:$bu^^6f^cqi tinuingconflict between; the Company and; tH^Unioi i for some time and in order ic^mWmi^ l||^^diag greerhent, the following guidelines are beingllSyed fi »r use of this provision.
ng No. 21 of 26 Guidelines
of the C.LA allows for at an employee's own Of paying overtime
s ity
1.
Requ^ts mit^l^i in receivedanO appiovedH of hours.; ExcepLirt-the cumstances/such^rrari no later than :#o^2) W' change.
2.
The changesrln;rhost complete shift change, ee may be allowed to c afternoon shift fen "one ohangd frorni^i|5p %4 permitted exc^inexte
C 3
3.
and must be advance of the change case of extenuating eir-jements must be made ■ prking days prior to; the
ses, should only be a fjor example, an employ-lange from; day shift to or more days but a
should not normally, be luatlng circumstances.
ionsistency should : be of the request.
9
judgemeht^and applied In deteipitniog thl Changes shoufdf be grar ted only where there is
113
a compelling personal n employee and notmere|y sonal preference. As appointments which can considered valid reasons, holiday traffic or working for being late would defin t reasons.
4.
requests must b* Department - Head and Human Resources priof-tf
€ ed on the part of the ; or convenlenceor- per-in; example, medical which canrjlot be altered may be Leaving early to avoid ixtra time to make up ely-not be acceptable
approved by the processed through
I n all cases, potential prc bJems which created by a shift changl| sideration. 1	• _ ’
|. Kelley Manager,
might be must be a prime con-
-uman Resources
ACCEPTED AND.
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733i U,S.WiA.
Aprll28,1997
Mr. Garry MaicDonatd President : '
Local NO; 733, U.J&W.A.
v v Letter of Understand ■	Re; Amendment
t)
Dear Mr. MacDonald:
Schedule *A’ to be amended V^ial^e^persQ^||a8$lf
^r^pusebdrsbftS-:^
:o reflect combination of cation! and Trucker
aft)
Employees going into , the vyarehousepersom o|T: or agi^Ment^^teq operator’s lj0nsei%bart d excluding va^tiorr fep^Oamc i
^tfretru
^B^Kelley
Manager
ACCEPTED AND
Garry MacDonald President Local No. 733, U&VftA,
ng Noi 22 of 26 Schedule ‘A’
single! classification of r:the [effective ;date of ifired to obtain a fork’lift qualifying for the job, nte.
single1 classification of
-i-
Human Resources
April 28,1997
Mr: Garry MacDonald President
Local No. 733, U.aW.A.
Letter of Understandii Training of Multiple Ma<
. 23 of 26	-
dhine Glassifications
Dear. Mr. MacDonald:	;
In multiple machine ciassificati Dns,,the Company will Gomplete traininQ/Of- the empli lyee oP-all aspects of Tth© job -Within ten (30) weeRsolthe. date; on which'initial trainings starts except where circumstances beyond, the control of the Company render
ahc.e with this Clause jmpractic if the [Company:Jailojto cpmpl4::fbr reasons within its
control and the employee is opportunity as a result, he/she
■	- Yours trul^,
B, Kelley Manager,
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald,. President Local No, 733,US.VttA. .
denied an overtime will be made whole.
Human Resources
Mr. QarryMacDo
L6carNo.733,U.b,

Suapenslorf^ridfrig
■ - -=j _	^ i
J^ar MR'M^DbniBr
T-. '
f^^QFklinal C(9t8/Wrtat1dn
njj N< Furtlv
.24 of 26 n Investigation
Joyo^d. :	:i
tuspei ided employees Ivlngjerloutmlacon*
W&k
ri wt at our formal
.Mfe the t thlsmeaeure m|l8uai lansion^rdla-fln^l result ragardleaa of circumstances
30tl )ft or

TftlajioJicsrhas tte^^lu«edte( entlytabrlngit intoilfieAYlthour^^	hies QhpeHtor-
mftefc;dwrtipt^^	for Improved
consistency In (ts^B^atldn.
JHvqtfjtlgatlon aKoulci
hlyrlrfna ctroi instances:	^
ildered tobe a
pdatlb^criniinaC^aaoh altheft possession^ Illicit drugs, phyalcal aaaaUjt, flgf Khg,ttell^t©
»t,an employee
demonstrates
bay fc © ImpalrecTby
drugs or alcohol.
Where/In the opinion of the supervisor, continued presence of the employee at pork for the balance Of the shift could present a danger to hlm/herseif, other employees or company| property.
In the_ opinion of |he supervisor, the employee is likely to taiTiper Nth evidence, intimidate witnesses or otherwlfp seriously Interfere with the Investigation pfocei
Where there Is a continuing ifefuaal by an employ^ ee to obey Instruction*"of el person In authority (Insubordination)	I
Wherean employee engag< s in: serious verbal abused '•	:	•	•	'	'•
If one or more of the above situations exist, the employee should besusper ded in the presence of Union representation an< advised that he/she will be contacted at; hom| and given further instruction. If none of these|BltuaflQns exist, then the employee should be aiiowed to remain at work. In either case, the employee should be clearly advised in the presence of Union representation that an Investigation will be conducted and that hs/she remains sibject to appropriate corrective action or dischan \>».
Manager;
jliuman Resources
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
Garry MacDonald, President Local No. 733, U.%W.A.
Aprjl28,1097	^
Mr, QarryMacDotmJd
: ■ LocalNo.733,U.SW.A.
tetter of Uipderstan^ Re: SpeclalOptlCi* JfotVa
Dear Mr.MacDonftfd:
i;
ThefoUowing jJetier iy thrtwmoft^fpllaci andwiUappl^prtlyto
ng No. 25 of 26 ; -holed for C. & P-Shlft
!!
( be jh effect only for^ ye LabourAgreement the following employ-
es
ess:
-thosewhobClde|<|b onC or D shift es of ' ihre^eqtj^AIttte of thjsletter and,
-th08e^|l|yees \ rhoareonlayoffwlth t#oSll^ldh^4i$lPf th leffecjtlvedate ofthls letterand^Dpare^ mbsequently recalled
ihiii
Wtienavacah^dna^ hlftptherthanCor, D
shift occura^HlCh wo
byaneWlyhj^ toampIdyeed^eBcrlbel ednotlce.Thevacanc mo8tsenloreJJ£|lbIe bl
ild otherwise bef Wed >yee,!t will be offered In dl ‘ above, bypost-dll be awarded to the der.
a)	The successfulb|« der described tn #2 above wlllthenteexcj uded from further elh
b)	lf no ellglble emplov &e is awarded the job
under#2 above:	! .•.
1) the leastAenlore igiblei employee with ^ requisfte sMltla wlIl l e excluded from further eljplblij^ under *2 above.
41)	b:
_7 site «^(i|M -W1IUM: expfi lOecifrom^
■--■ ’■>	fe''"-:"~:■	■:." :-i':‘-'.’v'"" -'
4. Employ^
i	sa^osjsfMl tih: Qb^rilas Q >jQb d.ri $xx$ shift
other thajrC^Da^^
effi further ^HglKillty bfeyoptovWidthey
postedjohwll "
ACCePTEDANDAGflgED:
GarryMacDonaidrPreeident bopai No. 733V WSite
Human Beaources
;Mrs Garry MaePOfftlcl President -="'?^';^®--LocalNo^a^U.S^A.
,; Lettdtof Uftforstanc IngNo. 26 of 26 l^e:	Letters oflntent&
:" - V .r-M
DoarMr-MaoD^
:Tg^(p^i^r^i^piiV{dc facllltycomalnlngoapfea and/^^rflern^ntlf^alre ourrent^ColieotlV^^l^ijbdui
tent of theae blnd^riL
■ -- -.:.	' . *“ •»	r4!^ t .':
twobinders in each of Liatter^ of Inioftt idypub1l3hed With the Agreement booklet, er to develop the bon?
• 5 -!SSffl»i4ri i
m
Mtfisger

1.21
!y»
Human Resources
JT •- ‘
V;V fr

: ‘.V
,11
SUMMARIES OF Bi INEFIT PLANS
The next several pages: cont lii brief descriptions of certain employee beneiits ne; ol ated by the Company and the Union in the form of _ ' and Life Insuranee, Supplemental Unemploymen Benefits and Separation Payments.
Please keep In mind ;that th sented tiers only highlight Agreements, and are Intendeijl of the existence andnaturaof oral way; The: language of the govern in the applicatfemof th
brief
summaries pre j contents of lengthy solely to let you knotf hese benefits in a gen-actual Agreements wil ^se plans.
If you have questions opany ajf the benefits describee here, feel free, to ask your si pervlsor to arrange ar appointment for you with son eone who will provide you with proper explanation.
HEALTH AND LIFE INS URANCE PLAN

T." Life and A*D.	Benefits
- •	Life	A.D. & D.
Employees MSy 1,1997	$42,000	$42,000
Pensioner
$10,000 none
(retired on or after Mi y 1,1997)
2. Weekly Indemnity Ben< fits
Payable from the first day of ac cident or hospital confinement, or from the eighth ds / of sickness.
Weekly Indemnity shall not b( payable for disability resulting from bodily Injury or icknesa for which the employee is not under the care of a physician.
123
Periods of disability to^tesarne cause wilt Jbe considered the sanAAperiQdQi disability unless separated 6y return to fulttffhe worH for at least two weeks, Periods :of dieibllfty:due =to c fferent causes will be -cprisldered^^	if separated
bV'refurn to^Uirtlme,w6rkv
The- benefit &QydMlk§:foKolai aftef Ma^1ri097
tis originating on or
3^tfpprat bsniWM
under Oreen ShteCd Panada are outlined below:
re presently supplied Extended Health Plan
jy ar Registered Nurse
•	Arnbuiance Services
•	Drugs for Which a ofied|jal doctor's prescription is required . ; -
-	V Priyafcnt^sing :pare: registered in^Ontario Mo is not a relative).
•	Physiotherapy efnd ot :-patient diagnosis provided - In hio^pltfiif Wti® h covered by the Ontario ihsufebd ^Rlan.
•	tpJi©	re. in a licensed private
-	hospital y^-tO 1^0 ^y3.| .	. / -
•	the cost of fSpedial n^medial appliances
reatments such as radj-
• Bloodand.speQiallzed um and-tedleisotopes,
• Hearing aids: on the W medical doctor,to a rnax
ritten prescription of a num of $550 in ail.
Eyeglasses, Uplto a tot pi amount shown: below
-fc	’
V H
in any period of twenty when provided on the medical doctor proptpmft the eye examination). ij include eyeglasses req poses only, sunglasses
Effective May 1,1997
ur consecutive months, ritten prescription of a rist (but not the cost of ils coverage does not ijired for cosmetic pur-safety glasses.
cr
•	Up to $200 in any peric 3 of twelve consecutive months, for services of e| registered clinical psychologist.
♦	Under certain conditions, the. services of a registered masseur,- up to ! 17 per treatment, for a maximum of twefae^reati tents during any period of weive conserve hie nths.
$160.00
• Under certairLcondltipn} ularly qualified ^Speech ? i of $200 during any peflbp months. •’;:
• Increased: benefits for formed outside the Proviji subscriber or dependent!;
4.	Eligibility, Layoff and Termination
An employee- hired after the Health and Life Insurance Plar efits on the fiiet day of tha sec month in which he/she is hir| activelyemployed onthe wOrl|i or following that date.
An employee who: is laid 6ff and is eligible for
125
i, the services of a reg-lerapist, to a maximum of twelve consecutive
medical services perce of Ontario, when a are travelling. !
effective date of the will be eligible for ben* fnd month following the d, providing he/she. is ing day coincident with
Supplemental Unemployment receive benefits during such I period of six months, Whe exhausted, the employee may at his/her own expense, at the for an additional period of 12
enefits will continue to yoff up to a maximum these benefits are purchase the benefits, prevailing group rates ifonths.
An employee who is on layoff and is not eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits will have his/her coverage continued, in accordance with the provisions of the Health and Life insurance Agreement in effect on the' dat s of his/her layoff.
e opportunity to pur-|e-for an additional peri-
He/she will also be granted chase the benefits, at group ra< od of 12 months. ^	• \
or Illness - An employee who is absent from because of sickness or podily.injury shall con-tlnue to.be eligible for benefi which he/she accumulates se sions of the Collective Bargai
during the period in lority under the proving Agreement.
Benefits under this Plan terminate automatically for an employee and> his/her dep endents when his/her employment is permanently te “!“i“''
However, employees who retin i at age 65 and receive normal Pension Benefits, will cjontinue to receive coverage for Hospital, Medical, Sreen Shield Canada Extended Health Care Benel ts and Liberty Health Dental Plan as outlined in the the Insurance Benefits for pensioners described in the Health and Life Agreement.
5,	Basic dental coverage Liberty Health Dental Plan Nc Care Plan No; 47. Eligibility f< as outlined in No. 6 above exc An employee who is .laid off retain coverage through the
s provided through the 9 or Managed Dental coverage is the same pt in the case of layoff, ay, at his/her option, 3roup Plan at his/her
own expense for a# long as for Company and/or self pa plans outlined in No. 6 above
In generaLterms theplans lowing services, as shown his/her eligible dependents;
t
CD
or each employee and
coverage under other
Examinations & Consultation s X-Rays	i
Diagnostic Services Cleaning & Polishing Fillings	-
Surgical Services >	:
Root Canal Treatment Treatment of Gum Disease Dentures	: '
Crowns & Bridges Overall Annual Maximum: Orthodontic Services no Orthodontic Lifetime Max.
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
100%	100%
50%	75%
50%	75%
none	$1,500
included	50%
none	$1,000
SUPPLEMENTAL ONEMPLQ
PLAN
1.
3.
A Credit Unit Is credited
basis of 1/2 Credit Unit for each work week for
which an employee draws of 208 Credit Units Agreement.
4.	How do we apply for Ben jflts?
You must report in perf Company location during which you make applicatib
5.	How much is the Benefit-
MENT BENEFITS
Canada Inc., in the or more years of ser-
Who is eligible for Benefit:
Any employee of Gates Bargaining Unit, with one vice, who is laid off becatise of a reduction in production requirements. 1
What is a Credit Unit? . '
A Credit Unit is a term of r lierence which has no fixed value in. either tim > or money, but is a means of determining dur ition of benefits.
How do we get Credit Uni ;s?

o an employee on the
pay, up to a maximum is. provided in the
on to the designated (each week of lay off for n for benefits.
(a) An amount which, wi cant's Unemployment other compensation fo 80% of his/her weekly sti C.O.L.A., based on 40
en added to the appli-urance Benefit and for such week, will equal flight time pay including urs
h( i
(b) Providing, however, not exceed $70.00 plus more than 4 dependent^ he/she is Ineligible insurance Benefit.
[hat such benefit shall $1.50 for each of nol for any week in which f&r an Unemploymenl
Are there any deduotioi
Yes. the Company is any benefit payment i Union Membership Provincial: or Munidlpa ment for Taxes' or pthe
s from the Benefit?
required to deduct from ny amount required for ues, or by Federal, Governments as pay-ise.	-
How long do Sgppleijhentary Unemployment Benefits continue? \ |	"
-The number of bene it payments you may receive varies with the r »gularity of-your employ-
= ment prior; to lay off, amount in thetrust Fur for benefit.
/our seniority, and. the d at the time youapply
How do I quaiify for a st
(a)	You. must have 1 yea
(b)	If you are notcofferec
ularly scheduled week
vi^rk^B^^iihefitl
tou may be eligible: for
r._ ...	..-	^
What iathe ahtoantof SI ort Work Week Benefit?
Work Week Benefit, the
>f
If you quaiifyfor a Short scheduled' Short Work will be based iat 80% earnings for ad; hours le^ you qualify for an xmsch^
Benefit, the payment wll method of calculation.
129
ort work week benefit? 'seniority. . -40 hours work in a reg-
Week Benefit payment your average hourly s than 40, if eligible. If duled Short Work Week be based on the same
SEPARATION PAYMENT PLAN
The separation payment plan with the agreement on supple benefits.
exists in conjunction nental unemployment
The purpose of this plan is to rnents to certain employees pla tinubus period for at least two
In order to qualify for this ben have had at least two years he/she was laid off, and must procedural requirements. - He/ benefit under this plan if received- a severance
permit lump sum pay-jsd on layoff for a con-years.
|fit the employee must seniority at the time comply with established he will not qualify for e is eligible for or has under the retirement
The amount of separation pa rmeot is keyed to the employee's seniority, earning?; and reduced by the commuted value of vested per pion benefits.
An applicant for a separation payment will have his/her seniority and all rights pertaining thereto, except for vested -pension be lef its, cancelled as of the date
A
Clause		Page
Agreement - Du ration and Termination 13.01		65
- Printing	11.05	61
- Separate Agreements		
Incorporated	11.09	62
Amendments • Mutual Agreement	11.06	61
Arbitration - Board Jurisdiction	8.05	36
• Decisions	8.06	36
- Expenses	8.07	36
- Procedure	8.03 Step 4	35
Attendance	11.02	60
Available Openings	9.17	53
B		
BargainingCommittee	8.01	33
Bargaining Unit - Defined	1.01	3
■ Divisions	8.02(a)	33
-Work	11.10	62
Bereavement Leave	10.02	56
Bid Restrictions	9.03(b)	41
	9.03(C)	42
	9.03(d)	43
Bulletin Boards	11.03	60
C		
Call in Pay	6.06	24
Clean Up Allowance	4.03	6
C.O.L.A,	5.27	18
Company BenefitTransfer(C.B.T)	5.12	11
Cost standards	5.02(a)	7
D		
Defective Stock	5.14(d)	12
Definitions	5.01	7
	9.16(a)	53
	9.16(b)	53
Derogatory Notations	11.08	61
Discharge	8.10	.3
	11.01	51
Discipline- Union Representation	11.08	61
Discrimination	2.01	3
	2.03	4
136
Displacement - Defined	9.16(b)	53
- and Layoff Procedure	9.06	45
E		
ExperimentalWork	5.12	11
F		
Failure to Qualify	9.03(e)	41
G		
Grievance - Cost Standards	8.14	38
■ Investigations	8.11	37
- Policy	8.15	40
- Precedent value	8.13	38
- Procedure	8.03	33
■ Settlement authority	8.12	38
Guarantees	5.14	11
H		
Health and Safety	11.04	60
Holiday ■ Payment	6.03	22
• Payment for work on	6.04	22
■ Qualifying	6.04	22
• Scheduling	6.04	22
Hours of Work	4,01	5
I InexperiencedCrew Membei	5.23(a)(b)	16
Injury - Payment	5.18	13
Interference Times	5.02(d)	8
Interim Wage Increases	5.27	18
International Time Study Engineer	5.08	9
J		
Job - Content Change	5.22	15
- Postings	9.03(a)	41
	9.03(d)	43
• Transfers	9.19	55
Jury Duty	10.04	58
L		
Layoff - Defined	9.16(a)	53
- Notice	9.12	50
- Procedure	9.06	45
Leadhands	11.11	62
137
Leave <f Absence - Bereavement	10.02
-Jury Duty	10.04
- Personal	10.03
- Union Business	10.05 10.06
Lock Out - Unlawful	3.03
Long training Jobs	9.06(1)
M	
Machine Cycle time	5.02(b)
Malfunctioning Equipment	5.14(c)
Management Rights	11.01
Materials - Processing for Struck Firm 3.02	
Mathematical Errors	5.05(a)
Mechanical downtime	5.14(a)
Meetings - Company/Union	11.07
0	
Option to Leave Work	5.13
Overtime - Agreement	6.10(a)
■ Defined	6.01
• Exclusions	6.02
- Holidays	6.04
- Notification	6.08
- Offset	6.07
- Sundays	6.05
P	
Pay - Cheques	5.17
- Progression	5.25
Payments - Called Away by Employer 5.21	
■ Cali In	6.06
- Report In	5.15
Picket Lines	3.02
Prescribed Non Standard Procedures	5.14(e)
Prior Satisfactory Service	9.06(g)
Probationary -Job Bids	9.04
- Period	9.01
Q	
Qualify - Failureto	9.03(e)
Qualification for Guarantees	5.26
56
58
58
58
58
4
47
8
11
59
4
8
12
61
11
25
21
21
22
24
24
24
13
17
15
22
12
4
12
47
45
40
43
17
138
R
Recall rights		9.08	48
		9.09	49
Refusal to work		3.01	4
Report in Pay		5.15	12
Rest Periods		4.02	6
S			
Satisfactory Effort	• Defined	5.01	7
	■ Required	5.14	11
Schedule A	- Incorporated	5.28	21
Self Requested Transfers		9.18	54
Seniority	• Accumulation of	9.09	49
		9.15	52
		10.01	56
	- Establishment	9.01	40
	- Groups	9.05	45
	■ Lists	9.02	41
	- Loss Of	9.10	49
	■ Super	9.11	50
		9.14	52
Shift	- Preference	9.20	55
	■ Premium	5,16	13
Short Schedule		5.13	11
Slowdown		3.01	4
Standard Operational Procedures(S.O.P.)		5.19	15
Stewards	■ Appointment	8.02(b)	33
Strike	• Unlawful	3.01	4
Suspensions		8.01	37
T			
Time	- Cards	5.24	16
	■ Limits	6.08	36
	• Use of Employee's	5.06	6
Total Earnings	- Defined	7.02	30
Training	- Guarantees	5.23	16
	• Other than Replacement	5.12	11
	- Replacement	5.23	16
Transfers from/to Bargaining Unit	9.13	50
U
Union	■ Activity	2.02	3
- Dues	12.02	63
12.03	64
139
		12.04	64
Union	- Methods Engineer	5.09	9
	- Security	12.01	63
Use of Employee's Time		5.06	8
V Vacancy	- Posting Procedure	9.03(a)	41
		9.03(d)	43
Vacation	■ Entitlement	7.01	30
	- Limitation	7.01	30
	- Payment- Regular	7.01	30
	- Minimum	7.05	32
	-Termination	7.03	31
	- Scheduling	7.04	31
W Wages	- Schedule ' incorporated	5.28	21
Waiting for Stock		5.14(b)	12
Working	- Day Defined	11.12	62
	- Hours	4.01	5
140