UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 455, AFL ■ CIO ■ CLC^ OF WELt
JUNE 1,2004- JUNE 1,2007
INDEX
Article
Page Para.
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
Purpose
Desire of Company and union...... 1
FinancialiDifficulty............. 1
Recognition
Union Recognition................ 1
Bargaining Subjects.............. 2
Outside Contractors.............. 2
Discrimination
Company or Union................. 2
No Discrimination.................2
Management
Management Functions..............2
Union Security
Union Mem.ber.ship............... 3
Authorization (New Employees).....3
Dispute Concerning Employees'
Membership.........................3
Definition of Union member.......4
Deduction of Union Dues
Responsibilityof Company..........4
Authorization Form (New
Employees)....................... 4
Remittance........................4
Incorrect Deduction of Dues...... 5
Union Ceasing to be Bargaining
Agent............................. 5
T-4 Preparation................... 5
Strike or Lockout
No Strike or Picketing........... 5
No Lockout....................... 5
V||| Grievance Procedure
Grievance Committee Personnel.... 6
Step f - Grievance Procedure......6
Step 2 -General Foremanwith
Employee and/or Steward..........7
Step 3- Company Grievance Committee With Bargaining Committee.....7
1:01
1:02
2:01
2:02
2:03
3:01
3:02
4:01
5:01
5:02
5:03
5:04
6:01
6:02
6:03
6:04
6:05
6:06
7:01
7:02
8:01
8:02
IX
X
Step 4- Personnel Managerand Company Representatives With Bargaining Committee With International Union
Representative................... 8
Arbitration Costs...............  8
Scope of Arbitration Board	8
Arbitration Board Decision....... 9
Discharge or Suspension for
Cause, Payment, Probation...... 9
No Considerationof any Dispute
(Art VII Violated)............... 9
Union Time Study Engineer
Studying Operations.............. 9
(A)	Maximum Period of
Retroactivity Investigationof Grievance During Working Hours..Union Representative., 10 investigation of Grievance After Working Hours- Bargaining
Committee........................11
Employee's Compensation for
Loss of Time.....................11
Dispute..........................11
Disciplinary Action..............11
Personnel File.................. 12
Seniority
Defined......................... 12
Probationary Employees...........12
Loss of Seniority ...............13
Retentionof......................13
Accumulation of................. 14
Seniority Groupings" A- "B"..... 14
Lists-Posting.................... 14
Employeesin Armed Forces....... 14
Supervisors Returned to
Bargaining Unit................. 14
Lay-Off and Recall
Department Layoff................15
PlantWide Layoff.................15
ii
8:03
8:04
8:05
8:06
8:07
8:08
8:09
8:10
8:11
8:12
8:13
8:14
9:01
9:02
9:03
9:04
9:05
9:06
9:07
9:08
9:09
10:01
10:02
XI
Departmental Job Choices When
Employee Affected by Layoff......15
Plant Wide Job Choices whert
EmployeeAffected by Layoff.......16
Choices Left to Last Employee
Affected by Plant Wide Layoff....16
Notice of Layoff................ 16
Order of Recall..................17
Recalled Employee Failing to
Report...........................17
Laid Off or Recalled Employee
Refusing Job Offer...............17
Employee's Plant Wide Seniority ... 17
Preferencefor Previous Job...... 17
Preferred Layoff................ 18
Utilizationof Weekend Crew.......18
Transfer
Application for...............  19
Time Limit on Job Posting...... 19
Temporary Jobs not Posted.......20
Procedure.......................20
Reassigned Job..................21
TemporaryTransfers............. 22
Temporary Transfer Shift Changes.. 22
XII Leave of Absence
For Specific Reasons............23
Due to Sickness of Injury ..... 23
Selected as an Officer or Representativeof the
.WamatanalUnion.................24
Due to Pregnancy............... 25
RepresentativeAttending Conventionsor Municipal Duties ...25
XIII Wages
Description of Wage Rates.........25
Management Determining Method
Of Procedure.......................25
Direct Deposit.....................25
General Wage Increase..............26
(A)	Effective May 31,2004 ..........26
(B)	Effective May 30, 2005 .........26
(C)	Effective May 29, 2006 .........26
iii
10:03
10:04
10:05
10:06
10:07
10:08
10:09
10:10
10:11
10:12
10:13
11:01
11:02
11:03
11:04
11:05
11:05
11:07
12:01
12:02
12:03
12:04
12:05
13:01
13:02
13:03
13:04
4
(D)	C.O.L.A...................27
Night Shift Premium............27	13:05
Shift Premium Exclusion........27	13:06
XIV	Hours of Work
Production..................... 27
No Guarantee of................ 28
Pay Week Defined............... 28
Work Day Defined................28
Shift Starting Defined..........28
Regularworking Schedule........28
Rest and Lunch Periods......... 29
Wash-Up Time................... 29
XV	Wage Policies far Special Conditions
Shower Time-Certain Operations... 29
Report in Pay.................. 30
Factory Injuries................31
Meal Allowance................. 31
Jury Duty...................... 31
Compassionate Leave and Payment........................ 31
XVI	Overtime
Defined- Production Employees,,, 32
On Saturday.....................32
On Sunday.......................33
Co-operation in Performing
Necessary Overtime..............33
Statutory Holiday Considered Part
Of Work Week....................33
No Offsetting of OvertimeWork..33
Call in Pay.....................33
Where Not Paid..................34
No Double Compensation for
Same Hours of Work..............34
Overtime - Production...........34
Overtime - Skilled Trades.......36
XVII	Holiday Pay
Recognized Statutory Holidays
And Pay When Worked.............39
Qualificationsfor Pavment and
Method of Payment...............41
Falling During Vacation.........42
Failing During Shutdown.........42
14:01
14:02
14:03
14:04
14:05
14:06
14:07
14:08
15:01
15:02
15:03
15:04
15:05
15:06
16:01
16:02
16:03
16:04
16:05
16:06
16:07
16:08
16:0S
16:1C
16:11
17:01
17:02
17:03
17:04
IV
Falling on Saturday or Sunday..... 42
XVIII	Vacations
Eligibility and Pay...............43
(A)	For Employees with Less Than
One (1)Year Service.......... 43
(B)	Definitionof Total Earnings.43
(C)	Minimum Vacation Pay in Case
of Sickness...................44
(D)	Fifth & Sixth Week Vacation are
Optional......................44
Employee Leaving Employment
Of Company....................... 44
Time and Pay .....................45
Vacation Period ...............   46
Postponement of Vacation ........ 46
Employee Working his Vacation
Period ...........................46
Vacation Preference Bids......... 47
Splitting Vacation Weeks..........47
XIX	Miscellaneous
Union Notices.....................48
Reference to Both Genders.........48
Notification of Union
Representative .................. 48
ProductionWork .................. 48
Company Trainees on Production
Equipment........................ 49
Relieffar Personal Needs ........ 49
Discipline Notices ...............49
Definitionof "Working Days"...... 49
MultipleAbsentees................ 50
Reimburse- Disability Forms.......60
XX	Health &Safety
The Companies Responsibility Under the Occupational Health
& Safety Act......................51
Joint Health & Safety Committee ....51
Joint Workplace Inspection........52
Safety Representatives Pay........52
Health & Safety Chairperson's Pay.. 52
17:05
18:01
18:02
18:03
18:04
18:05
18:06
18:07
18:08
19:01
19:02
19:03
19:04
19:05
19:06
19:07
19:08
19:09
19:10
20:01
20:02
20:03
20:04
20:05
V
Right to Refuse.................53
53
53
54
55 55
Right to Know ................. 55
Orientation Representation..... 55
Safety Shoes ...................55
Gloves .........................56
Coveralls& Miscellaneous
Equipment...................... 56
Prescription Safety Eye Glasses ... 56 Reference Due to Factory injuries57 M® Amendments
Amendment to Agreement..........58
XXII Duration and Termination Duration, Termination Commencementof Negotiation........... 58
20:06
20:07
20:06
20:09
20:10
20:11
20:12
20:13
20:14
20:15
20:16
20:17
20:18
21:01
22:01
Vi
This AGREEMENT made and entered into this 1st day of June 2004,
BY AND BETWEEN GENCORP CANADA INC.
of Welland, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the Company,
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERSOF AMERICA, LOCAL455, AFL-CIO-CLC,
of Welland, Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
ARTICLE 1
Purpose
1:01 It is the mutual desire of both parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any differences or grievances which may arise.
1:02 Should the Company find itself in financial difficulty it will discuss or review same with the accredited representativesof the Union.
The Company shall give six (6) months notice to the Union of any proposed relocation of the plant or any part thereof.
ARTICLE II
Recognition
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agency for all the employees of the Company employed in and about the Company's manufacturing plant located at Welland,
Ontario, Canada, save and except shift foremen and foreladies, and all persons above the rank of shift foreman and foreladies, all salaried office staff, salaried laboratory staff, trainees and watchmen.
2:02 The Company agrees to meet with and bargain with the accredited representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions.
2:03 The Company will perform regular continuing maintenance and installation work with the employees of its maintenance department except when lack of skills or equipment, nature of work or time consideration make it impractical. The Company will inform the Union weekly of those outside contractors that are being engaged to do work within the Welland Plant.
ARTICLE III
Discrimination
3:01 Both the Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination or intimidation of any sort practiced by either representatives of the Management or representatives of the union because of membership or nonmembership inthe Union.
3:02 There shall be no discrimination against any employees on account of gender, age, race, colour, creed or national origin as defined in the Human Rights Code.
ARTICLE IV
Management
4:01 The Company has the sole right to manage the business, operate the plant and direct the working forces. including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, promote, demote, transfer or lay-off,
2
provided that the Company shall not use these rights in conflict with any of the provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE V Union Security
5:01 As a condition of employment, any employee who is a member of the Union In good standing on the thirtieth (30th) day following the effective date of this agreement shall maintain his membership in the Union, and any employee hired on or after the effective date of this agreement or transferred into the bargaining unit, shall become a member of the Union following his hire or transfer into the Bargaining Unit and shall maintain membership: and not later than the thirtieth (30<fl) day following the effective date of this agreement all employees in the Bargaining Unit who are not members of the Union shall become members of the Union and shall maintain membership as a condition of employment.
A)	The above provisions shall apply for the life of this agreement.
B)	The above provisions shall not apply to any employee in the Bargaining Unit to whom membership in the Union is denied or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than the failure of such employee to tender or pay to the Union the amount of periodic dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining Union membership.
5:02 Any employee hired on or afterthe effective date of this agreement shall become a memberof the Union, and he shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his Union membership to the extent of paying membership dues.
5:03 Any dispute arising as to an employee's membership in the Union shall be subject for the Grievance Procedure.
3
5:04 "Member of the Union" where used herein means any employee who is a member of the Union and is not more than three (3) months in arrears in the payment of Union dues or assessments.
ARTICLE VI
Deduction of Union Dues
6:01 The Company shall deduct Union dues including, where applicable, initiation fees and assessments, on a weekly basis, from the total earnings of each employee covered by this agreement. The amount of dues shall be calculated in accordance with the Union's Constitution
6:02 All dues, initiation fees and assessments shall be remitted to the Union forthwith and in any event no later than fifteen (15) days following the last day of the month in which the remittance was deducted. The remittance shall be sent to the International Secretary Treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC-P.O, Box 13083 Postal Station "A,Toronto, Ontario M5W 1V7 in such form as shall be reasonably directed by the Union to the Company along with a completed Dues Remittance Form R-115. A copy of the Dues Remittance Form R-115 will also be sent to the Union office designated by the Area Coordinator.
6:03 The remittance and the R-115 form shall be accompanied by a statement containing the following information:
a) A list of the names of all employees from whom dues were deducted and the amount of dues deducted;
p) A list of the names of all employees from whom no deductions have been made;
4
The information shall be sent to both Union addresses identified in Paragraph 6:02 in such form as reasonably directed by the Union and the Company.
6:04 The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgments, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will refund direct to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
6:05 Should the Union at any time cease to be the authorized bargaining agent of the Employees of the Company, any dues held by the Company shall be repaid to the individual employee from whose pay such dues were deducted.
6:06 The Company, when preparing T-4 slips for employees, will enter the amount of the Union dues paid by the employee during the previous year.
ARTICLE VII Strike and Lockout
7:01 The Union agrees that there shall be no strike, partial or complete, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
7:02 The Company agrees there shall be no lockout so long as this Agreement continues to operate.
5
ARTICLE VIII Grievance Procedure
8:01 A Grievance Committee consisting of not more than five (5) members, all of whom shall be regular employees with at least one (1) year's seniority with the Company, shall be selected by the employees of the Company, and the Company shall be kept informed by the Union of the members of this Committee.
8:02 It is the purpose of this procedure to provide for the prompt discussion and amicable settlement of grievances. The grievance, in order to receive consideration, must be based on a claimed violation of some right established by this Agreement. The grievance must begin to be processed through the procedure within fifteen (15) days of the event occurring that is the basis for the complaint, or within fifteen (15) days of the time that the individual was aware of the incident, or should have been aware of the incident. The grievance must be submitted in accordance with the following procedure:
Step#1: The Employee and/or the Steward shall discuss a grievance with the Employee's direct supervisor or designate. If no satisfactory resolution can be reached, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and two (2) copies of the grievance shall be presented in writing to the direct supervisor or designate. A meeting between the Steward and a Company Representative(s) shall be held to review the grievance within two (2) working days of the time of the presentation to the direct supervisor or designate. The Company shall render a written response to the Steward within three (3) working days.
6
A) The written grievance must show the date of presentation as well as the date of the alleged violation.
E) The Company's response shall be final unless within five (5) working days after the Steward receives the Step 1 response, the Union signifies its intent in writing to take the grievance to Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
Step
A)
B)
C)
if the grievance is not resolved at Step 1 the Union shall process the grievance to S >p 2 by ratifying the Employee Relations It at ig in iti l! within five (5) working days after the Sti ward r ii the Step 1 re po The Grievance Committee shall m ret with the Comp* i; 's representatives, one (1) of whom
ill
1
to
nts ti\ e f tf C< ip	f's
D	rtr it, vitl	fit	E
of tl p it iti' oi the the Employee Relations
t : a F es "king d> grievance Manager.
i< Company shall give a written response to the ■i i 3 Ci ittee iti li th (3) working days after the conclusion of the Step 2 meeting. The Company’s response shall be r unless within five (5) c ■( ir g days after the avar :e Cr r litt re r 3 tl i S if 2 i| n >i , 1 Union signifies is intent in writing to take the
_________t -	— o *U.„
ynuvarK;e iti Oiep o or urt? orrevarKy-e r-rwe*uurtr. Or c 3 a grievance has ieen submitted tc the Gr ir 3 Cor l itte it shall be e attled ini through f Grievance 1 lommitt or with tl consent and approval of the Grievance Committee.
Step #3: if the grievance is not resolved at Step 2 the Union shall process the grievance to Step 3 by notifying the Employee Relations Manager in writing within five (5)working days after the Grievance Committee receives the Step 2
I
response. The Grievance Committee shall meet with the Plant Manager or designate and a representative of the Company's Human Resources Department, within ten (10) working days of the presentation of the grievance to the Employee Relations Manager. The Union may request, in writing, an International Representativeto participate in the Step 3 meeting.
A)	The Company shall give a written response to the Grievance Committee within three (3) working days afterthe conclusion of the Step 3 meeting.
B)	The company's response shall be final unless within two (2) working days after the next regular scheduled Union Membership meeting, either party signifies its intent in writing to take the grievance to arbitration. The matter is to be referred to arbitration within thirty (30) days.
Step #4: Arbitration - should either party signify by written notice to the other party its intention to arbitrate the dispute, it shall propose an arbitrator. If the parties have not agreed upon an arbitrator within ten (10) days, they shall request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to select an arbitrator.
A) Notwithstanding the provisions of this clause either party may make application under the expedited arbitration provisions of the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
8:03 Each party shall pay the costs and expenses of it's appointees and the costs and expenses of the Chairman shall be borne equally by the parties.
8:04 No such Arbitration Board shall have any jurisdiction to alter, change, or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to make any decisions inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The
8
Arbitration Board shall not have authority to determine a question involving the General Wage Level.
8:05 The decision of a majority of such Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding on both parties.
8:06 Any employee who has attained seniority, found to be unjustly given a written reprimand or discharge or suspension shall be reinstated to his former job and shalt be compensated at his average straight time hourly earnings for the time lost as a result of the incident, less pay for any penalty time decided upon provided the employee files a written grievance of such written reprimand or discharge or suspension with the Company within five (5) working days from the date of his discharge or suspension. If the Grievance Committee so desire, it may process the grievance immediately, starting at Step #2 of the Grievance Procedure.
8:06(A) Payment shall be made by the accepted method within fourteen (14) days after the grievance settlement or the issuance of an arbitration award.
8:06(B) With respect to a probationary employee a designated Union Steward will be present during the assessment and the President or his designate will be present at the point of release.
8:0r in the event there is an interruption in plant operation because of a strike, slowdown, picketing or other act in violation of Article VII of this Agreement, the Company and the Union shall not consider the merits of any dispute nor shall any arbitration proceed or continue until such lime as the interruption has been terminated.
8:08 In the event of a dispute between the parties involving a standard is appealed to Step #3 of the
9
Grievance Procedure, the Company, upon receiving written request from the Union, will permit a qualified Time Study Engineer, approved by the International Union, to enter the Plant for the purpose of making studies of the standard in dispute in order that the Union may be in a position to properly present its case to the Employer for further negotiations or to the Arbitration Board for determination. An Employer's Time Study Engineer shall be present during such studies or observations by the Union Time Study Engineer.
A)	Such Union-Sponsored Time Studies, described in 8:08 above, must be made within six (6) months of the date of the relevant grievance was filed, otherwise the said grievance shall automatically be voided.
8:09 In the event it becomes necessary for the Steward or Chief Steward (1) to leave his place of work for the purpose of investigating a grievance he will report to his Supervisor and advise him as to his destination. A Steward within a department who is available will be utilized before a Steward from outside the department. The Steward or Chief Steward (1) will report to the Supervisor of the department where the alleged grievance originated. In the event the representative is on a job that affects the production of an Employee or group of Employees, the Supervisor will make the necessary arrangements lo relieve the representative. The representative will remain on the job until such arrangements can be made. The Union President or his designated representative (a member of the Grievance Committee) and one other member of the Grievance Committee or the Chief Steward shall be allowed to investigate a grievance or complaint plantwide. In all cases, each of the above designated personnel shall report to his Supervisor immediately UDon his return.
10
8:10 Any member of the Grievance Committee shall be permitted to enter the plant for the purpose of making an investigation of any grievance, and upon request shall be furnished a pass permitting entrance to the plant for such purpose.
8:11 An employee who is a designated Union Representative shall be compensated for time lost during his regular shift when performing union duties under this agreement or attending a scheduled grievance and negotiation meeting with the Company representatives. The rate of pay shall be the employee's straight time hourly rate. The total liability of the Company for payment of Union Representatives shall be the maximum of ten (10) hours per week per one hundred (100) employees, the number of employees to be rounded to the next one hundred (100) for the purposes of calculation. The Union Vice President's hours will not be counted against above hours when he attends company scheduled meetings
8:11(A) The position of Union President will be recognized by the Company as full time. The rate of pay will be that of the Electrician for forty-four (44) hours per week at straight time. The Union President is expected to participate in meetings as required.
8:12 If the Grievance Committee so desire, it may process a dispute, starting at Step #2 of the Grievance Procedure. The dispute, in order to receive consideration, will be presented in writing and must be based on a claimed violation of some right established by this Agreement.
8:13 When an employee is brought into the office on a matter likely to result in a reprimand, or other disciplinary action, such employee shall be reminded of his right to have Union Representation in the presence of a Union Representative.
11
8:14 The Company agrees that there shall be only one personnelfile for each employee.
ARTICLE IX
Seniority
9:01 The principle of seniority is to give preference to employees covered by this agreement in the matter of promotions, demotions, layoffs, and recalling after layoffs in accordance with their length of continuous service, based upon a combination of plant wide and departmental seniority. The President, the VicePresident, the Chief Steward, the Financial Secretary and the Recording Secretary will have super seniority for the purpose of being laid off out of the plant.
9:02 No seniority rights are recognized during the first three (3) months which shall be the probationary period of the new employees. The Company shall have the right to transfer or otherwise terminate the service of new employees during their probationary period without prejudice to itself. On completion of the probationary period seniority shall extend back to date of hire.
Where warranted the probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union in advance of the scheduled expiration of the employee's probation period.
A) A probationaryemployee who is laid off or whose services are terminated while on leave of absence due to illness or injury and is rehired within a twelve (12) month period shall accumulate service for the time worked and it shall be credited to his probationaryservice,
I2
9:03 Seniority will be broken and employment may be terminated for the following reasons:
A)	Voluntary termination of employment by the employee.
B)	Discharge for just cause not reversed by the Grievance Procedure.
C)	Failure of the employee to notify the Company of his intention to return to work within three (3) working days after notice has been sent by registered mail by the Company to the laid off employee and failure of the employee to return to work without reasonable excuse within seven (7) days after such notice has been sent by the Company. Notice to return to work shall be sent to the last address on the Company's records of the laid off employee. It shall be the employee's responsibilityto notify the Company of changes in address.
D)	Accepting other employment or self-employment while on leave of absence, except due to ill health and under doctor's orders and confirmed by the Company's doctor.
E)	Out of active service with the Company for any reason beyond twelve (12) months except as otherwise provided for in this agreement.
F)	Overstaying leave of absence without a reasonable excuse.
G)	Failure lo report absence from work for three (3) working days without reasonable excuse.
1)	Upon receipt of the employee's reason for absence from work and within the time period specified in this sub-section, the Company shall notify the employee at the last address on the Company's records that his reason for absence was unacceptable.
9:04 A laid-off employee with three (3) months or more, but less than two (2) years seniority shall accumulate seniority as per clause 9:05 and shall be
13
eligible for recall for two (2) years. A laid-off employee with two (2) years or more seniority shall accumulate seniority as per clause 9:05 and shall be eligible for recall for five (5) years
9:05(A) Seniority shall accumulate for seven (7) months, provided such seniority accumulation shall not exceed his actual service at time of layoff.
9:05(B) An employee with five (5) or more years seniority at time of layoff will be entitled to accumulate seniority to a maximum period offifteen (15) months.
9:06 The job classifications in the plant are divided into two (2) seniority groups A and B as outlined in Schedule " A o f this Agreement.
9:07 Seniority Lists shall be posted in each department of the plant every three (3) months, the Union shall be furnished with seven (7) copies of these seniority lists. Any contemplated change in the structure of a department will be discussed with the bargaining committee.
9:08 Employees who leave the employment of the Company to enter the Country's Armed Forces shall be granted a leave of absence until such time as service with the Armed Forces is terminated. Seniority will accrue under such leave, provided the employee makes application for his job within thirty (30) days after receiving Honorable Discharge, and provided the employee is capable of performing the work required of his job. The Company will make very effort to place employees who have become handicapped during such service.
9:09 Any employee presently in or who has been in what is now the Bargaining Unit, who transfers to a supervisory position or any position outside the
14
Bargaining Unit directly connected with the operation of the plant on a peri i snt basis, shall not have the right to return to the Bargaining Unit,
With respect to :emF irary assignments tc salary positions, anyone acce ting a temporary assignment from a Bargaining Unit aosit into a salary position shall be j iked foi O' :ii rte 3 Stef 6 n i before Step 7 in Article IE (C t tide 1:03, Paragraph 1, will apply to these temporary transfers.
ARTICLE X Layoff and Recall
l:0 are tl C	hr i i a de vision to
layoff or recall i[ li j ae in fra bargaining unit, the Company shall meet with the Union to discuss issues arising from the said decision.
H M
ill be laid off i recalled based
on plant-wide seniority.
10:03 When due to j il >Ji: i tor t lili of production necessitating a reduction of an employee on a job the employee affected and qualified shall be given tt e foil n ;h )i< f |< fc t t only in the order listed below:
1)	A vacancy in both groups within his department.
2)	A vacancy in one group within his department and the job h aid by the employee with the least seniority in the other group.
3)	The jot i I by the 3mpl< > > itl tl least seniority in either group within his department.
Should a vacancy	ist ii i	department at tne
tii 1 of lay iff it shall t	p t >d i	no
subsequent vacancies will require posting.
15
10:04 An employee to be displaced from his group within his department, shall if qualified, be given the following choice of jobs but only in the order listed below:
1)	A subsequent vacancy in both groups.
2)	A subsequent vacancy in one group and the job held by the employee with the least seniority in the other group within the plant.
3)	The job held by the employee with the least seniority in either group within the plant.
Should a vacancy exist at the time of layoff it shall be posted, however, no subsequent vacancies will require posting.
10:05 The employee subsequently affected shall have the right to the job held by the employee with the least seniority in the plant.
10:06 When it becomes necessary to lay off employees in the plant in accordance with this Agreement, the Company will give the employees three (3) normal days notice or a maximum or three (3) normal days pay in lieu of notice. The Company will post a notice stating the names of the employees being placed on layoff within the first hour of the shift on day one of the three day notice period, which will then constitute the three days of notice. During that shift the Company will have all employees affect by said layoff to acknowledge the layoff notice as posted.
10:06(B) Should any employee be declared surplus and forced to leave his classification or department in accordance with the layoff procedure, it is understood that the employee may at his discretion displace a weekend work shift employee only if he/she is fully qualified.
16
10:07 In the process of recalling after a layoff, the employees having the greatest plant-wide seniority shall have the first privilege of being recalled, providing the laid-off employee has the necessary qualifications to meet the requirements of the job.
10:08 A laid-off employee who fails to report for a work assignment without a reasonable excuse when recalled will be considered a voluntary quit.
10:09 If, due to job abolishment or curtailment of production, the employee is transferred to a job for which he is qualified to perform, and he refuses to accept such job, he will be considered a voluntary quit. If a laid-off employee is recalled to a job for which he is qualified to perform, and he refuses to accept such job, he will be considered a voluntary quit.
10.10 An employee's plant wide seniority shall be transferred with him from job to job.
10:11 For a period of twelve (12) months following an employee's transfer to another job within his department or to another department or recall to a job other than the one held at the time of his layoff shall, consistent with his seniority, have the preference to return to his former job before any job vacancies are posted provided that he has a minimum of six (6) months seniority and his application to return to his former job is on file. This application to return to his former job shall remain on active file for a period of one (1) year.
To qualify for this preference the employee must make written application to the Personnel Department within fourteen (14) days of his transfer or recall or prior to the expiry date of the first posting of his former job if such posting is earlier.
17
10:12 When there is a specific reduction in a given product code, thus impacting specific production areas within a department for a maximum of six (6) weeks, then, notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, the employees directly affected shall be placed on temporary layoff and shall only be entitled to exercise their seniority and bumping rights under this agreement in the event that the temporary layoff exceeds six (6) weeks. The Company agrees that any employees placed on temporary layoff pursuant to this Article 10:12 will be paid the amount required to top up their lost wages to eighty percent (80%) of their regular straight time earnings for the period of the temporary layoff, either through the provision of S.U.B. benefits or otherwise.
10:13 Until all employees on layoff are offered recall, the weekend crew will not be utilized in a department unless the department is being worked to capacity on a five (5) day basis.
There will be a meeting to notify the Union President when weekend crew will be implemented. This meeting may involve the following departments: Human Resources, Material Control, Production, and industrial Engineering. Capacity levels will be used in this analysis.
Employees on layoff who refuse an offer of weekend crew work will retain their seniority rights on all recall lists. These employees will not be offered weekend crew work again unless they give thirty (30) days notice that they wish to be considered again for weekend crew.
Employees on layoff who accept an offer of weekend crew work, will regardless of any other language, retain their seniority rights to return to the regularwork force.
18
ARTICLE XI
Transfers
11:01 Employees may file application for transfer in the event a vacancy occurs or a new job is created. The filling of job vacancies shall be accomplished through the job posting procedure. The senior applicant with basic minimum qualifications will be selected. The successful applicant shall be moved to his new classification within twenty (20) working days, (provided the replacement(s) is/are fully trained on the job(s) being vacated). An employee not moved to his new classification within the time period noted above shall be paid the rate of the new job.
In the event that new jobs are created employees will be notified as soon as possible, The Company will provide the employees with a description of the necessary qualifications and skills. If additional educational requirements are a pre-requisite, tuition funding will be provided for both night school or day release classes under the Co-operative Education Program.
11:02(A) Notices of job vacancies will be posted for three (3) calendar days, unless at the time of the posting, employees are working alternative schedules involving weekend shifts only, in which case postings will be put ud on Thursday for five (5) calendar days. Only written applications made by the employees and submitted to the Company Human Resource Department during the time the jobs are posted will be considered. When multiple jobs are posted, employees may indicate on the job posting form, their choice of jobs in the order of preference.
11:02(B) In the week immediately preceding an employee's vacation period or authorized leave of absence an eligible employee may file a written application and submit it to the Company Personnel
19
Department for a job that may be posted during the period of absence specified in this paragraph. Upon the employee's return to work such written application shall be automatically cancelled.
11:03 Temporary jobs will not be posted. Temporary jobs are:
1.	Jobs of three (3) weeks duration or less, unless the
Union agrees to an extension.
2.	Vacancies created by Article XII - Leaveof Absence.
3.	Vacancies created by Article XVIII -Vacations.
When it becomes necessary to temporarily transfer an employee under the conditions of 11:03, the Company will transfer employees qualified to perform the work required. It is understood temporary transfers are voluntary in nature. Should the Company fail to fillthe temporary vacancy from qualified volunteers the low seniority employee in the department qualified to do the work required shall be transferred. An employee temporarily transferred shall be paid the higher of the employee's hourly rate or the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred. An employee transferred at the request of the Company shall return to the job from which he transferred upon completion of the job required.
11:04 Job vacancies created by requested transfers must not exceed two transfers in any one (1) chain within the department or plant. Any vacancy created after two (2) transfers shall be filled at the option of the Company.
A)	An employee refusing to accept the job assigned to him as a result of his request for transfer shall forfeit ail right to the job from which he transferred. He will be sent to the Personnel Department and given his choice of availablejobs
20
that he is qualified to perform. if no jobs are available, he will be laid off.
B)	An employee assigned to a job as a result of a requested transfer, who fails to perform satisfactorily on the newjob or who is determined unqualified shall be given his choice of available job openings if he is qualified to perform the work required, or he may be returned to his former job or placed on another job in accordance with the seniority regulations of this agreement, if qualified, otherwise, he shall be laid off.
C)	An employee shall be limited to two (2) requested transfers in a two (2) year period. An employee with less than one (1) year of continuous service with the company shall not be eligible for a requested transfer.
D)	if an employee requests a transfer in accordance with the Job Bidding Procedure outlined in this paragraph and the employee withdraws his request to transfer before the job is awarded or the job is curtailed or abolished before the employee is transferred, this job bid shall not constitute a bid as defined in Paragraph 11:04 (C),
E)	An employee recalled to other than his original group or who was forced into the other group because of a layoff shall have the right to bid back to his original group and this will not constitute a bid as defined in Paragraph 11:04
(C).
11:05 in the event a job is reassigned from one department to another, the employees affected will be given a choice to transfer with the job or remain in the department. Should the job be a combination job, and the major portion of the combinationjob is reassignedto another department, the employees affected will be given a choice to transfer with the job or remain in the department. Should insufficient qualified volunteers
21
transfer with the job to the new department then the Company has the right to transfer the low seniority employees from the old department classification to the new department classification.
11:06 Temporary transfers are exempt from the provisions of Article IX, X, XI of this Collective Labour Agreement.
For a period of up to one (1) work week, in case of temporary curtailment of production necessitating a reduction of an employee or employees on a job the employee or employees affected, shall, if qualified, be temporarily transferred on the following basis:
1.	For the first work day or balance of the shift the employee or employees affected on the job on that shift, shall, if qualified, be transferred to availablejobs in the department or plant on that shift.
2.	For the second work day or shift and for the balance of that workweek, the employee with the least seniority on the job in the department on that shift, shall, if qualified, be transferred to availablejobs in the department or plant.
3.	If the curtailment of production continues into the following workweek the provisions of Article X shall apply to the employee with the least seniority in the department or plant.
4.	The employee transferred under Section 1 and 2 above shall be paid the higher of the employee's hourly rate or the rate of the job to which the employee is transferred.
11:07 The Company recognizes the difficulties that may be created when temporarily transferring an employee to a different shift. The Union recognizes the importance of maintaining productivity, quality and safety standards. Accordingly within this understanding
22
the Company will make every reasonable effort to minimize this problem.
ARTICLE XII Leave ofAbsence
12:01 An employee wishing a Leave of Absence for a period of more than two (2) weeks shall make written application to the Personnel Department. if granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy furnished to the Union. A Leave of Absence will normally not exceed thirty (30) days and under no circumstances ninety (90) days. A Leave of Absence will not be granted for self-employment or employment elsewhere. The person on leave must return by the expiration date of the leave and upon reinstatement shall, consistent with his seniority, be placed on his previous or comparable work, provided he is able to do the work. Upon reinstatement he shall receive credit for seniority for the time he was on such approved Leave of Absence.
12:02 An employee with more than ninety (90) days seniority but less than two (2) years seniority shall be granted a Leave of Absence for sickness or injury and will be entitled to accumulate seniority up to the maximum period he is entitled to receive Weekly Sickness Indemnity payments. An employee with two (2) years seniority but less than ten (10) years seniority shall be granted a Leave of Absence for sickness or injury and will be entitled to accumulate seniority for a maximum period of eighteen (18) months. An employee who hasten (10) years or more seniority shall be granted a Leave of Absence for sickness or injury and will be entitled to accumulate seniority for a maximum period of two (2) years. An employee who is unable to return to work following his entitled accumulated seniority underthis section will be retained on the active payroll until he is able to return to his job,
23
or to a job vacancy provided he is able to do the work. In such case Paragraph 11:02 of this Agreement will not apply. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a fem ale employee who is granted leave F it ei ;i fc pregnancy according to F aragraph 12:04. A certificate from his physician c the Company Personnel Department is necessary from an employee requiring a leave of absence or returning to work from such l< iv f it	In addition, one week's notice to return t
I work shall be required. The person on leave must return to work by the expiration date of the leave and upon reinstatement shall, consistent with his seniority, be placed on his previous or comparable work provided his is able to do the work.
An employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits shall continue to accumulate seniority subject to the provisions of Article IX, P; h 9:03.
1:	An employee selected for full time duty as an
officer or representative of the International U.S.W.A. or Canadian Labour Congress, or 0 it i< F d tic of Labour, will upon written application tc the Personnel Departn ent be granted a leave of absence. This leave shall be for a period XI « I une (1) year and will, under the )bc ve condition, b > extended upon w itten application t tt Personnel Department. Witt the exception of a person who is totally n	3	ntly
disabled ai tne expiration of the leave >1	3	any
person d by this f vision must make v itt jpf ;; on for reinstatement within twenty (20) days aftt I ig	d from such full time duty. U| oi
reinstatement he shall, consistent with his seniority, be placed on his previous or comparable work provided he is able t io th	'k	In botl ;a a upon
reinstatement, he shall receive credit for seniority for the time he was an such leave oi absence provided, however, that so much leave c f absence as exceeds five (5) years shall not be credited to his seniority.
24
12:04 An employee is entitled to the pregnancy and parental leave to which the employee is entitled under the Employment Standards Act
12:05 Any employee selected or elected for Union duties including attending conventions or performing municipal elective duties shall apply for in writing, and be granted, a leave of absence not to exceed two (2) weeks, provided wherever possible the employee or the Union give the Company seven (7) days' notice prior to the commencement date of such leave of absence. On his return, ha shall be reinstated to his former job. His seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence.
ARTICLEXIII
Wages
13:01 The General Wage Schedule will remain in effect for the life of the Agreement.
13:02 It is the intent of the parties that current production targets will be maintained. On average production targets will be achieved, in the future all production targets will be established on a reasonable level subject to review with the Union if there is a dispute. It is agreed that the Company's current method of establishing production targets is reasonable. Changes in a production target may occur where there has been a change in circumstances that would support a revised production target that is reasonable. Employees will remain working on the job for the entire shift.
13:03 The Company will pay wages by direct deposit to an employee's bank of choice. Employee's pay will be transm itted weekly no later than 8:00 a. m. on payday (Friday's). With respect to short pays it is agreed that any short pay (regardless of fault) of less than eight (8)
25
hours will be paid in the following pay period. Short pays of eight (8) hours or more due to employee error (e.g. Forgot to fill in pay sheet) will be paid the following pay period. Short pays of eight (8) hours or more due to Company error will be paid by manual cheque within forty-eight (48) hours of the matter being brought to the Company's attention and verified.
13:04(A) Effective May 31, 2004, to provide for a general wage increase of 2.25%, Effective June 1,
2004,	a C.O.L.A. adjustment will be calculated that will reflect one cent (10) per hourfor each full .3 points that the C.P.I. index exceeds the base for calculation. The base for calculation is May, 2004, increased by three percent (3%). Once this point is reached any increase will be based on the C.P.I. for the second full month after the point is reached compared to the base. The last calculation for each contract year will be for the month of May.
13:04(B) Effective May 30, 2005, to provide for a general wage increase of 2.25%,
Effective June 1, 2005 a C.O.L.A. adjustment will be calculated that will reflect one cent (1$) per hour for each full ,3 points that the C.P.I. index exceeds the base for calculation, The base for calculation is May,
2005,	increased by three percent (3%). Once this point is reached any increase will be based on the C.P.I. for the second full month after the point is reached compared to the base. The last calculation for each contract year will be for the month of May.
13:04(C) Effective May 29, 2006, to provide for a general wage increase of 2.25%. Effective June 1,
2006,	a C.O.L.A. adjustment will be calculated that will reflect one cent (10) per hourfor each full .3 points that the C.P.I. index exceeds the base for calculation. The base for calculation is May, 2006, increased by three percent (3%). Once this point is reached any increase
26
will be based on the C.P.I, for the second full month after the point is reached compared to the base. The last calculation far each contract year will be for the month of May.
13:04(D) Each adjustment specified in Paragraph 13:04 (A) (B) (C) will replacethe previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety. The amount of C.O.L.A. increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided above on the basis of the Consumers Price index (C.P.I,) published by Statistics Canada (1971 = 100%).
Night Shift Premium
13:05 For hours worked betweenthree (3:00) p.m. to eleven (11:00) p.m. there shall be paid a premium rate of forty-five cents (450) per hour. For hours worked between eleven (11:00) p.m. to Seven (7:00) a,m. there Shall be paid a premium rate of fifty cents (500) per hour.
13:06 Shift premiums shall not be included in calculation of overtime compensation. Shift premiums shall not be used for the purpose of calculating incentive earnings.
ARTICLE XIV Hours of Work
14:01 The normal working hours of the employees covered by this Agreement shall be eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week, making a normal work week of forty (40) hours. The normal work week shall be from eleven (11:00) p.m. Sunday to eleven (11:00) p.m. Friday.
The Company may also establish shift schedules far continuous operations.
27
In the event the Company finds it is necessary to implement a continuous operation, both parties will discuss the most feasible and effective schedule.
14:02 The Company does not guarantee to provide any work to the extent of the hours or days indicated in Paragraph 14:01 of this Article.
14:03 The pay week shall begin with the shift Starting nearest Sunday, eleven (11:00) p.m. and end with the shift ending nearest Sunday, eleven (11:00) p.m.
14:04 The work day shall be the twenty-four (24) hours following the employee's starting time.
14:05 The first shift will start at eleven (11:00) p.m. Sunday or the time nearest eleven (11:00) p.m. where production requirements make it necessary, except that straight day shift operations will start between six (6:00) a.m. and eight (8:00) a.m. Monday, as approved by the Manager, Human Resources.
14:06 The regular working schedule far hourly rated employees shall be as follows:
Eight(8) hour rotating shifts-Seven (7:00) a.m. to three (3:00) p.m.
Three (3:00) p.m. to eleven (11:00) p.m.
Eleven (11:00) p.m, to seven (7:00) a.m
Should a multi-shift operation revert to a single shift the above hours of work shall apply.
A.	When it become necessary to introduce staggered shifts to relieve congestion the Company and the Union will meet to discuss and implement in the most feasible method.
B.	The regular working schedule for straight day shift hourly employees shall be seven-thirty
28
(7:30) a.m, to eleven-thirty (11:30) a.m. and twelve (1200) noon to four (400) p.m., unless an alternate straight day shift schedule has been approved by the Manager, Human Resources.
14:07 Employees on hourly rated jobs will be allowed the following rest and lunch period without loss of earnings
(I)	Eight	(8)	hour	rotating	shifts	-	("A
Classification Jobs). One (1), twenty (20) minute lunch period. Two (2), ten (10) minute rest periods.
(II)	Straight day shifts. One (1), ten (10) minute rest period, morning and afternoon.
(III)	Eight	(8)	hour	rotating	shifts	-	("B”
Classification Jobs) one (1), thirty (30) minute lunch period. Two (2), ten (10) minute rest periods.
14:08 Employees shall be allowed five (5) minutes without loss of pay at the end of each shift for the purpose of washing up immediately before quitting time, except on operations designated by the Company as continuous operations where employees shall continue to operate their jobs until relieved by the following shift operator. This shall not apply when an employee leaves prior to his regular scheduled quitting time.
ARTICLE XV
Wage Policies for Special Conditions
15:01 Banbury operators Banbury millmen, Compound men, employee(s) who loads outside scrap truck, (east end north building and mixing department) and lift truck operator(s) when handling carbon black, MDR tester(s) while located in mixing, and any other employee assigned to work in the mixing building in excess of four (4) hours will be allowed fifteen (15)
29
minutes shower time upon the completion of their shift at their straight time pay at the applicable hourly rate.
A maintenance employee(s) assigned to the mixing department (in excess of one (1) hour) shall be allowed fifteen (15) minutes shower time upon completion of said assignment. He must report to the Supervisor who assigned the work and advise him as to his destination and have his time card authorized. On the afternoon and the midnight shifts said authorization must be obtained from the Mixing Supervisor. Should the assignment be for a full shift he (they) shall be allowed fifteen (15) minutes shower time upon the completion of their shift at their straight time pay at the applicable hourly rate
if it appears that this clause is being abused it may be necessaryto establish control to eliminatethe abuse.
15:02 An employee reporting for work who has failed to receive notice at his last recorded address at least four (4) hours in advance not to report, and receives less than four (4) hours shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at his straight time hourly rate. An employee or employees covered by this paragraph is required to ring in his time card report to his foreman and ring out his time card if no work is available. Reponing pay will not be paid when:
A)	An employee has not been notified because he was absent or on vacation or leave of absence at the time of announcement of no work was made.
E) In the event of strikes, stoppages of, or interference with work in connection with labour disputes. catastrophes, failure of utilities, acts of public enemy, or breakage of major equipment.
30
15:03 An employee who was treated in the Company First Aid Departmentshall be paid his applicable hourly rate for the time lost while at the Company First Aid Department. An employee Injured at work and referred by the Company for out of plant treatment or examination by a physician or a hospital shall be paid at his applicable hourly rate for necessary time lost from his regularshift for the first authorized treatment. Under no circumstances will an employee be paid for time before or after shift hours.
15:04 Any employee required to work through two (2) or more hours in excess of his regular shift without advance notice will be given a meal allowance of five dollars (55.00)
15:05 An employee who is selected for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness shall be reimbursed by the Company at his straight time hourly rate for normal working hours lost, less any payment received for time spent on said jury or other defined duty during the normal work week. The proof of payment for said jury or other defined duty is to be forwarded by the employee to the Company Personnel Department prior to any Company reimbursement being made.
Bereavement Pay
15:06 An employee will be granted a leave of absence from work because of death in his immediate family, and shall be paid his straight time hourly rate for his scheduled working hours so excused during the first three (3) payroll days starling on the payroll day following the death of a member of his family and ending on the day of the funeral. Where the death in the employee's immediate family is the death of the employee's spouse, child orstep-chiidthe numberthree (3) where it occurs inthis provisionwill be deemed to be five (5). (Bereavement not necessarily to end on day of
31
funeral as with three (3) day bereavements -employee to get five (5) days bereavement regardless of day of funeral.) if on the day of the funeral an employee is scheduled to work on the 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. shift he shall be granted a leave of absence and be compensated for time lost on this shift provided such payment does not exceed the maximum three (3) day period specified in this paragraph. The term "member of his family" means a husband or wife, child, step-child, foster children, grandparents, grandchild, parent, stepparent, parent-in-law, brother or sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law. brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouses grandparent, spouses brother-in-law, spouses sister-inlaw, the category of relatives specified above include legal and blood relationships. No extra pay allowance will be paid for multiple or simultaneous deaths occurring within any three (3) day period. Should the death occur on the calendar day Thursday, and burial takes place on Monday, then the payroll day Monday shall be included as the third (3rd) day provided for in this paragraph. Any pay received for compassionate leave on a holiday shall be in lieu of pay for such holiday under Article XVII.
ARTICLE XVI Overtime
16:01 An employee, working in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid at the rate of time and one half.
16:02 All work performed by employees between the hours of eleven (11:00) p.m. Friday and eleven (11:00) p.m. Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half provided the employee(s) has worked or been compensated by the Company for folly (40) regular hours in the week, except that normal working hours not worked due to Union leave or other approved leaves of
32
absence shall be counted as time worked for purposes of computing weekly overtime.
16:03 All work performed by employees between the hours of eleven (11:00) p.m. Saturday and eleven (11:00) p.m. Sunday shall be paid at the rate of double time.
16:04 It is recognized that it may be necessary to work beyond the normal work day or work week. Every reasonable effort will be made to avoid having employees work in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period. The Union, the employees and the Company are expected to cooperate in performing necessary overtime. Overtime for maintenance employees will be distributed in accordance with Article 16:11 of the CLA, and overtime for all other employees will be distributed according to Article 16:10 of the CLA.
16:05 Any holiday as listed in Paragraph 17:01 of Article XVII occurring during the work week whether worked or not shall be considered as part of the normal work week as defined in Paragraph 14:01 and 14:02 of Article XIV.
16:06 Employees who worked overtime shall not be required to take time off to offset such overtime.
16:07 When an employee is called back to work because of any emergency after leaving the Company premises he shall be entitled to receive his time and one-half pay for hours worked but in no case shall be paid less than four (4) hours pay at job hourly rate.
On the first day of the work week a maintenance employee(s) called in to work on an emergency prior to the start of his regularscheduled shift shall be paid time and one half for hours worked but in no case paid less than four (4) hours pay at job hourly rate.
33
16:08 Work performed by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will not be paidfor at time and one-half when:
A) Such overtime is caused by a personal arrangement made between two (2) employees, that is, where one employee works for another.
B)	A change is made in an employee's working hours at his own request.
C) The time is spent by the Grievance Committee members in grievance meetings with Company representatives during the member's regular scheduled shift hours, however, such time will be considered part of the representatives regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmentwork.
D)	it is caused by the regular weekly shift change.
16:09 Compensation for overtime work shall not be paid twice for the same hours of work.
16:10 it is understood and agreed that every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to distribute necessary overtime work in a fair and equitable manner.
To accomplish this undertaking the following steps shall determine the employees who are eligible to work the required overtime. A refusal at Step 1 will nullify an employee's eligibility for any required overtime for that day, except for a continuation of a shift from the day before. A refusal at any other step will nullify an employee's eligibility for any required overtime for that day, other than an overtime opportunity arising under Step 1,
it is understood that the employee must be qualified to perform the available work.
34
STEP 1: The employee(s) in the departmental job classification or the Labour Pool employee scheduled at the beginning of the week, on the shift, on the equipment or equipment grouping.
STEP 2A;The senior employee in the departmentaljob classification scheduled on the shift.
2B: Senior qualified Labour Pool employee scheduled on shift.
STEP 3: The senior employee in the departmentaljob classification on other shifts.
STEP 4: For twelve-hour coverage on the weekend use the weekend overtime schedule. If the entire eight hours cannot be covered proceed to Step 5.
STEP 5: The senior departmental employee scheduled in another job classification on the shift involved.
STEP 6: A senior departmental employee scheduled in anotherjob classification on other shifts.
STEP 7: Employee from another department.
Note: When an employee is asked to work weekend overtime or holiday overtime in accordance with Article 16:10, an answer must be given ai the beginning of their next scheduled shift, if they are asked after 11:00 p.m., Wednesday, an answer must be given immediately. If the above is not followed, the employee will nullify themselves for overtime.
When asking to stay over, each step refers to the shift prior to the required overtime. When asking to come in early, each step refers to the shift after the overtime required.
When asking to cover the last four hours on a Friday afternoon shift, the senior employee in the departmental job classification scheduled on the day shift will be asked to return for the last four hours before the senior employee in the departmental job classification scheduled on other shifts.
35
When asking to cover the Sunday or Holiday Monday night shift at the commencementof the week, the senior employee in the departmental job classification on the afternoon shift will be asked beforethe senior employee in the departmentaljob classification on other shifts.
All Sick & Vacation employees will be asked for overtime after Step 3 and before Step 4 in accordance with Article 16:10.
Employees temporarily assigned to a Salary position shall be asked for overtime after Step 6 and before Step 7 in accordance with Article 16:10.
It is further understood and agreed by the Union that certain emergency conditions may occur that may preclude the above procedure being followed. It is the intention of both parties to minimize this type of case.
16:11 Equal opportunity shall be given to all maintenance employees normally performing the work to participate in the overtime providing this is consistent with the continuity of work.
Master overtime list will be posted,and updated weekly. A new list will be posted at the anniversary date of each contract year, and the overtime of the employee with the lowest amount of hours will be reduced to zero, and all other employees hours to be reduced correspondingly.
To accomplish this undertaking the following sequential procedure shall determine the employee(s) eligibilityto work the required overtime.
STEP1: The employee(s) in the job classification who normally works that shift with the lowest overtime hours recorded.
36
STEP2: The employee(s) in the job classification who normally works that shift with next lowest overtime hours recorded, and so on.
STEP 3: The employee(s) in the job classification with the lowest overtime hours recorded and so on.
STEP4: The employee(s) in the job classification with the lowest hours recorded who previously refused an overtime shift will be offered uncovered shifts. Apprentices who are able to do the work in question will be eligible for weekend overtime work where insufficient tradesmen and probationary tradesmen are available and willing to work before proceedingto Step 5.
STEP 5: Should there be insufficient maintenance employees available and willing to work on a scheduled weekend overtime shift of eight (8) hours the Company shall offer weekend overtime on the basis of twelve (12) hour shifts to the individuals with the lowest overtime hours who are already working prior to and after the open shift.
Overtime hours will be recorded and charged as
follows:
1.	All overtime hours, either worked or refused will be charged on the basis of hours paid (ie. eight (8) hours at time and one half posted as twelve (12) hours, twelve (12) hours at time and one half posted as eighteen (18) hours, eight (8) hours at double time posted as sixteen (16) hours, twelve (12) hours ai double time posted as twenty-four (24) hours).
2.	The employee in the job classification with the lowest number of hours will be offered all overtime hours available to him up to four (4) working days in advance of the overtime opportunity.
37
3.	in the case of employees in the same job classification having equal overtime hours, seniority will determine entitlement.
4.	An employee who refuses overtime work will be charged with the overtime hours available.
5.	A new employee, transferred employee, or an employee recalled from extended layoff will be charged with the average number of overtime hours within the job classification.
6.	Employeesshall be charged a maximum of twenty-eight (28) overtime hours worked per weekend and forty-four (44) overtime hours worked per holiday weekend in their classification.
7.	if the employee is not given twenty-four (24) hours notice for weekend work, they will not be charged for hours refused but will only be charged for hoursworked.
8.	Employeesabsentfor one week or more, including vacation, will have their hours adjusted up to be equal to the person with the lowest hours in the classification. Employees who are absent for less than one week who fail to respond when contacted Will have their hours adjusted up to be equal to the person with the lowest hours in the classification.
9.	An employee scheduled to work overtime who goes
home at his own request prior to completing the Shift will be charged for the shift, if he goes home at the Company's request he will be charged with the actual hours paid.
10.	Ail designated holidays underthis agreement shall be considered overtime and shall be offered and charged as above.
11.	in the case of an employee absent for any reason (ie. Vacation, approved leave of absence) prior to an overtime opportunity the employee must inform supervision if they are available for overtime should it be required.
12.	Call in procedures for emergencies, and all overtime hours worked during the regular five day
38
week will remain outside the overtime procedure, (ie. hours will not be charged). The current method of calling In by seniority and classification will remain in effect.
13.	Weekend overtime which carriesto the next shift or the next day will be offered to the man on the job regardless of hours. If that individual declines, the overtime will be offered to the high seniority on the shift that the work is carried over from, all hours either worked or refused to be charged at the applicable rate.
14.	A tradesmen in the rotation that has not been offered any overtime shift shall be offered available shifts before probationary tradesmen and apprentices.
15.	Notwithstanding Step 4, where additional tradesmen are required on the Saturday day shift (7-3) probationary tradesmen and apprentices will be eligible before an employee who previously refused an overtime shift.
16.	Daily overtime will be offered to the employee on the shift on the job regardless of his overtime hours and will not be charged and then by seniority for the shift on which the overtime occurs.
17.	in the case of a shift change overtime goes to the shift worked three (3) days or more.
ARTICLE XVII
Holiday Pay
17:01 The following days shall be recognized as holidays and paid for at the rate of double time for hours worked, in addition to the holiday pay where eligible. The Company will allow the following with pay on the basis of one (1) normal day at the employee's straight time hourly rate less any weekly sickness indemnity payment for such days:
39
First Year
•	Canada Day (to be taken Friday July 2,2004)
•	Civic Holiday
•	Labour Day
•	Thanksgiving Day
•	Dec. 27 for Christmas Day
•	Dec. 28 for Boxing Day
•	Dec. 29 & Dec. 30 - Floaters
•	Dec. 31 for New Years Day
•	Good Friday
•	Victoria Day
Second Year
•	Canada Day
•	Civic Holiday
•	Labour Day
•	Thanksgiving Day
•	Dec. 26 Boxing Day
•	Dec. 27 for Christmas Day
•	Dec. 28 & Dec. 29 - Floaters
•	Dec. 30 for New Years Day
•	Good Friday
•	Victoria Day
Third Year
•	Canada Day
•	Civic Holiday
•	Labour Day
•	Thanksgiving Day
•	Christmas Day
•	Boxing Day
•	Dec. 27 & Dec. 28 -Floaters
•	New Years Day
•	Good Friday
•	Victoria Day
40
17:02 To qualify for payment on the above designated holidays, when not worked, the employee must work his regular shifts immediately prior to and immediately following such holiday unless his absence is caused by any of the following reasons:
I A) An employee whose absence is due to personal injury or proven unavoidable illness of the employee, the employee's spouse or unmarried child. must work his last full scheduled shift within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the day on which the holiday falls or his first full scheduled shift within thirty (30) calendardays following the day on which the holiday falls. "Proven unavoidable illness" shall be interpreted to mean that the burden of proof rests on the employee.
B)	Employees who refuse or who absent themselves when scheduled for work on a holiday shall not receive holiday pay unless the reason for absence is personal injury or proven unavoidable illness of the employee, the employee's spouse or unmarried child,
C)	Employees who due to an approved leave of absence leave work or return to work during the work week in which the holiday falls shall be paid for such holiday, provided such employees work their last full scheduled shift prior to and their first full scheduled shift after the holiday.
D)	Employees who are laid off in the work week in which a holiday occurs shall be paid for such holiday provided they qualify under Paragraph 17:02 (A)and (B) above.
E)	Employees returning to work after a layoff must work at least one (1) day during the week in which such holiday falls as well as qualify under Paragraphs 17:02 (A) and (B) above.
41
F)	Plant operations will normally be completed by four (4:00) p.m. on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve and any emergency work scheduled after four (400) p.m. on these days will be performed on a voluntary basis.
G)	With the change of starting time from the normal Monday morning start-up to the eleven (11:00) p.m. Sunday start-up for the 'purposes of payment for the designated holidays spelled out in this clause whether worked or not or for any overtime payment, the designated holiday shall commence at eleven (11:00) p.m. the day preceding the holiday and end at eleven (11:00) p.m. the day of the holiday.
17:03 Should such a holiday as defined in this Article fall during any employee's vacation period, such employee as eligible under Paragraph 17:02 shall be paid for such holiday on the basis of one (1) normal day at the employee's straight time hourly rate in addition lo vacation pay or they may take the next scheduled work day immediately prior to or following their scheduled vacation period as the holiday.
17:04 Should a holiday occur within the annual plant shutdown, the holiday Will be taken on the Friday preceding the annual shutdown.
17:05 With respect to holidays outside the annual plant shutdown that fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday will be taken on the Friday preceding or the following Monday in conjunction with customer and production requirements, unless otherwise designated in this Agreement. The Company agrees to give at least thirty (30) days notice of the designated holiday.
A2
ARTICLE XVIII Vacations
18:01 All employees who prior to December 31Et of the current year have been continuously employed for the following periods will receive vacation with pay as follows:
1-5 years: two (2) weeks vacation with pay -four percent (4%) of total earnings 5-10 years: three (3) weeks vacation with pay
-	six percent (6%) of total earnings 10-20 years: four (4) weeks vacation with pay
-	eight percent (8%) of total earnings 20 - 30 years: five (5)weeks vacationwith pay
-	ten percent (10%) of total earnings
30 years and over: six (6)weeks vacationwith pay -twelve percent (12%) of total earnings
A)	An employee with less than one (1) year's continuous service with the Company shall receive four percent (4%) of his total earnings for his service prior to January 1st of the current year.
B)	"Total Earnings" shall be the gross earnings from the Company including Worker's Compensation payments for lost time during the twelve (12) months prior to January 1st of the current year and short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits plan. This is intended to bring all employees to a standard vacation period for the express purpose of computing vacation pay during their employ with the Company. The vacation pay therefore will be computed on the gross earnings in the previous calendar year starting on January 1st and ending on December31st. Commencing with the vacation year 1979, weekly accident and
43
sickness benefits as defined in Section 2, A, (1) of the Welfare and insurance Agreement, paid lo an employee in the preceding calendar year, shall be included as part of "Total Earnings"as defined above.
C)	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding year owing to sickness, pregnancy, Parental leave or injury not covered by the Worker's Compensation Act and for these reasons only, his vacation pay calculated in accordance with this clause is less than four hundred dollars ($400.00) per week the vacation pay to which he is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he has worked a minimum of three (3) months in the vacation year.
D)	The fifth and sixth weeks of vacation in each year are optional to any employee entitled to receive them and in order to be eligible to take and observe such additional weeks of vacation in the current year the employee must notify the employer that he will be observing such additional week or weeks of vacation by not later than June 1, Failure by the employee to notify the employer in accordance with this section will deprive the employee of the right to take time off to observe such additional weeks of vacation but will not deprive him of his vacation pay for the additional week or weeks. Employee wishing payment for the fifth and sixth weeks of vacation not to be taken, must notify the Company in writing two (2) weeks prior to payment.
18:02 An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason (other than layoff) and who has not received his vacation payment in
44
the current calendar year shall receive with his last pay cheque, a vacation payment based on the applicable percentage defined in Paragraph 18:01 of his total earnings for the preceding calendar year. Vacation pay awarded under this section will be for services rendered in the prior year. In addition, he shall receive vacation pay based on the applicable percentage as defined in Paragraph 18:01 of his total earnings from January 1st of the current calendar year until his termination date. Vacation pay awarded under this section will be for services rendered in the current year. An employee who has received his vacation pay during the current calendar year will have his vacation pay calculated using the applicable percentage as defined in paragraph 18:01 of his total earnings from Jan. 1 of the current year until his termination date. He will receive this cheque one week following his last paycheque. Vacation pay awarded under this section will be for services rendered in the current year The estate or beneficiary of a deceased employee shall be paid a vacation payment in accordance with the provisions of this section.
18:02(A) A laid-off employee shall receive prior to the plant vacation period a vacation payment based on the applicable percentagedefined in Paragraph 18:01 of his total earnings for the preceding calendar year.
18:03 All employees will receive their vacation pay prior to the vacation period. The Company will provide the employees with their vacation pay for the period of the vacation to be taken on the last pay period prior to the commencement of their vacation. The employee will give two weeks written notice, if possible. However, single day(s) vacation will be paid with the regular pay for the week in which the single day(s) is taken.
45
18:04 Vacations shall be granted at such time between June 1st and September 1sl inclusive as the Company finds most suitable consideringthe wishes by seniority of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant.
The Company may schedule a shutdown for vacation period. The Company will make reasonable effort to post the time of such vacation period by March 1sl of the current year. Vacation dates, however, may be changed by the Company in cases where it is found necessary for the efficient operation or due to emergency conditions.
18:05 Vacations may not be postponed from one vacation period to another and will be forfeited unless completed during the vacation period, except when an employee is required to work during the vacation period, then such employee’s vacation shall be completed by December31s ofthe current year.
18:06 At the option of the Company any employee or employees may be asked to work during the vacation period and if the employee or employees work during this vacation period they shall be entitled to vacation pay in addition to their regular pay, as provided in Paragraph 18:01 of this Article, except in cases falling under Paragraph18:Q5 of this Article.
46
18:07 The Company will allow employees to utilize their preference bids in the following classifications and
in any new classifications subject io preference bids before we recall from lay off or hire for sick and vacation relief:
•	Banbury Operator
•	Banbury Mill Man
•	Mixing Trucker
•	Banbury Compounder
•	Extruding Machine Operator
•	Department Set-Up
•	Line Technician
•	Material Service Trucker
These employees will assume the classification for the designated period and upon completion of the said assignment the employees shall be eligible to put in their preference bid again, but the subsequent preference bid will only be for purposes of vacation replacement in the months of May through September. The Company will utilize sick and vacation replacement employees when there are insufficient employees with preference bids to choose from the finishing and miscellaneous areas.
18:08 Effective April 1, 2004 (ratification date) an employee who is entitled to three (3) weeks of vacation per year may request to the Company in advance in writing to schedule one (1) of his/her week of vacation time In shorter periodsof not less than one (1) day at a time, in increments of eight (8) hours. Employeeswith four (4) or more weeks of vacation per year may request to the Company in advance in writing to schedule two (2) of his/her weeks of vacation time in shorter periods of not less than one (1) day at a time, in increments of eight (8) hours.
47
ARTICLE XIX Miscellaneous
19:01 Bulletin Boards -The Company agrees to post notices of meetings and other Union business and affairs on bulletin boards provided for such purpose. There shall be one (1) such bulletin board at the north gate and one (1) at the main gate. It is agreed, that such notices must be approved by the Manager of Employee Relations of the Company, or his designated representatives
19:02 It is understood that where the masculine pronoun is used in this agreement it shall refer to both genders unless the contents of the clause require otherwise.
19:03 No employee shall be recognized by the Company as a steward, a member of the Grievance Committee, a member of the Bargaining Committee, or as a member of the Executive Board of the Union until the Manager of Employee Relations has been notified in writing of his status and jurisdiction, by the President, Vice-president, or Secretary of the Union. Each member of the Executive Board shall have at least one (1) year's seniority with the Company and shall be regular employees of the Company during their time of office.
19:04 Members of factory management shall not do the work which is normally assigned to direct workers, except for temporary periods in emergencies or in relieving employees for personal time or in instructing employees or in carrying out functions necessary to the fulfillment of their supervisory responsibilities, such as checking workmanship, and quality and running equipment to check on operating problems or maintenance needs. It is recognized that in the performance of experimental and development work on
48
production equipment, it is sometimes necessary for supervision or technical personnel to perform operations for occasional short periods of time in order to "get the feel" of the operation. Direct work by supervisors and technical personnel shall be for the purf c > state i above and shall m be for the purpose of displacing direct workers.
19:05 The Company shall have the right to place a number of trainees throughout the plant, not to exceed two percent (2%) of the factory enrollment. These trainees will be used for educational and self-training purposes and may be assigned to production equipment for these purposes. The trainee(s) shall not displace a direct worker and may be retained on any one job classification for a maximum period of three (3) months.
19:06 The Company agrees to provide adequate relief for normal personal needs in any department where the work requires continuous operation.
19:07 An employee will be given a copy of any discipline notice concerning his conduct at the time it is placed in his personal record. A copy of every discipline notice will be forwarded to the secretary and to the Union President's designated representative by the Manager of Human Resources. Disciplinary notices for offenses not repeated within a one (1) year period will be cancelled and not used for disciplinary action, however, they will remain a part of the employee's record for a period of five (5) years and then will be removed and destroyed.
19:08 The term "Working Days" whenever it appears in the Agreement shall be interpreted to mean normal working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and paid holidays unless such specified days are scheduled and worked by a majority of employees.
49
19:09 It is the intention of the Company that multiple absentees who are unable to provide satisfactory explanation to the Medical Centre or Human Resource Departmentfor their absences will be required to report to the Medical Centre or Human Resource Department after each subsequent absence prior to commencing work.
in the event of an employee being told to report to the Medical Centre he will be paid from the time he was scheduled to report provided he is ready and willing to return to work.
The purpose of this visit is to provide an adequate follow up and control of absenteeism.
Multiple absentees will be reviewed with the Union. A "Multiple Absentee" is defined as an employee who has four (4) separate unexcused absences during a seven (7) month period. The multiple absentee who does not lose unexcused time over a five (5) month period will have his name removed from this list (W.S.I.B. cases will be excluded).
The Arbitration decision of November 12, 1986, becomes part and parcel of this article.
19:10 The Companywill reimburseemployeesforthe cost of short term and long term disabilityforms and any additional doctor's notes required by the Medical Department for clarification on specific information relating to a medical problem.
50
ARTICLE XX Health &Safety
20:01 The Company, the Union and the employees recognize that they each have rights and obligations under the Occupational Health & Safety Act. Specifically the Company acknowledges that it has the obligation to take every precaution reasonable in the circumstances for the protection of its employees. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing:
A)	The Company shall ensure that the equipment, materials and protective devices provided by the Company are used as directed and the employees shall use or wear the equipment, protective devices or clothing that the Company requires to be used or worn;
B)	The Company shall provide information, instruction and supervision to an employee to protect the health or safety of the employees; and
C)	The Company shall acquaint an employee with any hazard in the work and an employee shall report to the Company the existence of any hazard of which the employee is aware.
The Company's obligations under the Occupational Health and Safety Act or this sub-article2Q;01 shall only be enforced in accordance with the procedures for enforcement provided for under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
20:02 A Joint Health & Safety Committee shall be established which is composed of an equal number of Union and Company representatives, with a minimum of four members each. The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall be co-chaired by one Union and one Company representative.
51
A)	The Joint Health and Safety committee shall meet at least once every month or more often if deemed necessary and agreed upon by the Co-Chairpersons.
B)	Minutes shall be taken of Committee meetings by the Company and copies shall be provided to all Committee representatives and posted within 72 hours of completion of the meeting. The Company shall provide for two Health and Safety boards.
C)	The Joint Health and Safety Committee shall have the rights and obligations of a committee under the Occupational Health and Safety Act and pursuant to section 9(18) of that Act the Joint Health and Safety Committee shall have the functions and powers provided under the Occupational Health and Safety Act and this Agreement.
20:03 The entire workplace shall be inspected by not more than two (2) Union representatives and two (2) Company representatives monthly. If possible at least one of the Union representatives and one of the Company representatives carrying out the inspection shall be certified. Company agrees that all Union members of the Union Joint Health and Safety Committee can go on the monthly safety tours provided they are lawfully entitled to do so.
20:04 Time spent by the Union representatives preparing for and attending Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings and time spent by Union representatives on the monthly workplace inspection shall be paid at their regular or premium rate as may be proper.
20:05 The Company shall pay the Union Health and Safety Chairperson eight (8) hours per pay week at his straight time hourly rate in order that he may perform
52
the functions necessary to his office and work in conjunction with the plant Safety Coordinator.
20:06 An employee may refuse to work or do particular work where he or she has reason to believe that,
A)	Any equipment, machine, device or thing the employee is to use or operate is likely to endanger himself, herself or another employee;
B)	The physical condition of the workplace or the part thereof In which he or she works or is to work is likely to endanger himself or herself; or
C)	Any equipment, machine, device or thing he or she is to use or operate or the physical condition of the workplace or the part thereof in which he or she works or is to work is in contravention of the Occupational Health and Safety Act or its regulations and such contravention is likely to endanger himself, herself or another employee.
20:07 Upon refusing to work or do particularwork, the employeeshall promptly report the circumstancesofthe refusal to his or her supervisor who shall forthwith investigate the report in the presence of the employee and a Union safety representative who shall be made available and who shall attend without delay. Until the investigation is completed, the employee shall remain in a safe place near his or her work station.
20:08 Where, following the investigation or any steps taken to deal with the circumstances that caused the employee to refuse to work or do particular work, the employee has reasonablegrounds to believe that,
A)	Any equipment, machine, device or thing the employee is to use or operate is likely to
53
endanger himself, herself or another employee;
B)	The physical condition of the workplace or the part thereof in which he or she works or is to work is likely to endanger himself or herself: or
C)	Any equipment, machine, device or thing he or she is to use or operate or the physical condition of the workplace or the part thereof in which he or she works or is to work is in contravention of the Occupational Health and Safety Act or its regulations and such contravention is likely to endanger himself, herself or another employee, the employee may refuse to work or do the particular work and the Company or the employee or a person on behalf or the Company or the employee shall cause an inspector under the Occupational Health and Safety Act to be notified of the refusal. Once an inspector under the Occupational Health and Safety Act has been notified the investigation will proceed in accordance with the procedures contained in the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
20:09 Pending the investigation and decision of the inspector under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, the employee shall remain at a safe place near his or her work station during the employee's normal working hours unless the Company assigns the employee reasonable alternative work during such hours, or subject to the Company's obligations under this Article and the Occupational Health and Safety Act. where an assignment of reasonable alternative work is not practicable, gives other directions to the employee.
5 A
20:10 Pending the investigation and decision of the inspector, no employee shall be assigned to use or operate the equipment, machine, device or thing or to work in the workplace or in the pari of the workplace being investigated unless, in the presence of a Union safety representative, the employee has been advised of the other employee's refusal and his or her reasons for the refusal.
20:11 The Company shall not dismiss or threaten to dismiss an employee, discipline or suspend or threaten to discipline or suspend an employee, impose any penalty upon an employee, or intimidate or coerce an employee, because the employee has acted in compliance with, or sought the enforcement of, the Occupational Health and Safety Act and its regulations or the Health and Safety provisions of this Article.
20:12 The Company recognizes the "right to participate and the right to know" under the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System. Should any of these rights be deleted from the OccupationalHealth and Safety Act and Regulations during the term of this agreement, the Company and Union agree to develop contract language comparable to the Act and Regulationsof 2003.
20:13 The Union Health and Safety Co-Chairperson or his designate may be present at all new employee orientations.
20:14 it shall be mandatory for all employees to wear safety shoes when on Company premises. The Company will subsidize an employee towards the cost of purchasing one (1) pair of leather safety shoes per year for his personal use during his regular working hours. This payment will be made to each employee during the third pay period of January according to the following schedule:
55
January 2005 - $100.00 January 2006 - $100.00 January 2007 - $100.00
Employees, who are not on the active payroll when the payment of the safety shoes is made in January, will receive their Safety Shoe Allowance upon return to work.
20:15 The Company shall provide gloves on operations that require the use of this hand protective equipment at no cost to the employee.
20:16 For the duration of this Agreement the Company agrees to:
A)	The present practice of providing and cleaning
coveralls to the following classifications: Mixing,Set-up, Trucker- Department 101.
B)	In addition to the above, the Company will
provide and clean 10 pairs of coveralls to the following classifications:	Maintenance,
Solvent Room Attendant.
C)	Rainwear will be provided to all employees working outside in inclement weather.
D)	The Com pany will furnish one (1) pair of safety
rubber boots to Janitors for use when working outside in inclement weather or washing down the shower room area. These rainwear boots will be made available through the Stores and returned to the Stores when not being used.
E)	The Company will provide three (3) shop coats for tool and die makers.
20:17 The Company agrees to continue the safety eyeglass program to allow the employees to purchase at no cost to the employee one pair of prescription
S6
eyewear every two (2) years or when the prescription dictates.
20:18 Any employee who suffers a serious injury or impairment from his employment with the Company, which results in permanent disability, and he is unable to continue working on his own operation, the Company will endeavor to place him on a suitablejob for which he is qualified and capable of performing in accordance with his seniority. Once so placed, seniority may be waived in the case of other employees displacing such employee. This process shall be handled in the following manner:
A)	When an employee is permanently disabled as a result of his employment with the Company and medical documentation of the employee's restriction has been provided to the Company, and no job has been found by the Company which the employee can perform, the Joint Committee consisting of four (4) representatives to be designated by the Union and four (4) representatives to be designated by the Company, shall meet and determine what jobs the employee is capable and qualified to perform in the plant.
B)	The employee shall be placed on the job identified, if a vacancy exists at that point in time. If no vacancy exists, the employee shall be placed on layoff until a job vacancy he is capable of performing becomes available. If, during this layoff period, the employee receives compensation other than pension benefits due to his disability, he shall continue to accrue seniority for this period of time. The vacancy shall not be posted in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
57
ARTICLE XXI Amendments
21:01 Amendments to the Agreement may be made by mutual agreement of both parties. Proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing by the party submitting the change and negotiations on such proposalsshall begin within thirty (30) days. During the negotiations and thereafter. if no conclusion is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
ARTICLEXXII Duration and Termination
22:01 Save as the Pension Plan, The Welfare and Insurance Agreement and the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan Agreement and Separation Payment Plan signed between the parties, this Collective Agreement shall be the entire one and shall be effective from the 1st day of June, 2004, and shall continue in force until the 1st day of June, 2007, and for yearly periodsthereafter, unlesswritten notice is given to either party within one hundred and fifty (150) days immediately prior to the expiration date or the anniversary date of any yearly period that it is desired to terminate or amend the Agreement. In the event such notice is given the parties shall commence negotiations within fifteen (15) days thereafter and if such negotiations are not concluded prior to the termination date of this Agreement, it shall continue in full force and effect thereafter until negotiations have been concluded, subject to cancellation by either party upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the other party or until the procedure contemplated by the Labour Relations Act has been completed. In witness whereof the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 1s( day of June, 2004.
58
Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of:
UNITED
STEELWORKERS LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC WELLAND, ONTARIO
T. Gasperetti M. Porter L. Hanson J, Buote L. Napper
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D,	Molnat B, Podio
B. Greenaway- international Representative
59
Classification Draftsman 11 Draftsman 1 LabTechnician11 LabTechnicianl ProductionScheduler11 Production Scheduler 1 Storekeeper
Data Entry
Accounts Receivable Accounts Payable ProductionClerk Training Manual Coordinator Quality Assurance Clerk
WAGE SCHEDULE
Effective May 31, 2004 Group “A”
Hiring Rate 19.51
17.91 18.68
17.91 18.68 17.25
17.91
180 Days 19.78 18.07
18.95 18.16
18.95 17.45 18.16
270 Days
20.05
18.22
19.22
18.43
19.22 17.61
18.43
360 D;
20.6
18.4
19.7 18.6
19.7
17.7 18.6
Group “B”
17.92	18.17	18.23
17.92	18.13	18.28
17.92	18.13	18.28
17.92	18.13	18.28
17.92	18.13	18,28
17.92	18.13	18.28
18.4
18.4
18.4
18.4
18.4
18.4
WAGE SCHEDULE
Classification
Draftsman 11 Draftsman 1 Lab Technician 11 Lab Technician 1 Production Scheduler 11 Production Scheduler 1 Storekeeper
Data Entry
Accounts Receivable Accounts Payable Production Clerk Training Manual Coordinator Quality Assurance Clerk
Effective Mav 30.2005
Group " A
Hiring Rate 19.95
18.31
19.10
18.31
19.10 17.64
18.31
180 Days
20.23
18.48
19.38
18.57
19.38 17,84
18.57
270 Days
20.50
18.63
19.65
18.84
19.65 18.01
18.84
■*fin ns
21.0'
18.8-
20.2:
19.11 20.2: 18.1<
19.11
Group “B"
18.32	18.58
18.32	18.54
18.32	18.54
18.32	18.54
18.32	18.54
18.32	18.54
18.64
18.69
18.69
18.69
18.69
18.69
18.8
18.8
18.8
18.8
18.8
18.8
WAGE SCHEDULE
Effective May 29. 2006 Group “A”
ifi cation	Hirlna Rate	180 Davs	270 Days	360 Davs
man 11	20.40	20.69	20.96	21.54
man 1	18.73	18.90	19.05	19.26
echnician 11	19.53	1-9,83	20.09	20.67
echnician 1	1813	1-8.99	19.26	19.53
ction Scheduler 11	19.53	1-9,83	20.09	20.67
ction Scheduler 1	18.04	18.24	18.42	18.57
weeper	18.73	18.99	1-9,36	19.53
		Group “B”		
Entry	18.74	19.00	1-9.06	19.27
ints Receivable	18.74	18.96	19.11	19.27
ints Payable	18.74	I-8.96	19.11	19.27
ction Clerk	18.74	1-8.96	1-9,1.1-	19.27
ng Manual Coordinator	18.74	1-8,96	19.11	19.27
y Assurance Clerk	18.74	1-8.96	19.11	19.27
Classification 3anbury Operator Banbury Relief Operator Banbury Mill & Compounder Banbury Mill Service Mixing Miscellaneous Extruding Machine Operator Line Technician Mold Technician Material Services Trucker
S.Q.C. Auditor Department Set-UD Sanyu Miscellaneous Solvent Room Attendant
S.P.C.
Mixing Truck Operator Janitor
GENCORP DAY RATE WAGE SCHEDULE “A’ Production Group "A”
May 31.2004 May 30. 2005
20.47	20 93
20.47	20.93
20.37	20.83
20.37	20.83
20.37	20.83
19.94	20.39
19.94	20,39
19.94	20.39
19.94	20.39
18.92	19.35
19,56	20.00
19,39	19.83
19.12	19.55
19.94	20.39
18,87	19.29
18,55	18.97
Mav 29. 200B
21.40
21.40
21.30
21.30
21.30
20.85
20.85
20.85
20.85 19.79 20.45 20.28 19.99
20.85 19.72
19.40
iiflcatlon
er
enance Janitor
ling Technician Labour
GENCORP DAY RATE WAGE SCHEDULE “A” Production Group “A"
May 31, 2004
19 39
L8.SS
May 30,2005
19.83
18.97
Group “B”
19.39	19.83
19.39	19-83
May *9, 2006
20.28
19.40
20.28
20.28
WAGE SCHEDULE
Classification
Labour Pool
ClaftftiflraHtw
Labour Pool
Classification
LabourPool
Hiring Rate
20.47
Hiring Rato
20.93
Hiring Rate
21.40
Effective Mav 31. 2004
Group "A"
180 Pays
20.57	20.67
Effective May 30. 2005 Group “A”
180 Days	360 Days
21,03	21.13
Effective Mav 29, 2006 Group “A”
180 Days	360 Days
21.50	21.60
540 Days 720 Days
20.62	20.97
540 Days 720 Davs
21.28	2143
540 Davs 720 Davs
21.75	21.90
WAGE SCHEDULE SKILLED TRADES AGREEMENT SKILLED TRADES WAGE SCHEDULE
	Mav 31,2004	Mav 30, 2005	Mav 29,2006
lead ss Progression Rates:	24,30	24.85	25.41
ting Rate	23.37	23.90	24,44
ie {3) Months	23.89	24.43	24.98
Jompany and the Union agree to meet following ratification to discuss issues relating to the jpment of a skilled trades apprenticeship program and the continuing education and upgrading of 19 trades people,
Skilled Trades Agreement has been developed In cooperation between GenCorp Canada Inc., nd, Ontario, known as the Company and Local 455, United Steelworkers of America, known as the
/rpose: The purpose of this write up is:
A)	To lay down rules and regulations for working in the Maintenance Department,
B)	To enable the Maintenance Department to maintain plant facilities in good operating conditior thus keeping equipment downtime to a minimum. With this in mind, complete cooperation anc assistance between Supervisory and Trade Groups a paramount necessity.
2.	General:
The parties agree that the Maintenance Department shall participate in any Company spon training programs during normal working hours
It is recognized that courses during an employee's regular working hours will be paid for a hourly rate. Courses may also be offered outside the employee's normal working hours anc be paid as follows:
ATTENDANCE MANDATORY- Employee paid hisapplicable rate of pay includingprerr ATTENDANCEVOLUNTARY - Employee paid his applicable rate of pay.
3,	Definitions: QUALIFICATIONS FOR SKILLED TRADESMAN
A skilled tradesman must possessa current Ontario Certificate of Qualificationinthe Trade a for or on the date of ratification is presently working on a listed trade classification and rec the top rate for such classification.
4.	Trade Classifications and Qualifications:
A skilled tradesmanwill be classified as one of the following and possess the Ontario Certific Qualification in his respective trade. Skilled trades as specified by Ontario Provincial certifi shall be but not limited to the following:
INDUSTRIAL MECHANIC-MILLWRIGHT	GENERAL CARPENTER
ELECTRICIAN	TOOL & DIE
PLUMBER
lompany and Union agree that in the event of an emergency e skilled tradesman may be ded to perform duties outside of his classification if insufficient tradesmen are available on shift in tegory in which such emergency arose.
sfinition of an emergency shall consist o| one or more of the following conditions:
iquipment conditions which threaten the safety of Personnel and safe alternatives e|e not
vailable.
reakdown or failure of production equipment which will cause excessive reduction and/or hutdown of production.
quipment conditions which will cause major breakdown if not repaired immediately. In this ituation the Engineering and Maintenance department normally initiate the shutdown of the quipment.
V the same token the job descriptions shall rq be construed or intended to confine or restrict the ede duties to the detriment of the Company's obligation to operate the business efficiently, cognized that the Company will continue to supply any additional specialty tools and equipment tion to that recommended for each trade. Every endeavor must be made to maintain these tools luipment.
)reed that the parties will establish e Skilled Trades Committee made up of an equal number of representatives and Company representatives. The Committee shall meet, discuss and make mendations with respect to all issues pertaining to the skilled trades such as, but not limited to, -ting out issues, apprenticeship and training issues.
'hepresent practices listed below shall be continued for the duration of this Agreement.
-I. Replace at no cost to the maintenance tradesman or set-up men any worn or damaged tools.
2.	The scheduling of maintenance tradesmen's weekend Work as contained in the "Mainier Weekend Work Schedule".
3.	Upon request the Company will cooperate with employees in certifying work experience so enable the employee to apply forll.S.W.A. journeyman card.
■NTICE PROGRAM
TOOL a DIE MAKERS ftMO MAINTENANCE TRADESMAN
Vhen apprenticeship vacancies exist the Company will post a memo and furnish the membership with a lualifications required to become eligible for this position and must Submit in writing their interest to the Per Jepartment.
_he Company will maintainthe right to selectthe candidate for apprenticeshipfrom the submissions.
'he Company will furnish the Skilled Trades Maintenance designate with documents indicating the appre regression.
The Company will credit the apprentice with all hours worked and while attending night school or day class traini ihail not be compensated for schooling hours.
The Company will accredit the apprentice with previous experience from former employers providing locumentation can be provided.
jpon completion of 8000 hours the Company will Subsidize the apprentice with $250.00 far tool allowance.
3 Rate hours l hours hours hours hours hours hours
APPRENTICE PROGRAM PROGRESSION WAGE RATES GROUP "A”
May 31. 2004	May 30. 20D5	May 29.2006
20.42	20.88	21.35
20.97	21.44	21.92
21.04	21.51	21.99
21.09	21.56	22.05
21.17	21.65	22.14
21.27	21.75	22.24
21.36	21.84	22.33
21.45	21,93	22.42
•hall be a six (6) months review of classification by Supervisor.
	Mav 311 2004	Mav 30.2005	May 29. 2006
months	22.74	23.25	23.77
nths	22.85	23.36	23.89
onths	22.97	23.49	24.02
INTICE MAINTENANCE TRADES	Mav 31.2004	Mav 30.2005	MavZ9. 2006
nonths	22.41	22.91	23.43
nths	22.54	23.05	23.57
onths	22.66	23.17	23.69
months	22.80	23.31	23.83
vage schedule skilled trades agreement
lots: To warrant increases In the above rate schedule, the Apprentice's progress must be satisfactory in the o
if Technical and/or Maintenance Manager- tf proper progress is not shown by th© apprentice, rate increases rr
ield in abeyance for a maximum of two (2) 750 hour periods. In the event this situation occurs, it could be consi lat tha apprentice has not proven himself suitable for this work and liable for discharge. It is understood th Company cannot guarantee steady work, but will make every reasonable effort to supplythe same
OOL& DIEMAKER Starting rate 'hree Months 'oo( 3 Die Designer
Maj'31, 2004 23.70
24.04
24.04
May 30,200S	May 29,2006
24.23	24.78
24.58	25.13
24.58	25.13
PLANT WIDE LABOUR POOL
The Company will implement a new Department
(Labour Pool) to work in various classifications throughout the plant. The Labour Pool will exist for the life of this agreement. Assignments based on temporary vacancies throughout the plant.
Implementation:
Phase in gradually - post for six (6) Labour Pool positions and reduce spares in the areas according to where the successful bidder comes from.
Any outstanding issues during the implementation stage will be handled through a joint committee comprised of three (3) Company Representatives and three (3) Union Representatives.
Overtime Rights:
STEP 1:	The employee(s) in the department job
classification or the Labour Pool employee scheduled at the beginning of the week, on the shift, on the equipment or equipment grouping.
STEP 2:	As in Article 16-.-10.
STEP 2a): Senior qualified Labour Pool employee scheduled on shift STEP3:	As in Article 16:10.
S & V's will be hired in addition to the Labour Pool employees and paid according to the current job assignment wage.
Labour Pool Structure:
Initial Pay Rate- Banbury Operator Rate
Pay for Skill increases to be developed by Implementation Committee to a maximum pay rate of $0.50 above Banbury Operator Rate.
72
Job assignments and training to be determined by Management.
Training will be at a minimum of one(1) person training at all times during the months of October to April until Labour Pool is fully trained. All employees bidding into the Labour Pool must be re-cellifled.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Subject Week-End Work Crew
This Memorandum of Agreement is Supplemental to the Agreement entered into by and between United Steelworkers of America, Local 455, and GenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
The parties agree that it is in their mutual interest to ensure that the Company remains competitive and reaches the highest levels of productivity possible. To this end the following understanding i s entered into.
The signing of this Memorandum of Agreement and the understandings contained therein shall supersede certain provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement only as they apply to employees employed as part of the week-end crew. It is understood that this Agreement is necessary to clarify the conditions and terms of employment under which individuals will work on week-end crews.
it is the Company's intent to employ the week-end crew for the shifts outlined below. If a week-end crew employee is to be transferred to a Monday to Friday operation, the Company will discuss the reason for the transfer with the Union. No transfer shall take place without the Union Bargaining Committee's agreement. The Company at its sole discretion may institute weekend work shifts. The Company may unilaterally at any time discontinue such week-end work shifts. The normal hours of work for individuals assigned to these shifts would be twelve (12) hours per day and twenty-four (24) hours per week. Employees who work their
73
normal workweek would earn twenty-four (24) hours pay per week and such pay would be calculated as follows:
Twelve (12) hours straight time pay for Saturday work. Twelve (12) hours straight time pay for Sunday work.
Probatlonary Period
No seniority rights are recognizedduringthe first six (6) months which shall be the probationary period of the new employees. On completion of the probationary period seniority shall extend back to date of hire.
A) Where warranted the probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union in advance of the scheduled expiration of the employee's probation period.
Due to the unique character of the week-end crew, certain benefits and provisions of the Agreement between the parties will be applied in a different manner as regardsto week-end crew employees.
Week-end work crew vacancies shall be posted for bid, but openings will be awarded to the most senior qualified employees in each classification. Under the terms of this Agreement it is understoodthat "qualified" shall be interpreted to mean fully qualified for pay purposes, therefore, only fully qualified employees may exercise a shift bid or preference to the week-end work crew.
Due to the unique character of the week-end work crew employees. those employees assigned to the week-end crew will be so assigned for a minimum period of one year and will not be allowed to exercise bid rights or shift rights for that period. Employees may exercise shift preference or bidding rights within the week-end crew or when vacancies occur providing they have one year of seniority. If they exercise these bid rights within the week-end crew they must remain in the new classification for a minimum of 12 months.
74
Empl >y nay exei ;ise shift preference r bidding rights when vacancies occur. Such employee will have first right to transfer to the reguft r shift schedule. If a ti fer of ii ip oy ie occurs from tl el ir operation to the regular Monday to Friday operation he will accrue pi 3 rated dlted service ft | ision benefits while on week end crew and full credited service for pension benefits while on full time from the first of the month following his date of transfer. Weekend Ct w i ployr rill i lot b eligible to transfer to the Monday to Friday operation while Monday to Friday employees are waiting recall from layoff except where their seniority is greater than employees hired without a job posting (full time temporary employees) to replace fulltime employees who are off work due to i.e.: illness, vacation, leave c absence.
Due to the :h racier of 1 work involved, it is anticipated th st no inexperienced [ iel	II be
assigned to the week-end work rn	mpioye on
the week-end crew wili be permitted to trade shifts with other week-end crew pe s nnel only will the permission of the supervisor.
Should £ employee be declared surplus and ;i i k I >a\ his classification r iej 1 mnt ii a ;c :i c< rith layoff p ii it is understood th t hi employee may at t is discretion displace a wee ni work shift employee only if he/she is fully qualified.
Compensation
Employees working on the week-end work crew will be paid in accordance with the rate structure established at the plant.
Empli iye of the week-end k crew ill normally work a twelve (12) hour shift on Saturday and Sunday. Payment for overtime hours worked by week-end crew employees will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) on Saturday and Sunday and in excess of forty (40) in a work week. In addition, time and one-haif shall be paid for all hours
75
worked in excess of eight (8)\n any work day during the first five (5) days of the workweek (Monday through Friday).
Double time will be paid for all work performed on holidays. There will be no pyramiding of overtime.
Shift premium - for hours worked between eleven (11:00) p.m. to eleven (11:00) a.m. thereshall be paid a fifty cent (50$) shift premium per hour.
A week-end crew employee reporting for work who has failed to receive notice not to report and receives less than one-half the normal work day shall be paid for not less than one-half the normal work day at his average hourly earnings subject to the provisions of Paragraph 15:02.
A week-end crew employee called in at a time other than his regular shift by reason of emergency work shall receive at least six (6) hours pay at the straight-time rate if called in on Saturday or Sunday.
Lunch and break periods for the week-end crew will be recognized on the basis of two (2) break periods of fifteen (15) minutes and one thirty (30) minute lunch period.
Benefits
Benefits shall be as follows: Unemployment Insurance Commission, Canada Pension Plan, Worker's Compensation. The Company will also provide Pension provisions in compliance with the hourly Pension Plan document and pro rated drug and dental benefits. No other benefits covered by the Collective Agreement shall apply to the week-end crew employees.
Holiday Pay
Employees of the week-end crew will receive nine (9) hours pay at average hourly earnings for nine (9) statutory holidays, namely, New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday,
76
Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day, in lieu of having holidays off. Should a holiday fall on Saturday or Sunday and be celebrated on such day in accordance with the Agreement, weekend employees will be required to work on such a holiday and will receive a normal work day pay at average hourly earnings and the holiday premium for such work.
The normal holiday eligibility requirements of the Agreement shall apply to week-end work crew personnel.
Vacation
Employees assigned to the week-end work crew with the exception of maintenance personnel will be required to take vacation during the scheduled plant shutdown. Should their vacation eligibility exceed the shutdown period, they will be paid vacation pay in lieu of time off for additional vacation periods.
When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding year owing to sickness, pregnancy and Parental Leave or injury not covered by the Worker's Compensation Act and for these reasons only, his vacation pay calculated in accordance with this clause is less than one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per week the vacation pay lo which he is entitled will be increased to the above minimum, provided he has worked a minimum of three (3) months in the vacation year.
Jury Duty
Week-end work crew employees are ineligible for jury duty pay unless they are specifically required to serve onjury duty on their normal weekend scheduled days of work, in such cases, the provisionsof Paragraph 15:05 shall apply.
77
Funeral Leave
Should a week-end work crew employee suffer a death in his family in accordance with Paragraph 15:07 the employee shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of straight time pay should the funeral occur Monday through Friday. If the funeral should occur on his regular shifts (Saturday-Sunday) he shall be compensated for twenty-four (24) hours. Such pay shall not be considered as time worked for overtime purposes.
In witness thereof, the parties hereto. by their duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, on the 16' day of June, 2004
UNITED
STEELWORKERS LOCAL 455,
AFL-CIO-CLC
T, Gasperetti M. Porter L, Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
B. Greenaway-International Representative
GENCORP CANADA INC. WELLAND, ONTARIO.
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D,	Molnar B. Podio
78
Subject: Continuous 6-2/3 Day Schedule
This Memorandum of Agreement is supplemental the Agreement entered into by and between Local 455, United Steelworkers of America, Welland, Ontario, and GenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario on the 18t day of June, 2004.
In order to provide the Welland plant the opportunity to become efficient and competitive, the Company and the Union agree to enter into the following Memorandum of Agreement.
The purpose of this Agreement as signed by both parties will serve to outline the conditions of work in relation to the 6-2/3 days four (4) crew rotating schedule.
Based on this memorandum of 6-2/3 days four (4) crew rotating schedule the following conditions will apply.
Implementation
The Company reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to place any or all job classifications, as is necessary, on a 6-2/3 days four (4) crew rotating schedule. However, should it become necessary the Company reserves the right to discontinue such schedule at its sole discretion.
Hours of Work
The normal working hours shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. The normal work week shall be from eleven (11:00) p.m. Sunday to eleven (11:00) p.m. the following Sunday. The Company shall reserve the right to schedule employees on the open shift as per production and maintenance requirements dictate.
79
Overtime
The Company will pay time and one half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in one twenty-four (24) hour period or forty (40) straight time hours in any work week. Hours that are not worked due to Union leave of absences or other approved leave of absence shall be counted as time worked for purposes of computing weekly overtime payment.
Designated Holiday
Should a designated holiday fall on an employee's scheduled work day the holiday will be worked, if required, and the employee will be compensated accordingly in lieu of time off. If a designated holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day off he will not receive a day in lieu neither shall the hours paid be used for the purpose of computing weekly overtime payment.
Vacation
A calendar week Sunday through Saturday will be the vacation schedule for the 6-2/3 four (4) crew rotating schedule.
The signing of this Memorandum of Agreement and the understanding contained therein shall supersede certain provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement only as they apply to the employees employed as part of the 6-2/3 day four (4) crew rotating schedule.
80
In witness thereof, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, on the 1st day of June 2004.
UNITED
STEELWORKERS LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC WELLAND, ONTARIO.
T. Gasperetti M. Porter L. Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D.	Molnar B. Podio
B. Greenaway - International Representative
Continuous: 5 Shift Operation
in order to provide the Welland plant the opportunity to become efficient and competitive, the Company and the Union agree to enter into the following Memorandumof
Agreement. The purpose of this Agreement as signed by both parties will serve to outline the conditions of work in relationto the Continuous5 Shift Operation. Based on this memorandum the following conditions will apply.
The Company reserves the right to place any or all operations on the 5 Shift Operation as it becomes necessary. Implementation shall be consistent with Article 10:03.
1.	Openings will be offered to the senior employees within the classification in the department.
2.	Any additional vacancies will be posted if required and then the junior employees in the
81
classification will be assigned the vacancies. Where there is week-end crew in an area being affected by the conversion they will be given the following choices prior to posting vacancies:
1.	Full time job	in their	current
	classification	within	the
	department.		
2.	Weekend crew	in other areas per	
	seniority.		
3,	Layoff		
Hours of Work
A)	Five (5), eight (8) hour shifts paid at straight time.
B)	Two (2). twelve (12) hour shifts on Saturday and Sunday paid at 20 hours each day.
C)	Each hour on the weekend is equivalent to 1.67 hours paid or lost.
D)	Should the need arise for short term use of four (4) crews as a result of a reduction, the schedule for 2, 12 hour shifts on Saturday and Sundaywill be from 11 p.m. - 11 a.m.
5 Shift Schedule
Week 1 - Works Days (8 HRS) Mon.-Fri. 3-11 shift -weekend off
Week 2 - Work 5 Days (8HRS) Mon.-Fri. 7-3 shift -weekend off
Week 3 - Works Days(BHRS) Mon.-Fri. 11-7 shift — weekend off
Week4- Off Mon.-Fri. work weekend (2- 12/HRS)
11 a.m. - 11 p.m.
'Week 5 - Off Mon.-Fri. work weekend (2-12/HRS)
11 p.m. -11 a.m.
ROTATION REPEATS
82
Overtime
Employeesmust work forty (40) hours or the equivalent of forty (40) hours (two twelve hour shifts on the weekend) to qualify for the appropriate rate of payment.
Designated Holiday
Should a designated holiday fall on an employee's scheduled work day the holiday will be worked, if required, and the employee will be compensated accordingly. If a designated holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day off they will not be compensated.
The signing of this Memorandum of Agreement and the understanding contained therein shall supersede certain provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement only as they apply to the employees employed as pari of the Continuous 5 Shift Operation.
UNITED
STEELWORKERS, LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC WELLAND, ONTARIO.
T. Gasperetti M. Porter L. Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
P, Lustri
C.	Clark
D.	Molnar B. Podio
B,	Greenaway - International Representative
83
WELFARE AND INSURANCE AGREEMENT
between
GENCORP CANADA INC.
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL UNION NO. 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
June 1, 2004
AGREEMENT FOR INSURANCE BENEFITS
Welfare and Insurance Agreement between GenCorp Canada Inc. and United Steelworkersof America, Local Union No. 455, AFL-CIO-CLC, June 1, 2004.
ARTICLE 1
Insurance Program
The Insurance Program described herein shall be made effective for ail hourly employees represented by the Union, (such employees and all other employees hereafter represented by the Union being hereinafter referredto as the "Employees"), on June 1,2004.
Section 1. Group Lifo Insurance and
Non-Occupatlonal Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.
A. The Company will provide without cost to the Employees:
1.	Life Insurance Benefits of $34,000 for each regularfull-time employee.
2.	Non-Occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance Benefits of
84
$34,000 for each regular full-time employee, beginning on the date this program becomes effective, or, the date following the date on which he completes three (3) months of accumulated service, whichever is later, provided that an employee not actively at work on the date his coverage would otherwise become effective, would immediately become insured upon return lo active employment with the Company: provided, however, that employees already covered under the terminated insurance program shall be insured hereunder for the amount of Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Benefits in effect under the terminated plan, until they returnto active employment.
3.	The foregoing shall not be construed to exclude coverage for employees who are on vacation, leave of absence for local Union activities, in an official representative capacity, or who are working less than their standard shift.
4.	There will be no duplication in whole or part in payment of benefits under the terminated insurance Program and the Insurance Program of June 1, 2004.
B. The full amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Benefits shall be payable if a non-occupationalaccident causes the loss of:
Life	One Hand and One Foot
Both Hands One Hand and Sight of One Eye Both Feet One Foot and Sight of one Eye Sight of Both Eyes
One-half of such amount shall be payable if a nonoccupational accident causes the loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye; provided,
85
however, that the full amount wi!J be paid only once to or on account of any employee. The loss must occur within six (6) months after the accident to qualify for benefits.
C.	Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Paragraph C, ail insurance coverage under this Section 1 shall cease on the date of termination of an employee's regular active employment with the Company regardless of the reason therefore. Exceptions shall be made with respect to such cessation of coverage only in the following cases to the extent indicated:
1. During an authorized leave of absence, except for military service coverage under this Section 1 will be continued for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, except that coverage under this Section 1 shall be continued in force during the period of any leave of absence granted by the Company for Union activities for those employed by a local Union in an official or representativecapacity.
(A) in the event of layoff
(I)	An employee who is not eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits will have his Life insurance Coverage and Non-Occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Coverage continued to the end of the calendar month following the month during which layoff occurs and
(II)	An employee who is eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefits will have his Life Insurance and NonOccupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance Coverage continued until the last of the weekly Supplemental Unemployment Benefits with respect to such layoff is paid or until the expiration date of six (6) months
86
from the date of the layoff whichever is the shorter period.
(1/1) If an employee is laid off and is already in receipt of weekly accident and sickness benefits underthis Agreement, the Life Insuranceand Non-occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in respect to such employee, shall continue for the period to which he is entitled under Article I-Section II cf this Agreement but he shall not be entitled io any additional extension of his coverage during the period of layoff. (IV) An employee will have the privilege of continuing his Life Insuranceand Nonoccupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Coverage at his expense at the prevailing group rates for a period of twelve (12) months from the date his coverage would otherwise have been discontinued.
2.	The Life insurance (but not the Accidental
Death and	Dismemberment insurance)
coverage of a covered employee, who becomes totally disabled for employment after he has completed ten (10) or more years continuous service for the Company, will be continued in the full amount until age 65. Evidence of continued total disability must be provided by the Employee at any time.
3.	The Life Insurance (but not the Accidental
Death and	Dismemberment insurance)
coverage of an insured employee who becomes totally disabled for employment before he has completed ten (10) years of continuous service for the Company, will be continued in the full amount for the period of such disability not to exceed the period of employment completed prior to such disability
87
5.
and in no event to exceed five (5) years. Evidence of continued total disability must be p id d t y the employee at any tirr e If an employee completes 3t least five (>) years but less han ten (10) ars service, Life Insurance coverage will oe continued in the amount of $2,500.
ITi Life Insurance (but not the Accidental Di tl	d	Dismemt	it	Insurance)
coverage >1 a c )v re employee who is retired on his n m al r stirement date or special early retirement or on early retirement under	ft 3	C	i|	y' Pension	Plan	and	is
ititlf I to a pension thereunder till I continued thereafter only in the amount of $8,000.
The Life	s	an (but
Deati	i	Di	emb:
coverage of a vc
t tf Accidental nt Insurance) employee o is ly's Pensi Plan t date because of defined in said
continued ir the full
retired under the ic before his norn il reti n la t disability ( n ;k i) will b amount until the employee attains his normal retirement date: thereafter his Life Insurance (but lot	tt i	A	id	til	Di iti ar I
Dismemberment insurance) coverage will be continued in the amount if $8,000.
6.	The terminated Life Insurance is continued or a thirty-one (31) day period during which application	ii d	p	) t f required
premiums by the employee can b tde to tf Insurance O ipany lo convert y | »rt but not less than $500 of the full amount of terminated Lift Insurance. The c or irted F 'liiy ill t tt type customarily issued the insurance carrier, except term insurance or a policy containing Disability Benefits.
D.	Optional Contributory Life Insurance - to be effective
88
(A) Employee Life Insurance.
_______ to the Company-provided Basic
Life Insurance, ai eligible employee may elect, in writing an additional $13,000 of Life insurance on life. Such Life Insurance shall be on a contributory base. The current rate of weekly contributions, which will be deducted from an employee's earnings is $2.10. Should the rate charged by the Insurance Company for this contributory benefit be altered, the employee's contribution will be altered accordingly. An election to participate must be made within thirty-one (31) days of becoming eligible or evidence of insurabilitywill be required before coverage can become effective.
Once an election to participate has been made, an employee may cancel his optional coverage at any time, in writing, but evidence of insurability will be required if he subsequently decides to reapply for Optional Life Insurance and any insurance would take effect the first of the month following election and acceptance by the insurancecompany of evidence of insurability.
The cost, if any, of providing evidence of insurability will be the responsibility of the employee.
The details concerning total and permanent disability are the same as those pertaining to the Company's Basic Life Insurance Plan as set out in Article 1, Section 1, A-2, of this Insurance Program Agreement.
Eligibility to participate in this Optional Life Insurance Plan ceases upon termination of employment, retirement, or attainment of age 65 whichever occurs first, except that the conversion provisions outlined in Article 1, Section 1-C-7 of this Agreement will apply.
89
The Optional Life Insurance described e shall be provided conditional upon a >1 50% of eligible employees applying for h coverage on or before April1,1987 A medical examination at the employees expense may be required to provide evidence of insurability satisfactory to the carrier; if tl e iploy i d >i i n t enroll during tt e enrollment periods described in (A) above; if an lployee hii c fter :b iff h five date do s not enroll within ti ri)-o 31) days aft r becoming eligible; ir if the Optional Contributory Life Insurance previously te lir if 3d because a l n| Is > e 3 Dk d th required payroll deduction authorization or failed to make the required contribution.
(I t; Dependent Life Insurance
P ride 1 that an aligible an al ay has app lied for or itair tt c described in A) above, he may c in writing Dependent Llf Insurance . in a contributory basis, in the ir t of 5 >,( 3 for a spouse and $1,000 fot c )l pendent child. Spouse and dependent child are as defined in Section III, (5) of the Insurance Program Agreement.
The current rate of weekly contribution, which will b deducted from a i employee's li ig i: $.5E Should the rates charged by the insurance o ny fo this contributory benefit b altered, the employee's is ikly contribution ate will bf altered accordingly. An eiection to pi ti< i| its must 13 made within thirty-one (31) days of becoming eligible, or evidence of insurability t the expense f tt employee, will be required t f coverage a b effe ti',
90
Section II Accident Sickness Benefits for Employees
A.	The Company will provide without cost to the employee:
1.	Weekly Accident and Sickness Benefits at the rate of 66-2/3% of the employee's average hourly earnings times 40 hours to a maximum of $447.00, with a minimum payment of £250.00 a week.
2.	General.
Benefits will be paid to employees for accident or sickness not covered by a Worker's Compensation Act, while under the care of a doctor licensed to practice medicine. For purposes of a preceding sentence, a doctor licensed to practice medicine means either a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or a Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) or a Doctor of Chiropractic(D.C.).
Benefits will be payable from the first day of disability due to an accident, or the equivalent where 5 shifts exists (the Company will allow a reasonable minor delay of 48 hrs. for seeking medical attention), or the eighth day of disability due to sickness except that the disability results in the confinement to hospital of the employee or out patients surgery performed in a hospital, or for surgery performed by a specialist in a recognized heath facility (surgical testing has not and will not be paid for), the benefits will be paid as, from and including the first day of such hospitalization. Benefits will be paid far the duration of the disability but not exceeding fifty-two (52) weeks of any such disability for an employee.
Benefits for disabilities due to pregnancy will be available only. if the pregnancy commences while the employee is insured
91
under this program, and are payable from the time the employee ceases work.
An employee shall be deemed to be totally disabled and eligible for benefits if the disability is such that the employee is unable to work. There will be no limit to the number of different periods of disability for which benefits will be paid. Periods of disability due to the same cause will be considered the same period of disability, unless separated by a return to full-time work for at least two (2) weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes will be considered different periods of disability if separated by a return to full-time work. Disabilities giving rise to claims for any accident and sickness benefits may be verified by the Company by medical examination at any time. Benefits may be suspended if the claimant fails to have such examination made. it is understood that benefits shall not be suspended until satisfactory proof that the claimant is not cooperating. Employees who become disabled shall notify the employing Company's insurance department of such disability not laterthanten (10) days following the first day of the period for which benefits under this Section II are claimed, and shall give new notice thereof at intervals of no more than thirty (30) days thereafter for the duration of such disability. If any such notice is not timely filed, no benefits will be paid for periods previous to such notice unless the delay shall be shown to have been unavoidable and satisfactory evidence of physician's care and disability is furnished, in the event an employee's Workers Compensation claim is delayed for a period greater than six (6)weeks or is rejected and such claim is appealed the employee shall be
92
provided with the weekly Sickness Indemnity Benefits provided for under this Section. If and when the Worker's Compensation claim is allowed for the accident the Worker's Compensation Board will first reimburse the Company to the extent of the payments made before any payment is made to the employee.
3,	Should the earnings index under the Unemployment Insurance Act change the criteria for maximum benefits, the Company will adjust the weekly benefit to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the weekly indemnity plan for premium reductions under the Unemployment InsuranceAct.
4.	Eligibilityfor Insurance.
A.	A regular full-time employee will receive coverage under this program on the effective date or the date following the date on which he completes the required period of eligibility, whichever is later, provided that an employee not actively at work on the date his coverage would otherwise become effective, would immediately become insured upon his return to active employment with the Company. Employees already covered under the terminated insurance program shall be insured hereunder for benefits in effect under the terminated plan, but there will be no duplication in whole or pari in payment of benefits under the terminated insurance program. The foregoing shall not be construed to exclude employees from coverage who are on vacation, or leave of absence for local Union activities.
93
B.	Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Paragraph B, all insurance coverage, under Section il shall cease on the date of termination of an employee's regular active employment with the Company, regardless of the reason therefore. Exceptions shall be made with respect to such cessation of coverage only to the extent indicated.
1.	Accident and Sickness Benefits will be continued in force during a period of any leave of absence granted by the Company for Union activity for those employed by the local Union in an official or representativecapacity.
2,	if an employee is re-employed with credit for prior service, coverage under the pian will be reinstated immediately, provided the probationary period had been completed prior to lay-off.
C.	An employee hired after the date this program becomes effective will become insured on the date following the completion of three (3) months of accumulated service, provided he is actively at work on the effective date. Employees not actively at work on the effective date will become insured immediately upon return to active employment with the Company.
94
Section III Hospitalization, Medical, Surgical, and Extended Health Care.
A. Hospital and Medical and Surgical Benefits for
employees and dependents.
1.	Benefits will be provided by the Company and without cost lo the employees as provided by the Ontario Health insurance OrganizationAct (1971).
2.	In addition by way of a supplementary hospital benefit, the Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium in respect to each employee eligible to receive this benefit from the company, as a result of the enrolment of himself and his dependents, if any, in an authorized form which will provide such employee and his dependents, if any, with reimbursement or indemnity for the excess of the cost incurred by him and/or his dependents for hospital accommodation provided at the semi-private rate level over the cost of hospital accommodation at the standard or public ward level provided and included in the in-patient insured services supplied under the Hospital Services Commission Act of Ontario.
3.	For the purpose of determining whether an employee or other person is eligible to have the premium or premiums referred to in (1) and (2) above of this Section paid by the Company with respect to any particular month, such employee or person shall be deemed to be so eligible with respect to the first and each succeeding month in which he is described in pari B hereof as being eligible for the benefits of the plan arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred in such month and each succeeding month so that the Company's obligation to provide benefits will be fully discharged by
55
the making of the payment of the monthly premiums as aforesaid on such dates notwithstanding that the said employee or other person may not be entitled under the pians described in (1) and (2) above of this Section to receive the benefits of the services therein provided in concurrent months or succeeding months.
B.	1, The company will provide and pay the cost of
the Blue Cross Formulary Three - (Doctor prescribed and "Life Sustaining" drugs) and extended Health Care as contained in Ex. 800 (with the noted exceptions) or its equivalent coverage through an insurer or carrier of its choice for its employees and eligible dependents. The company will implement a pay direct drug card with the following:
1.	One dollar ($1.00) deductible per prescriptions.
2.	Mandatory generic substitution unless specified by doctor- no substitution.
la.	It is understood and agreed that the coverage for eyeglasses will be based on a maximum of the following every two (2) years as follows:
June 1,2004-$175.00 June 1,2005-$185.00 June 1,2006 - $195.00
lb.	Coverage for hearing aid on a one time Only basis for employees $500.00.
lc.	Out of Canada Medical coverage will be provided - max of $100,000.00 per person per lifetime.
ld.	Private duly nursing will be covered to a maximum of $25,000.00 per a three (3) year period.
C.	1. The surviving spouse of a deceased
employee or of a deceased pensioner shall
96
be given the right to purchase at his or her own expense directly from the insurer or insurers providing them, the benefits described in Article 1, Section III, A-2 and B-1, on a pay direct basis if the Company is able to arrange such coverage with the insurer on this basis.
D.	Eligibilityfor insurance.
1.	An employee will receive coverage underthis program on the effective date or the date following the date on which he completes the required period of eligibility, whichever is later, provided that an employee not actively at work on the date his coverage would otherwise become effective, would immediately become insured upon his return to active employment with the Company. Employees already covered under the terminated insurance program shall be insured hereunderfor benefits in effect under the terminated plan, but there will be no duplication in whole or part in payment of benefits under the terminated insurance program. The foregoing shall not be construed to exclude employees from coverage who are on vacation, or leave of absence for local Union activities.
2.	An employee hired after the date of this program becomes effective will become insured on the date on which he is actively at work following the date on which he completed three months service credit.
3,	If an employee is re-employed with credit for prior service, coverage under the plan will be reinstated immediately, provided the probationary period had beencompleted prior to layoff.
4,	Coverage for an employee's dependents will become effective on the same date as the employee's coverage except that if a
97
dependent is confined in a hospital (other than by reason of birth) when the insurance for that dependent would otherwise become effective, the insurance will become effective upon final discharge from the hospital.
5,	An employee'sdependentsare'
(A)	Spouse.
Spouse is defined as a person legally married to the employee or a person not married to the employee who is publicly represented as the employee's spouse and has been living with the employee for a period of at least one (1) continuousyear.
(B)	An employee's unmarried children less than twenty-one (21) years of age. The word "child in addition to the employee's own children includes such step-children, foster children, or other children (all unmarried) as depend wholly upon the employee for support and maintenance and live with him in a normal parent-child relationship.
if an employee acquires a child dependent other than by birth, legal adoption, or marriage, such dependent shall not become eligible until three months have elapsed from the date such child was added to the employee's insurance record.
The employee shall complete proper insurance forms to be made available to him for the recording of eligible dependents. The employee shall promptly advise the Company of any change in eligible dependents. Maternity benefits under this Section III will be paid only for the pregnancies of a female employee or wife of an employee or dependent employee or wife of an
98
employee or dependent child that commence while the female employee or the wife of an employee or dependent child is insured under this program.
(C)	An unmarried child 21 years to 25 years of age, who is dependent on the employee for support and maintenance, and who is either a full-time student or mentally or .physically incapable of selfsupport, will be entitled to the benefits provided under Article 1, Section III A-2 and Article 1, Section III, C
6.	There shall be no duplication of benefits under this Section III with respect to the insurance of any person covered hereunder, whether such duplication would arise from a person's status as an employee or dependent.
Any employee who works for another employer, and by reason of such employment, he or his dependents are covered by another employer-furnished noncontributory Ontario Health Insurance Commission Plan and Blue Cross Comprehensive Extended Health Care Plan or its equivalent, shall be entitled only to the benefits of this Section III which are in excess of the other plan provided his credited length of service is less with the Company than with the other employer. If the spouse or other dependent of an employee is employed and, by reason of such employment, is covered by another employer-furnished non-contributory Ontario Health Insurance Commission Plan and Blue Cross Comprehensive Extended Health Care Plan or its equivalent, for himself or dependents, the amount payable under this Section III shall be reduced by the value of any benefits which are provided under such other plan. in those cases where both
99
spouses are employed and covered by the same benefit pian, the employee whose birthday occurs first in the calendar year shall be covered by the primary insurance and include the dependent children of both spouses. The other employee shall be covered as a single individual with no dependents.
in those cases where both spouses are employed, but covered by different benefit pians, the employee with the most comprehensive pian will be deemed the primary insured, with the spouse and dependent children covered as dependents, under the primary insureds pian.
If the spouse or other dependent of an employee is employed and, by reason of such employment, is covered by another employer-furnished non-contributory Ontario Health insurance Commission Plan and Blue Cross Comprehensive Extended Health Care Pian or its equivalent, for himself or dependents, the amount payable under this Section III shall be reduced by the value of any benefits which are provided under such other pian. Any payment of benefits under Section III which is payable to a hospital or physician shall be paid directly to the hospital or physician entitled thereto.
100
E.	Terminationof Insurance.
ft) Except as described in this Paragraph E, ail insurance under this Section III will terminate when employment with the Company terminates except as follows:
(A)(1) An eligible employee who is laid off with one or more years of seniority and entitled to the receipt of a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan with the Company shall be entitled to the Benefits described in Section III, Article A and B arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himself or his dependents during the period from the date of his lay-off that he receives weekly Supplemental	Unemployment
Benefits under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company or during the period ending six (6) months from the date of his layoff, whichever is the shorter period, but he shall not be entitled to the benefits described in Section II, Article A, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the date upon which the lay-off occurred.
(II) An eligible employee who is laid off with one or more years of seniority and not entitled to the receipt of a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Pian with the Company, or an eligible employee who is laid off with less than one year's seniority shall, in either case, be entitled to the benefits described in
101
Section III, Article A and C arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himself or his dependents during the period ending upon the last day of the calendar month following the month during which the layoff occurs, but shall not be entitled to benefits described in Section II, Article A, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the date upon which the layoff occurred.
(B)	During authorized leave of absence except for military service, coverage under Section III will be continued for a period not to exceed 90 days, except that all coverage under this insurance program shall be continued in force during the period of any leave of absence granted by the Company for Union activities for those employed by a local Union in official or representative capacity.
(C)	Employees off work due to injury or sickness will continue to be insured under Section I and III, subject to the provisions of this insurance program during the period in which they accumulate seniority.
F,	1. Employeeswho have retired and are eligible for a pension pursuant to the Pension Plan, or employees who have reached their normal retirement date, shall receive the benefits provided for in this Section III A2 and Bl except that the dependents of such employees will not be covered unless they were 'dependents at the time of the employee's retirement
(A) Employees who have retired prior to their normal retirement date and are
102
eligible for a pension pursuant to the pension plan shall receive the benefits provided in this Section III, A-l, A-2 and B-1. The provisions of Section III, A-l shall cease when the pensioner reaches his normal retirement age at which time hospital-medical coverage will be as provided under the terms of the Ontario Health Insurance Act.
2.	The benefits provided under this Welfare and Insurance Agreement will not be applicable either before or after an employee's normal retirement date for any employee who terminated employment and is eligible for a deferred vested pension, or who is entitled to early retirement as a result of complete and permanent closure of the Company's factory in accordance with the terms of the Agreementfor Pensionsas amended June 1, 2004.
Section IV. -General Provisions
A.	It is further agreed between the parties that, so
long as the employee is on the active payroll of the Company, wherever Ontario Health Insurance Commission rules and regulations conflict with the provisions of the Welfare and	Insurance
Agreement, the rules and regulations of the above-named Commission will supercede the applicable provisions of the Welfare and Insurance Agreement.
B.	Medical Examinationby the Company.
1. Disabilities giving rise to claims for any benefits under this Insurance Program may be verified by the Company by medical examination at any reasonable time. Benefits may be suspended if the claimant fails to have such examination made.
103
2. If any dispute shall arise concerning the disability of any employee, such difference shall be resolved as follows:
The employee shall be examined by a physician appointed for the purpose by the Company. If the employee's physician and the Company's physician should disagree concerning disability that question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by such two physicians. The medical opinion of the third physician after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two physiciansshall decide such question.
It is agreed and understood that when a third (3,d) physician's medical opinion is required, the Company will absorb the cost.
C.	Definition of "Physician".
1. Wherever the word "Physician" or "Doctor" is used in this Insurance program it shall mean either a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or a Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) or a Doctor of Chiropractic (D.C.).
D.	There will be no duplication in whole or part, in payment of benefits under the terminated insurance program.
E.	All changes in benefits in this Agreement for Insurance Benefits are effective June 1, 2004 and are applicable to all employees with the exception of those who retired priorto June 1,2004.
F.	This Insurance Program as described above may be appropriately modified where necessitated by Federal or provincial Government statute or regulation.
G.	An insurance Certificate or Rider shall be issued to each employee outlining his benefits in connection with the insurance coverage provided hereunder.
H.	The company may alone or in conjunction with other corporations subsidiary to or affiliated with the Company, enter into a contract or contracts
104
with an insurance company or insurance companies to provide the insurance benefits described herein, and upon so doing, the Company shall be relieved of any individual liability to any employee or any beneficiary designated by such employee other than to maintain such contract or contracts in force for the duration of this Agreement. The employer shall be liable for benefits described in this insurance Program which are not provided in said insurance contracts. In the event any dispute shall arise based on the question whether the insurance contract provides the insurance coverage hereinabove described, such dispute shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the Labour Agreement, including arbitration; omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of grievance to the Industrial Relations Depariment of the Company.
1.	The benefits provided by this Insurance Program in lieu of any and ail similar benefits which are or may be provided by any law or laws. Any amounts required to be paid by the Company as contributions, taxes or benefits under any law or laws providing nonoccupational Insurance Benefits shall reduce to the full extent thereof the amounts the Company shall be required to pay hereunder, and appropriate adjustment shall be made in the benefits available hereunder.
Premium reductions brought about by the introduction on January 1, 1972 of the Ontario Health Insurance Organization Act, (1971) combining Ontario Hospital Services Commission and Ontario Health Insurance Plan shall be retained by the Company to pay the increased premiums for improved benefits and refunds outlined in this memorandum. The improvements made in the weekly Sickness Indemnity Payments are with the understandingthat the Ontario Health
105
Insurance Legislation will permit savings (brought about by this legislation) to be returned to employees in the form of additional benefits.
J.	In consideration of the fact that the company is herein improving benefits, the Parties herein improving benefits, the Parties hereto agree that the Company shall be entitled to retain the full amount of any premium reduction under the Unemployment Insurance Act, i.e., twelve-twelfths (12/12) of the premium reduction granted by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
K.	The Company wilt undertake to provide the benefits of Blue Cross extended Health Care Plan or its equivalent for all pensioners who retired prior to and subsequent to June 1, 1972.
It is understood that should any legislation come into effect which would provide any or all of these benefits, the Company's obligation will be reduced to the portion of benefit not affected by the legislation and the company will not be responsible for any rebate payments to the pensioners.
ARTICLE II
Duration and Termination
1.	Subject to the approval of this Agreement by the Company and by the local Union, this Agreement shall become effective on June 1,2004.
2.	This Agreement constitutes a settlement for the duration of this Agreement of all issues with respect to the subject matters covered hereby, and, while this Agreement continues in effect, the company shall have no obligation to negotiate or bargain with any local Union with respect to any subject matter covered hereby, nor shall there be any strike or work stoppage with respect to such matters.
3.	This Agreement shall continue in force until midnight, May 31, 2007, and thereafter shall
106
renew itself for yearly periodsunless written notice of desire to amend this Agreement is given by either (he Union Of the Company to the other within 150 days immediately priorto the expiration date of the original term or any renewal term. In the event such notice is given, negotiations shall begin within fifteen (15) days unless otherwise mutually agreed. If negotiations are not satisfactorily concluded prior io said expiration date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to the right of either the Union or the Company to terminate this Agreement, by giving ninety (90) days written notice to the other.
4.	In the event of the refusal of the Board of Directors
of the Company to approve this. Agreement on or before the 1st day of December, 2004 or in the event that this Welfare and insurance Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section III of this Article II, either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate 'any Collective Labour Agreement then in effect and the other party shall join in such application. If, subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made then such collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
107
In witness thereof, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement at Welland, Ontario, cn the 1st day of June 2004.
UNITED
STEELWORKERS, LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC WELLAND, ONTARIO.
T. Gasperetti M. Porter
L.	Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D.	Molnar B. Podio
B. Greenaway International Representative
108
DENTALCARE PLAN
It is understood that, effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, arrangements will be made to provide for all eligible employees and their dependents, dental coverage outlined in the Excelsior Dental Care Plan, or any other carrier of the Company's choice which is identical to Blue Cross Dental Plan #7, which is based on the 1980 Ontario Dental Association Fee Guide.
Furthermore,, the Excelsior Dental Care Plan #7 will be effective as of the first of the month following the date of ratification fc all employees and their dependents eligible f benefits under \r elfi s I Insurance Agn snt v f were actually at f on 3 after the date of ratification. New employees hire d ift the effective date of this coverage will become eligible for co re g cc< ling t Arti< It I, Section III - D - 2 of the Welfare and Insurance Agreement Benefits of the Basic Plan will apply to ti es t are >ti i eligible provided their pensions become effective on or after June 1, 1978 and they were actively at work or or after th t datr.
,, , the ;i >r Rid n s #1 r #2 Blue Cross Riders ff1 ar d #2 b l tne first aay of the mi inth following of I C L A. the Excelsior Rider #4 will
0 Dctobi identical t effective, ratification bi m< effective.
Benefits relative t efsioi Riders #1 and #2 will omr effective for iligibl p (	d their
l< endents accor ng to the Welfare and Insurance kc ement provided they were actively at 1 mrk on or after the effective date of the introduction ol hr Rid Th	Rid will >k	p| ly f c dr t<	3f introdi ;ti to
those persons retired	on or after June	1, 1978 provided
they were actively at work on or after jni 1,197 3.
Ber	rfit	relative to	Excelsior Rider	#4 will become
rffc	tiv	fr r eligible	3m| Ir yees s I	their lependr it r
according k the W slfai ; d Insurance Agreement provided tney were actively al work on or afti the
109
effective date of the introduction of the Rider. The Rider will also apply from date of introduction to those persons retired on or after June 1, 1984 provided they were actively at work on or after June 1,1984.
Effective January 1, 2004 the 2004 O.D.A. Schedule will become effective for all employees. This 2004
0.	D.A. schedule will also apply from the date of introductionto those persons retired on or after January
1,	2004 provided they were actively at work on or after January 1, 2004.
Effective January 1, 2005 the 2005 O.D.A. Schedule will become effective for all employees. This 2005
0.	D.A, Schedule will also apply from the date of introductionto those persons retired on or after January
1,	2005, provided they were actively at work on or after January 1,2005.
Effective January 1, 2006 the 2006 O.D.A. Schedule will become effective for all employees. This 2006
0.	D.A. Schedule will also apply from the date of introduction to those persons retired on or after January
1,	2006, provided they were actively at work on or after January 1, 2006.
Effective January 1, 2007 the 2007 O.D.A. Schedule will become effective for ail employees. This 2007
0.	D.A. Schedule will also apply from the date of introductionto those persons retired on or after January
1,	2007, provided they were actively at work on or after January 1, 2007.
Benefits paid to employees and their dependents under the Dental Care Plan will be paid up to maximum of $1500.00 per year per person.
The Dental Plan will be included in the Welfare and Insurance Agreement but will be attachedas a separate addendum.
110
In witness whereof the parties have executed this Agreement this 13t day of June 2004.
UNITED
STEELWORKERS, LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC. WELLAND, ONTARIO.
T. Gasperetti
M.	Porter L. Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D.	Molnar B. Podio
B. Greenaway- international Representative
111
PENSION PLAN
Agreement dated June 1, 2004 between GenCorp Canada Inc.. Welland, Ontario, hereinafter called the "Company" and the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, Local Union No. 455, hereinafter called the "Union".
ARTICLE I
Benefits and Obligations
Paragraph 1:01
The Pension Plan of the General Tire and Rubber Company of Canada Limited, Industrial Products Division, effective as of December 1,1955 set forth in the Agreement April 1, 1955, betweenthe parties thereto amended effective as of December 1, 1959, Decemberl, 1964, Decemberl, 1967, Decemberl, 1970, June 1, 1972, June 1, 1975, June 1, 1978, June 1, 1981, June 1, 1984, April 1, 1987, April 1, 1990, March 8, 1993, June 1, 1996, June 1, 2004 is hereby adopted between the parties hereto as further amended effective as of June 1, 2004, as to employees (as defined in the Pension Plan) retiring on or after that date so that the Pension Plan between the parties hereto shall read as follows.
Paragraph 1:02
The Company agrees that prior to midnight May 31 2007, it will not modify amend or terminate the Pension Plan as amended, insofar as they apply to employees in such Bargaining Unit, and, further, that so long thereafter as this Agreement continues in effect, the Company shall continue to make the Pension Pian, as amended, available to all employees in such Bargaining Unit.
Paragraph 1:03
Both parties agree that the Pension Plan, as amended, constitute full settlement of all Pension
112
demands by the Union, and that any and all other Pension Benefits, heretofore provided or made available for any of the employees of the Company may be withdrawn, suspended, discontinued or cancelled without in any case consulting with the Union and without giving rise to or cause for any grlevance or any charge of unfair labour practice
Paragraph 1:04
It is understoodthat the Pension Plan may be made available to any other persons employed by the Company or by any subsidiary or affiliated corporation. If desirable for the sound and efficient operation of the Pension Plan, necessary records may be consolidated by the Company and not kept separately for particular groups of employees
Paragraph 1:05
A report will be prepared annually covering the operations of the Pension Plan and the Union shall be furnished with copies thereof. From time to time during the term of this Agreement, the Union shall be furnished such additional information as shall he reasonably required for the purpose of enabling it to be properly informed concerning the operation of the Pension Plan insofar as it affects the employees.
Paragraph 1:06
All of the commitments made by the Company in this Agreement are contingent upon and subject to:
(A)	Receipt by the Company of a written ruling by the relevant tax authorities as the Company may deem necessary to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada), or any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted.
113
(B)	Obtaining authorization from the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of the Company for the establishment of the Pension Plan.
Paragraph 1:07
The following terms, wherever used in this Plan, shall have the meanings set forth below, despite any definitions at variance therewith in any other document:
1.	"Actuarial Equivalent" means a benefit having, at the date of determination an actuarially equivalent value when computed at the rate of interest last adopted by the Pension Board on the recommendation of the actuary retained by the Pension Board.
2.	"Company" means GenCorp Canada Inc. which shall be the Administratorfor purposesof the Pension BenefitsAct.
3.	"Commuted Value" means the value calculated in the prescribed manner and as of a fixed date of a pension, a deferred pension. a pension benefit or an ancillary benefit.
4.	"Continuous Service" of an employee means the employee's record of unbroken employment in Canada with the Company and its predecessors of the General Tire & Rubber Company of Canada Limited, industrial Products Division, MansfieW-Denman General Company Ltd. With respect to any former employee of Joseph Stokes Rubber Company Limited including any employee of the Company acquired by it prior to July 31, 1951, continuous service shall include service with such companies prior to July 31, 1951, which continued after that date with the General Tire & Rubber Company of Canada Limited, Industrial Products Division, Mansfield-Denman General Company Limited. and subsequent thereto with the Company.
114
Continuous Service shall include:
(A)	periods of annual vacation granted by the Company; and
(B)	periods of approved leave of absence; and
(C)	periods of layoff during which the employee is eligible for recall under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement: and
(D)	service with the Canadian Armed Forces, provided the employee returns to active employment with the Company within thirty days after receiving an honorable discharge.
Continuous Service of an Employee will be
broken and cease to accrue on:
(E)	voluntary termination of employment by the employee; or
(F)	discharge of the employee for just cause; or
(G)	failure to return to work within the time specified in the Collective Labour Agreement following recall from layoff; or
(H)	acceptance of other employment or selfemployment while on a leave of absence except as permitted under the Collective Labour Agreement; or
(I)	absence from active service beyond 12 months except as permitted under the Collective Labour Agreement; or
(J)	failure to return ±> work within the applicable time following a leave of absence; or
(K)	failure of the employee to report his absence from work as required under the Collective Labour Agreement.
115
5. "Credited Service" of an employee means the employee's period nf continuous service, a modified by the remainder of this definition
Credited ric >h II only accrue for a period of continuous service in respect of a period of layoff as specified in (A), (B) and (C) beli
(A)
(B)

s per course
of
illy
his
(ii)
(iii)
an	,
disabled in :l e employment; and
the r tri :tions on the nplc yee's ability tu rk as a result i f the permanent disability have been documented in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement; n i U Ci pany has not found a job ti tl employee is capable and qualified to perform; and
(iv)	the employee is placed on layoff pursuant t r th tr of th 3 Collective Labour Agreement;
th ti i ploy shall tim to accrue credited service for the period ol continuous service during which the emplr yt : rei ii is cn layoff but such accrual shall	t t d t d the
earlier of:
(v)	one year; and
(vi)	the date when thr employee
t	t qualify for tot il
t porary benefits under th Workplace Saf i ii
t,
apt where the employee n 3 the conditions in (A), rredited service shall not accrue for a period of layoff if on the crate the layoff commences the
116
employee completed less than two years of seniority.
(C)	Except where the employee meets the conditions in (A), credited service shall accrue for a oeriod of continuous service during which the employee is on layoff if on the date the layoff commences the employee has completed at least two years of seniority but accrual for any one such period of layoff shall not exceed:
(i)	seven months, if on the date the layoff commences the employee has completed 2 years but less than 5 years of seniority; and
(ii)	fifteen months, if on the date the layoff commences the employee has completed 5 or more years of seniority.
Credited Service shall only accrue for continuous service during an unpaid leave of absence as specified in (D), (E), (F) and (G) below:
(D)	If an employee is granted a leave of absence for sickness or injury, credited service shall accrue for the period of continuous service during which the employee is on such leave of absence if on the date the leave commences the employee has completed at least 90 days of seniority but accrual for any one such leave of absence shall not exceed: (i) the maximum period that he is
entitled to receive Weekly Sickness Indemnity payments, if on the date the leave commences the employee has completed 90 days but less than 2 years of seniority: and
117
(jj) 18 months, if on the date the leave commences the employee has completed 2 years but less than 10 years of seniority; and
(iii)	24 months, if on the date the leave commences the employee has completed at least 10 years of seniority.
(E)	if an employee is granted a maternity leave, parental leave or adoption leave pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement then the employee shall accrue credited service for the period of continuous service during which the employee takes such leave.
(F)	If an employee is granted a leave of
absence for full time duty as an officer or representative of a labour organization pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement then the employee will receive credited service for the period of continuous Service (not exceeding 5 years) during which the employee	is	on	such	leave	if the
employee returns to active service on the expiry of such leave.
(G)	If an employee is granted any other type
of leave of absence pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement than the employee will receive credited service for the period of continuous service (not exceeding 90 days) during which the employee	is	on	such	leave	if the
employee returns to active service on the expiry of such leave.
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs of this definition, credited service for unpaid layoff or leave of absence shall not exceed the limits on credited service required by the Income
IIS
Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof.
Credited Service is measured in years and fractions thereof and computed in twelfths to the nearest calendar month. Credited Service for any period of Weekend Crew pari time status shall be prorated based on the actual hours worked in the period compared to the regularly scheduled hours for an employee on fulltime status for the same period. Where an employee transfers from Week-end Crew to full time status then his full time status will be considered to commence on the first of the month following his date of transfer.
6,	"Early Retirement Eligibility Service" of an employee means the sum of:
(A)	for the period prior to June 1, 1996, the period recognized for the emDlovee under the terms of the plan immediately prior to Junel, 1996; plus
(B)	for the period after May 31, 1996, the employee's credited service after May 31, 1996 plus any other period of paid or remunerated employment by the Company that is not counted as credited service.
7,	"Effective Date" of the Plan means December 1,1955, or the latest of the effective date of each subsequent amendment up to and including June 1, 2004
8,	"Employee" means any person who is regularly employed in Canada by and rendering service to the Company on a full time or pari time basis, and who is a person to whom, or Is a member of a group of persons to whom the benefits of this Plan have been made and continue to be available by designation by the
119
Company, but the term does not include any person engaged on a temporary, probationary or casual basis.
Each employee who completes the applicable probationaryperiod,shallbecomea memberof the Pian from the first day of the month coincident with, or next following his date of hire or the date of transfer from other employment with the Company as appropriate Notwithstandingthe preceding sentence, a pari time employee may not be prevented from becoming a memberof this Plan once he has completed 24 months of continuous service with the Company and has, in each of the last two preceding consecutive calendar years with the Company, earnings of not less than 35% of the YMPE for that year, or, 700 hours of employment, whichever occurs first.
9.	"Employing Company" means:
(A)	The Company;
(B)	Any participating subsidiary Company, but only for a period of time for which it has been designated as such by the Company:
(C)	Any corporation or business which after the effective date of this plan is merged into or consolidated with, or substantially all of whose assets are acquired by the Company or any participating subsidiary company or any such corporation or business: and is designated as an employing Company by the Company;
(D)	Any parentofthe Company: or
(E)	Any other Subsidiary of a parent of the Company.
10,	"Normal Retirement Date" means the first day of the calendar month coinciding with or next following the sixty-fifth birthday of an employee;
120
11.	"Other Pension" means any pension or payment in the nature of or on account of a pension from any source or fund to which an employing Company or any subsidiary or any predecessor thereof shall have directly or indirectly contributed; but this term does not include;
(A)	A pension to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this Plan; or
(B)	A pension payable pursuant to the provisions of any private plan adopted by an employing Company subsequent to the effective date of this Plan which specifies that pensions thereunder shall not be deducted from benefits payable underthis Pian.
12.	"Pension Board" meansthe Board constituted under Article VI to administerthe Plan.
13.	"Pension Date" means the first day of the month in which the employee retires in accordance with the terms of the plan or the first day of the month in which the employee's permanent disability is finally established, provided the employee's written application is received by the Pension Board not later than the end of the month following the month of such retirement or establishment of permanent disability; otherwise the pension dates shall be the first day of the subsequent month in which said written application is received by the Pension Board.
14.	"Pensioner" or "Retirant" means a person who has retired and has been granted pension benefits in accordance with this Pian.
15.	"Permanent Disability" or "Permanently Disabled" for the purpose of this Plan means: (A) that a person has been totally disabled
by bodily injury or disease as certified in writing by a qualified medical doctor who is licensed to practice in the Province in
12L
which the person resides so as to presumably wholly prevent him during the remainder of his life from meeting the job requirements of any job in the bargaining units: and
(B) that such total disability shall have continued for a period of not less than six (6) consecutive months,
16.	"Plan" means the Pension Plan as set fortn herein and as modified or amended from time to time in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act and the Income Tax Act (Canada), with a plan year being the period from January 1 through December31 of each year.
17.	"Spouse" means either of a man and woman who,
(A)	are married I o each other, or
(B)	are not married to each other and are living together in a conjugal relationship,
(i)	continuously for a period of not less than one year, or
(ii)	in a relationship of some permanence, if they are the natural or adoptive parents of a child, both as defined in the Family Law Act.
Effective March 1,2000 Spouse shall include either of two persons of the same sex who are living together in a conjugal relationship:
(C)	continuously for a period of not less than three years; or
(D)	in a relationship of some permanence, if they are the natural or adoptive parents of a child, both as defined in the Family Law Act.
18.	"Statutory Benefit Date" shall mean the date at which any benefit becomes payable on an unreduced basis under the provisions of the Old Age Security Act, Canada
I22
19.	"Statutory Benefit" means the amount of any old ape or disability benefit pavable under any
i al and/o Provincial L n now in i or under any future :e> or Provincial Legislation amending, superseding, supplementing or incorporatingexisting Federal andlor Provincial Legislation to which a pensionershall be or uponapplicationwould be entitled: provided that such term does not include Worker's Compensation or a benefit payable pursuantto occupational disease laws or a benefit payable on a "means test" basis or solely on account of blindness or service in the Armed Forces or other National Service or a benefit payable to or in respect of dependents or a benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act, Canada.
20.	"Subsidiary" means any corporationof whose outstanding voting stock more than fifty percent (50%) is, at the time in question, owned directly or indirectly by the Company or another subsidiary.
21.	"Trust Agreement" means any agreement by and between the Company and a Trustee under the terms of which a trust fund is operated for the purposes of providing the benefits of this plan.
22.	Eligibility and Membership Inthe Plan
(A)	Each Member who was a Member of the Plan on May 31, 2004 shall automatically continue as a Memberon and after June 1, 2004 in accordance with the provisions ofthe Plan.
(B)	Each full-time Employee inthe service of the Company on or after June 1, 2004 who was not a Member of the Plan on May 31, 2004 shall become a Member of the Plan on the first day of the month following his/her original date of hire after
123
completing his/her three (3) months probation period.
(C)	Each Week-end Crew Member in the service of the Company on or after June 1, 2004 who was not a Member of the Pian on May 31, 2004 shall become a Member of the Pian upon the later of June 1, 2004 or the first of the month following his date of hire after the completion of his/her six (6) months probation period.
(D)	Eacheligible employeewill be requiredto completean Enrolment Form, designate a Beneficiary to receive any survivor benefits under the Plan, furnish proof of age and such other data or Sign other documents as the Administratorshall from
I time to time direct.
(E)	A Member shall continue to be a Member of the Plan until such time as he reaches his/her Termination Date. Upon fulfilling the eligibility requirementsset forth in the above paragraph, a Member shall be entitled to accrue benefits (Week-end Crew on a prorated basis) a5 determined and payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan upon reaching his Termination Date.
23.	"YMPE” means in any year, the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings established for that year under the provisions of the Canada Pension Pian.
24,	"Week-end Crew Members" are those Employees who work in the Bargaining Unit whose terms of employment are to work weekends only. Continuous and Credited Service records of the Company shall conform to the terms of the Collective Labour
124
Agreement, the Pension Benefits Act and the Income Tax Act, and the Company shall maintain its records in the same manner.
ARTICLE II
Retirement
Paragraph 2:01
An employee who subsequent to the effective date of the Pian shall have reached his normal retirement date shall retire and after his retirement receive a pension determined in accordance with Article III of the Pian.
Paragraph 2:02
An employee who shall have completed at least ten (10) full years of continuous service and who shall become, through some unavoidable cause, permanentlydisabled after the effectivedate of the Pian, shall be eligible to retire and after his retirement to receive a pension, commencing not earlier than the seventh month following the occurrence of the disability determined in accordance with Article III of this Plan. A pension far permanent disability shall continue only so long as the pensioner shall continue to be permanently disabled. Disability shall be deemed to have resulted from an unavoidable cause, for the purpose of this plan, unless it (I) was contracted, suffered or Incurred while the employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or (II) resulted from a willfully self-inflicted injury. Permanent disability resulting from any such enumerated cause or exclusively from military service after the effective date of the Plan which prevents him from returning to employment and for which he receives a pensionfrom the Federalor Provincialgovernment shall not entitle the employee to a pension under this Paragraph.
125
A continued existence of permanent disability may be verified by the Company by medical examination at anytime priorto the employee's normal retirement date and should the pensioner refuse to submit to medical examination,any pension granted under this Paragraph shall be discontinued until withdrawal of the refusal.
(A)	If after his retirementon disability retirement but before his normal retirement date, a pensioner shall cease to be totally and permanently disabled or if he shall be able to meet the job requirements of any job in the BargainingUnit, his disability retirement may be terminated at the Company's option, and, if so terminated by the Company upon his prompt application, he shall be rehired in a capacity consistent with his seniority and his physical and mental ability. If the former pensioner shall be rehired, he shall be credited upon subsequent retirement, with the credited service he had at the time of his disability retirement, and shall accumulate further service from the time he starts to work after his rehire.
Paragraph2:Q3
An employee, who qualifies and applies for early retirement, special early retirement, or normal retirement, but is absent due to physical disability or layoff or approved leave of absence which commenced subsequent to the effective date of the "Plan", shall be eligible to receive a pensionprovided that his continuous service is not broken in accordance with Article i of this Agreement.
126
ARTICLE III Pension Amount
Paragraph 3:01 - Normal Retirement
(A) The monthly amount of any pension payable under this Pianto an employee retiring on his normal retirement date shall be:
(1) A basic monthly pensionfor life calculated for each year of credited service as per the following table:
As of each June 1 during the term of this agreement (June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2007), an employeewho retiresduringthe term of this agreement will be entitled to an Increased monthly pension recalculated using the basic pension rate in effect on such June 1.
(2) (A) A type A supplementary pension payable with each monthly payment of the Basic Pension up to and Including the payment for the month in which the statutory benefit date occurs the amount of such supplementary pension to be fifteen dollars ($15.00) if retirement takes place on or after June 1, 2004.
The applicable supplementary pension shall be multiplied by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of thirty (30) years of service, and
127
(B)	An employee may retire with thirty (30) or more years of eariy retirement eligibility service with an unreduced pension. Pension Pian Supplement shall not be reduced for taking Canada Pension Plan early, or becoming eligible for such
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 3:01 (A), the basic lifetime pension, shall be subject to the maximum amounts payable under the Income tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof.
Paragraph 3:02 - Disability
The monthly amount of pension payable to an employee retiring due to a permanent disability in accordance with Paragraph2:02 of Article II of this Plan shall be on the basis of credited service accrued to the date of retirement, the basic amount and supplementary amount shall be calculated as for normal retirementand shall be payablefrom the date he ceases to receive remuneration from the Company or draw weekly indemnity benefits. Such monthly disability pensions shall be subject to the maximum amounts payable under the Income Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof, and shall be subject to the deductions described in Article IV of this Agreement. The supplementary amount will cease to be paid under the same conditions as set out in Paragraph 3:01 of Article III of this Plan. An employee who applied and qualifies for a disability pension under this Plan shall not be eligible for any other pension under any other section or article of this Agreement.
128
Paragraph 3:03 ■ Special Early Retirement
(A)	An employee who has attained age sixty-two (62) and has ten (10) or more years of continuous service or an employee who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty-two (62) and who has thirty (30) or more years of early retirement eligibility service may retire at the option of the employee on or after the effective date of the pension pian and prior to his normal retirement date and shall be entitled to a pension upon his retirement. Such pension shall be an immediate pension, the monthly amount of which as to the basic and supplementary pensions shall be computed as if he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date and with the credited service which he has at the date of such early retirement. The payments shall be subject to the deductions provided for in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid monthly throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner but the supplementary pension will be reduced in accordance with the provisions set forth in Paragraph 3:01 of Article III.
(B)	An employee who has thirty (30) or more years of early retirement eligibility service, may retire on or after the 1st day of June 2004 and is eligible for a Special Early Retirement Pension upon his retirement.
Such Special Early Retirement Pension is to be calculated as to the basic portion and the supplementary portions, in the same manner as for normal retirement. provided that such pensions may not exceed the maximum amounts payable under the income Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof.
129
Paragraph 3:04 ■ Early Retirement
(A)	An employee who has attained age sixty (60) and has ten (10) or more years of continuous service or has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty (60) and whose combined years of age and years of early retirement eligibility service (being computed to completed months for a fractional year in each case) shall total eighty-five (85) or more, may retire at the option of the employee on or after the effectivedate of this Agreement and prior to his normal retirement date and shall be entitled to a pension upon his retirement.
(B)	The pension payable upon an early retirement in accordance with subsections (A) and (B) of Paragraph3:04 of this Article III shall consist of either:
(I)	A deferred monthly pension based upon his credited service at the date of such early retirement and computed as to the basic and supplementary pensions in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3:01 of Article III, the payment of which shall commence with the first day of the month coincident with or next following the month in which the employee attains sixty-two (62) years of age, provided that the lifetime and the Supplementary pensions may not exceed the maximum amounts payable under the I ncome Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof, and payments of which shall be subject to the deductions provided for in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid monthly throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner, but the supplementary pension will be reduced in accordance with the provisions set forth in Paragraph 3:01 of Article III, or
130
(II)	An immediate pension, the monthly amount of which as to the basic and supplementary pensions shall first be computed as if he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date not subject to the deductions provided for in Article IV and with the credited service which he has at the date of such early retirement but each payment of such pension, whether becoming payable before, during, or after the month in which he is first eligible for any statutory benefit, shall be reduced, for each complete month to elapse from his retirement until the earlier of the first day of the month coincident with or next following the month in which he attains sixty-two (62) years of age or the first day of the month coincident with or next following the month in which he would have completed thirty (30) years of early retirement eligibility service had he not retired, by 4/10ths of 1% of the amount so computed for the first monthly payment before deductions and the payments as so reduced shall then be subject to the deductions provided for in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid in the reduced amount monthly throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner, butthe supplementary pension will be reduced in accordance with the provisions set forth in Paragraph 3:01, of Article III.
The above deductions, other than those providedfor in Article IV, shall notapplyto the basic pension of an employee who has attained age fifty-five (55)but not age sixty-two (62) and who has thirty (30) or
131
more but less than thirty-seven (37) years of early retirement eligibility service.
(C)	An employee who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty (60) and has ten (10) or more years of continuous service, may be retired at the option of the company or under mutually satisfactory conditions and in either such event shall be entitled to a pension upon his retirement. Such pension shall consist of an immediate pension, the monthly amount of which as to the basic and supplementary pensions shall be computed as if he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date and with the credited service which he has at the date of early retirement, and will be subject to a reduction of 0,25% for each monththat his age at retirement precedes the earlier of his age 60, or the month in which his combined years of age and years of early retirement eligibility service (computed to complete months for a fractional year in each case) equal eighty (E0j,in accordance with Regulation 8503(3){c) of the Income Tax Act (Canada). The payments shall then be subject to the maximum amounts payable under the Income Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof, and to the deductions provided for in Article IV and shall continue as to the basic pension to be paid throughout the lifetime of the early pensioner but the supplementary pension will be reduced in accordance with the provisions set forth in Paragraph3:01 of this Article Hi.
Paragraph 3:05 ■ Deferred Vested Pension
(A) Any employee with continuous service with the Company whose services with the Company are terminated after the effective date of this Pension Plan, and who has two (2) or more
132
years of continuous senice at the date of termination of employment, but is ineligiblefora pension shall, upon application with at least thirty (30) days notice prior to his normal retirement date, be considered a pensioner for the purpose of the Pension Plan but for no other purpose and shall be entitled to his vested interest in the Pension Plan (but no other benefits), commencing with the later of (1) the month following that in which he attains age sixty-five (65), or (2) the month following that in which application is made therefore. "Nevertheless, if application for pension is made after the former employee has attained age 65 and such former employee had attained age 45 prior to terminating employment, he will also receive retroactive monthly pension payments for the period from his normal retirement date to the date his application is received."
There will be no liability for the payment of interest or for any delay in paymentunless and until application has been made. The monthly amount of such payment shall be computed as if he were a pensioner entitled to a pension at normal retirement date, based on the benefit rate in effect at termination of employment, with the credited service which he hac at the date of the termination of his service with the company and shall apply only to the basic pension described in Paragraph 3:01 of this Article III and the payments as so computed shall then be subject to the maximum amounts payable under the income Tax Act (Canada) as summarized in Article IX hereof, and to the deductions providedfor in Article III. Alternatively, the terminated employee may elect to have his deferred vested pension commence from the first day of any month within the 10 years immediately preceding his
133
normal retirement date, in which case the amount of his deferred vested pension will be reduced to its actuarial equivalent to reflect the earlier commencement date subject to the minimum reduction required under the income Tax Act (Canada). The Company will require at least thirty (30) days written notice in order for the terminated employee to have his deferred vested pension commence earlier than his normal retirement date.
In lieu of taking a deferred vested pension from the pian, a terminating employee may require the Company to transfer the commuted value of his deferred vested pension as of the date of termination of employment to:
(a)	a prescribedregistered retirement vehicle: or
(b)	another registered pension plan if the administrator of that other pension plan agrees to accept the transfer; or
(c)	a person licensed to carry on an annuities business in Canada for the purchase of a life annuitythat will not commence priorto age fifty-five (55), provided that the transfer is administered in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act, including the locking-in provisions, and with the Income Tax Act (Canada), and provided further that the terminating employee notifies the Company of his election of one of the above portability options on the prescribedform and within the time period required under the Pension Benefits Act. Notwithstanding the above, if the amount of the annual deferred vested pension at the date of termination of employment is less than 2% of the YMPE for the year of termination, or such other amount as may be permitted under the Pension Benefits Act, the commuted value of the deferred
134
vested pension may be paid out as a lump sum refund without being locked-in. Such a request for a refund of a small pension will b< ii lieu of retaining his right to the deferred vested pension from the plan.
(B)	If such employee has retained a defer
>sted pension rom the ils and is subsequently -s iph ^ I b; ih s ( y and subsequently becomes	ligibl	for a
pension on retirement the amount of his benefit including deferred vested p ansio will a it aerd tt amount he n jld h fcae title d t<i his credited service with th Company both before and after re-employment been continuous. In any other circumstance, a terminated employee whe is hi d I ij the Company will be treated as a new employee for all purposes of the plan.
(C) The >i	si< s dealing with deferred vested
pens ai	in sach previous Pension Plan
Agr £ it tw	tl Ccmp	d the
Union shall continue to apply to an	pi /ee
whose employment was terminated during the currency of each such Agreement.
aragraph 3:06 Normal Form of Pension
Each pension payable under this plan shall be paid in monthly installments commencing on the first day of the month following or coincident with the date of retirement, and shall continue on the first day of each month thereafter as follows:
(a) The basic nthly | >n c is f n bl for th life of the employee with the guarantee that 60 such monthly payments shall be made. If he employee dies before the sixty (60’ iti gL a int&e d period expires, the remaindei of h si: t; (60) monthly payments shall be made to the spouse >i th; eligible dependants each mo th as hey fall due, or if non< the commutec value of the remaining guaranteed
135
}
payments shall be paid to any other beneficiary or estate in a lump sum.
(b) The Type A supplementary pension is payable for the life of the employee but not beyond the normal retirement age of sixty-five (65). and without any guarantee as to the number of payments to be made.
Notwithstanding the above, the Pension Benefits Act requires that if the retiring employee, or former employee with a deferred vested pension from the plan, has an eligible spouse at the date of commencement of pension payments, and provided that no waivers in the prescribed form exist, the basic monthly pension as described in paragraph 3:06{a) above, must be converted and paid as a joint and 60% survivor pension
For these purposes, the value of the lifetime basic monthly pension with fits 60 month guaranteed period will be converted on an actuarially equivalent basis to provide a joint and 60% survivor pension for a different amount without a guaranteed period. Under the joint and 60% survivor pension, the adjusted monthly amount will be paid to the pensioner for as long as he lives, and upon his death 60% of the adjusted amount will be continued to that spouse, if she is then living, for the remainder of her lifetime.
The last monthly installment is the one that is due at the beginning of the month in which the pensioner dies or the guaranteed period expires, whichever is applicable. At the discretion of the Pension Board, the last monthly Installmentof a pension payable under this Plan may, in the event of death of a pensioner prior to receipt of such installments,
136
be paid to the surviving spouse or other dependentsof such pensioner.
Paragraph 3:07 ■ Optional Forms of Pension
An employee may, by written application on forms supplied by and submitted to the Company at least thirty (30) days prior to the actual commencement date of pension payments, elect to convert the normal form of his lifetime basic monthly pension as described in paragraph 3:06 (a) above to one of the optional forms of pension described below, on an actuarially equivalent basis. The election of an optional form of pension does not apply to any supplementary pensions payable at normal retirement, special early retirement, early retirement or disability retirement. Where the employee has an eligible spouse at the date pension payments are to commence, the right to elect an optional form of pension may only be exercised ifthe employee and the spouse both sign the prescribedwaiver forms as required by the Pension Benefits Act. In addition, in no event may an election of an optional form of pension be made after pension payments have already commenced.
Guaranteed Options
The employee may elect that his lifetime basic monthly pension as described in paragraph 3:06 (a) above, before the deductions in Article IV and excluding any supplementary pensions, be paid for his lifetime with the guarantee that paymentswill be made for sixty (60) months, or one hundred and twenty (120) months or one hundred and eighty (180) months as the case may be. For the purposes of this paragraph, the lifetime basic monthly pension will be adjusted on an actuarial equivalent basis and paid in the same or a different amount as the case may be, with the condition that if the pensioner dies before the selected guarantee period had expired, the remaining payments will be made to the spouse
137
or eligible dependants monthly as they fall due, or if none the commuted value of such remaining guaranteed payments will be paid to any other beneficiary or estate in a lump sum. No optional form of pension will be permitted which would result in a guaranteed period exceeding fifteen (15) years
Joint and Survivor Options
The employee may elect that his lifetime basic monthly pension as described in paragraph 3:06 (a) above, before the deductions in Article IV and excluding any supplementary pensions, be adjusted on an actuarially equivalent basis and paid as a joint and survivor pensionwithout any guarantee as to the number of paymentsto be made. Underthis option, the same or a different amount of monthly pension, as the case may be, will be payable during the lifetimeofthe pensioner and upon his death 50 %, or 60%, or 100 % as elected of the adjusted monthly pension then payable to him will be continued to the spouse, for as long as that spouse shall live.
Should the spouse die after the pensioner had elected the option but before his adjusted lifetime basic monthly pension had commenced, the election shall be void and the lifetime basic monthly pension Will not be adjusted and will be paid to him as if he had made no election
Once an election of this option and the designation of a joint annuitant have been made and accepted by the Company, it may be rescinded or changed Prior to the actual commencement date of pension payments only with the written consent of the Company in accordance with the rules of uniform application to all persons similarly situated.
The Company may adopt or establish other optional forms of pension in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act and any other applicable legislation from time to time. The amount of any such optional
138
form of pension shall be the actuarial equivalent of the pension payable in the normalform as described in paragraph3:06,
An election to receive an optional form of pension may be revoked or changed provided written notice of such revocation or change is received by the Company at least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement date of pension payments to the pensioner.
Paragraph 3:08 - Beneficiary
(A)	Subject to the provisions of this Section, an employee or pensioner who has attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, who is domiciled in and ordinarily a resident in the Province of Ontario, may designate a beneficiary or a new beneficiary to receive the payments, if any to be made under this plan after his death, ^n
Ie	li y< or pensioner who has l< ;igi il * I a
b 3i si ci irj r a v beneficiary pursuant to tt is Article may revoke any such designation.
(B)	The	right	o designate	or	o revoke	a
designation of a beneficiary pursuant 1 Ps is iph 3:08(A) of this Article is t< fc c )d b' the execution by the employee or p >i d by delh y to the Board of an instrument in writing which expressly provides that the designation or revocation whichever is th , is made with reference to this Plan.
(C)	Upon	ellv	ts	thi	B	I, |	is t or on	or
aft	i	i c s	of	s	(i £	r pensioner,	of
a c	s	IE t	or	r	(fa	designation	of
i i pursuant fa Pi ag iphs i) of his Article, tf designation or revocation, even if it is contained in a will or in an instrument purporting to be a will, relates back tc and has effect as anc from the date of its iti t t iritt il prejudice t thi: Cs	on account )1 any payment or
a I C
nefi
(A)
13-)
payments made under this plan prior to such delivery
(D)	Where an employee or pensioner is not permitted to make a designation under the provisions of this Article, any payments to be made with respect to him after his death, wilf be made to his estate. No provisionof the Pension Pian is to be construed as taking away any rights of such an employee or pensioner to direct how his monies received by his estate are to be distributed or otherwise dealt with by his personal representatives.
(E)	Notwithstandingthe designationor rightsof any beneficiary, where the employee has a spouse at the date of death, any benefits payable under the Plan shall be payable to the spouse and the administrator of the Plan shall be fully discharged of all liabilities for benefits paid to that spouse, subject only to any other claims by a former spouse which has been previously recorded with the Pian Administrator.
Paragraph 3:0:5 ■ Pensioner Unable to Care for his Affairs
If the Board finds that any pensioner to whom a pension is payable from the Pension Fund is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless a prior claim therefore shall have been made, by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent, or a brother or sister, or to any person deemed by the Board to have incurred expense for such pensioner. However, the Board shall endeavor to give effect to the wishes of the pensioner in this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by the pensioner before he shall have become unable to care for his affairs. Any such payment shall be a payment for the account of the pensioner and shall
140
be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan therefore.
Paragraph 3:10 - Pre-Retirement Death Benefit
(A)	if an employee dies before becoming entitled to a deferred vested pension from the plan, no death benefit is payable from the pian.
However, if the employee dies after becoming entitled to a deferred vested pension but before becoming eligible for special early retirement, early retirement or disability retirement, his surviving spouse, or if none the beneficiary or estate shall receive a death benefit from the pian equal to the commuted value of the lifetime basic monthly pension as described in paragraph 3:06 (a) above, excluding any supplementary pension, which the employee had accrued lo the date of death.
The lifetime basic monthly pension accrued to the date of death is determined as the basic. monthly pension accrued by the employee at the date of death, calculated in accordancewith Paragraph 3:01 as if the date of death were his normal retirement dale using the provisions of the pian in effect et the date of death, and his years of credited service at that time. The above death benefit shall be paid as a lump sum payment, or the surviving spouse may elect to purchasean immediate or deferred life annuity from an insurance company with the proceeds, whichever the spouse elects. if the spouse does not elect within the time prescribed under the Pension Benefits Act, the spouse will be deemed to have elected to purchase an immediate pension from an insurance company of the Company's choice.
(B)	if the employee dies while accumulating continuous service, while eligible to relire under
141
/
(C)
the special early or early retirement rules and pricr to the employee's retirement the spouse n ay }lf ;t > r ;cei a p i ise op ion pensi i from tl plan, i lieu jf the tump sum settlement in paragraph 3:10 (A) ii e The spouse option pension shall be payable c the said spouse, provided such spouse is then living, commencing with the month following the month f tl mploy h !i iti aid each month thereafter during such spouse’s lifetime. The amount of the spouse option pension shall be equal to sixty (60) p it of that lifetime basic monthly pension amount which would have t payable tc f i| l< ij if the employee had actually retired immediately prior to death and the employee's basic monthly p si had bi si t rted to the joint 1 survivor (60%) Fc d 'it d it i ap 3:06.
If a deferred vested pensioner, whc terminated his employment on or after January 1 1988 and did n it el' ;t i p rl bilit; transfer un Ir r Pt ig if h 3:0! of thi 1ii l< III but ii >t 1 retained a deferred v< sted pension fr the plan, dies prior to the actual commencement date of I ii 1 ife d V6 sted pension hit surviving spouse, or f none th b> ir ifii ii y or
Isstai s shall r	ii	a death t fi from the
plan equal to hi :>mnued value of his deferred vested pi ns on as described above. Such death benefit shall be paid as a lump sum I ry n it or r ^ be used bj th s s| 3 to purchase an immediate or deferred life annuity fr an insurance company, whichever the spouse elects. If the spouse does not elect within he time prescribed by the Pension B t Act, th i spouse will I l< nit have elected the immediate lifetime pension.
142
ARTICLE IV Deductions
Paragraph4:01
(A)	There shall be deducted from the amount of pension payable to each pensioner and each recipient of a total and permanent disability pension under the provisions of Articles II and III, a sum equal to the full amount of any benefit, annuity, pension or payment of similar kind payable of such person after retirementfor any period of credited service covered by this plan, under any other plan of the Company or its parent or any affiliate or subsidiary of either to which the person is or shall be or, upon application would become entitled; provided that, If such person shall have contributed to the source or fund from which any such benefits, annuity, pension or payment shall be paid or become payable, such full amount of the deduction for such benefit, annuity, pension or payment shall be decreased by the amount which shall be attributable to the contributions which such person shall have made to such source or fund.
(B)	The deductions from pensions referred to in Paragraph 4:01 of this Article IV shall not be made from the monthly or lumpsum payments to a beneficiary or the estate of a pensioner where an employee has elected an optional form of pension in accordance with Paragraph 3:07 of Article III.
(C)	There shall be deducted from the amount of Type A supplementary pension payable to each recipient of a total and permanent disability pensionunderthe provisionsof Article III or to the recipient of an early retirement pension underthe provisionsof Article III.
143
The sum equal to the amount of statutory benefit to which the pensioner shall or could be entitled to receive upon application.
Paragraph 4:02
Each person who retires under the plan shall furnish to the Board proof satisfactory to it of the amount of any such benefit, annuity, pension or payment to which he is or shall be or upon application would become entitled and, upon request of the Board, will authorize the Board to obtain information relating to such benefit. annuity, pension or payment from any government agency. If any applicant for a pension or pensioner shall fail to furnish any such proof or authorization, the Board may compute his pension and deductions on the basis of estimates which in itsjudgment are reasonable.The deductions which are provided for in this Article III shall be made not only with respect to any of the above-mentioned payments which shall actually be received by a pensioner, but also with respect to any such payments to which he would be entitled, except for some act or failure to act by him or on his behalf, such as leaving Canada, failure to make acolicaticrr therefore or failure to notify the proper authority of his address.
Paragraph 4:03
If any of the payments which are deductible from pensions under this Article IV shall be paid in the case of a pension from a pension plan established by the General Tire and Rubber Company of Canada Limited or its parent or otherwise paid or payable to a pensioner in a lump sum, it shall be prorated on a monthly basis from the date on which it shall be paid in the case of a pension from a pension plan established by the General Tire and Rubber Company of Canada Limited or its parent or otherwise paid or payable (at a rate each month
I44
equal to the entire amount of pension otherwise payable to such pensionerfrom the pension fund in such month) and no pension shall be payable to such pensioner under the plan until said payment, as thus prorated shall be exhausted,
Article V
Application ForRetirement Paragraph 5:01
Each application for retirement shall be in writing on the form or forms provided by the Pension Board and shall be made to the Pension Board and shall be filed in such manner and with such person as the Pension Board may specify The Pension Board may require that there be furnished to it in connection with any such application for retirement proof of age and any other information as may reasonably be required. If an applicantfails to furnish such information or proof, the Pension Board may compute his pension, if any, on any basis by it deemed reasonable.
ARTICLE VI Administration
Paragraph 6:01
The administration of this Plan shall be the responsibility of the Company and shall be carried out by a Pension Board, which shall consist of three (3) or more persons from the management of the employing Company to be appointed annually by the Board of Directorsof the employing Company and to serve until their successors shall have been appointed in like manner. At the time of their appointment, the Board of Directors shall designate one (1) of the members of the Pension Board as its Chairman.
145
/
Paragraph 6;02
The Pension Board Shall Have Authority:
(A)	To grant pensions in the amounts and upon the terms and conditions provided for under this Plan: provided such action as shall betaken is in noway inconsistent with any applicable laws, rules or regulations that may have been or shall be adopted or promulgated by a government authority having jurisdiction over the Fund or Plan:
(B)	To interpret and apply the provisions of the Pian, to resolve ambiguities and to correct errors, and to make, amend, repeal, and enforce such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or proper for the efficient operation of this Pian;
(C)	From time to time, to adopt mortality tables and the interest rate to be used as the basis for all actuarial calculations;
(D)	To appointan actuary who shall recommendto the Pension Board the mortality tables and interest rates, and shall make actuarial valuations of the assets and liabilities of the Pian: and
(E)	To perform such other duties as may be assigned to it from time lo time by the Board of Directors of the employing Company.
Paragraph 6:03
The Pension Board shall hold meetings upon such notice, at such place or places, and at such time as the members of the board shall determinefrom lime to time. A majority of the members of the Pension Board at the time in office shall constilute a quorum for the transaction of business: but a majority of those present, though less than a quorum, may adjourn any meeting from time to time until a quorum shall have been obtained. Any action approved by the vote of a majority of those present at any meeting, if those present constitute a quorum, shall
146
be the action of the Pension Board, the Pension Board may take action without meeting if approval of the action is in writing by ail members at the time in office.
Paragraph 6:04
The Pension Board shall prepare or cause to be prepared, an annual report within a reasonable period of time after the end of each calendar year after the effective date setting forth in reasonable summary the operation of the Pian for such year.
Paragraph 6:05
The Company shall provide to each member a written explanationofthe terms and conditions of the Pian and amendments thereto applicable to him, together with an explanationofthe rights and duties of the employee with reference to the benefits available to him under the terms of the Pension Pian.
147
/
ARTICLE VII
Payment of Pensions
Paragraph 7:01
The Company is free to determine the manner and means of making provisions for, and paying, the pension benefits set forth in this Pian: however, the Company agrees to reserve or set aside each year the amount required on a sound actuarial basis to pay the pension benefits provided by the Pian for the life of each pensioner retired under the Pian during such year, in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act and the income Tax Act (Canada).
Paragraph 7:02
For the purpose of this Pian, the Company may establish or cause to be established, alone or in conjunction with other employing Companies, a pension trust or trusts. Any employing Company may pay, or cause to be paid, into such trust or trusts such amounts as the Company shall approve.
Paragraph 7:03
The funds of any such trust or (rusts may be invested, reinvested and used for the payment of or making provisions for pensions granted in accordance with this pian and for the payment of such costs and expenses, including taxes, of operation and administration of this pian as may be required by law or as may from time to time be directed or approved by the Pension Board; but in the discretion of the Company such funds or any part or parts of them may be commingled with any other fund or funds established for use in connection with the payment of pensions to any employees of any employing company. No part of the assets of the trust or trusts may be used for or diverted to purposes other than the exclusive benefit of
148
employees at any time prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities to employees covered by the trust or trusts.
or 1J 1:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary coni lined elsewhere in this Article, payments to the Fund, the investment and loan of monies constituting said Fund, and the payment of pensions, shall be made in such * as to comply with legislation that ms i ive b sen or shall be adopted or promulgated by a jovernmmtal authority having jurisdiction ver tt e Fund or F Ian. Appropriate adj t it shall fc d in the Plan where necessary.
ARTICLE VIII General Provisions
graj 01
Nothing ii this Plan shall be deemed to givi a iy employee the right to be retained in the service of an employing Company or to interf sr i1 irith the right of tf employing Company by which he shall then be toyed to discharge any employe it any time Tne foregoing shall not be deemed lo modify tl provisions of any Agr n r il A ii f t b s i aae by i f thi employing p >i itt the recognized Collective Bargaining r n	of
any of their employees.
149
Paragraph8:02
No benefit. right or interest under the Plan may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, charged, anticipated, given as security or surrendered under any circumstances. Neither pensions, nor any payment on account thereof, shall be subject lo seizure or attachment or other legal process for or against a pensioner, except with respect to the interests of a Spouse in the event of marriage breakdown as described below.
Subject to the Act, when an order from a court of competent jurisdiction or a valid written domestic contract requiringdivision of an employee's or former employee's benefits under the Pian due to marriage breakdown or dissolution of a common-law relationship has been received by the Administrator, such division shall be made in accordance with such order or contract, as determined by the Administrator and subject to any requirements prescribed under the applicable legislation. Any necessary adjustments shall be made to the employee's or former employee's benefit entitlement to reflect such division, providedthat the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefits payable to the employee and the Spouse shall not exceed the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefits payable to the employee had the division not occurred.
A spouse, on whose behalf an order or domestic contract is filed with the Company, has the same entitlement with respect to the spouse's interest in the pension benefits of the employee as the employee has under the plan in the event of his termination of employment.
150
Paragraph 8:03
Subject to the provisions of any Agreements which may be made by any of the employing Companies with the recognized Collective Bargaining representatives of any of their employees, the Company reserves the right to modify, amend or terminate this Pian, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason. The Plan may be amended by joint agreement between the Company and the Union so as to reduce benefits of an employee in order to avoid revocation of the Pian's registered status under the Income Tax Act (Canada) and its Regulations. On and after termination of this Pian, no further pension rights or obligations shall accrue under this Plan to any employee who has not retired thereunder prior to such termination provided, however, that no pension granted prior to the date of such termination shall be reduced, suspended or discontinued, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
Paragraph 8:04
in the event of termination, all assets of the Pian shall be used for the exclusive benefit of the participants and no part thereof shall be returned to the Company, except the excess, if any, which may exist because of erroneous actuarial computation,
Paragraph 8:05
No employee prior to his retirement under the conditions of eligibility for pension benefits as provided by this Pian shall have any rights or interest whatsoever in or to any portion of any funds which may be paid into any pension trust or trusts established for the purpose of paying pensions and no employee or pensioner shall have any right to pension benefits except to the extent provided in this Plan.
151
Paragraph 8:06
The Company may act for and on behalfof any or all of the employing Companies in all matterspertaining to the operation and administrationofthis Plan.
Article IX Conditions
Paragraph 9:01
The Plan and all of the Company's obligations and employee's rights thereunder are conditionedon and subject to the approval of the relevant governmental tax authorities
The Company shall contribute to the Fund such amounts, as determined by the Actuary and taking into account the assets of the Fund, as are necessary to maintain the Pian on a sound actuarial basis, provided that those contributions are eligible contributions under the Income Tax Act (Canada). Such contributions shall meet the minimum funding standards prescribed under the Act and shall include any amounts required to amortize any unfunded liability or solvency deficiency. Where applicable, Company Contributions shall be made at a time and in a manner which are in accordance with the Pension Benefits Act
If on the effective date of the Pension Plan the Company has not all the approvals which it may deem necessary to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributionsto the Pension Pian as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada), or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Plan shall not become effective.
152
Furthermore, employees are not required and are not permitted to make contributions of any kind to the plan.
Paragraph 9:02
In the event of refusal by the Board of Directors or by the relevant authorities, to approve this Agreement on or beforethe 1st day of December2004 orinthe event of the government tax authorities refusing to approve this Agreement, as defined in Section 9:01 hereof, after such date or of their withdrawal after such date of approval of this Agreement previously given, either the Union or the Employer may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permissionto terminate any Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, and the other party shall join in such application. If subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement, or subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made, then such Collective Labour Agreement if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
153
/
Paragraph 9:03
Notwithstanding any other provisionsof the Plan, the amount of lifetime basic annual pension, and/or any supplementary pensions provided under the Plan to any employee or to a spouse. if applicable, shall not exceed the maximum amounts payable under the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the Regulations thereunder. The following paragraphs provide a simplified summary of the main income tax limitations on pension amounts payable under the Pian, but in the event of any dispute regarding the application of these maximum limits. the Income Tax Act (Canada) and its Regulationswill govern.
A Maximum Lifetime Pension
The maximum lifetime annual pension amount for the year in which the pension commences to be paid is the lesser of the defined benefit limit for that year (currently $1833.33) and 2% of the employee's highest indexed average compensation, multiplied by the employee's years of credited service. This maximum amount shall be reduced in accordance with section 8503(3)(c) of the Income Tax Regulations if payment of the pension commences before the date	when the
employee reaches age sixty (60), attains thirty (30) years of	Early	Retirement	Eligibility
Service, or age plus Early Retirement Eligibility Service equals eighty (80).
For the purposes of calculating the limitation in this paragraph, an employee shall not be considered to have more than thirty-five (35) years of credited service in respect of periods prior to January 1,1992, and the terms "defined benefit limit"	and	'highest	average
compensation"	shall	have the	meanings
ascribed to them under the Income Tax Act (Canada) and the Regulationsthereunder.
154
B; Maximum Type A Supplementary Pension
Where the employee retires early and is entitled under the Plan to a Type A supplementary pension such pension shall not be payable beyond the payment for the month in which the employee attains age 65, and the maximum amount of such supplementary pension under subparagraph 3503(2)(b) of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and its Regulations shall be determined as described below.
(I) If the employee has attained age sixty (60) at the early retirement date and completed at least ten years of credited service, the maximum amount shall be the maximum Old Age Security benefit payable to a person aged sixty-five (65) on the datethatthe employee retires, plus a proportion, based on his earnings history, of the maximum Canada/Quebec Pension Pian retirement benefits that would be payable to a person aged sixty-five (65) on the date that the employee retires.
([() ifthe employee has attained age sixty (60) at the early retirement date and has not accrued at least ten years of credited service, the maximum amount determined pursuantto paragraph (i) above shall be multiplied by the ratio of the employee's credited service to ten (10) unless the employee retires early as a result of a permanent disability under the Plan (Hi) Ifthe employee has not attained age sixty (60) at the early retirement date
155
the portion of the maximum benefit in (i) above, attributable to credited service after January 1, 1992, shall be reduced by 0.25% for each month that the commencement of the Type A supplementary pension precedes age sixty (60). This percentage reduction is waived if the employee retires early as a result of a total and permanent disability under the Plan.
C Maximum Combined Lifetime and Type A Supplementary Pensions
Where the employee retires early before age 65 and is entitled to receive a Type A supplementary pension at early retirement, the sum of his lifetime pension and his Type A supplementary pension in respect of credited service after December 31,1991 and payabiefromthe time the benefits commence to be paid to the time the employee attains 65 years of age or death, if earlier, may not exceed in the year of commencement the defined benefit limit for the year (currently $1,833.33) times his years of credited service, plus 25% of the 3 year average of the YMPE for that year and the preceding two years, prorated if the credited service is less than 35 years.
D; Maximum Deemed Credited Service during Temporary Absences For certain eligible periods of temporary absences, the Pian may be required to continue the accrual of credited service and benefits in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement between the Union and the Company, the Employment Standards Act (Ontario)
156
and/or the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act (Ontario).
For eligible temporary absences, other than absences when the employee is permanently disabled (as defined in paragraph 1:07 of Article I), credited service may not be deemed for more than the full-time equivalent of 60 months in respect of all such periods of eligible temporary absences, plus an additional full-time equivalent of thirty-six (36) months during which the employee has taken one or more periods of eligible parental leave, subject to a maximum of the full-time equivalent of twelve (12) months with respect to any one period of eligible parental leave as defined in the income Tax Act (Canada) and its Regulations.
ARTICLE X
Appeals Procedure
Paragraph 10:01
If any differences shall arise between any employing Company or the Pension Board and any employee who shall beanapplicantfor retirement or pensioner as to:
(A)	The number of years cf creditedservice of such employee or pensioner; or
(B)	The aqe of such employee or pensioner; or
(C)	The amount of pension to which an employee or pensioner is entitled; or
(D)	Whether such employee or pensioner, if he shall have been determined to be permanently disabled but shall not have reached his normal retirement date, became permanently disabled through some unavoidablecause;
157
/
And if agreement cannot be reached between the Pension Board and the employee or pensioner such question may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance procedure provided for in the applicable Labour Agreement at the level at which a grievance is presented to the Company's Grievance Committee. If any such grievance shall be taken before an impartial umpire or arbitrator in accordance with such procedure, then the impartial umpire or arbitrator shall have authority only to decide the question pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement applicable to the question, but he shall hava no authority in any way to alter, add to or subtract from any of such provisions. The decision of the impartial umpire or arbitrator on any such question shall be binding on the employing Company, the Pension Board and the employee or pensioner and all other interested parties.
Paragraph 10:02
If any difference shall arise between any employing Company and any employee as to whether such employee is or continues to be permanently disabled, such difference shall be resolved as follows:
The employee shall be examined by a physician appointed for the purpose and compensated by the employing Company and by a physician appointed for the purpose, and compensated by the employee or the Union. If they shall disagree concerning whether the employee is permanentlydisabled, that question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by such two physicians. The medical opinion of the third physician, after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two physicians shall decide such question. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be borne by the employing Company. In the event the employee
158
refuses to be examined or falls to appoint or cause to be appointed. a physician to represent him for the purposes of this Paragraph, he shall have na rights to any pension under the pian until the refusal is withdrawn or such appointment is made
Article Xi
General Provisions
Paragraph 11:01
During the term of this Agreement, but only so long as the provisions of Article i hereof, and the Pension Pian, insofar as they apply to the employees represented by the Union, shall continue in effect without modificationor change, neitherthe Union nor any of ils officers or representatives nor any of the employees shall:
(A)	demand that the Company increase the rates of pay of the employees on account of or for use in paying the cost, in whole or in pari, of pension benefits for the employees; or
(B)	demand that the pension benefits under the Pension Pian, or the provisions of Article i of this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that new pension, or similar benefits be established or that the amount which the Company is required by the provisions of Article I of this Agreement to pay or cause to be paid or provided for any or all such benefits for the employees represented by the Union be increased: or
(C)	engage or continue to engage in or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike, work stoppage, interruption or impeding of work at any of the plants orestablishmentsof the Company forthe purpose of securing any such increases or any such change or any other action with respect to pension benefits and the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the
159
Union with respect to any of the matters covered by, or relating to, Clauses (A), (B),
(C)	of this Paragraph.
Paragraph 11:02
Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective June 1, 2004 and shall continue in full farce and effect in respect to all benefits at least until the 31st day of May, 2007 or if no notice is given as provided in the following paragraph, then this Agreement shall be extended from year lo year thereafter, the last day of the original Period or of any extended period being referred lo herein as the termination date.
Paragraph 11:03
Either the Union or the Company may give to the other a written notice of its desire to modify or its intention to terminalethis Agreement not less than sixty (60) days nor more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the termination date. In such event, negotiationswill commence within fifteen (15) days of notification unlessotherwise mutually agreed and if negotiations are not completed prior to the termination date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon at least sixty (60) days' Written notice by either party to the other given on or after the termination date.
Paragraph 11:04
Termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the Pension Plan insofar as it affects the pensions of those retiring before the termination date and no pension granted prior to such termination shall be varied, reduced, suspended or discontinued except as specifically provided in the Pension Plan.
160
Signed this 1st day of June, 2004 at Welland, Ontario, between:
UNITED
STEELWORKERS, LOCAL 455, AFL-CIO-CLC
GENCORP CANADA INC WELLAND, ONTARIO.
T. Gasperelti M. Potter L. Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
P. Luslri
C.	Clark
D.	Molnar B. Podio
B. Greenaway International Representative
161
I™ amended agreement
ON PP	UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS PLAN
This Agreement is made and entered into this 1sl day of June, 2004, by and between GenCorp Canada inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and United Steelworkers of America, Local Union No. 455 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
Whereas the parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan by an Agreement on Supplemental Employment Benefits dated the 3rd day of March, 1957 as amended.
And whereas the parties desire to provide for certain modifications and amendmentsthereto.
Now, therefore, it Is mutually agreed as follows:
Article Index	Page
Article I
Eligibility Regular Benefits......... 158
Article II
Amount of Benefits................... 166
Article III
Credit Units & Duration of Benefits.. 173
Article IV
Applications! Determinationof Eligibility.. 178
Article V
Administration of the Plan&
Appeal Procedure....................... 180
Article VI
Financial Provisions................... 189
Article Vli
Conditionsto Effectiveness&
Continuation of Plan................... 200
Article VIII
Miscellaneous.......................... 201
Article IX
Definitions............................ 204
Article X
Duration&Termination................... 211
162
ARTICLE I
Eligibility for Benefits
Section 1. Eligibility for a Regular Benefit
An employee shall be eligible for a regular benefit for any week beginningon or after the effective date of this Agreement if with respect to such week he:
(A)	Was on a qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article, for all or pari of the week;
(B)	Received an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit not currently under protest by the Company or did not receive an Unemployment insurance System Benefit for only one or more of the following reasons:
1.	He did not have, priorta layoff a sufficient period of employment or earnings covered by the Unemployment Insurance System;
2.	Exhaustion of	his	Unemployment
Insurance System Benefit rights:
3.	He was serving an	Unemployment
Insurance System "waiting week while temporarily laid off out of line of seniority pending for a maximum period up to six weeks pending placement under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement providedthatthe provisionsofthis item (3) shall not be applicable to: (1) plant rearrangement. (2) inventory layoff.
4.	The week was a second "waiting week within his benefit year under the Unemployment Insurance System, or was an Unemployment Insurance System "waiting week immediately foilowing a week for which he received an Employment Insurance System benefit, or occurring within less than fifty-two (52) weeks since his last Employment Insurance system "walling week:
163
/
5.	He refused a Company work offer which he has an option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement or which he could refuse without disqualification.
6.	He was on layoff because he was unable to do work offered by the Company while able to do other work in the plant to which he would have been entitled if he had had sufficient seniority;
7.	He was denied an Employment Insurance Benefit solely because of the U.l. allocation to such week of earnings from a "waiting period
8.	It is determined with the concurrence of the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission, that, under the circumstances, it would be contrary to the intent of the Plan and Commission policy to deny him a benefit;
9.	He was required lo take work under the Unemployment Insurance law paying less than 80% of his "weekly straight time pay", while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall.
10.	He voluntarily took work paying less than 80% of his "weekly straight time pay", while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall.
(C)	Was actively seeking work or had accepted work other than that covered by the Bargaining Unit which paid less than 80% of his "weekly straight time pay" while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall, had not failed or refused to accept work deemed suitable under the applicable Employment insurance System and has met any registration and reporting requirements of an employment office of such applicable Employment insurance System.
(D)	Has to his credit a credit unit or fraction thereof;
(E)	Did not receive an Employment Benefit under any contract or program of another employer or under any other "sub plan to the Company (and
164
was not eligible for such a benefit under a contract or program of another employer with whom he has a greater seniority than with the Company nor under any other "sub pianof the Company in which he has credit units which were credited earlier than his oldest credit units under this pian):
(F)	Was not eligible for an automatic short week benefit:
(G)	Has made a benefit application in accordance with procedures established by the Company hereunder.
Section 2, Eligibility For
A Special Short Week Benefit
An employee shall be eligible for a Special Short Week benefit for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if;
(A)	During such week he performed some work for the Company or performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his compensated or available hours were less than the number of hours in his standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him for a benefit hereunder:
(B)	With respect to such week his Company pay and any Company pay which he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him but not worked did not equal or exceed his allowable earnings:
(C)	With respect to such week he satisfied all of the eligibility conditions for regular benefit.
165
Section 3, Eligibility For
An Automatic ShortWeek Benefit
(A)	An employee shall be eligible for an
Automatic Short Week benefit for any week
beginning on or after the effective date of this
Agreement if:
1.	During such week he performed some work for the Company, or performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof, but his compensated or available hours were less than the number of hours in his standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or work for the Union or a combinationthereof. shall not of itself qualify him for a benefit hereunder;
2.	He had at least one (1) year of seniority as of the last day of such week:
3.	He was on a qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article, for some part of such week;
4.	With respect to such week his Company pay and any Company pay which he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him but not worked, equalled or exceeded his allowableearnings; and
5.	He did not have a period or periods of layoff in the week and in Ihe preceding or following week occurring in such sequence as to constitute a “week of unemployment" (as defined under the
166
applicable Employment Insurance System) which included some part of the week provided, however. that when an employee has a period of layoff with respect to which he has established such an Employment Insurance System "week of unemployment", which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, he will be entitled (if otherwise eligible) to receive a partial Automatic Short Week benefit with respect to any hours of layoff on days within a work week which are not included in such (or any other) established Employment Insurance System '"week of unemployment".
(B)	No application for an Automatic Short Week benefit, other than a partial Automatic Short Week benefit, will be required of an employee. However, if an employee believes himself entitled to an Automatic Short Week benefit for a week which he does not receive on the date when such benefits for such week are paid, he may file written application therefore in accordance with procedures established by the Company.
(C)	An Automatic Short Week benefit payablefor a week shall be in lieu of any other benefit under the Plan for that week, except that this provision does not apply to a partial Automatic Short Week benefit.
Section 4, Conditions With Respectto Layoff
(A)	A layoff for the purposes of this Plan shall arise from:
1.	Any temporary layoff resulting from a reduction in force, the discontinuanceof a plant or an operation or a temporary layoff occurring or continuing because
167
the employee was unable to do the work offered by the Company although able to perform other work in the plant to which he would have been entitled if he had had sufficient seniority. Medically restricted employees awaiting suitable placement wilt be considered on layoff occurring in a reduction inforce.
2.	A temporary leave of absence resulting from pregnancy, training, illness, injury or care of a child or children in accordance with Sub-Section 20(1) of the Unemployment InsuranceAct.
(B)	An employees layoff, as defined in paragraph
(A)	of this section, for all or pari of any week will be deemed qualifying for Plan purposes only if the following conditions are met, as applicablethereto:
1.	Any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit; or
2.	Such layoff was not for disciplinary reasons, and was not a consequence of I) Any strike". slowdown, work
stoppage, picketing (whether or not by employees), or concerted action, at a Company plant or plants, or any dispute of any kind involving employees or other persons employed by the Company, and represented by the Union whether at a company plant or plants or elsewhere;
|[) Any war or hostile act of a foreign power (but not government regulation or controls connected therewith);
ill) Sabotage or insurrection; or IV) Any act of God; provided, however, this subsection (IV) shall not apply
168
to the first two (2) weeks of layoff resulting from such cause:
*At the end of any legal strike by employees, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree as to the period of time necessary for normal start-up which shall be incorporated as part of any strike settlement memorandum. After such period of time an employee will not be disqualified for S.U.B. solely because of such strike
3.	With respect to such week the employee
did not refuse to accept work when recalled pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement end did not refuse an offer by the Company of other available work, which he had no option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement; provided, however, that where maintenance	employees refuse
production work it will not disqualify them underthis sub-paragraph (3);
4.	With respect to such week the employee was not eligible for and was not claiming:
(I)	Any accident or sickness or any
other disability benefit (except a Canada Pension Plan Disability Benefit) to a medically restricted employee waiting	suitable
placement under the terms of the applicable Collective Labour Agreement or except a benefit which he received or could have received while working full time; or
(II)	Any Company pension or retirement benefit; and
(C)	If, with respect to some but not all of his regular work days in a week, an employee is ineligible
169
/
for a benefit by reason of Subparagraph (B) (2) or (B) (4) of this Section, (and is otherwise eligible for a benefit), he will be entitled to a reduced benefit payment as provided in Section 1 (C) of Article II.
Section 5,	Disputed Claims /iwEmployment
I nsuranee System Benefits
(A)	With respect to any week for which an employee has applied for a benefit and for which he:
1.	Has been denied an Employment Insurance System benefit, and the denial is being protested by the employee through the procedure provided therefor under the Employment Insurance System, or
2.	Has received an Employment insurance System benefit, payment of which is being protested by the Company through the procedure provided therefor under the Employment Insurance System.
And the employee is eligible to receive a benefit under the plan except for such denial, or protest, the payment of such benefit shall be suspended until such dispute shall have been determined.
(B)	If the dispute shall be finally determined in favour of the employee, the benefit shall be paid to him if and to the extent that he had not exhausted credit units subsequent to the week to which the Employment Insurance System Benefit in dispute is applicable.
Section 6. Vacation Shutdowns
It is understood that an employee who is eligible for week of paid vacation in an amount not less than the period of scheduled plant vacation shutdown, will not be eligible to receive a benefit under the Plan for the period of plant shutdown, regardless of whether he has
170
taken his vacation prior to or is deferring his vacation until after the shutdown, and regardless of his eligibility for unemployment compensation under these circumstances. An employee who has taken vacation during a week or weeks when he otherwise would have been scheduled off in a curtailment of production shall not be disqualified from benefits under the plan, as provided above, to the extent of such week or weeks so taken.
ARTICLE II
Amount of Benefits
Section 1, Regular Benefits
And Special Short Week Benefits
(A)	The regular benefit payable to an eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount, which, when added to his Employment insurance Benefit and other compensation, will equal 80% of his weekly straight time pay for each week for which he is eligible for a regular benefit.
(B)	The Special Short Week benefit payable to an eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount which, when added to the employee's Employment insurance Benefit and other compensation, (excluding the amount of any pay received or receivable from the Company) will equal the product of the number by which his standard work week exceeds his compensated or available hours counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his Short Work Week average hourly earnings: provided, however, that a regular benefit shall be payable for the week if the amount of such regular benefit is equal to or greater than the amount of Special Short Week benefit,
171
/
(C)	An otherwise eligible employee entitled to a benefit reduced, as provided in Subsection4(C) of Article 1, because of ineligibility with respect to part of the week, will receive the greater of:
1.	1/5 computed under Subsection (A) of this Section for each work day of the week for which he is eligible underthis Plan, provided, however, that there shall be excluded from such computation any pay which could have been earned, computed, as if payable, for hours made available by the Company but not worked during the days for which he is not eligible for a benefit under Subsection 4(C) of Article I; or
2.	Any Special Short Week benefit computed under Subsection (B) of this Sectionfor which he may be eligible.
(D)	In no event will payments in respect of guaranteed annual remuneration or in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits be reduced or in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits be reduced or increased by payments received under this Plan.
Section 2. Automatic Short Week Benefit
(A)	The Automatic Short Week benefit payable to any eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount equal to the product of the number by which the number of hours in his standard work week exceeds his compensated or available hours, counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his Short Work Week average hourly earnings.
(B)	An eligible employee entitled to a partial Automatic Short Week benefit with respectto certain hours of layoff not included in an Employment Insurance System "Week of unemployment", as provided in Section 3(A) (5) of Article 1, will receive an amount
172
computed as provided in Subsection 2(A) above, based on the number by which the hours for which tt ipl	would regularly I	s fc
ip sr sal	:c I;	his i >i ip	its d t
a ailable he jrs, with respect to the days within the work week not included in such Employment Insurance System "week of unemployment”
Section 3.
tm| loyrn and Othe
Insurance Benefit n
(A) An employee's Employment Insurance Benefit and other compensation for a week means:
Tl amount of Employment Insurance System benefit received or receivable t hr employee for the week; plus All pay ii 'ed c	bit by the
er lployer from tf Company and 3. :c ept in determining the amount of a Special Short Week benel t. any amount of unearned pay mputed, > if | bl for hours made available l y th < if ny but not 'ked after notice consistent with practices under the Collective Labour Agreement has been
I given for such week; and provided, th; if wage c remuneration ire received sr receivable by the	pi >;	f	imployers
other than th C >s f a iy	t are	applicable
to the same periods as hours If available by the Company, only the greater of (A) such wages or remuneration in exc =ss of his aik il Ii earni i <;	fr	rth	n <	loyers r
(B) any amount	f pay	which	Id h
been , computed, e if payable, for
Ih ir n n 3 available by th Cc ipany shall b included; I further p c /id d, ths t a ly pay received or receivable for a shift which extends through midnight shall be allocated:
173
(I)	To the day on which the shift started if he was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the following day,
(II)	To the day on which the shift ended if he was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the preceding day, and
(III)	According to the pay for the hours
worked each day, if he was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shifts on both preceding and the following days:	and, in any such event, the
maximum regular benefit amount shall be modified to any extent necessary so that the employee's benefit will be increased to offset any reduction in his Unemployment Insurance System benefit which may have resulted solely from the Unemployment Insurance Systems' allocation of his earnings for such a shift otherwise than as specified in this Subsection: plus
3.	All wages or remuneration, as defined under the law of the applicable Unemployment insurance System, in excess of his allowable earnings received or receivable from other employers for such week [excluding such wages or remuneration which were considered in the calculation under subsection (A) (2) of this Section); plus
4.	The amount of all other benefits in the nature of compensation or benefits for Unemployment received or receivable under any Province or Canadian government system.
(B) if the Employment Insurance System benefit actually received by an employee for a week shall be for less, or more, than a full week (for reasons other than the employee's receipt of wages or remuneration for such week), because
174
1.	He has been disqualified or otherwise determined ineligible for a portion of his Unemployment Insurance System benefit for reasons other than set forth in Section 1 (B) of Article 1, or
2.	The applicable Employment Insurance Week includes one or more "waiting period effective days". or
3.	Of an underpayment or overpayment of a previous Employment Insurance System benefit, the amount of the Employment insurance System benefit which would otherwise have been paidto the employee for such Unemploymentinsuranceweek shall be used in the calculation of "Unemployment Insurance benefit and other compensation” for such Unemployment insurance week.
(C)	If the Employment insurance System benefit applies io a period of less than seven (7) days due to commencement or termination of unemployment other than on the first or last day of the normally applicable week, the seven (7) day period of the normally applicable Unemployment insurance week will be used in calculating Unemployment Insurance benefit and other compensation for such Unemployment Insurance week.
Section 4, Definition of Scheduledand
Unscheduled Short Work Week
(A) For purposes of the Plan, a scheduled short work week with respect to an employee is a short work week which Management schedules in order to reduce the production of the plant, department or other unit in which the employee works, to a level below the level at which the production of such plant, department, or unit would be for the week were it not a short work week, but only where such
175
reduction of production is for the purpose of adjusting production to customer demand.
(B)	For purposes of the Plan, an unscheduled short work week with respect to an employee is any short work week:
1,	Which is not a scheduled short work week as defined in Subsection4 (A) above;
2.	In which an employee returns to work from layoff to replace a separated or absent employee (including an employee failing to respond or tardy in responding to recall), or returns to work, after a full week of layoff, in connection with an increase in production, but only to the extent that the short work week in attributable to such cause.
(C)	The Company will advise a designated Union representative, or representatives, of the local Union at the time of layoff of the reason or reasons causing any short work week involving a substantial number of employees.
Section 5. Insufficient Credit Units For Full Benefit
If an employee has to his credit less than the full number of credit units required to be cancelled for the payment of a benefit for which he is otherwise eligible, he shall be paid the full amount of such benefit and all remaining credit units or fractions thereof to his credit shall be cancelled.
Section 6. Effectof Low Trust Fund Position
Not withstanding any of the other provisions of the Plan, if, and as long as the applicable trust fund position for any week shall be less than 4%, no benefit for such week shall be paid.
176
Section 7. Benefit Overpayment
(A)	If the Company or the Board determines that any benefit(s) paid under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the employee receiving the benefit(s) and he shall return the amount of overpayment to the trustee, providing, however, that no repayment shall be required if the cumulative overpayment is $3.00 or less or if notice has not been given within 120 days from the date the overpayment was established or created, except that no such limitation shall be applicable in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation.
(B)	If the employee shall fail to return such amount promptly, the trustee shall arrange to reimburse the fund for the amount of overpayment by making a deduction from any future benefits (not to exceed $15.00 from any one benefit except in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to the employee (notto exceed $25,00 from any one pay cheque except in cases of fraud or willful misrepresentation), or both. The Company is authorized to make such deduction from the employee's compensation and to pay the amount deducted to the trustee.
[77
/
Section 8. Withholding Tax
The trustee shall deduct from the amount of any benefit any amount required to be withheld by the trustee or the Company by reason of any law or regulation, for payment of taxes or otherwise to any federal, provincial, or municipal government of Canada.
Section 9. Minimum Regular Benefit
Whenever an employee performs no work for the Company or any other employer, in a week and his regular benefit computed under Secllon 1(A) of this Article provides no benefit or benefits of less than $10.00 for the week, he shall be paid an amount sufficient to bring his benefitfor the week up to $10.00.
ARTICLE III
Credit Units and Duration of Benefits Section 1. General
Credit units shall have no fixed value in terms of either time or money, but shall be a means of determining eligibility for the duration of benefits
Section 2. Accrual of Credit Units
(A)	For work weeks commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement, credit units shall be credited at the rate of Vi of a credit unitfor each work week for which an employee receives any pay from the Company and for work weeks for which he does not receive pay from the Company but for which he receives a leveling week benefit.
(B)	For the purpose of accruing credit units under this Section:
1.	Pay in lieu of vacation shall be considered as pay for the work week in which it is paid and
178
2.	Back pay shall be considered as pay for each work week lo which it may be allocable.
3.	Non-occupational	accident and sickness
payments, and	Workers' Compensation
payments shall be considered as pay for the work week for which they are paid.
4.	Time lost when excused for local Union
business and a leave of absence for local Union business	shall be included in
determining a workweek under this Section.
(C) No employee may have to his credit in the aggregate at any one time under this plan and under any "S.U.B.” Pian of the Company more credit units than specified below:
Years of Employee's Seniority	Maximum
Credit Units
Less than five (5)	52
Five(5)butlessthanten(10)	78
Ten (10) but less than fifteen (15)	104
Fifteen (15) but less than twenty-five (25) 130 Twenty-five (25) and over	208
However, any employee who has at any time to his credit in the aggregate a total of the applicable maximum number of credit units (as specified above) underthis plan and any other "S.U.B." Plan of the Company and who would otherwise accumulate additional credit units in the Bargaining Unit in which he is currently employed, may direct that such additional credit units shall be credited to him and a corresponding number of credit units accumulated under this Plan in any other Bargaining Unit or under any other "S.U.B,” Plan of the Company, shall be cancelled, as long as the aggregate of his credit units at any one time does not exceed the applicable maximum.
(D)	No employee shall be credited with any credit unit priorto the first day of which he:
(I) Flas at least one year of seniority: and
179
/
(II) Is on the active payroll in the Bargaining Unit (or was on such active payroll within forty-five (45) days prior to such first day) but as of such day he shall be credited with credit units for weeks subsequent to his Company service dale at the rate specified in paragraph (A) of this Section. For the purposes of this Sub-paragraph only, an employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he draws pay While in a Bargaining Unit or is on authorized leave of absence which is limited, when issued, to ninety (90) days or less: during the first ninety (90) days of continuous absence due to illness or injury: on disciplinary layoff: absent without leave up to fourteen (14) calendar days from his last day worked.
(E)	An employee who has credit units as of the last day of a week shall be deemed to have them for all of the week.
(F)	At such time as the amount of any benefit overpayment is repaid to the fund, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the number of credit units, if any, theretofore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of benefits shall be restored to the employee, except to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his credit units at the time thereof above the applicable maximum, and except as otherwise providedwith respect to credit unit forfeiture under Section 3 of this Article.
Section 3. Forfeiture of Credit Units
A person shall forfeit permanently all credit units with
which he shall have been credited if at anytime:
(A)	Fie shall be removed from the rolls of the Company for any reason other than layoff or entering military service,
180
(B)	He shall lose his rights to rehire with credit for back service,
(C)	He shall be on layoff from the Bargaining Unitfor a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months (or for employees with fifteen (15) but less than twenty-five (25) years of seniority, thirty (30) months, or for employees with twenty-five (25) or more years of seniority, forty-eight (48) months), or
(D)	He shall willfully misrepresent any material fact in connection with an application by him for benefits under the Plan.
Section 4. Credit Unit Cancellation on Payment of Benefits
The number of credit units to be cancelled for any
benefit shall be determined in accordance with the
following table on the basis of
1.	The seniority of the employee to whom such benefit is paid; and
2.	The trust fund position applicable to the week for which such benefit is paid.
181
If the seniority of the person to whom such benefit is
paid is:
1-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20 yrs years years years years & over
If the trust fund position
applicable to The credit units cancelled fo< the week for	such benefit shall be:
which such benefit is paid is:
80% or over	1.00
70- 79,99%	1,15
60 -69,99%	1,30
50 - 59,99%	1,50
40 - 49.99%	2.00
30 - 39,99%	2,50
20 - 29,99%	3,33
10-19,99%	5.00
4 - 9.99%	7,50
Under4%	— NO
1,00 1,00 1,00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1,00 1,00 1.15 1,00 1,00 1,00 1,30 1.15 1,00 1,00
1.50	1,30	1.15	1,00
2.00	1,50	1.30	1.15
2.50	2,00 1.50 1.30
3.33	2.50	2.00	1,50
5.00	3,33 2,50 2.00 BENEFIT PAYABLE—
Exceptions to the credit unit cancellation rates in the above table are as follows:
1,	'A of the number of credit units will be cancelled for an unscheduled automatic short week beret payable for three (3) or more hours when with respect to such week the employee has earned from the Company an amount equal to or in excessof80% of his weekly straight time pay: and
2,	No credit unit shall be cancelled when an employee receives:
(I)	An automatic short week or special short week benefit for a scheduled short work week;
(II)	A levelingweek benefits; or
(III)	An automatic short week benefit for an unscheduled short work week payable for less than three (3) hours.
182
Section 5. Armed Services
An employee who enters the Armed Services of Canada directlyfrom the employ of the Company shall, while In such service, be deemed, for purposes of the Pian, to be on leave of absence and shall not be entitled to any benefits, All credit units credited to an employee at the time of his entry into such service shall be credited to him upon his reinstatement as an employee.
Sections, Transfer Out of Bargaining Unit
If an employee is transferred out of the Bargaining Unit to a job which is not covered by a similar supplemental Employment benefit pian of the Company, his credit units shall be cancelled. They shall be reinstated, however, if he is transferred back to the Bargaining Unit with, or after he acquires, at least one year's seniority therein.
Section 7. Exhaustion of Credit Units
On exhaustion of an employee's credit units he shall not be entitled to further benefits.
Section 8, Cancellation of Credit Units
When an employee's credit units are cancelled under the provisions of Section 3 of this Article, he shall be entitled to no further benefits until he shall have been credited with additional credit units.
183
ARTICLE IV
Application and Determination of Eligibility
Section 1. Applications
(At Filing of Applications
An application for a benefit may be filed either in person or by mail in accordance with procedures established by the Company. Such procedures shall require the applicant to apply for a benefit within sixty (60) days after each week for which he is claiming benefits; provided, however, that if the payment of the benefit is delayed because of an Employment Insurance System benefit being protested, an application may be made within two (2) weeks after the protest has been settled. Under such procedures an employee applying for a benefit shall be required lo appear personally at a location designated for this purpose lo register as an applicant and to supply needed information at the time of, or prior to, making his first application following layoff.
(B) Application Information
Applications filed for a benefit under the Plan will include:
1.	In writing any information deemed relevant by the company with respect to other benefits received, earnings and the source thereof, dependants, and such other information as the Company may require in order to determine whether the employee is eligible to be paid a benefit and the amount thereof; and
2.	With respect to a regular or special short week benefit the exhibition of the employee's Unemployment Insurance System benefit cheque or other evidence satisfactory to the Company of either
(1) His receipt of or entitlement to an Employment Insurance System benefit, or
I84
(II) His ineligibility for an Employment Insurance System benefit only for one (1) or more of the reasons specified in Section 1 (B) of Article 1
Section 2. Determination of Eligibility
(A)	Application Processing by Company
When an application is filed for a benefit under the Plan and the Company is furnished with the evidence and information required, the Company shall determine the employee's entitlement to a benefit. The Company shall advise the employee of the number of credit units cancelled for each benefit payment and the number of credit units remaining in his credit after such payment.
(B)	Notification of Trustee to Pay
if the Company determines that a benefit is payable, it shall deliver prompt written notice to the trustee to pay the benefit. The payment of benefits under the Plan may be made by, and the return of amounts of overpayment may be made to, the representatives of the trustee appointed by it for such purpose. Such representative may be employees of the Company.
(C)	Notice of Denial of Benefits
If the Company determines that an employee is not entitled to a benefit, it shall notify him promptly, in writing, of the reason(s) for the determination.
(D)	Union Copies of Application and Determinations The company shall furnish promptly to the local Union S.U.B, representative a copy of each application and a copy of all Company determinations of benefit payment ineligibility or overpayment.
185
ARTICLE V
Administration of the Plan and Appeal Procedures
Section 1. Powers and Authority of the Company (A) Company Powers
The Company shall have such powers and
authority as are necessary and appropriate in
order to carry out Its duties under this Article,
including without limitation, the following:
1.	To obtain such Information as the Company shall deem necessary in order to carry out its duties underthe Plan:
2.	To investigate the correctness and validity of information furnished with respect to an application for benefit:
3.	To make initial determinationswith respect to benefits.:
4.	To establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures concerning:
(I)	The manner in which and the times and places at which applications shall be filed for benefits; and
(II)	The form, content and substantiation of applicationsfor benefits,
5.	To designate an office or department at the plant, or in the alternative a location in the general area of the plant, where employees laid off may appear for the purpose of complying with the Plan requirements:
6.	To determine the maximum funding of the fund and the trust fund position:
7.	To establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given underthe Plan;
8.	To establish and maintain necessary records; and
9.	To prepare and distribute information explainingthe Pian.
I86
{B) Company Authority
Nothing contained in this Pian shall be deemed to qualify, limit or alter in any manner the Company's sole and complete authority and discretion to establish, regulate, determine or modify at any time levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of hiring and layoffs, production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shall be done, marketing of its products, or any other matter relating to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if this Pian were not in existence; nor shall it be deemed to confer either upon the Union or the Board of Appeal any voice in such matters
Section 2. Appeals Procedure
(A)	First Step Appeals
The Company shall designate one person to serve as its representative for the consideration of appeals by applicants and the Union shall designate a representative for the same purpose. The employee designated as the representative of the Union shall be paid for time lost from work in attending meetings with the Company representative for the consideration of such appeals. Such payment shall be made directly by the Company.
Any person who shall have been determined by the Company not to be entitled to a benefit, who shall have been determined to be entitled to be paid a benefit that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes he is entitled, who questions the number of credit units credited to him at the lime of layoff, who has had more of his credit units cancelled than he believes correct or who is determined to be ineligible for a
187
/
benefit which determination is disputed by him, may appeal such determination by presenting an appeal (other than determinations made in connection with Section 1 (B) (8) of Article I),on a form to be provided for the purpose, either to the Company representative or to the Union representative. in situations where a number of employees had filed applications for benefits under substantially identical conditions, an appeal may be filed with respect to one of such employees and the decision thereon shall apply to all such employees, if there is no local Union or piant S.U.B. representative at the piant because of discontinuance of such piant, the appeal may be filed directly with the Board of Appeals.
Appeals concerning determination made in connection with Section 1 (B) (11) of Article I (contrary to intent of pian) shall be made directly to the Board. Such written appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days following the date of notice of such determination or dental or reduction of such benefit to such person, or within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of a cheque of such smaller amount by the trustee to such person. The representative who receives said written appeal will promptly furnish one (1) copy to the representative of the other party. If either the Company representative or the Union representative shall find that such appeal is justified, he shall so notify the other representative and the Company representative and Union representativeshall meet within ten (10) days from the date of the appeal (or such extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such appeal.
In the event the two (2) parties cannot agree upon the disposition of the appeal. either representative may refer the matter to the Board of Appeals for disposition, on a form to be provided for that purpose.
188
(B) 1, Within twenty (20)daysafterdispositionof an appeal by the Company and Union representatives, the Union representative may request a ruling by the Board of Appeals. Such a request shall be in writing, shall specify the respects in which the Pian is claimed to have been violated and shall set forth the facts relied upon as justifying a reversal or modification of the determination appealed from. A copy of said request will be furnished to the Company representative. The Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction to act upon an appeal made after the time specified above or upon an appeal which does not otherwise comply with this Subparagraph. Subject to the limitations of Subparagraph (2) set forth below, the handling and disposition of such request to the Board of Appeals shall be in accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board.
The Union representative, or the Union member of the Board of Appeals may withdraw any appeal to the Board at any time before it is decided by the Board.
2,	In ruling upon appeals, the Board shall have no authorityto waive, vary qualify, or alter in any manner, the eligibility requirements set forth in the Pian, the procedure for applying for benefits set forth herein, or any other provisions of the Plan, and shall have no jurisdiction other than to determine, on the basis of the facts presented and in accordance with the provisionsof the Plan:
(I) whether the first step appeal and tho appeal of the board were made within the time and in the manner specified in this Section:
/
189
(II)	whether the employee is an eligible person with respect to the benefit involved and, if so;
(III)	the amount of any benefit payable;
(IV)	whether the accrual or cancellation of credit units was properly determined,
(V)	any question by either the Company or the Union concerning the interpretation or application of this Plan unless specifically excluded from the appeals procedure.
3. There shall be no appeal from the decision of the Board of Appeals. It shall be final and binding upon the Union, its members, the employee involved, the trustee, and the Company. The Union will discourage any attempt of its memberto appeal and will not encourage or co-operate with any of its members in any appeal to any court or labour board from any decision of the Board, nor will the Union or its members by any other means attempt lo bring about a settlement of any claim or issue on which the Board is empowered to rule hereunder.
(C) Applicability of Appeals Procedure
The appeals procedure set forth in this Section may be employed only for the purposes specified in the Plan. Such procedure shall not be used to protest a denial of an Unemployment Insurance System unemployment benefit or to determine whether or not a benefit should have been paid under an Unemployment Insurance System. (Appeal procedures under Unemployment Insurance law being the exclusive remedy therefor). The Board of Appeals shall have no power to determine questions arising under any Collective Labour Agreement, even though relevant to the issues before the Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefor by the Collective
190
/
Labour Agreement, and all determinations made pursuant to such Agreement shall be accepted by the Board
(D) Compositionand Procedure-Board of Appeals.
1.	There shall be established a Board of Appeals consisting of four (4) members, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company members), and two (2) of whom shall be appointed as follows: one (1) by the International Union, United Steelworkers of America, and one (1) by Local 455, hereinafter referred to as the Union members. Each member of the Board shall have an alternate. in the event a member is absent from a meeting of the Board, his alternate may attend, and when in attendance. shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of such member. Either the Company or the Union at any lime may remove a member appointed by it and may appoint a member to fill any vacancy among the members appointed by it. The Company and the Union each shall notify the other in writing of the members respectively appointed by it before any Such appointment shall be effective.
2,	The members of the Board shall appoint an impartial chairman, who shall serve until requested in writing to resign by two (2) members of the Board. If the members of the Board are unable to agree upon a chairman, he shall be selected in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement. The impartial chairman shall be considered a member of the Board, but shall attend meetings and shall vote only in matters within the Board's authority to determine, and only when the other members
191
of the Board shall have been unable to dispose of a matter by a majority vote, except that the impartial chairman shall have no vote concerning determination made in connection with Section 1 (B) (8) of Article I (contrary to Intent of Pian).
3.	At least one (1) Union member and one (1) Company member shall be required to be present at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the Board, the Company members shall have a total of two
(2)	votes and the Union members shall have a total of two (2) votes, the vote of any absent member being given to the member present, appointed by the same party. Decisions of the board shall be by a majority of the votes cast.
4.	The Board shall not maintain any separate office or staff, but the Company and Union shall be responsible for furnishing such clerical and other assistance as its respective members of the Board shall require. Copies of all appeals, reports, and documents to be filed with the Board pursuantto the Plan shall be filed in duplicate, one (1) copy to be Sent to the Company members at the address designated by them, and the other to be Sent to the Union members at the address designated by them.
192
Section 3.	Determination of Dependents
IAt Regular Benefits
In determining an employee's dependents for purposes of regular benefits determinations, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the official form filed by the employee with the Company for income tax withholding purposes, and employee shall have the burden of establishing that he is entitled to a greater number of withholding exemptions than he shall have claimed on such form
(B)	Allowable Earnings
In calculating an employee's allowable earnings, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon such information as may be available listing dependents, The employee shall have the burden of establishing that he is entitled to a different number of dependents than that being used by the Company
Section 4, To Whom Benefits Are Payable InCertaIn Conditions
Benefits shall be payable only to the eligible employee, except that if the Company shall find that the employee is deceased or is unable to manage his affairs for any reason, any benefit payable to him shall be paid to his duly appointed legal representative, if there be one, and, if not, to the spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents of the employee as the Board in its discretion may determine.
Any benefit so paid shall be a complete discharge of any liability with respect to such benefit, in the case of death, no benefit shall be payable with respect to any period following the last day of layoff immediately preceding the employee's death.
193
Section 5. Nonallenatlon of Benefits
Except for a deduction specifically provided for under this Plan, no benefit shall be subject in any way to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, or encumbrance of any kind and any attempt to accomplish the same shall be void. In the event that such an attempt has been made with respect to any benefit due or to become due to any employee, the Company in its sole discretion may terminate the interest of the employee in the benefit and apply the amount of the benefit to or for the benefit of the employee, his spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents as the Company may determine and any such application shall be a complete discharge of all liability with respect to the benefit.
Section 6,	Applicable Law
The Plan and all rights and duties thereunder shall be governed, construed, and administered in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario, except that the eligibility of an employee for, and the amount and duration of, Employment Insurance System benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Employment Insurance laws of the Employment Insurance System.
Section 7.	Grievance Procedure
No question involving the interpretation or application of the Plan, except to the extent otherwise specified in Section 2 of this Article, shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided in the Collective Labour Agreement.
194
ARTICLE Vi Financial Provisions
Section 1. Establishment of Fund
The Company shall maintain a fund in accordancewith this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, with a chartered bank or banks or a qualified trust company or companies selected by the Company as trustee. The company's contributions shall be made into the Fund, the assets of which shall be held, invested and applied by the trustee, all in accordance with the Plan. Benefits shall be payable only from such fund. The Company shall provide in the contract with the trustee that the fund shall be held in cash or invested only in general obligations of the Government of the Dominion of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province.
Section2. Maximum Funding
And Trust Fund Position
(A)	Maximum Funding
There shall be a maximum funding of the fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provisionsof Subsection (B) of this Section). Commencing with the month following the month in which the Plan becomes effective and for any month thereafter the maximum funding of the fund shall be determined by multiplying the sum of (I) the number of employees on the active payroll and (II) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll but who have credit units; the above number of employees and persons shall be as determined by the company as the latest period for which the figures are available prior to the first Monday in the month for which the maximum funding is being determined (or prior to the pay period if the maximum funding is being determined
/
195
for a pay period) by the applicable amount as shown inthe following table:
(1)	For the month of July, 1975
and succeeding months	$350
(2)	For the month in which the	trust
fund amount first reaches $350
and succeeding months	$375
(3)	For the month in which the	trust
fund amount first reaches $375
and succeeding months	$400
(4)	For the month in which the	trust
fund amount first reaches $400
and succeeding	months	$425
(5)	For the month in which the trust
fund amount first reaches $425
t lit g tl	$450
t6) For the month in which the trust fund amount first reaches $450 e 1	ting	months	$475
(7)	'< Ih month in which the trust fund amount first reaches $475
at I succeedi tg	months	$500
(8)	Fo the month in which the trust fund amount first reaches $500
, d sding	no iths	$525
(9)	For the month in which the trust
fund amount first reaches $525
and succeeding months	$550
(10)	For the month in which the trust fund it fit t ich ?550
id	ii lg ltl	$575
11) For the month in which the trust fund amount first reaches $575 d s	di lg i< nti s	$600
;12) For h month in which the trust fund amount first reaches $600 and succeeding months	$625
(13) For the month in which the trust fund amountfirst reaches$625 and succeeding months	$650
196
(14)	Forthe month in which the trust fund amount first reaches$650 and succeeding months
(15)	Forthe month in which the trust fund amount first reaches$675 and succeeding months
(16)	Forthe month in which the trust fund amount first reaches$700 and succeeding months
(17)	Forthe month inwhich the trust fund amount first reaches$725 and succeeding months
(B)	Trust Fund Amount There shall be trust fund amount for the fund for each month commencing with the month of March, 1958. The trust fund amount for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the trustee, by the sum of (I) the number of employees on the active payroll and (II) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll, but who have credit units, such total number to be that used in determining the maximum funding for such month in accordance with Paragraph (A) of this Section. The trust fund amount for the fund for any particular month commencing with March, 1958, shall be applied in connection with such fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month.
(C)	Trust Fund Position
There shad be a trust fund position (Stated as a percentage) for the fund for each calendar month commencing with the month of March, 1958. The trust fund position for the fund for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the
197
$675
$700
$725
$750
first Monday of such month, as certified by the trustee, by the maximum funding of such fund for such month. The trust fund position for the fund for any particular month shall be applied in connection with such fund for all purposes under the Pian to each of the pay periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that after March 1, 1958, whenever the trust fund position for the fund for any particular month is less than 10%, such trust fund position shall be applied in connection with such fund for all purposes under the pian only to the first pay period beginning within such month. And thereafter there shall be determined a trust fund position (staled as a percentage) for such fund for each pay period until the trust fund position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds 10%. When the trust fund position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds such percentage such trust position shall be applied in connection with such fund for such purposes lo each pay period until a trust fund position for the following calendar month shall be applicable pursuant to this Section. The trust fund position for the fund for a particular pay period shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding such pay period, as certified by the trustee, by the maximum funding of such fund for such pay period.
(D)	Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the maximum funding, trust fund amount, or the trust fund position of the fund shall be made on account of any subsequently discovered error in the computations or the figures used in making the computations, except (I) in the case of an error in bad faith, or (II) in the case where after discovery of an error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shall only be prospective in effect, unless such adjustment
198
would be substantial in the opinion of the Company. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to excuse the Company from making up any shortage in its contributions to the fund.
Section 3. Contributions by Company
(A)
Company Contributions
1. Commencing with the pay period beginning May 31, 2004, and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable trust fund amount is less than the figure shown in Column A; the Company shall make a contribution to the fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying the applicable figure in Column B by the total number of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or such lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the fund to the then applicable trust fund amount in Column A, in which case the remainder of said total
2.
number of hours shall be multiplied by the next lowerfigure in the applicable Column B). Column A	Column B
$150
$300
$450
$600
$650
$750
$.17
$.15
$.13
$.11
$.09
$.07
In addition to the contributions otherwise
required by this Article, the Company Shalt contribute to the fund the amount of any automatic short week and special short week benefits paid from the fund as scheduled short work week benefits for any pay periods for which the trust fund amount is less than $180.00,
I99
3. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement the Company shall not be obligated to make any contributionto the fund with respect to any pay period for which the applicable trust fund amount is more than $750.00, and no contributions to the fund for any pay period shall be in excess of the amount necessary to bring the total market value of the assets in such fund up to $750.00.
(B)	When Contributionsare Payable
1.	Contributions by the Company shall be made on or before the dose of business on the first regularly scheduled work day in the third calendar week following the pay period with respect lo which the contribution is being made.
In periods in which the trust fund position equals or exceeds 10% weekly contributions may be accumulated and made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day of the calendar week in which the Friday used for determining the trust fund position falls.
2.	The first contribution by the Company to the fund shall be made on the Monday following the last Friday of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which fulfillment of all of the applicable conditions to effectiveness of the Plan with respect to such fund set forth in Article VIII shall have been completed.
3.	The first contribution by the Company to the fund shall cover all amounts required to be paid under this Article to such fund with respect to each pay period beginning within the period of time commencing after June 1, 2001, and ending with the last day of the last pay period immediately preceding the date on
200
which the first contribution under Subsection
(A)(1) of this Section shall become payable.
(C)	Reductionsfrom Contributions
Contributions required by the provisionsof Section
3{A) of this Article shall be reduced by the
following:
1.	The cost of providing hospital-medical benefits for laid off employees as specified in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement and the Health and Life Insurance Agreement less the period following layoff for which the Company pays otherwise;
2.	The amount of money added to each vacation cheque at the time written due to short week benefit payments, consistent with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement;
3.	If contributions to the fund are not required for any period, or if the contributions required are less than the amounts to be offset under this Paragraph (C), then any subsequently required contributions shall be reduced by the amount not previously offset against contributions:
4.	Any such amounts not previously offset against contributions shall be deducted from the market value of the assets in the fund in determining trust fund position and the relationship of the fund to maximum funding;
5.	If the Company at any time shall be required lo withhold any amount from any contribution to the fund by reason of any government, or provincial law or regulation, the Company shall have the right to deduct such amount from the contribution and pay only the balance to the fund.
201
Section 4. Liability
(A)	The company shall not be obligated to make up or to provide for making up, any depreciation, or loss arising from depreciation, in the value of the securities held in the fund (other than as contributions by the Company may be required under the provisions of this Article when the market value of the assets of the fund is less than the Maximum funding); and the Union shall not call on the Company to make-up, or to provide for making up, any such depreciation or loss,
(B)	The Company, the trustee, and the Union, and each of them, shall not be liable because of any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely on the correctness of any information furnished to it by an authorized representative of any of the others.
(C)	Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to relieveany person from liability for willful misconduct orfraud.
(D)	The trustee shall not be liable for (he making or retaining of any investment or for realized or unrealized loss thereon whether from normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
Section 5, No Vested Interest
No employee shall have any right, title, or interest in or
to any of the assets of the fund, or in or to any
Company contribution thereto.
202
Section 6. Reports
(A) Report by the Company
1.	The Company shall notifythe local Unionand the International Union monthly of the amount of maximum funding, trust fund amount and the trust fund position for the fund as determined by it under the Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the number of employees on the active payroll and the number of laid off employees having credit units upon which the trust fund position determinationwas made.
2.	On or before June 1 of each year the Company shall furnish to the local Unionand International Union a statement certified by a qualified independent firm of certified public accountants selected by the Company;
(I)	showing the number of hours for which employees drew pay from the Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions lo the fund during each period of the preceding year, and
(II)	Verifying the accuracy of the information furnished by the Company during the preceding year pursuant to Subsection (A)(1) of this Section.
3.	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan which the Company shall compile. Such information will include the following;
(A) The number of employees on layoff
I monthly;
(B) The amount of regular benefits paid, special and automatic short week benefits paid;
(C)	The duration of regular benefits;
203
(D)	The number of employees who have exhausted their regular benefits each calendar year:
(E)	The number of employees laid off and ineligible for regular benefits because of having less than one (1) year cf seniority;
(F)	The total number of employees who received one (1) or more regular benefits, special and automatic short week benefits;
(G)	The amount of the reductions monthly from contributions reduced by the provisions of (C) of Section 3 and the amounts under each category listed in
(C);
(H)	The number of employees who drew more than fifty-two (52) credit units during a continuous period by designated seniority brackets each calendar year;
(I)	On or before February28th of each year, the Company shall furnish to each employee the amount of benefits received by him under the plan:
(J)	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the International Union for other statistical information cn the operation of the Plan which the Company may have compiled.
(B)	Reports by the Trustee
1 § Within ten (10) days after the commencement of each month, beginning with the month in which the Company shall have made its first contribution under the Plan, the trustee shall be required to furnish to the local Union, International Union and the Company a statement showing the amounts received from the Company for the fund during the preceding month.
204
2. No later than the second Tuesday following the first Monday of each month, the trustee shall furnish to the local Union, International Union and the Company (I) a statement showing the total market value of the fund as of the close of business on the Friday following the last Monday of the preceding month, and (II) a statement showing the amounts, if any, paid as benefits from the fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 7. Cost of Administering the Plan
(A)	Expense of Trustee
The costs and expenses incurred by the Trustee under the Plan and fees charged by the Trustee shall be charged to the fund.
(B)	The compensation of the impartial Chairman, which shall be in such amount and on such basis as may be determined by the other members of the Board, shall be paid from the fund, reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board for forms and stationery required in connection with the handling of appeals shall be borne by the fund. The Company members and the Union members of the Board shall serve without compensation from the fund.
(C)	Cost of Services
The Company shall be reimbursed each year from the fund for the cost of the Company of bank fees and auditing fees.
Section 8, Benefit Drafts Not Presented
If the trustee has segregated any portion of the fund in connection with any determination that a benefit is payable under the Plan and the amount of such benefit is not claimed within a period of two (2) years from the date of such determination, such amount shall revert to the fund
205
ARTICLE VII
Conditions to Effectiveness and Continuation of Pian
Section 1. Effect of Amended Agreement
This amended Agreement on Supplemental Employment benefits, when it becomes effective shall supersede and completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment benefits concluded between the parties March 3, 1957, as from time to time thereafter amended.
However, until such time as this Agreement becomes effective, the Pian shall be governed in all respects by the terms of the original Agreement of March 3, 1957, as heretofore amended.
Section 2, IncomeTax Rulings
This amended Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, a currently effective ruling or rulings, satisfactory to the Company, holding that the amendment of the Pian accomplished hereunder does not modify, alter, or change in any manner, the rulings previously issued by the Minister and applicable provincial Treasury Department, with respect to the Plan, including particularly their determination that Company contributions to the Plan shall constitute a currently deductible expense, and that such contributions are not taxable income to the trust under the Dominion income Tax Act, applicable provincial and/or municipal Corporation Tax Acts, as now in effect, or as may be hereafter in effect, or under any other applicable Dominion or Provincial and/or Municipal Income or Corporations Tax law.
206
Section 3. Employment Insurance Commission Rulings and Supplementation
it is the purpose of the Plan to supplement Unemployment Insurance Benefits to the levels herein provided, and not to replace or duplicate them.
Section 4, Application for Rulings
The Company shall apply promptly for any required rulings from the appropriate agencies. Copies of all correspondence covering such rulings shall be mailed to the international Union and the local Union.
ARTICLE VIII Miscellaneous
Section 1, Receipts of Benefits
Neither the Company's contribution nor any benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of any employee's wages for any purpose. No person who receives any benefit shall for that reason be deemed an employee of the Company during such period, and he shall not thereby accrue any greater right to participate in, accrue credits or receive benefits under any other employee benefit Plan to which the Company contributes than he would if he were receiving such benefits.
Section 2, Effect on Revocation Of Federal Rulings
in the event that any ruling required under Sections 2 and 3 of Article VII, having been obtained, shall be revoked or modified in such manner as no longer to be satisfactory to the Company, all obligations of the Company under the Plan shall cease, and the Pian shall thereupon terminate and be of no further effect (without in any way affecting the validity of operation of
207
the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration and paying benefits, all in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, until the assets of the fund shall have been exhausted, except that Section 6 of Article II shall not be applicable, if there are assets still remaining in the fund, the provisionsof Section 3(B) of Article Vltl shall apply lo their dispositions.
Section 3. Amendment and Termination of the
Plan
(A)	So long as the Collective Labour Agreement of which this Supplemental Employment Benefits Plan as amended is a part shall remain in effect, the Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended or terminated, except as may be proper or permissible under the terms of the Plan or the Collective Labour Agreement. Upon termination of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company shall have the right to continue the Plan in effect and to modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, except as may be otherwise provided in any subsequent Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
(B)	Upon any termination of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate in all respects, except that the assets then remaining in the fund shall be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then in effect, and shall be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration, and to pay benefits to eligible applicants laid off in the order each week of the respective dale as of which they were laid off. Section 6, Article II, shall not be applicable. Inthe event there are any assets in the fund after all of the above payments have been made, the remaining assets shall be refunded to the Company.
208
(C)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the plan, the Company, with the consent of the Union, may make such revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purpose, structure, and basic provisions thereof as shall be necessary to obtain or maintain any rulings required under the Plan. Any such revision shall adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan. fDf This Agreement and the obligation of the Company to continue the Plan without change or modification (except as permitted hereunder) during the life of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be deemed supplemental to and part of the Collective Labour Agreement, and during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement neither the Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to the Plan or Agreement.
Section 4, Ratification
This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement, executed concurrently herewith, shall both have been ratified and approved by the Local Union and also the International Union and written notice of such ratification and approval shall have been received by the Company.
Section 5, Union Identification of Benefit Cheques
Ail cheques payable for any benefit or payment under the Plan shall indicate that the benefit or payment is being made in accordance with the Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment benefits between the Company and the Union.
209
ARTICLE IX Definitions
As used herein:
1.	"Active Payroll" - an employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he draws pay;
2,	"Average Hourly Earnings" means an employee's hourly earnings plus his off shift premium but excluding overtime based on a six week pay period immediately preceding the date of his layoff, provided that if such employee was assigned or transferred to a new operation at a lower rate during such six week pay period, the hours worked and his earnings on such newjob Will be excluded from his average hourly earnings. Provided, however, that should the employee have no earnings during such six (6) week period other than as a learner, his average hourly earnings shall be based on the first work week preceding such learning period.
if a general wage increase has become effective between the period for which average hourly earnings has been calculated, and the date of layoff, such general wage increase shall be added to the hourly earnings so calculated.
In order to provide a minimum appropriate to the current wage scales in the plant, the average hourly earnings shall in no case be deemed to be less than two dollars and thirty-five cents ($2.35) per hour, for the purpose of calculating the benefits payable.
3.	"Bargaining Unit" - means a unit of employees covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
4,	"Benefit' - means an automatic short week benefit, regular benefit, special short week benefit, or any or all three (3) as indicated by (he context.
(A)	'"Automatic Short Week Benefit" means the
benefit payable to an eligible employee for a short work week for which his Company pay and any Company pay which he would have
210
received for hours scheduled for or made available to him but not worked equalled or exceeded his allowableearnings.
(B)	"Leveling Week Benefit" means the weekly supplemental benefit payable to an eligible employee far all or part of a week because, with respect to the week, he was serving an Unemployment Insurance System "waiting week and during such week or part hereof he was temporarily laid off out of line of seniority pending placement in accordance with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
(C)	'Regular Benefit" means the benefit payable to an eligible employee for a week of layoff in which he performed no work for the Company, or in which he performed some work for the Company, or in which he performed some work for the Company but neither the period worked nor pay received was sufficient to disqualify him for an Unemployment InsuranceSystem benefit and the amount of the special short work week benefit calculated for such week was less than the regular benefit amount:
(D> "Special Short Week Benefit" means the benefit payable to an eligible employee for a short work week for which his Company pay and any Company pay which he would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him but not worked did not equal or exceed his allowable earnings;
(E) "Weekly Supplemental Benefit" means either a regular benefit or a special short week benefit, payable under the Plan.
5,	"Board" means the Board of Appeals.
6,	"Collective Labour Agreement" means the currently effective Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union which
211
incorporates this Plan by reference and the Supplements thereto.
7.	"Company" shall mean GenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
8.	"Compensated or Available Hours" for a week shall be the sum of:
(A)	All hours for which an employee receives pay from the Company (including reporting pay and holiday pay, but excluding pay in lieu of vacation) with each hour paid at premium rates to be counted as one hour:
(B)	All hours scheduled for or made available to the employee by the Company but not worked by him after notice consistent with existing practice under the Collective Labour Agreement (including any period on leave of absence). When work is offered and refused, hours charged will not exceed hours made available and such hours will be charged in the following order:
1. To the employees who actually performed the work offered.
2. To employees who signified their intention to work and then failed to report.
3.	To employees who first refused the opportunity for the work in the event that insufficient employees offered to work the hours available (includes absent employees who otherwise would have been offered the work).
(C)	All hours not worked by the employee because of any of the reasons disqualifying the employee from receiving a benefit under Subsection4(B)(2) of Article 1: and
(D)	All hours not worked by the employee which are in accordance with a written Agreement between local Management and designated local Union representatives:and
212
(E)	All hours which are attributable to absenteeism of other employees, providing such absenteeism was not cause by an act of God; and
(F)	With respect to any employee who is regularlyscheduled less than the hoursofthe standard work week (40), the number of hours by which his regularly scheduled hours are less than the hours of the standard work week: and
(G)	All hours not worked by the employee because of work sharing required by the Collective Labour Agreement except:
(I)	Where the Union is not asked by the Company to waive the work sharing provisions; or
(II)	When the Union refuses to waive the work sharing provisions and the ComDany, after the worksharing period, fails io lay off;
(H)	All hours not worked by the employee because of a change in shift resulting from a request of the employee.
9.	"Credit Units" means the units determining duration of an employee's benefits which are credited to him generally by reason of his weeks of active service and cancelled at specified rates for the payment of certain benefits;
10.	"Dependent" means any person recognized as such under the provisions of the Dominion Unemployment Insurance Act, 1955, by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
11.	"Employee" means an employee of the Company while, during the life of this Agreement, he is in the Collective Bargaining Unit as defined in and covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
12.	"Allowable Earnings" means the amount of earnings the employee is permitted to earn before any deductions would be made from his weekly unemployment insurance benefits.
213
13,	"Fund means a trust fund established under the Plan to receive and invest Company contributions and to pay benefits.
14,	"Plan" means the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan established by "Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits" between the Company and the Union dated March 7th, 1957, as from time to time amended, and as continued under this Agreement.
15,	"Plant" means GenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
16,	"Seniority" means seniority status under the Collective Labour Agreement.
17,	"Short Work Week" means a work week during which an employee performs some work for the Company or performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his compensated or available hours for such week are less than the number of hours in his standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combinationthereof, shall not of itself qualify him for a benefit hereunder;
18,	"Employment Insurance System" means the system or program, established by law, for paying benefits to persons on account of their unemployment, under which an individual's eligibility for benefit payments is not determined by application of a "means" or 'disability" test: including any such system or program established for the primary purpose of education or vocational training where such programs may provide for training allowances.
19,	"Employment Benefit” means a benefit payable under such Unemployment Insurance System including any dependency allowances and training
214
allowances (excluding any allowance for transportation, subsistence, equipment or other cost of training). If an employee receives a Workers' Compensation Benefit while working full time and a higher Workers' Compensation benefit while on layoff from the Company, only the amount by which the Workers' Compensation benefit is increased shall be included.
20.	"Supplementation" means recognition of the right of a person to receive both an Employment Insurance System benefit and a weekly supplemental benefit under the Plan for the Same week of layoff at approximately the same time and without reduction of the Unemployment Insurance System benefit because of the payment of the weekly supplemental benefit under the Plan.
21.	"Trustee" means the trustee or trustees of the fund established under the Pian.
22.	"Trust Fund Position" means the percentage position of the fund as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
"Trust Fund Amount" means the dollar amount in the fund per eligible employee as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
23.	"Union" means of the United Steelworkers of America, Local 455.
24.	"Week when used in connection with eligibilityfor and computation of benefits with respect to an employee means:
(A)	A period of layoff equivalent to a work week;
(B)	A work week for which a full-time employee shall have been scheduled or offered work for less than twenty-seven (27) hours including hours paid for but not worked, if on a standard eight (8) hour day;
(C)	A short work week.
"Week of Layoff shall include any such week; provided, however, that if there is a difference between the starting time of the work week and of a week under an applicable
21s
26.
27.
Unemployment Insurance Syslem, the work week shall be paired with the Unemployment Insurance System week which corresponds most closely thereto in time; except that if n t pi >y is ineligible for an Unemployment Insurance System benefit because of any if the reasons set forth in Section 1(B) of Article I (excluding Item (3) thereof) for the entire continuous p it I of layoff, th ji 1 under th Unemployment Insurance y te h all t s assumed to be the same as the work week. If an employee fc come ineligible for a Ei pl< ymi it Insurance S; t ir b ne fit because of tt a '< c s it fo i in Section 1(B) of Article I, (excluding il (3) tl if), during a continuous period of layoff, the week under tf a Unemployment Insurance System
I shall b issi it d to itin 3 tc I , ft r th duration of the layoff period during which h remains so ineligible, the seven (7) day period for which an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit was paid to Ihe employee during such continuous period of layoff. Each week within a continuous period of layoff will not be considered a new or separate layoff. "Weekly Straight Time Pay" an amount equal to an employee’s	sr gt	hourly warnings (as
determined for a weekly supplementary benefit) multiplied by forty (40) ■ in the case of a part-time employee, by the proportionately reduced number of hours.
“Work Week” or "Pay Period” means seven (7) consecutive l< 3 beginning r Sunday at the regular starting time of the f :t to which the employee is c e ig 3	or was last assigned
immediately prior to being laid off.
"Standard Work Week" - the standard work week for the purpose of computing a special short week benefit, the automatic short week benefit and a regular ben fit when	ri ig ith a S[ i< I
2lo
t sk benefit shall be no more than forty (40) hours, and shall be the number of hours in the standard work week as stated it tf C illi ;tive Labour A	L
ARTICLE X uration and T
This tl irl nth i n eff( :tiv c June I without ihange or above for a per id 2004. (The prior
e d )d	gi seme t shall fc	3
!) >4	id shall continue in	t
modification except e >rovided >f three yean expiring rr June 1, greer e t concluded t tv 3 the
tii on June 1, 2004, having been in effect from June 1,2001 lune 1,2004).
This Agreement shall continue in 1 it June 1, 2007 frc n y sa tc year unless eitf r [ ~ty gi s the other party notice in writing within one hundred and fifty (150) days immediately prior to the sxpiration date >r the anniversary date. If either party gives the other a notice of cancellation, this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice. If either party ji s tl >th a notice of proposals for revision in ai ;< I: with the above terms, the p artif s shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the propc d revisions is fit midnight June 1, 2007, or ty midnight f any (her subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, tf s Agreement shall be continued in if iratic ft	a period ot
sr lir 3 (1) year until a new rgr srienl is t 1 or until th procedure contemplated by the Labour Relations Act has been completed.
i: memorandum of gre t is subject t tf 1 pp rl of thr membership of Local 455 s tf
International Union, AFL-CIO-CLC
United Steelworkers of America
217
Signed this 1st day of June, 2004, at Welland, Ontario, between:
UNITED
STEELWORKERS,
LOCAL455,
AFL-CIO-CLC
T. Gasperetti M. Potter L. Hanson J, Buote L. Napper
B. Greenaway- International Representative
GENCORP CANADA INC. WELLAND, ONTARIO.
P. Lustri
C.	Clark
D.	Molrtar B. Podio
218
June 1, 2004
United Steelworkers of America
President, Local455
214 King Street, Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiationsthat the provisions for reductions from contributions as outlined In Article VI, Subsection 3(C)(1) of the S.U.B, agreement will not apply during the term of this Agreement.
Yours very truly,
B. Dowling
Manager, Human Resources
Separation Payment Plan
This Agreement made and entered into as cf this 1st day of June, 2004, by and between GenCorp Canada Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and Local No 455, United Steelworkers of America (hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
Whereas the parties hereto establisheda Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan by an Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits dated the 3" day of March, 1957, which has been amended from time to time,
And whereas in conjunction with such Plan, the parties have agreed to enter into this Separation Payment Plan.
Now therefore it is mutually agreed as follows:
219
Section 1, Definitions
(A)	The term "Company" shall meanGenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
(B)	The term "Pian" as used herein shall mean the Agreement on supplemental Unemployment Benefits entered into by the Company and the Union as it may be amended from time to time and in such Agreement the term "Plan" shall be construed to include the Separation Payment Pian except where such construction would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(C)	The term "Separation Payment" means such benefit as is payable to eligible employees in accordance with the terms of this Separation Payment Plan.
(D)	The term "Union" means Local 455 of the United Steelworkers of America, representing certain employees at GenCorp Canada Inc., Welland, Ontario.
(E)	Other Terms:
Any other term used herein which has a counterpart which is defined in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement as amended shall have the same meaning for the purposes of this Separation Payment Plan as such term has under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement.
Section 2. Eligibility
An applicant who is an employee on or after June 1,
1984 shall be eligible for a Separation Payment
providedthat:
(A) On or after June 1, 1984 he is laid off from the Company and has recall rights under the Collective Labour Agreement; and the reason for layoff was not the result of any of the circumstances specified in Article I -Section4 (B),
(2), (3), (4) of the Supplemental Unemployment
220
Benefits Pian, and the layoff is for a continuous period of at least two (2) years or such shorter period as the Company may determine on the basis of re-employment prospects; and
(B)	He has had two (2) or more years of seniority on the last day worked for the Company; and
(C)	He has made application for a Separation Payment in accordance with the procedure established by the Company subsequent to twenty-four (24) months from the commencement date of the layoff and prior to the date he loses his seniority under the Collective Labour Agreement, except in the case of an applicant whose seniority is lost on tho expiry of two (2) years of layoff who must apply within thirty (30) days after tho loss of his seniority rights to be eligible.
Section 3. Method of Payment
(A)	A Separation Payment shall be payable to the employee by the Company in a lump sum.
(B)	When the applicable trust fund position for the week in which a Separation Payment becomes payable is equal to or in excess of fifty (50%) percent such payment shall be a first charge against any and all future Company contributions to the trust fund.
(C)	When the applicable trust fund position for the week in which a Separation Payment becomes payable is less than fifty percent (50%) such payment shall not be charged against future contributions to the trust fund for the purpose of computing trust fund position or otherwise and shall be paid by the Company directly.
Section 4, Amount of Separation Payment
(A) The amount of tho Separation Payment payable to an eligible applicant shall be the following:
221
(Ij For an employee having two or more but less than three completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his most recent layoff, his average hourly earnings multiplied by fifty (50).
(II)	For an employee having three or more but less than four completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his most recent layoff, his average' hourly earnings multiplied by seventy-five (75).
(III)	For an employee havingfour or more but less than five completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his most recent layoff, his average hourly earnings multiplied by one hundred (100).
(IV)	For an employee having five or more but less than ten completed years of credited service prior to his most recent layoff, two percent (2%) of this total earnings (as defined in Subsection (B) of this Section 4.)
(V)	For an employee having ten or more but less than fifteen completed years of credited service prior to his most recent layoff, two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of his total earnings (as defined in Subsection (B) of this Section 4.)
/VII For an employee having fifteen or more completed years of credited service prior to his most recent layoff, three percent (3%) of his total earnings (as defined in Subsection (B) of this Section 4).
IB) 111 in computing total earningsforthe purposeof calculating any Separation Payment, all earnings from the Company for the period of credited service shall be included.
(2) For whole or fractional years of credited service during which he was in employment prior to 1955, earnings for the year 1955, determined as aforesaid, increased proportionately to reflect a full year's
222
earnings, if no earnings have been included for one or more pay period in 1955, but if any employee had no earnings for 1955 (either actual or included in accordance with the preceding sentences), his earnings for the next succeeding year in which he had earnings, increased proportionatelyto reflect a full year's earnings, if no earnings have been included for one (1) or more pay periods in such year, shall be taken to be the rate of his earnings for all such whole and fractional years of credited services prior to 1955.
(3)	Earnings for years of credited service from 1955 until five years preceding his last layoff shall be averaged proportionately on an annual basis for years during which the employee lost time from work by reason of being laid off due to a reduction in the work force or leave of absence for Union activity.
(4)	Earnings for the five years immediately preceding the date of his last layoff shall be his actual earnings.
Section 5, Effect on Seniority and Benefits
An applicant, upon acceptance of a Separation Payment, shall cease to be an employeeand shall have his seniority cancelled as of the date his application for such Separation Payment was received by the Company, and shall forfeit any and all pension, insurance or other rights under any pension pian or other employee benefit plan financed in whole or in part by the Company.
Section 6. Repayment
If a person is again employed by the Company after he has received a Separation Payment no repayment by the person of such Separation Payment paid previously
223
shall be required or allowed and no seniority cancelled previously shall be reinstated.
Section 7. Withholding Tax
The Company shall deduct from the amount of any Separation Payment as computed upon this Separation Payment Pian any amount required to be withheld by the Company by reason of any law or regulation for payment of taxes or otherwise of any Federal, Provincial or Municipal Government.
Section 8, Overpayment
if the Company determines after issuance of a Separation Payment that the Separation payment should not have been issued or should have been issued in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the applicant and he shall return the amount of the overpayment to the Company.
Section 9. Reports by the Company
The Company shall furnish to the Union from time to time a listing showing the names of the persons who, during the period covered by the report, accepted a Separation Payment provided under the Separation Payment Plan, together with both the individual gross and net amounts of such Separation Payments.
Section 10, Conflict
in the event that there should be any conflict between the provisions of this Pian and provisions of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Pian, the provisions of this Pian shall be paramount and shall govern.
224
Section 11. Duration and Termination
This Plan shall remain in effect for the duration of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan now in effect between the parties and shall terminate whenever such Plan is terminated
In witness whereof the parties hereto have executed the above at Welland, Ontario, this 1st day of June, 2004,
UNITED
STEELWORKERS,
LOCAL 455,
AFL-CIO-CLC
T. Gasperetti M, Porter L, Hanson J. Buote L. Napper
B, Greenaway- International Representative
GENCOR CANADA NC WELLAND, ONTARIO
P, Lustri
C.	Clark
D,	Molnar B. Podio
225
Letter of Understanding
June 1, 2004
United Steelworkers of America
President, Local 455
214 King Street. Welland, Ontario
Dear Sir:
As discussed and agreed during the 1990 Negotiations, the Automatic Short Work Week Benefit Fund will only be charged the amount of hours that are made available to work, as outlined in Definition Number eight (8) of the S.U.B. Agreement.
It is further agreed when an employee works the overtime make-up hours he/she will notforfeitthe Short Work Week Benefit and shall receive premium rate for the make-up hours.
Yours very truly,
B. Dowling
Manager, Human Resources
226