COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PERSTORP COMPONENTS (CANADA) INC. (hereinafter ca I led the “Company”)
AND
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA AND ITS LOCAL UNION NO. 67
(hereinafter called the "Union”)
JUN
OUIN
- 71994
PURPOSE	TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I	Recogn i t i on	
ARTICLE I I	Deduction of Union Dues	,	
ARTICLE III	Union Representation	 Negotiating and Grievance Procedure.. Arbitration	:	 Discipline	
ARTICLE IV	Hours of Work and Overtime	
ARTICLE V	Designated Holidays	
ARTICLE VI	Wages-Special Conditions	 Bereavement	 Jury Duty	 Time Standards 	
ARTICLE VI 1	Seniority	 Lay-Off Procedure	 Recall Procedure	 Leave of Absence 	
ARTICLE VI II	Vacations	,.,,	
ARTICLE IX	Functions of Management	
ARTICLE X	Health and Safety	
ARTICLE Xl	Miscellaneous,	,	,..
ARTICLE XII	Duration of Agreement	
LETTERS	Letter of Understanding # 1 (Heat Relief)	,	 Letter of Understanding # 2 (Overtime Distribution)	 Letter of Understanding # 3 (Plant Closure)	 Letter of Understanding # 4 (Technological Change)	 Letter of Understanding # 5 (Allocation of Designated Holidays)
APPEND I X “A”	Interim Increase	,..
2
LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN
ARTICLE	I	Definitions.,	,	
ARTICLE	I I	Eligibility		
ARTICLE	: III	Life and Health Insurance		
ARTICLE	IV	General Provisions,..	■ j ■ j j	j	
PENSION	AND	SEVERANCE AWARD PLAN	
ARTICLE	I	I nterpretations		
ARTICLE	I I	Rules of Service		
ARTICLE	I I I	Normal Retirement		
ARTICLE	IV	Retirement at Age 62....	
ARTICLE	V	Retirement Prior to Age	62	
ARTICLE	VI	Disability Allowance....	
ARTICLE	VI I	Deferred Vested Pensions	
ARTICLE	VI I	I Severance Award		
ARTICLE	IX	Form of Benefit		
ARTICLE	X	Death Benefit		
ARTICLE	XI	General Provisions		
ARTICLE	XI I	Grievance Procedure Information		
ARTICLE	XI I	I Financing		
ARTICLE	XIV	Undertakings		
ARTICLE	xv	Pension Benefit Rates...	
ARTICLE	xv I	Effective Date, Duration	and Termination ... .
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN
ARTICLE I ARTICLE I I ARTICLE I I I ARTICLE IV ARTICLE V ARTICLE VI ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII ARTICLE IX
ARTICLE X
ARTICLE Xl
ARTICLE XII
ARTICLE XIII
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Definitions...................................
Establishment of Fund.........................
Maximum Funding and Trust Position............
Contributions by Company......................
Eligibility for Benefits......................
Credit Units..................................
Amount of Weekly Supplemental Benefit.........
Duration of Benefits..........................
Conditions to Effectiveness and Continuation of Plan .........................
Miscellaneous ................................
AdminIstration of the Plan....................
Short Week Benefit............................
General Provisions.......................,....,
Amendment to Article X of S.U.B. Plan..,...,.
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
SUBJECT INDEX Absence before and after a Holiday			SECTION PAGE ....5:01
Accumulation Seniority		. . . .7:03
Address, Change of, Affecting Seniority..	....7:17
Arbitration Procedure		
Average Earnings, Calculation of		. ...6.06
Bereavement		
Call-In Pay		. . . .4:02(e)
COLA		. . .APP."A"
Delay Time		. . .6:03
Designated Holidays			...5:01
Determination of Departmental Seniority after Transfer		.7:05-7:07
Discharge for Cause		. . .9:02
Disciplinary Notices		..3:17
Disputed Standard		...6:14
Employees Covered by Agreement		...1:01
Exceptions to Holiday Pay Qualifications.	...5:01
Exper1menta1 Work and Pay		
Failure to Report for Work After Recall..	...7:17
Functions of Managment		9:01
Grievance Procedure		
Holidays - Paid		. . .5:01
Hours of Work		. . .4:01
Illness Before or After Paid Holiday		. . .5:01<e)
5
Injury at Work			5:01(d) 6:08
Job Posting			7:19
Jury Duty			6:10
Key Operations			7:14
Lay-Off			7:15
Leave of Absence		
Leave of Absence - Seniority			7:0 3
Loss of Seniority Rights		
Maternity Leave		
Negotiating Committee		
Negotiating Procedure		..3:01-3:04
Night S h ift Prem i urns		
Overtime Pay		
Payment for Stoppage of Work		
Payment for Waiting Time			6:03
Personal Complaint			3:13
Probationary Period			7:0 2
Recall Procedure		
Reduction in Time Standards		
Report-In Pay			6:0 4
Rest Per i ods			4:0 5
Retroactive Pay - Time Standards	 -Unjust Discharge...		3:15
Safety Committee		
Safety Shoes . 			
Seniority		...7:01-7:18
6
Shift Premium..................................4:04
Stoppage of Work..........................3:14-6:05
Str ike........................................3:14
Temporary Lay -Off.............................7:13
Time Standards............................6:12-6:16
Transfers
-Job Post i ng........................7:19
-Lack of Work........................6:0 2
-Seniority.......................7:05-7:07
Trial Period, New Standard.....................6:12
Union Dues................................2:01-2:10
Vacation Policy...........................8:01-8:09
Waiting Time...................................6:03
Wash-Up.......................................11:02
This Agreement has been made and entered into this 19th day of March, 1994, effective April 15, 1994 by and between Perstorp Components (Canada) inc. (“The Company”) and Loca I 67 of the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America ("The Union”).
PURPOSE
a)	The purpose of this Agreement and the mutual desire of the parties is to promote and maintain cooperation and harmony, to provide for an orderly collective bargaining procedure and an amicable and prompt method of settling any differences which may arise between the Company and the Union.
b)	The Company and the Union mutually agree that neither party will discriminate against any employee because of race, religion, colour, age, sex, marital status, disabil ityor any other prohibited ground of discrimination as contained in the Ontario Human Rights Code, nor shall there be any discrimination, coercion
or intimidation as a result of an employee’s Union activities or membership.
c)	It is understood that wherever the pronoun "he” is used it shall be construed as meaning male or female.
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION
1:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole Collective Bargaining Agency for ail hourly paid production and maintenance employees below the rank of full time Shift Manager except Laboratory Techn I c i ans , Qua li ty Assurance Technologists, Draftsmen, Full Time Department Clerks, and Guards who are sworn in as special constables.
1:02 The Company agrees to negotiate with the accredited representatives of the Union on all matters pertaining to hours of work, rates of pay and general working conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement.
1:03 Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work which replaces production or maintenance employees on their regular jobs and overtime, except in the event of an emergency, or for the purpose of training, taking inventory or experimental work.
ARTICLE I I - DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
2:01 Any employee covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, maintain membership dues.
2:02 Any person hired as a new employee or any employee transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall sign an application for membership in Local Union No. 67U.R.C. L. & P.W. of A. and an authorization for the deduction of dues and shal I as a condition of employment, maintain membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
2:03 Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union not later than fifteen (15) days after the effective date of this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. An employee who is on lay-off, on leave of absence, or absent due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirement of this Section not later than fifteen (15) days following his return to work.
2:04 Section 2:01,2:02, and 2:03 shall not apply to an employee who is denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his failure to tender the amount of monthly membership dues, as determined by Local Union No. 67 in accordance with the Constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A., and which are uniformly required of all members as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
2:05 (a) in the event any employee falls to become a member of the Union as provided in Section 2:02 o r 2:03 above, the Union shall give written notice to the Company and to the employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless he has, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that he has become a member of the Union, or that he was denied membership for reasons other than his failure to tender- the monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local Union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. Constitution.
9
(b)	Any employee who has become a member of the Union and who thereafter fails to maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained in a job in	the
bargaining unit, provided that the Union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
2:06 Al I present employees, new employees and employees transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall have their membership dues deducted from their wages by signing the author i zat i on f o r deduction form as provided in Section 2:10. The authorization form for deduction of dues which has been signed by present employees in the bargaining unit under the provisions of al I previous Collective Agreements between the parties shal I be authorization for the Company to deduct membership dues in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2:07 The authorization forms for deduct ion of dues which have been, or which may be, executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof, and if the termination of this Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement. Any authorization shall cease to be effective upon termination of employment or upon transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
2:08 On the individual employee’s first pay day of each month, or in the case of a new employee the first pay day in the month following employment, the Paymaster shall make deductions from the wages of the employee in accordance with authorizations then in his hands, and shall forward such deductions to the Union within one (1) week thereafter, together with a list of employees from whose wages dues have been deducted.
2:09 It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company from time to time of changes in the amount of Unlondues, not later than the twenty-fifth (25th) of any calendar month. Changes so notified shal I be effective on the first pay day of the following month.
2: 10 The authorization referred to in Section 2:06 above, shall be completed in triplicate on forms supplied by
10
the Company. The original shal I be retained by the Company and one copy retained by the employee and the other by the Union.
The following form of authorization shall be used:
PERSTORP COMPONENTS (CANADA) INC., KITCHENER Authorization for Deduction of Union Dues
NAME ..........................................................
I , the undersigned employee, hereby author I ze PERSTORP COMPONENTS (CANADA) INC., Kitchener, to deduct from wages owing me, and the Trustee of the S.U. B. Fund to deduct from any Supplemental Unemployment Benefits payable to me from the S.U.B. Fund, commencing with my first pay in the month
o f ..................and subsequently from my first pay in
each month the amount of first month’s Dues, rejoining Dues or monthly Dues, as applicable, and as determined by Local Union No. 67, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America in accordance with the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. Constitution - the same to be remitted by the Company to the Union.
This author i zat i on s h a 11 continue in effect for the duration of the present Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof:	and if termination of the present
Collective Agreement or extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Collective Agreement, this author i zat i on shall continue in effect for the duration of the new Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof: and shall be irrevocable during such period or periods.
DATE:	.......................................................
SIGNED.........................................................
WITNESS:	...................................................
ADDRESS:	...................................................
CLOCK NO:	...................................................
2:11 The Union shall indemnify and save the Company and the Trustee of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgments, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE II I - NEGOTIATING PROCEDURE
11
UNION REPRESENTATION
3:01 A Plant Negotiating Committee not to exceed five (5) Union members who are regular employees of the Company and who have at least one (1) year of seniority shall be selected by the Union. The Company shall be informed by the Union of the personnel of th i s Comm I ttee.
3:02 The Un ion shall keep the Company informed of those members in al I departments who are authorized t o represent the Union in deal i ng with the PRODUCTION MANAGER.
3:03 The Company agrees to pay for meetings with the Union for the purposes outlined below. Such payment shall be made at the average hourly earnings of the employee attending the meeting.
(a) The Company	will	pay for grievance meetings
attended by two (2) or more members designated by the Union in connection with the processing of formal grievances at Step 1, Step 2 and Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
(b)	The Company will pay the Plant Negotiating
Committee as defined in Section 3:01 above, for ail time spent at any meeting called by the Company.
(c) The Company	will	pay the Plant Negotiating
Committee eight (8) hours for every meeting during negotiations for the renews I o f the Col lective Agreement between the Company and the Union at which an Officer of the Ministry of Labour is not in attendance. Such time will be paid for at the straight time average hourly earnings to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day, per Committee member.
(d)	A Labour - Management Committee consisting of the
Plant Negotiating Committee and an equal number of Management representatives shall meet once per month for no longer than two and one-half (2 1/2) hours.The Labour Management Committee shall jointly discuss items of mutual	interest and concern
relating to working cond i t i ons , job s e c u r i ty , health and safety, training, scheduling, productivity and quality Issues. Planned changes and / or the introduction of new technology will be communicated as a regular order of businees at these joint meetings and the impact of such changes and/or technology jointly discussed in order to reduce or eliminate any anticipated difficulties.
3:04 The Company will pay the Local Union President, or in
12
his absence from work, the Local Union Acting President for the hours spent in the conduct of legitimate local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement. Such payment in total will not exceed twenty (20) hours in any one week. Payment will be made at the level of the highest skilled trades job in the plant, plus any applicable interim increase whether boxed or unboxed, or his average hourly earnings, whichever	is the higher. In addition to the
above, the Union President, or Acting President, shall also be eligible for payment as provided in Section 3:03 (c) above, including payment for grievance meetings held after his regular shift.
3:05 The Local Union President will retain seniority on his job during the term of his office.
3:06 A Plant Negotiating Committee member shall be allowed a
reasonable time away from his regular duties without loss of pay to conduct legitimate Committee business IN THE PLANT provided he obtains the permission of the PRODUCTION MANAGER or the Plant Manager before leaving his work station. A Plant Committee member will contact the appropriate management representative before conducting Union business in a department other than his own. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
NEGOTIATING AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3:07 The following procedure shall be followed in negotiations for the settlement of disputes or grievances on the part of the employees:
Any employee who has a complaint as an individual shall first, with or without Union Representation, discuss the matter with his immediate supervisor in order to resolve his complaint.
(a)	Step 1 Failing resolution of the complaint, an employee shall
next, with, without, or through his steward, who may call in the Chief Steward, discuss the matter with the PRODUCTION MANAGER in order to reach a settlement; any negotiations started with the steward may be continued with him. The PRODUCTION MANAGER shall communicate his decision no later than five (5) normal working days of the date of notification.
(b)	Step 2 Falling settlement through the PRODUCTION MANAGER
the complaint shall be referred in writing by the Chief Steward to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager and any applicable management representatives shall meet with the Chief Steward and any applicable Union
13
Representatives within five (5) normal working days of receipt of the written grievance. A decision at this Step must be reached within five (5) normal working days of receipt of the written statement of the grievance, unless time is extended for further investigation by mutual consent.
(c)	Step 3 Failing settlement through the Plant Manager,
the Plant Negotiating Committee shall submit the written statement of the grievance to the HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER and a meeting shall be held with the Negotiating Committee at a time mutual ly agreed upon within five (5) normal working days from receipt of the written statement of the grievance. A written decision at this Step must be reached within five (5) normal working days after the conclusion of the meeting. It is understood that an International Representative of the U.R.C.L & P.W.A. may participate at this Step.
It is agreed and understood that the time limits set out in Step 1, Step 2 and Step 3 may be extended by mutual agreement in writing and signed by both parties.
ARBITRATION
(d)	STEP 4 - ANY GRIEVANCE WHICH HAS NOT BEEN SETTLED AFTER
BEING PROPERLY CARRIED THROUGH ALL PREVIOUS STEPS OF THE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE MAY BE REFERRED TO ARBITRATION BY THE WRITTEN NOTIFICATION OF EITHER PARTY, PROVIDED SUCH NOTIFICATION IS MADE WITHIN THIRTY-FIVE (35) CALENDAR DAYS OF RECEIPT OF THE STEP 3 RESPONSE.
AN IMPARTIAL ARBITRATOR SHALL BE SELECTED BY THE PARTIES OR IF SUCH PARTIES FAIL TO AGREE UPON THE SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR WITHIN TEN (10) WORKING DAYS OF NOTIFICATION OF APPEAL TO ARBITRATION, THEN THE MINISTER OF LABOUR FOR THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO SHALL DESIGNATE THE ARBITRATOR.
3:08 THE JURISDICTION OF THE ARBITRATOR SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE MATTER IN DISPUTE AND HE/SHE SHALL NOT HAVE JURISDICTION TO CHANGE, MODIFY OR DISREGARD ANY PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT, NOR TO SUBSTITUTE ANY NEW PROVISION IN LIEU THEREOF, NOR TO GIVE ANY DECISION INCONSISTENT WITH THIS AGREEMENT. THE ARBITRATOR SHALL NOT HAVE AUTHORITY TO DECIDE A QUESTION INVOLVING A GENERAL WAGE LEVEL DEMAND.
3:09 ALL DECISIONS OF THE ARBITRATOR ARRIVED AT IN ACCORDANCE
14
WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINAL AND BINDING UPON ALL PARTIES CONCERNED.
3:10 UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT IN WRITING BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE UNION, A BOARD OF ARBITRATION MAY BE SUBSTITUTED FOR A SINGLE ARBITRATOR AND ALL PROVISIONS OF THIS ARTICLE WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY SO FAR AS THEY ARE RELEVANT. SUCH BOARD SHALL BE COMPOSED OF ONE PERSON APPOINTED BY THE COMPANY,
ONE PERSON APPOINTED BY THE UNION, BOTH OF WHOM SHALL CHOOSE AND AGREE TO A THIRD PERSON TO ACT AS A CHAIRPERSON, BUT IN THE EVENT THAT THE RESPECTIVE NOMINEES FAIL TO CHOOSE A THIRD PERSON WITHIN TEN (10) NORMAL WORKING DAYS, THE ONTARIO MINISTER OF LABOUR SHALL BE ASKED TO APPOINT THE CHAIRPERSON.
3:11 On a question pertaining to "Time Standards” a
representative of a reputable industrial Engineering firm shall be retained as Chairman and whomever is so selected shall be required to make or have made a thorough time study of the standard disputed and to report to the Board the information obtained from his study. No additional person shall be employed by the Chairman to make studies without the consent of the Board members representing both parties. Both members of the Board may make, or have made, such time studies as they may require for submission to the Board.
3:12 EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO SHALL JOINTLY AND EQUALLY BEAR THE EXPENSES OF THE ARBITRATOR. IN THE CASE OF A BOARD OF ARBITRATION, EACH PARTY SHALL BEAR THE EXPENSE OF THE ARBITRATOR APPOINTED BY IT AND THE PARTIES SHALL JOINTLY AND EQUALLY BEAR THE EXPENSE OF THE CHAIRPERSON.
3.-13 Nothing contained in this Article shall prohibit an employee from presenting a personal complaint directly to Management.
3:14 Both parties to this Agreement undertake to abide by the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario to the effect that no employer who is a party to a Collective Agreement shall declare or cause a lock-out and no employee, bound thereby, shall go on strike during the term of this Agreement. There shal I be no slow-down or stoppage of work causing interference with production during the term of this Agreement.
in the event of any strike, slow-down, sit-down, or concerted stoppage of work, either partial or complete, the Union shall, at the request of the Company, forthwith inform the Company as to whether or not the same was authorized by the Union.
15
3:15 A claim by an employee, other than a probationary employee, that he has been unjustly discharged or suspended from his employment shall be treated as a grievance, if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER within five (5) normal working days after the employee	has	been discharged or	suspended. Al I
preliminary Steps of the grievance procedure prior to Step 3 wi I I be omitted. Such discharge or suspension grievance may be settled by confirming the Company’s decision in dismissing or suspending the employee, or by reinstating the employee with full compensation for time lost, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the ARBITRATOR.
3:16 (a) An employee who claims that he has been laid off
inconsistent with his seniority rights may protest in writing to the HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER within five (5) normal working days of such al leged violation of seniority rights. If the employee’s claim is upheld he will be placed on the job to which his seniority entities him, and receive a pay adjustment as set out in Section 3:16 (c).
(b)	if such written protest is made more than five (5) normal working days after such alleged violation of seniority rights and his claim is upheld, he wi I I be placed on the job to which his seniority entities him, but any pay adjustment will only be made from the date on which such protest was made as set out in Section 3:16 (c).
(c)	Any pay adjustment wil I be the difference between any earnings or remuneration the employee has received during the period for which adjustment is made and the earnings he would have received had he been properly placed.
3:17 (a) The Company agrees that no employee who has
successfully completed the probationary period will be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
(b)	When an employee is suspended or dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to discuss the matter with his Steward for a reasonable period of time before being required to leave the plant premises.
(c)	Where an employee is disciplined causing a reprimand to be documented and placed on the employee’s fi le, such document shall be retained on the employee’s active disciplinary record for a period of one (1) year following the date of the reprimand.
16
(d)	Should no further disciplinary action become necessary during the one (1) year period, the document shall no longer be considered a part of the employee’s active disciplinary record.
(e)	Any further disciplinary action taken during the one (1) year period shall cause all active reprimands to be retained as part of the employee’s act I ve d i s c i p I i n a ry record until the expiration of the one (1) year period applicable to the most recent reprimand.
(f)	In the event that the employee is on leave of absence or layoff for a period of thirty-one (31)or more consecutive calendar days, such one (1) year period shal I be extended by the number of calendar days the employee is on leave or layoff.
ARTICLE IV
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME RATES OF PAY
4:01 The normal working hours for all employees in the bargaining unit shall consist of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive. The hours of work listed below do not constitute a guaranteed minimum or maximum of hours in a day or week.
1st Shift -11:00 PM to 7:00 AM
2nd Shift - 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM
3rd Shift -3:00 PM to 11:00 PM
(a)	The normal starting shift of each week shall be at 11:00 PM Sunday night. The last normal working shift will finish at 11:00 PM Friday night.
(b)	it is understood that the hours of work per day and week on certain operations may be flexible to meet operating requirements, but any decision regard i ng changes i n hours wl I I be discussed with the PI ant Negotiating Committee and if a conclusion is not reached, the subject matter can be negotiated and forty-eight (48) hours notification given to the employees concerned. The Company will supply the Union with the current list of hours of work.
4:02 All hours worked In excess of normal hours as defined in Section 4:01 o f this Article shal I be cons I dered as overtime. Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2 X) regular rates of pay will be paid as follows:
17
(a)	For all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
(b)	For ail hours worked from 11:00 PM Friday to 11:00 PM Saturday and at this rate only.
(c) Payment for all hours worked from 11:00 PM Saturday to 11:00 PM Sunday shall be at double the regular rate of pay, and at this rate only.
(d)	An employee called in at the Company’s request for work not continuous with his scheduled shift, will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-half times (1 1/2 X) his regular rate of pay or at one and one-half times (1 1/2X) his regular rate of pay for the hours worked, wh i chever i s greater. If the call-in is during the hours when overtime is payable at the double time rate under Section 4:02 (c), then payment for the four (4) hours minimum or for hours worked, as stipulated above, will be at the double time rate.
The minimums will not apply when such unscheduled work forms a continuous period with the employee’s regularly scheduled working hours and commences within one and one-half (1	1/2) hours of his regularly scheduled
working hours.
(e)	An employee reporting for work on his regular shift if sent home before the close of his regular shift, and required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hours period, shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2X) for al I hours worked on call back prior to the start of his next regular shift.
(f)	No overtime will be paid in the following cases:
(i)	Under conditions applying to the regular shift changes.
(ii)	Changes of hours at the request of the employees.
(iii)	For the time spent by members of the Plant Negotiating Committee In meetings paid for by the Company. However, the time lost by a member of the Plant Negotiating Comm i ttee fro m his regular scheduled hours, due to conducting legitimate Local Union matters pertaining to the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement or Supplementary Agreements, shall be considered as part of his normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
18
(g)	Overtime will not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
4:03 it is understood by the Union and employees that the right
to scheduled hours of work is a management function and that it is an obligation of each employee to work the hours scheduled within the provisions of "The Employment Standards Act. "
SHIFT PREMIUMS
4:04 A night shift premium will be paid for each hour of work for the shifts commencing in accordance with the schedule as described below:
If the hours worked during any one day extend over more than one shift, the premium paid shal I be that which is applicable to the shift during which the greater number of hours are worked. Should the condition exist wherein such hours are equally divided between two (2) shifts, the higher premium will apply to ail hours worked that day.
If an employee should work four (4) hours over on a shift where a higher premium is applicable, the higher premium will apply to those overtime hours.
SHI FT	AMOUNT
Afternoons - 3:00 PM to 11:00 PM	$0.35
Noon to 3:00 PM	$0.35
Nights -11:00 PM	to 7:00 am	$0.41
4:05 The Company will permit one ten (10) minute rest period per eight (8) hour shift. The Company wi I I perml t one ten ( 10) minute rest period where shifts are three (3) hours or more, but less than five (5) hours.
The Company will permit one (1) twenty (20)minute lunch period for ail employees who work more than five (5) hours.
ARTICLE V
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
5:01 The fo lowing twelve (12) holidays, if not worked, namely: Remembrance Day, December 24, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, New Year’s Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Good Friday, Labour Day and one (1) floating holiday, the date of which is to be mutually agreed
19
upon by April 1st of the year in which the designated holiday occurs, will be paid for at the regular rates for the normal shift hours during such holiday period at average hourly earnings. Such payment shall, however, be made only if the employee completes his regular scheduled shifts immediately preceding and immediately following any such specified holiday, with the following exceptions:
(a)	In case of absence up to, and including three (3) days
prior to or one (1) day subsequent to a designated holiday caused through bereavement In the immediate family wh i oh shall	include father,	father-in-law,
mother, mother-in-law, husband, wife, sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, son, son-in-law, daughter,	daughter-in-law,	grandparent, grandchild,
spouse’s	brother-in-law,	spouse’s sister-in-law,
spouse’s grandparent or a dependent who I ives in the employee’s household and is registered as a dependent on his TD-1 Income Tax Form on file at the time of death.
If an employee is eligible for bereavement pay extend i ng more than one (1)day after a designated holiday, the employee will be eligible for holiday pay if he has otherwise complied with the requirements of this Section.
(b)	In the case of one (1) Union official who is designated to attend the funeral of a fellow employee on the day preceding or subsequent to a designated holiday.
(c)	In the case of an employee who is acting as a pallbearer at a funeral on the day preceding or subsequent to a designated holiday.
(d)	In the case of an employee who is injured on the job and is unable to continue working and is not eligible for Workers’ Compensation.
(e)	In the case of an employee who is absent on either the day before or the day subsequent to a designated holiday because of personal i I Iness or injury. Such i I Iness or injury to be verified by a doctor’s certificate or advice immediately after commencement of the shift to the PRODUCTION MANAGER, guard’s office, First Aid or HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT. The Company reserves the right to verify such report through the nurse’s personal visit to the III or injured employee or by other means.
(f)	In the case of a Union official who, in the performance of his Union duties is required to be absent from work
20
and is therefore unable to complete his regular scheduled shift before of after a designated holiday. In such case he shall obtain permission, in advance, from his PRODUCTION MANAGER for such absence.
(g)	In the case of an employee who is absent on the day previous or subsequent to a designated hol iday b y reason of answering a cal I for, or serving as a Juror or subpoenaed Crown Witness.
(h)	An employee who would otherwise qualify for a designated holiday, except for having been laid off within five (5) normal work i ng days prior to such holiday shall receive payment for such holiday.
5:02 If any such designated holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on Monday. If two (2) successive designated holidays fall on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, they will be observed on Friday and Monday.
5:03 If the designated holidays as specified above are worked, then payment shal I be made at the rate of two (2) times, plus holiday pay and at this rate only. If the hours worked do not constitute a normal shift, straight time will be paid for the balance of such normal shift, but in any event, payment shall be made for not less than four (4) hours work at two (2) times, plus holiday pay.
5:04 If one of the designated hot i days specified above fa I Is within the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he shall be paid for such holiday. If the employee so requests, he wi I I be granted an additional day off work, without pay, at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the Company if arranged prior to the scheduled vacation period. This Section shall not apply to the December 24th, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day designated holidays, or the floater holiday should it be observed on or about the Christmas/New Year’s period.
5:05 For purposes of this Agreement, the time constituting a designated holiday period shall be considered as starting at 11:00 PM on the day preceding such holiday and ending at 11:00 PM on the day of such holiday.
ARTICLE VI
WAGES AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
6:01 When work Is available on an employee’s regular job and he is requested to do other work, he will be paid at the rate earned on the temporary job or his average hourly earned rate, whichever is higher.
21
6:02 When an employee is transferred from his regular job to another job because of lack of work, or at his own request or because he no longer has the qualifications for his regular job, he shall be paid the rate earned on the job he is transferred to.
6:03 (a) When due to stock or operating conditions, an employee is requested by the Company to remain on the premises, a full -time allowance will be made for al I delays amounting to six (6) minutes or over. Payment for delay time when no work is done will be at the individual’s average hourly earned rate, but not exceed i ng the ninety percent (90%) level of the occupational wage scale for the job. However, such employee may be required to accept work which he is able and equipped to perform other than his regular assignment during such periods and shall then be paid at the rate earned for the temporary operation or his average hourly earned rate, whichever is higher.
(b)	In case of machinery or power breakdown or other causes beyond the Company’s control causing an interruption in production, the employee shall be paid at his average hourly earned rate, but not exceed ing the ninety percent (90%) level of the occupational wage scale of the job for all delays amounting to six (6)minutes or over during the period he is required to remain on the premises. if the employee is required to accept work which he is able and equipped to perform other than his regular assignment during such period, the method of payment shall be as set forth in Section 6:03 (a).
6:04 An employee reporting for work who has not been notified not to report, and who is not provided with alternative work, or an employee who has been notified to report for work and is not provided with alternative work, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours time, at rates as specified for delay time in Section 6:03 above, but this is not to apply in cases of machinery or power breakdown or other causes beyond the Company’s control.
6:05 No payment shall be made under Section 6:03 and 6:04 above for lost time as the result of a stoppage of work by or through the Union or its members.
CALCULATION OF AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS
6:06	(a) For the purpose of payment of average hourly earned
rate under Sect ion 5:01, 6:09 and 6:10 the employee’s average hourly earned rate shall be calculated by dividing the straight-time earnings, exclusive of all premiums, and exclusive of earnings on odd jobs during
22
vacation shut down and exclusive of earnings for all overtime and exclusive of earnings for all waiting and delay time paid under Section 6:03, by the straighttime hours worked in the last week in which the employee has worked at least twenty-four (24) straighttime hours.
(b)	For all other purposes of payment of average hourly earned rate the following method of calculation exclusive of all premiums shall apply.
(i)	Hours qualifying for payment of average hourly earned rate shall be paid at the employee’s most recent week’s earned efficiency on that job.
( i i ) If he has not been on that job in the previous four (4) weeks, he shal I be paid at the most recent week’s earned efficiency of the regular experienced employee on that job.
(iii) If no employee has worked on that job, in the previous four (4) weeks, he shal I be paid at the rate as calculated in 6:06 (a).
(c)	In the case of an employee on a daywork job, his average hourly earned rate shal I be that rate as calculated in 6:06 (a).
6:07 Experimental work and the taking of inventory shall be paid for at the average hourly earnings of the emp I oyee so engaged.
6:08 An employee injured at work shall be paid at average hourly earnings for necessary time lost from his regular hours of work for treatment in the factory first aid center. An employee injured at work and referred by the Company for out of plant treatment or exami nation by a physician or a hospital shal I be paid at average hourly earnings for necessary t i me lost from his regular shift for the first authorized treatment.
BEREAVEMENT
6:09 (a) In the event of bereavement in the employee’s family which shall include father, mother, husband, wife, sister, brother, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,	spouse’s sister-in-law, spouse’s
brother-in-law,	grandparent, spouse’s grandparent,
grandchild, or dependent who lives in the employee’s household and is registered as a dependent on his TD-1 Income Tax Form on fi le at the time of death, the
23
employee will be granted permission to be absent and will be paid for the time lost on regular hours during his regular work week for three (3) consecutive days including the funeral day. If, however, the funeral is not attended, he will be paid for lost time on only one (1) of the above mentioned days.
(b)	For the purposes of this Section, a half-brother or half-sister shall be considered as brother or sister, a step-parent or foster parent shall be considered as parent, a step-son or step-daughter or foster son or foster daughter shal I be considered as a son or daughter.
(c)	It is understood that “in-law” relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who established the "in-law” relationship, unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
(d)	When death in the family causes the absence of an employee from work within the normal work week prior to the normal work week in which the funeral occurs, the intervening Saturday and/or Sunday will be discounted in determining three (3) consecutive days, referred to above, unless Saturday and/or Sunday are normal scheduled work days.
(e)	In the event an employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive days during his regular work week to attend a funeral and the funeral day is held on Saturday of that week, the employee wi I I be paid for three (3) consecutive days.
(f)	For purposes of this Section, common-law relationships shall be included provided that the name of the common-lav/ spouse and the commencement date of the cohabitation has been made known in writing at I east six (6) months prior to the death.
(g)	It will be the responsibility of the employee to make
claim for	payment	through the	HUMAN RESOURCES
DEPARTMENT to provide evidence satisfactory to the Company to support his claim. Payment for such lost time will be at the employee’s average hourly earnings on a straight time basis, exclusiveof all types of bonuses and premiums. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this Section for such day or days.
24
JURY DUTY
6:10 When an employee is required to serve on a jury, or is a subpoenaed Crown Witness, or is required to report for jury duty and is subsequently not required to serve, which prevents him from performing his regular work with the Company, he shall be paid	a make-up for time lost
representing the difference between any fees received from the court and his average straight time earnings, exclusive of any premiums for the period of such service.
Should an employee receive a call for jury duty or is a subpoenaed Crown Witness, which may Interfere with	a
previously scheduled vacation period, he shal I immediately inform the Company in writing of such call for jury duty or as a subpoenaed Crown Witness and of his desire to have his vacation period rescheduled and the Company upon receipt of such written request will reschedule his vacation period.
6:11 (a) Employees will be paid on a weekly basis and paycheques will be distributed on the fourth (4th) normal shift of each regular work week.
(b) The Company agrees to provide the Union with the current Wage Schedule and Job Classifications which form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
TIME STANDARDS
6:12 The determination of time standards Is a management function and all new standards shal I be given a reasonable trial by employees affected. A trial of two (2) weeks shal I be considered as reasonable. New standards and changes of time standards shall be explained by the PRODUCTION MANAGER with an Industrial Engineer to the operators concerned, and the departmental representatives. Data used in the determination of standards shall be available for reference. The new or changed standards shall be posted in the department and shall become effective the first shift twenty-four (24) hours after posting except where standards are revised as a result of change in specification but no change in method, or where elements are eliminated from an established standard, in which case the revised standard shall become effective at the start of the first shift after posting.
6: 13 There shal I be no reduction in time standards, without a corresponding change in method, operation, layout, or product specification, or unless mutually agreed to.
6:14 Any disputed standard shall be negotiated through procedure established in Article II I. If any adjustment is made as a result of negotiations, any retroactive payment adjustment
25
6: 15
6: 16
7:01
7:02
will be made for a period of three (3) weeks prior to the filing of a grievance or to the date of the setting of the Standard, whichever date shall be the later. It is further agreed that, where there is a standard in dispute, the Union may, at the third step of the grievance procedure, with the approval of the Company, use the services of a U.R.W. Time Study Engineer who may observe and/or study the job in dispute.
No assistance shall be given to an employee while such employee Is being studied for the purpose of setting time standards, nor shal I a study be taken of a supervisor for this purpose.
(a)	When an operation covered by time standards becomes subject to a change in method, operation, layout or product specification including the introduction of new models of an existing product and therefore goes off-standard, employees will be paid their average hourly earned rate calculated as in Section 6:06 (b) for hours worked on such off-standard operation, subject to (b) and (c) below.
(b)	An estimated temporary standard may be issued as soon as possible and employees will then be paid according to the efficiency earned on such estimated temporary standard.
(c)	Within thirty ( 30) p r o d u c t i o n days from the date of issue of an estimated temporary standard, but excluding any shut-down periods affecting the operation, a regular time standard will be issued.
ARTICLE VII SENIORITY
Seniority is preference or priority by length of service with definite rights qualifying employees for employment when work is available, the purpose of which is to provide a declared policy of work security measured by length of service.
(a)	An employee will be considered a probationary employee and shall have no seniority rights unti I he has completed sixty (60) regular worked days or four hundred and eighty (480) regular worked hours (whichever occurs first) within twelve (12) consecutive months following his date of hire. Upon completion of such probationary period, his name w i I I be entered on the seniority list of the bargaining unit as of his date of hire.
26
(b)	When more than one employee is hi red to commence work on the same day, their position on the seniority list shall be based on the recorded date of acceptance of the Company’s offer of employment in the bargaining unit.
(c)	Should the application of the provisions of this Agreement result intwo (2) o r more employees havng their seniority dates adjusted to the same day, their relative position on the senioirty list will be decided once by lot and the outcome shall constitute the basis on which the provisions of th is Agreement wi I I be applied to each employee.
(d)	NOTWITHSTANDING THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 7:02 (a) ABOVE, EMPLOYEES HIRED AS STUDENTS WILL BE CONSIDERED AS PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES DURING THEIR TERM OF EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY. SUCH EMPLOYEES SHALL NOT BE EMPLOYED PRIOR TO MAY 1ST AND WILL BE TERMINATED NO LATER THAN THE WEEK FOLLOWING THE LABOUR DAY WEEKEND.
7:03 SENIORITY SHALL BE THE ACCUMULATED TIME AN EMPLOYEE IS
EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY IN A POSITION WITHIN THE BARGAINING UNIT.
7:04 An employee shall lose his seniority rights and his
employment deemed terminated for any of the fol lowing reasons:
(a)	Voluntary termination of employment with the Company.
(b)	Unauthorized absence exceeding five (5) consecutive normal working days.
(c)	Discharge, where such d i scharge is not reversed under the provisions of the Grievance Procedure.
(d)	Failure to return to work following lay-off within seven (7) days after the employee has been notified as per Section 7:17 of this Article.
(e)	Fai lure to return to work on expiration of leave of absence or extension thereof AS DEFINED IN SECTION 7:21 .
(f)	After continuous lay-off of one (1) year for those employees having less than one (1) year of seniority AT THE TIME OF LAYOFF and after two (2) years for those having one (1) year but less than five (5) years of seniority AT THE TIME OF LAYOFF and after five (5) years for those with five (5) years of seniority and over AT THE TIME OF LAYOFF.
27
(g)	Upon retirement from the Company.
7:05	(a) When an employee with seniority is transferred to
another department or is recalled from lay-off to a department other than the department from which he was laidoff, he wil I continue to accumulate seniority in his former department for a period of three (3) months and upon completion of three (3) months satisfactory service in the new department, his seniority, including accumulation, will be transferred to the new department.
(b)	When an employee is displaced to another department under Section 7:15 his seniority shall be established in the new department immediately on transfer, soleyto prevent displacement from the department by employees with less plant seniority. Similarly, job seniority shall be established in the new department but only when the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the job. Such employee wi I I, however, be eligible for recall to his former department as provided for in Section 7:07.
7:06	(a) When an employee with seniority is transferred to
another job within his department, other than the job from which he was laid off, he will continue to accumulate seniority on his former job for a period of three (3)	months and upon	completion	of three	(3)
months satisfactory service on his new job, his seniority including accumulation, will be transferred to the new job.
(b) When an employee is displaced to another job under Section 7:15, his seniority shall be established on the new job on transfer soley to prevent his displacement from the job by employees with less plant seniority but only if the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the job. Such	employee WI I I,	however, be	eligible	for
recall to his former job as provided for In Section 7:07.
7:07 When, due to decreased production in one job or department, the	employee	is transferred	to a different job	or
department, the employee shall	be subject	to recal I	in
accordance with seniority rules, as follows:
(a) If the employee has been in the new job or department for less than three (3) months, he must return to the job or department from which he was displaced.
28
7:08
7:09
7:10
7:11
(b) If the employee has been in the new job or department for three (3) months or more, he may return to his former job or department only through application for transfer.
When layoffs take place, the Company shal I, whenever possible give employees affected seven (7) days notice of such layoff.
An emp I oyee who desires to leave the employment of the Company shal I, whenever possible notify the PRODUCTION MANAGER seven (7) days in advance.
A seniority I ist shal I be posted in each department of the plant showing the accumulated seniority status of employees in that department. This list shall be revised at least once per year. A copy of al I lists posted shall be given to the Union President. If requested by the Union or an individual employee, the Company’s service records shall be available for reference to the members of the Plant Negotiating Committee to the extent reasonably necessary to ascertain the accuracy of the seniority lists.
Employees who have given long and faithful service to the Company and who are unable to perform their regular work shall be given preference on other work they are qualified to perform, at the prevailing rate of pay for such work.
(a)	AN EMPLOYEE WHO ACCEPTS A POSITION WITH THE COMPANY WHICH IS OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT ON OR AFTER APRIL 15, 1994, SHALL RETAIN HIS ACCRUED SENIORITY TO THE DATE OF TRANSFER FOR A PERIOD OF SIX (6) MONTHS (THE TIME OUT BEING OMITTED). EMPLOYEES WHO DO NOT RETURN TO THE BARGAINING UNIT ON OR BEFORE THE EXPIRATION OF THE SIX (6) MONTH PERIOD SHALL FORFEIT ALL ACCUMULATED SENIORITY.
(b)	AN EMPLOYEE WHO HAS BEEN EMPLOYED IN A POSITION OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT FOR LESS THAN SIX (6) MONTHS AND WHO IS BEING PERMITTED BY THE COMPANY TO RETURN TO THE BARGAINING UNIT, SHALL DISPLACE THE MOST JUNIOR EMPLOYEE ACTIVELY AT WORK IN THE PLANT PROVIDED HIS ACCUMULATED SENIORITY UP TO THE DATE OF TRANSFER OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT IS GREATER THAN THAT OF SUCH JUNIOR EMPLOYEE.
(c)	AN EMPLOYEE WHO ACCEPTED A POSITION OUTSIDE OF THE BARGAINING UNIT PRIOR TO APRIL 15 , 1994 , S H A L L RETAIN THE SENIORITY HE HAD ACCUMULATED UP TO THE DATE OF HIS TRANSFER OUT OF THE BARGAINING UNIT AND, IF PERMITTED BY THE COMPANY, SHALL BE RETURNED TO THE BARGAINING UNIT BY DISPLACING THE MOST JUNIOR EMPLOYEE ACTIVELY AT
29
WORK IN THE PLANT PROVIDED HE HAS SUFFICIENT SENIORITY CREDIT TO DO SO.
7:12 "Qual ifications","Qual ified", and “satisfactory service” as referred to in this Article shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as experience, competence, physical fitness, ski I I, knowledge, adaptability, efficiency, responsibility and integrity.
7:13 In the case of a temporary layoff of one (1) week’s duration or less, employees in the department affected by the layoffs will not be eligible to displace employees of other departments. When layoffs of longer than one (1) week’s duration occur, employees shall be entitled to exercise their seniority rights in accordance with the layoff and recall provisions of this Agreement.
7: 14 Operators employed on jobs known as “Key Operations” shal I not be subject to lay-off other than on the basis of job seniority. Such “key operations” shal I be posted with departmental seniority lists throughout the plant.
LAY-OFF PROCEDURE
7:15 In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in a department for a period of time in excess of a period of a temporary reduction as stipulated in Section 7:13 the Company will, in determining which employees are to be laid off, recognize the principle of seniority in displacement of employees from a job, and lay-off will be in order of seniority of employees of the department and also subject to the I imitations of key operations and qualifications, and according to the following procedure:
(a)	A probationary employee who is displaced from the job on which he is employed wi II be laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications.
(b)	Subject to subsect I on (c) below, an employee with seniority who is displaced from the job on which he Is employed shall:
(i)	Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, on the job on which he has seniority, provided he has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job. If he Is the least senior employee on his job, he shal I -(ii) Displace the least senior employee, having less
seniority than his own, in the department In which
30
he has seniority, on a job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he is the least senior employee in his department, he shall --
(Iii) Displace the least senior employee, having less
seniority than hlsown, in the plant, on a job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he Is the least senior employee in the plant, he will be laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications.
(c)	If an employee at the time of lay-off under the provision of paragraph (b) above, has satisfactory service on another job in his department or the plant, and has the qualificaltons required to maintain the production standard of that job, he may return to it and displace any employee with less seniority, provided he notifies the Company of his intentions within five (5) normal working days of his displacement.
RECALL PROCEDURE
7:16 (a) Whenever it is necessary to recal I employees who have been laidoff, the order of recall will be generally in the reverse order to lay-offs accord i ng to the following procedure:
(i)	If the vacancy to which an employee is to be recal led is on a key operation, those employees with previous satisfactory service on that operation, who have been laid off and retain seniority status, will be recalled in order of seniority.
(ii)	Employees who have been laid off and retain seniority status, and have the necessary qualifications, will be recalled in order of seniority.
(b) No new employee shall be hired to fill vacancies until employees who have been laid off and retain seniority status and have the necessary qualifications t o fill the vacancy have been recalled to work.
7:17 Employees are required to keep addresses up to date so they can be located whenever production warrants rehiring. Employees who fail to do this and cannot be located when there Is an opportunity to work shall lose their seniority.
An employee not If led of recal I must Inform the Company of his intention to return, within three (3) normal working days, after notification by registered letter to the latest address. Failure to notify of intention to return wil I be interpreted as refusal to do so. If the employee desires to
31
return to work, he must do so within seven (7) calendar days after he has notified the Company of such intention. Failure to do so will result in complete loss of seniority.
In the event that an employee is unable to return to work due to illness, injury or pregnancy, and so notifies the Company within seven (7) calendar days of notification of recal I, his seniority status shall be preserved during the period of illness, injury or pregnancy as governed by Section 7:04	(f). Seniority status shal I be forfeited
f o I lowing failure to report for work after a second notification following recovery from illness, injury or pregnancy. It is the employee's obligation to notify the Company immediately upon recovery from such illness, injury or pregnancy.
7:18 Any of the provisionsof the lay-off or recall procedure may be superseded by other arrangements, for legitimate reasons, when negotiated between the Company and the Plant Negotiating Committee.
JOB POSTING
7:19 (a) WHEN A JOB VACANCY OCCURS WITHIN THE BARGAINING UNIT, IT SHALL BE POSTED ON THE BULLETIN BOARDS FOR TWO (2)
FULL NORMAL WORKING DAYS. POSTINGS WILL OCCUR FOR THE INITIAL VACANCY AND TWO (2) SUBSEQUENT VACANCIES ONLY.
(b)	AN EMPLOYEE WITH AT LEAST SIX (6) MONTHS OF SENIORITY WHO WISHES TO APPLY FOR A POSTED JOB, SHALL DO SO BY COMPLETING A JOB POSTING APPLICATION FORM AND SUBMITTING IT TO THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT ON OR BEFORE THE CLOSING DATE IDENTIFIED ON THE POSTING. AN APPLICATION FOR A JOB POSTING WILL BE CONSIDERED AS ACCEPTANCE OF THE JOB IF THE EMPLOYEE IS CHOSEN AS THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT.
(c)	AN EMPLOYEE WHO IS TO BE ABSENT ON APPROVED VACATION
MAY FILE A JOB POSTING FORM WITH THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT NO EARLIER THAN THREE (3) DAYS PRIOR TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF HIS VACATION, FOR A VACANCY HE ANTICIPATES WILL OCCUR DURING HIS ABSENCE.
(d)	EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION AND SUBJECT
TO THE QUALIFICATIONS OF THE APPLICANT AND THE NECESSITY OF MAINTAINING AN EFFICIENT WORK FORCE, THE MOST SENIOR QUALIFIED APPLICANT WILL BE GIVEN THE JOB. IN THE CASE OF A SKILLED TRADES APPRENTICE OR A LEADHAND, CANDIDATES SHALL BE EVALUATED ON QUALIFICATIONS AND OTHER RELEVANT CRITERIA AND WHERE TWO (2) OR MORE CANDIDATES ARE DEEMED TO BE EQUALLY QUALIFIED AND SUITABLE FOR THE POSITION, THE MOST SENIOR OF THE APPLICANTS WILL BE AWARDED THE
32
JOB.
(e)	THE COMPANY WILL NOT CONSIDER AN APPLICATION FROM
ANY EMPLOYEE WHO HAS SUCCESSFULLY BID ON A VACANCY WITHIN THE SIX (6) MONTH PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE OF THE CURRENTLY POSTED VACANCY.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE ABOVE, THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CONSIDER AN APPLICANT WHO HAD SUCCESSFULLY BID ON A VACANCY WITHIN THE PRECEDING SIX (6) MONTHS IN CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THE REFUSAL TO CONSIDER THE APPLICANT WOULD RESULT IN RECRUITMENT OUTSIDE THE COMPANY BECOMING NECESSARY.
(f)	(1) IN THE EVENT THAT IT IS DETERMINED THAT AN EMPLOYEE
IS UNABLE TO ATTAIN THE EXISTING STANDARDS OF QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY OF THE JOB WITHIN THE FIRST TEN (10) WORKING DAYS OF HIS DATE OF TRANSFER TO THE NEW JOB, HE WILL BE RETURNED TO HIS FORMER JOB.
SUCH EMPLOYEE WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED AS HAVING BEEN A SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINING HIS ELIGIBILITY FOR FUTURE POSTINGS.
(2)	SHOULD THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT INFORM THE COMPANY WITHIN TEN (10) WORKING DAYS FROM THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF HIS APPOINTMENT THAT HE WISHES TO RETURN TO HIS FORMER JOB, HE SHALL BE RETURNED TO HIS FORMER JOB WITHIN TWO (2) WEEKS OF HIS REQUEST. SUCH EMPLOYEE WILL NOT BE ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE POSTINGS UNTIL SIX (6) MONTHS HAS ELAPSED SINCE HIS DATE OF RETURN TO HIS FORMER JOB.
(3)	WHERE THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT ON A JOB POSTING
(OTHER THAN FOR A LEADHAND OR SKILLED TRADES APPRENTICE POSITION) IS TO BE RETURNED TO HIS FORMER JOB UNDER (1) OR (2) ABOVE, THE NEXT SENIOR QUALIFIED APPLICANT FOR THE SAME JOB POSTING SHALL BE GRANTED THE JOB.
(4)	A SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT ON A JOB POSTING WHO HAS BEEN
MOVED TO THE NEW POSITION AND WHO IS SUBSEQUENTLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A DECISION MADE UNDER ( 1 ) OR (2) ABOVE, SHALL BE RETURNED TO HIS FORMER JOB. SUCH EMPLOYEE WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED AS HAVING BEEN A SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINING HIS ELIGIBILITY FOR FUTURE POSTINGS.
(g)	THE JOB POSTING PROCEDURE SHALL APPLY TO THE FILLING OF ALL VACANCIES IN THE BARGAINING UNIT OF FOUR (4) WEEKS DURATION OR LONGER. ALL EMPLOYEES WITH RECALL RIGHTS TO THE CLASSIFICATION/DEPARTMENT SHALL FIRST BE RETURNED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RECALL PROVISIONS
33
OF THIS ARTICLE BEFORE VACANCIES ARE POSTED.
7:20 THE COMPANY MAY ASSIGN BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
TEMPORARILY WITHOUT THE NEED FOR A JOB POSTING FOR A PERIOD NOT IN EXCESS OF FOUR (4) WEEKS. ASSIGNMENTS FOR PRODUCTION WORK WILL BE MADE FROM AVAILABLE RELIEF OPERATORS WHO ARE IMMEDIATELY ABLE TO PERFORM THE WORK IN QUESTION. IN THE EVENT THAT THERE ARE INSUFFICIENT RELIEF OPERATORS AVAILABLE, THE ASSIGNMENT WILL BE MADE TO THE LEAST SENIOR QUALIFIED AND AVAILABLE EMPLOYEE.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
7:21 Leave of absence may be granted to employees with seniority status under certain conditions without loss of seniority privileges. Application for such leave shall be in writing and the employee shal I be given written advice of the decision. Leave of absence may be granted under the following circumstances:
(a)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months and subject to extension for periods of three (3) months, up to one ( 1 ) year for employees with up to ten (10) years seniority and two (2) years for employees with over ten (10) years may be granted for extenuating causes such as NON-OCCUPATIONAL SICKNESS OR INJURY, bereavement, or serious personal necessity. Under extreme c i rcumstances, a request for further extension of leave of absence by an employee and supported by the Union would receive consideration.
(b)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months may be granted during slack periods, but those who are granted such leave must return to work within seven (7) days after notice of recall has been sent in order to retain seniority standing.
(c)	Employees who are engaged in service with the Country’s Armed Forces shall be considered on leave of absence and shall accumulate seniority during such service, in accordance with federal legislation.
(d)	A member of the Union may at the written request of the Union, be granted special leave of absence to engage in Union duties with the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Canada Labour Congress, the Ontario Federation of Labour or Local 67, for a period not exceeding the term of this Agreement, subject to renewal. When leave is granted for this purpose, the members shall accumulate their seniority during the full term of leave only if they return to active
34
service with the Company on the expiration of the leave.
(e)	A female may be granted leave of absence between the fourth and fifth months of pregancy (or in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario) based on medical certification providing confirmation of the pregnancy and the estimated date of del i very.
The time period of such leave shall not exceed that permitted under the Employment Standards Act of Ontario and seniority shal I continue to accrue throughout the period of the leave.
The employee shall give notice in writing to the HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT at least three (3) weeks prior to the date she plans to return to work. She shall provide a doctor’s certificate confirming the date of the birth and her fitness to return to regular duties.
(f)	AN EMPLOYEE WHO BECOMES THE PARENT OF A CHILD SHALL BE GRANTED LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOLLOWING THE BIRTH OF THE CHILD OR THE COMING OF THE CHILD INTO THE CUSTODY AND CONTROL OF A PARENT FOR THE FIRST TIME. SUCH LEAVE SHALL BE GRANTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ACT OF ONTARIO.
(g)	An employee injured on the job, who subsequently becomes a Workers’ Compensation case, and is placed on leave of absence, shall accumulate seniority during such period.
(h) An employee on an approved leave of absence who needs to have such leave extended, shal I report to the HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT at least three (3) normal working days prior to the expiry date of his leave or his intended date of return If prior to the expiry date of the leave, so that his return to work may be arranged.
(i)	Subject to physical qualifications, such employee
wl I I be entitled to return to the job he left. If his former job is no longer available or If his seniority no longer qualifies him for his former job, he wil I be given the job to which he would have been displaced had he been at work, if this can be readily established, or such other suitable job which is consistent with his seniority.
ARTICLE VIII VACATIONS
8:01 Hourly rated employees of the Company who have accumulated
35
one (1) or more years of continuous service with the Company
as of June 30thof any year, shall be entitled to vacation
with pay on the following basis.
(a)	Employees having one (1) year of continuous service or more as of June 30 th, will receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay amountlngto four percent (4%)o f their earnings for the twelve (12) month period ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE.
(b)	Employees having five (5) years of continuous service or more as of June 30th, will receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay amounting to six percent (6%) of their earnings for the twelve (12) month period ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE.
(c)	Employees having ten (10) years of cont inuous service or more as of June 30th, wi I I receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay amounting to eight percent (8%)of their earnings for the twelve (12) month period ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE.
(d)	Employees	having	twenty	(20) years of	continuous
service or more as of June 30th, wi I I recieve five (5) weeks vacation with pay amounting to ten percent (10%) of their earnings for the twelve (12) month period ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE.
(e)	Employees	having	thirty	(30) years of	continuous
service or more as of June 30th, will receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay amounting to twelve percent (12%) o f their earnings for the twelve (12) month period ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE.
(f)	An active employee who accumulates and is credited in the current calendar year, with five (5), ten (10), twenty (20)or thirty (30) years of continuous service between June 30th and December 31st shal I receive, after such service is credited, one (1) additional week of vacation with pay amounting to two percent (2%) of his earnings for the twelve (12) months ending THE LAST SATURDAY IN JUNE of the current year. At the discretion of the Company, the additional weeks of vacation may be granted prior to the date on which such service is credited, however, vacation pay paid in advance shall
be deducted from the final pay if the employee ceases to be actively employed or if employment is terminated for any reason prior to the qualification date. An employee who qualifies under this Subsection after December 24th shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year only.
36
8:02 Employees who have been hired prior to June 30th of any year but have not accumulated at least one ( 1 ) year of continuous service shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the basis of four percent (4%)of their earnings for the period of their employment. The vacation shal I be considered to be at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each full month of employment. In	the	event that a	half (1/2) days	is
calculated, it shall be	rounded off to	a full day.
8:03 When an individual leaves the employ of the Company prior to the vacation date and has qualified for vacation pay as outlined in Section 8:01 and 8:02, he shall be paid the amount of the vacation earned at the time of separation.
8 : 04 Enip I oyees who, when laid off for an indefinite period, receive their vacation pay and return to work during the vacation year will have the value of previously paid vacation pay deducted from their vacation pay as specified in Section 8:01 and 8:02 above.
8:05 The Company wi I I schedu le a summer vacation per iod of two (2) weeks during	the	months of July	or August	for	all
eligible employees	and	wi II designate	this period	at least
three (3) months in advance. Vacation periods for employees eligible for a third, fourth, fifth or sixth week of vacation will be scheduled by the Company giving due consideration to production requirements and employee requests according to seniority. It is understood that the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week of vacation need not be granted together nor consecutively with the other two (2) weeks. If the employee is unable to take his vacation for reasons of an approved leave of absence for sickness, injury or pregnancy, his vacation shall be rescheduled.
8:06 Vacation pay shal I be paid on the regular pay day immediately prior to the employee’s vacation.
8:07 In cases of emergency when it may be necessary to arrange
for employees to work during the fifth or sixth week of their vacation, such employees required to work any or all of these weeks shall be paid vacation pay at a later date.
An employee may be requested to work during his fourth week of vacation and If he so agrees, he shall elect to reschedule his vacation.
8:08 When an employee with one (1) or more years of seniority has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year because of verified sickness, injury or pregnancy and for those reasons only, the vacation pay calculated in accordance with Article VIII is less than three hundred and fifty ($350.00)for an employee in each week of vacation pay, the vacation pay will be increased to the above minimum
37
providing the employee has worked three (3) months or more during the vacation year.
8:09 The following shall be included as earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation pay: Wages Paid, Overtime Premiums, Night Shift Premium, Vacation Pay paid in the preced i ng year, Designated Holiday Pay, Workers’ Compensation Payments for Lost Time, Short Work Week Benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, Weekly Indemnity payments and O.H.I.P. Premiums which are regarded as income under the Income Tax Act.
ARTICLE IX
FUNCTIONS OF MANAGEMENT
9:01 The management of the Plant and its direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause, and the right to relieve employees of their duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively in the Company. This right shall not be used to discriminate against any employee as an individual nor to violate the terms of this Agreement.
9:02 The Company reserves the right to discharge for just cause including but	not restricted	to	the	following:
insubordination, chronic absence or tardiness, continued unsatisfactory workmanship or dishonesty.
ARTICLE X HEALTH AND SAFETY
10:01 Four (4) members of the bargaining unit appointed by the Union and four (4) members of management appointed by the Company shall constitute a Joint Health and Safety Committee and shal I meet once per month for the purpose of promoting safety and accident prevent ion. Payment for time lost from regular hours to attend the monthly meetings will be at the employee’s average hourly earnings.
10:02 Concerns generated by the Joint Health & Safety Committee which are unable to be resolved within the Committee (or otherwise by statute) may be referred through the Labour-Management Committee for discussion and resolution. Failing resolution, the matter may be taken up as a grievance at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE XI MISCELLANEOUS
11:01 Bulletin Boards with locks will be furnished by the Company where the Union may post notices relating to the following matters of business connected with Local 67, U . R . C . L . and
38
P . W. o f A .
(a)	Union Meetings
(b)	Union Appointments and Elections
(c)	Union Recreation and Social Affairs
11-.02 (a) Washup al lowance will be paid at the employee’s straight time rate of pay for the time period allocated for that purpose immediately following his regular shift.
(b) Employees will be eligible for washup allowance in accordance with the prevailing agreement between the Company and the Union.
11:03 The Company SHALL REFUND THE FULL COST OF C.S.A. APPROVED
SAFETY SHOES TO A MAXIMUM OF FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
1 . REIMBURSEMENT WILL BE MADE only to employees who have A MINIMUM OF THREE (3) MONTHS CONTINUOUS SERVICE FOLLOWING THE ACHIEVEMENT OF SENIORITY and who submit an authorized receipt certifying purchase of approved safety shoes.
2.	Reimbursement will be made only once in any twelve (12) month period for each eligible employee, with the first payment establishing the twelve (12) month period for each individual employee, except as provided in paragraph 3 be I ow.
3.	It is understood that employees regularly working in the Cement House or Compounding departments shall be eligible for a second pair within the twelve (12) month
period described above.
11s04 In accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act, the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan, Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, Pension and Severance Award Plan, Append i x “A” Interim Increase, Letters of Understanding # 1 through #5, shall form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE XII DURATION OF AGREEMENT
12:01 Amendments to this Agreement may be made by ‘mutual consent of both parties. Proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing by the party desiring a change, and negotiations thereon shall start within twenty (20) days of such notice. During the negotiations and thereafter, if no conclusion is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
39
12:02 This Agreement shall become effective as of APRIL 151994, and shall remain in full force and effect in respect to all its terms until midnight APRIL 14, 1996, and shall continue i h eTfect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one (1) year unless either party gives written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than three (3) months prior to the expiry date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire but shall continue In full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
DATED AT KITCHENER THIS 19th DAY OF March, 1994.
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
PERSTCRP COMPONENTS (CANADA) INC.,
. _ _GjU^
). Hutton __
L . McCann
LOCAL 67
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM S PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
40
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 1
April 15,1994 Mr, C. N o bIe
President, Local Union No. 67 U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A. ,
141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Noble,
REi HEAT RELIEF
BOTH THE COMPANY AND THE UNIONHAVE IDENTIFIED CERTAINDEFICIENCIES IN PROVISIONS FOR HEAT REL I EF. THE PART I ES HAVE THEREFORE NEGOTIATED IMPROVEMENTS WH I CH ARE TO BE ATTEMPTED ON A TR I AL BASIS DUR I NG 1994. ON NOVEMBER 1,1994, EACH PARTY Wl LL SEPARATELY AND THEN AGAIN JOINTLY, EVALUATE THE OUTCOME OF THE CHANGES TO THESE PROVISIONS AND WILL INDICATE IN WRITING TO THE OTHER PARTY THEIR DESIRE TO CONTINUE OR DISCONTINUE THEM. IN THE EVENT OF A DECISION TO DISCONTINUE THESE PROVISIONS, BY EITHER PARTY, LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 1 DATED APRIL 15,1991, SHALL IMMEDIATELY BE PUT INTO EFFECT.
ON THOSE DAYS WHERE THE FORECAST HIGH (ACCORDING TO THE WATERLOO-WELLINGTON AIRPORT WEATHER STATION) IS TWENTY-SEVEN (27) DEGREES CELSIUS OR GREATER, ONE EMPLOYEE DES I GNATED BY THE UN I ON Wl LL TAKE AN OUTS I DE TEMPERATURE CHECK ON PLANT 1 PROPERTY AT 9:00 AM, 11:00 AM AND AT A REASONABLE FREQUENCY THEREAFTER UNTIL 1:00 AM. THE UNION SHALL DETERMINE THE INDIVIDUAL(S) WHO WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR PERFORMING TEMPERATURE CHECKS AND WILL ENSURE THAT NORMAL PRODUCTION PROCESSES WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT. THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO VERIFY THE TEMPERATURES REPORTED.
When the outside temperature is twenty-seven (27) degrees Celsius or more, EMPLOYEES SHALL BE GRANTED one add i t i ona I ten (10)minute break AND COMMUN I CAT I ON OF THE TEMPERATURE READING SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE DESIGNATED UNION REPRESENTATIVE. NOTIFICATION TO EMPLOYEES SHALL NOT OCCUR, UNLESS AND UNTIL THE COMPANY HAS BEEN ADVISED. IN ADDITION, WHEN TEMPERATURES ARE EXTREME, EXTRA RELIEF WILL BE PROVIDED AS NECESSARY.
EMPLOYEES IN THE PLANT WHO CANNOT TOLERATE THE HEAT AFTER DISCUSSING AVAILABLE ALTERNATIVES WITH THE SHIFT MANAGER, WILL, ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS, AND UPON SUBMISSION OF A HEAT RELIEF ABSENCE REQUEST FORM, BE PERMITTED TO LEAVE THE PLANT, AND WILL NOT BE REQUIRED TO SEE A DOCTOR, AND/OR MAKE A HOSPITAL VISIT.
Yours sincerely,
Lynda McCann
Human Resourcs Manager
4 1
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 2
April 15,1994
Mr. C . N o b I e
President, Local Union No. 67 U.R.C.L.and P.W.of A.
141 Ki ng Street East K i tchener , Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Noble,
RE i OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Whenever overtime work is required for weekends and designated holidays, the overtime will be offered/scheduled in the following sequence:
(1)	To employee(s) by job classification on the line and shift the overtime is scheduled. If any vacancies occur, they shall be filled as set out below.
(2)	The most senior employee(s) in the classification on the shift the overtime is scheduled.
(3)	The most senior employee(s) in the classification in the department.
(4)	The most senior employee(s) in the department with previous experience.
(5)	The most senior employee(s) in the plant with previous experience.
Whenever daily overtime work is required during the regular work week, it wi II be offered/scheduled on the shift with which the overtime work is continuous (before or after) up to four (4) hours in the following sequence:
(1)	To employee(s) by job classification on the line.
(2) The most senior employee(s) in the classification.
(3)	The most senior employee(s) in the department with previous experience.
(4)	The most senior employee(s) in the plant with previous experience.
42
"Odd jobs” or "open jobs” (defined as jobs not held by any employee(s) for job seniority purposes) will be offered/scheduled In the following sequence:
(a)	To employee(s) as redress for prior overtime work improperly offered/scheduled.
(b)	To the most senior employee(s) in the Plant.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	It is the responsibility of management to determine and schedule the overtime hours and to contact the appropriate employees accroding to the sequence above.
2.	Employees who refuse an offer of overtime will have any such refusal recorded and will not be considered eligible under any of the subsequent steps in this overtime distribution sequence.
3.	Employees wi I I not be scheduled to work more than twelve (12) continuous hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
4.	A vacation week shal I start on Sunday and end on Saturday. Employees shall not be scheduled for hours during their vacation week(s).
5.	No transfer of offers shal I be agreed either between emp I oyees and emp I oyees or emp I oyees and management.
6.	Redress for emp I oyees improperly deprived of overtime shall be made under the “odd job” provision, redress wi I I be of equal time and value as the original overtime opportunity.
If the redress offer has not been made within a three (3) month period from the date of the Company’s written
acknowledgement of the liability, redress will be payment for the overtime hours deprived.
Yours sincerely,
Lynda McCann
Human Resources Manager
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 3
Apri I 15, 1994
Mr. C . N o b I e President, Local 67 U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A. 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Noble,
RE; PLANT CLOSURE
1)	In the event of a full closure of the plant, the Union shall be provided with a minimum of nine (9) weeks notice of a closure.
2)	Following such notification, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss and consider any suggestions the Union might have to avert such closure.
3)	If discussions between the Company and the Union do not result in averting the closure, the parties will meet to address the manner in which the closure is carried out.
4)	In the event of a partial closure of the plant, the Company will meet with the Union in the same manner as described in (2) and (3) above, where such closure will result in the layoff of al I bargaining unit employees in a single department.
Yours sincerely,
44
Lynda McCann
Human Resources Manager
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 4
April 15,1994
United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America Local 67
141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
ATTENTION: MR. C. NOBLE Dear Mr. Noble,
RE; INTRODUCTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT AND FUTURE TRENDS IN MANUFACTURING HAVE REQUIRED INDIVIDUAL WORKERS TO TAKE GREATER RESPONSIBILITY AND BE MORE DIRECTLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE PRODUCTION PROCESS. THE INTRODUCTION OF COMPLEX TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES, MORE HIGHLY AUTOMATED PROCESSES, INTRICATE PROBLEM SOLVING METHODS AND SOPHISTICATED MATHEMATICAL VALIDATION CONCEPTS, NECESSITATES THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMPLEX NEW SKILLS BY THE WORKFORCE THROUGH RETRAINING.
AS PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS ARE UNDERTAKEN, BOTH PARTIES RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF MINIMIZING DISRUPTION TO THE WORKFORCE WHILE ACQUIRING THE NECESSARY SKILLS TO IMPLEMENT THE CHANGES. WITH THIS OBJECTIVE IN MIND, IT IS AGREED THAT:
(a)	THE UNION WILL BE NOTIFIED (AT THE TIME OF PROJECT APPROVAL) WHEN THE INTRODUCTION OF TECHNOLOGY WILL HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE WORKFORCE EITHER BECAUSE OF REDUCTION IN JOBS OR WHERE NEW SK ILLS WILL NEED TO BE ACQUIRED.
(b)	WHERE THE SUCCESS OF A CHANGE TO EQUIPMENT, OPERATION,
OR PROCEDURE IS DEPENDENT UPON THE ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL KNOWLEDGE OR SKILL ON THE PART OF THE EMPLOYEE, RETRAINING WILL BE PROVIDED TO THE EMPLOYEES INVOLVED.
<c> WHENEVER IT IS REASONABLE AND PRACTICAL TO DO SO, THE COMPANY WILL REDUCE THE WORKFORCE THROUGH ATTRITION WHEN A TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE NECESSITATES A REDUCTION IN THE WORKFORCE.
YOURS SINCERELY,
45
LYNDA MCCANN
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING # 5
April 15, 1994
Mr. C . N o b I e
President, Local Union # 67 U.R.C.L.and P.W.of A.
141 King Street East K i tchener , Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Noble,
RE: ALLOCATION OF DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS 1994
Further to the provisions of Article V, Section 5:01, the Designated Holidays during the Christmas Period in 1994 shall be al located as follows:
Christmas Eve Day will be celebrated Tuesday, December 27,1994 Christmas Day will be celebrated Wednesday, December 28,1994 Boxing Day will be celebrated Monday, December 26, 1994 Floater wilt be celebrated Thursday, December 29, 1994 New Year's Day will be celebrated Friday, December 30, 1994.
Production is scheduled to resume at 11:00 PM Sunday, January 1, 1995.
Yours sincerely,
Lynda McCann
Human Resources Manager
46
APPENDIX “A” OF COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT INTERIM INCREASE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shal I be calculated and
recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer
Price Index published by Statistics Canada ( 1986 = 100) and
hereinafter referred to as the C.P.l.
2.	INITIAL COLA ADJUSTMENT CALCULATION
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.l. for the months of OCTOBER, NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER, 1993.
(b) The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing JUNE 19, 1994. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of MARCH, APRIL AND MAY, 1994 exceed the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment wi I I be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing SEPTEMBER 18,	1994. It will
reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of JUNE, JULY AND AUGUST, 1994 exceed the base for calculation. THIS SECOND ADJUSTMENT WILL BE FOLDED INTO THE OCCUPATIONAL AND DAY WORK RATES ON SEPTEMBER 18, 1994 AS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay per i od commencing DECEMBER 18, 1994. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each ful I .083 points that the average C.P. I. for the months of SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER, 1994 exceed the base for calculation.
3.	2ND COLA ADJUSTMENT CALCULATION
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.l. for the months of OCTOBER, NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER, 1994.
(b)	The	first	adjustment will be	calculated	and paid	as of
the	pay	period commencing	MARCH 19,	1995. It	will
reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of DECEMBER, 1994, JANUARY AND FEBRUARY, 1995 exceed the base for calculation.
(c)	The	second adjustment will be	calculated	and paid	as of
the	pay	period commencing	JUNE 18,	1995. It	will
reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each 1 ful I .083 points that the average C.P.l. for the months of MARCH, APRIL AND MAY, 1995 exceed the base for ca I cull a t i o n .
47
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay per iod commenc i ng SEPTEMBER 17,	1995. It will
reflect one	cent	($0.01)	per hour	for	each	ful I .083
points that	the	average	C.P. I.	for	the	months of
JUNE, JULY AND AUGUST, 1995 exceed the base for calculation. This adjustment will be folded into Occupational and Day Work Rates on SEPTEMBER 17, 1995 as specified herein.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing DECEMBER 24, 1995. It will reflect one	cent	($0.01)	per hour for	each full .083
points that	the	average	C.P. I.	for	the	months of
SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER, 1995 exceed the base for calculation.
3. 3RD COLA ADJUSTMENT CALCULATION
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P. I. for the months of OCTOBER, NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER, 1995.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing MARCH 17, 1996. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of DECEMBER, 1995, JANUARY AND FEBRUARY, 1996 exceed the base for calculation.
5.	The Interim Increase will be considered as earnings but wi II be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee’s time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropr i ate Consumer Pr i ce Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required wil I be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the Index.
7.	No adjustments retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the Interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for April, 1985.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Increase w i I I replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety, except the September 18, 1994 adjustment and the SEPTEMBER 17, 1995 adjustment and the MARCH 17, 1996 ADJUSTMENT will be folded-in as specified herein.
48
10.	Method of Fold-In
(a)	Daywork Rates - the total amount of Interim Increase to be folded-in as specified herein wi I I be unboxed and added to the maximum of the day work rates.
(b)	Incentive Rates - the total amount of interim Increase to be folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to all incentive Occupational Rates Scales at the 100% level.
49
WHEREAS:	THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE ESTABLISHED A LIFE INSURANCE AND
WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN (APPENDIX “A” > ; A PENSION AND SEVERANCE AWARD PLAN (APPENDIX "B"); AND A SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN (APPENDIX "C") WHICH FORM PART OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND;
WHEREAS:	THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED TO CERTAIN MODIFICATIONS AND
AMENDMENTS TO THESE PLANS;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED AND SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE
PARTIES HERETO BY THEIR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES:
Dated at Kitchener this 19th day of March, 1994
Perstorp Components (Canada) Inc. Kitchener, Ontario
United Rubber, Cork Linoleum & Plastic Workers of Anier i ca, Local 67
C . Nob I e
