Collective Labour Agreement
Collins & Aikman Canada Inc. and
United Steelworkers of America Local 296 1999-2002
1
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COLLINS & AIRMAN CANADA INC., Kitchener, Ontario
AND/OR ITS SUCCESSORS IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL UNION NO.296
This Agreement is made and entered into this 5th day of March, 1999, effective April 15, 1999, by and between Collins & Aikman Canada-Inc., Kitchener, Ontario, ("The Company") and Local 296 of the United Steelworkers of America ("The Union").
PURPOSE
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this Agreement to promote co-operation and harmony and to formulate rules and re-establish orderly procedures to govern the relationship between the Union and the Company.	.
The Union realizes the necessity of encouraging full productivity consistent with fair labour practices and in conformity with this Agreement, and agrees that it will co-operate with Management in discouraging any practice which imposes any unreasonable restriction on production. The Union recognizes the necessity of the efforts of Management to improve production, establish efficient methods, eliminate waste in production, conserve materials and supplies and improve the quality of workmanship and that it is desirable to strengthen goodwill between the Company, the employees, the customer, the Union and the public.
It is understood that the use of the masculine gender herein shall be construed as meaning male or female.
Therefore, both parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND SCOPE OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
1:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all hourly paid employees except shift managers, supervisors, full time department clerks, office staff and laboratory technicians.
2
(a)	No employee shall be permitted or required to make a verbal or written agreement with the- Company or its representatives which might conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
1:02 The Company agrees to meet and negotiate with the accredited representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to hours of work, rates of pay and working conditions of employees covered by this Agreement.
1:03 The Company and the Union mutually agree that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restriction, c°erci°n, harassment, intimidation or stronger disciplinary action exercised or practised with respect to an employee by reason of age, race, creed, colour, national origin, political or religious affiliation, sex, physical or mental handicap, sexual orientation, marital status, family status, conviction for an offence for which a pardon has been received, or any other prohibited ground of discrimination as defined in the Ontario Human Rights Code, nor as a result of an employee’s membership or activity in the Union as defined in the Collective- Agreement.
1:04 Both parties recognize the value of goodwill between the employees and the Company and to this end agree that neither party will make any destructive criticism of the Union or Company officials. Criticism that may be offered will be made in confidence and for the purpose of making constructive changes in existing conditions.
1:05 Persons who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work which replaces production or maintenance employees on their regular jobs, or overtime, except in the event of an emergency, or for the purpose of training, taking inventory or experimental work. There will be no use of temporary workers from Temp Agencies to do any type of bargaining unit work.
The Company can assure the Union that, before non-production work is contracted out, Management will examine the possibility of having the work done by Bargaining Unit employees. Consideration will be given to Safety related concerns, the need for special equipment, the ability of internal workers to do the work required, and the effect on manpower requirements and production schedules.
1:06 The Company agrees to send copies of Employee Status forms to the Union on a timely basis, with regard to hirings, firings, leaves of absence, job postings, etc.
3
ARTICLE 2
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
2:01 Any employee covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of i this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, maintain membership to the extent of paying membership dues.
2:02 Any person hired as a new employee or an employee transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall sign an application for membership as a condition of employment, maintain membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
2:03 Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union not later than fifteen (15) days from the effective date of this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. An employee who is on lay-off, on leave of absence, or absent due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirements of this Section not later than fifteen (15) days following his return to work.
2:04 Section 2:01, 2:02, and 2:03 shall not apply to an employee who is denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his failure to tender the amount of monthly membership dues, as determined by the Local Union No. 296 in accordance with the constitution of U.S.W.A. and which are uniformly required of all members as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
2:05(a)In the event any employee fails to become a member of the Union as provided in Section 2:02 or 2:03 above, the Union shall give written notice to the Company and to the employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless he has, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that he has become a member of the Union, or that he was denied membership for reasons other than his failure to tender the monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the Local Union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the U.S.W.A. Constitution.
4
(b)	Any employee who has become a member of the Union and who .thereafter fails to maintain his membership in the Union to
the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit, provided that the Union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
2:06 All present employees, new employees and employees transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall have their membership dues deducted from their wages by signing the authorization for deduction form. The authorization form for deduction of dues which has been signed by present employees in the bargaining unit under the provisions of, all previous Collective Agreements between the parties shall be authorization for the Company to deduct membership dues in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
2:07 The authorization forms for deduction of dues which have been or which may be, executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof, and if the termination of this Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement. Any authorization shall cease to be effective upon termination of employment or upon transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
2:08 (a) The Company shall deduct from the pay of each member of the bargaining unit, weekly, such Union dues, fees and assessment in accordance with the Constitution of the Union.
(b)The Company shall remit the amounts so deducted, prior to the fifteenth (15th) of the month following, by cheque as directed by the Union, payable to the International Secretary-Treasurer.
(c)	The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay deductions have been made and the total amount deducted for the month. Such statements shall list the names of employees from whom no deductions have been made and the reasons why, along with any forms required by the International Union.
5
2:09 It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company from time to time of changes in the amount of Union dues, not later than the 25th of any calendar month. Changes so notified shall be effective on the first pay day of the following month.
2:10 The authorization referred to in Section 2:06 above, shall be completed in triplicate on Union forms supplied by the Company. The original shall be retained by the Company and one copy retained by the employee and the other by the Union.
2:11 The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments, and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with these foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE 3
UNION REPRESENTATION/GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3:01 Both parties agree to meet promptly to discuss and resolve any complaint which may originate by either party and every effort shall be exerted mutually to settle the matter at issue as quickly as possible.
3:02 The Union agrees to bring to the attention of Management, through the channel of the procedure laid down in this Article, any cause for dissatisfaction or any unsafe working condition or practices, as soon as it is known to the Union.
3:03 A Plant Negotiating Committee not to exceed five (5) Union Members who are regular employees of the Company with at least one (l) year of seniority shall be elected by the Union.
3:04 The Union shall keep the Company informed of those members in all departments who are authorized to represent the Union in dealing with the Company.
3:05(a)The Company will pay members of the Plant Negotiating Committee and a representative steward, but not exceeding five (5) employees in total, at their regular hourly rate of pay for
meetings held for the purpose of discussing matters other than wage and/or contract negotiations. Any additional meetings shall be paid for by the party calling the meeting.
6
(b)	The Company will pay the members of the Plant Negotiating Committee for time spent in meetings with the Company at Step 2 and Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
(c)	A Labour-Management Committee consisting of the Plant Negotiating Committee and an equal number of Management representatives shall meet once per month for no longer than two and one-half (2 V2) hours. The Labour-Management Committee shall jointly discuss items of mutual interest and concern relating to working conditions, job security, health and safety, training, scheduling, productivity and quality issues. Planned changes and/or the introduction of new technology, including but not limited to, changes which will directly affect the jobs or job security of employees in the bargaining unit, will be communicated as a regular order of business at these joint meetings, before implementation. The impact of such changes and/or technology will be jointly discussed in order to reduce or eliminate any anticipated difficulties. The committee will operate with the guiding principle of maximizing productivity and quality with the least impact on the livelihood of employees.
(d)	The Company will pay the Negotiating Committee eight (8) hours for every meeting during negotiation sessions for the renewal of the Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union at which an officer of the Ministry of Labour is not in attendance. Such time will be paid for at the regular hourly rate, exclusive of any premiums to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day, per Committee member.
(e)	Plant Negotiating Committee members and Stewards shall first obtain the permission of a Management representative before conducting legitimate Union business on the premises whether during their regular work day or during their off-shift hours. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
Permission is given the President or Acting President of the Union to enter any department during his term in office in the carrying out of his duties as a Union Official. It is underst°°d that before leaving his work, the President or Acting President shall first be excused by his Shift Manager, and will contact a Management Representative before conducting Union business in any department, regardless of shift.
(f)	(i) The Local Union President, during the term of his office only, will be placed on the day shift of his job classification, following which he will elect his shift preference.
7
(ii)	The Company will pay the Local Union President, or in his absence from work, the Local Union Acting President, for the hours spent in the conduct of legitimate local Union matters concerning the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement. Such payment in total will not exceed twenty-four (24) hours in any one week. Payment will be made at the level of the highest skilled trades job in the plant, plus any applicable interim increase whether boxed or unboxed, or his regular hourly rate, whichever is the higher. In addition to the above, the Union President, or Acting President, shall also be eligible for payment at this rate as provided in Section 3:05(d) above, including payment for grievance meetings held after his regular shift.
(iii)	The Union will receive 1500 hours of Paid Union Time fear the calendar year of 1999. These hours to be increased to 1,200 for each full year, commencing January 1, 2000 and pro-rated for any partial years thereafter. These payments are exclusive of payments otherwise provided under the terms of the Collective Agreement. It is understood that Paid Union Time will be used by the Union Representatives to compensate for time lost from their regular hours while engaged in Union business activities.
(iv) It is understood that payment will be made as reported on the time sheet at the rate of pay for the employee concerned.	The
Company and the Union will jointly bear the responsibility for maintaining accurate records of hours paid by the Company. Any time required for local Union business activities	by the
designated Union Representatives in excess of the hours allotted above will be the responsibility of the Union.
3:05(g) In order that the operations of the Union will not become disorganized, and only in the event of a total Plant closure, members of the local Executive Board i.e. President, VicePresident, Secretary, Treasurer, shall be the last persons laid-off during their term of office, as long as full-time work exists, for which they already possess the necessary skills, qualifications, abilities and competence to perform the work available at the current rate of the job.
ARTICLE 3
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3:06 The procedure as laid down in this Section shall be
followed in the settlement of complaints or grievances on behalf of employees. A complaint concerning the application, interpretation or alleged violation of the Collective Agreement shall be brought to the attention of the Company within thirty (30)calendar days of the date upon which the affected party has become aware of the
8
situation giving rise to the matter in dispute.
The Company agrees that communications between an employee and his/her steward or other Union representative acting in that capacity are privileged and confidential and cannot be produced in evidence during arbitration.
Any employee who has a complaint as an individual shall, with, without or through his Steward, who may call in the Chief Steward, discuss the matter with the Shift Manager in order to resolve the complaint. Any discussions started with the Steward may be continued with him.
(a)	STEP 1 - Failing resolution of the complaint, an
employee shall next, with his steward, who may
call in the Chief Steward, discuss the matter with the Shift Manager or the Senior Shift Manager in order to reach a settlement. The Shift Manager or the Senior Shift Manager shall communicate his decision no later than five (5) normal working days of the date of notification.
(b)	STEP 2 - Failing settlement through Step 1, the
complaint shall be referred in writing by the Chief Steward to the Plant Superintendent and such complaint shall be considered a grievance at that time. The Plant Superintendent and the
Senior Shift Manager or a designated appointee shall meet with the Chief Steward and any applicable Union Representatives within five (5) normal working days of receipt of the written grievance. The Plant Superintendent shall render a decision within five (5) normal working days of the meeting having occurred. A copy of the grievance shall be sent to the Human Resources Department on the day the grievance is lodged with the Plant Superintendent.
9
(c)	STEP 3 - Failing settlement under the above procedure,
the Plant Negotiating Committee shall meet with the Plant Manager, Human Resources Manager or a designated appointee within five (5) normal working days of receipt of the grievance.	A written decision will be
rendered within five (5) normal working days of the conclusion of any meetings which have occurred. An International Representative of the U.S.W.A. may participate at this Step. Where there is a time standard in dispute, the Union may, at this third (3rd) step of the grievance procedure, with the approval of the Company, use the services of a U.S.W.A. Time Study Engineer who may observe and/or study the standard in dispute.
The time limits set out in the Grievance Procedure Steps 1 through 3 may be extended by the mutual written agreement of the parties. It is also agreed that if it is proven that the Company did not respect the time limits set out in Step 2 or Step 3 for the said grievance, the grievance will be settled in favour of the Union.
(d)	STEP 4 - Any grievance which has not been settled after
being carried through the Grievance Procedure may be referred to an Arbitrator at the written request of either party. Such request shall be made within thirty-five (35) calendar days of the Step 3 response. Should the parties be unable to agree or to obtain the services of an Arbitrator within seven (7) normal working days from the written request to proceed to Arbitration, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall designate the Arbitrator.
(e)	All meetings for Steps One through Three inclusive will be held at a Plant Two location. Should circumstances dictate otherwise, Step Three meetings may be rescheduled to a Plant One meeting room. Meetings beyond Step Three will be scheduled at a mutually acceptable location.
10
3:07 In cases of Arbitration concerning the discharge or
suspension of an employee, a single arbitrator may be appointed pursuant to Section 46 of the Labour Relations Act if requested by either of the parties. If the discharge or suspension is not upheld by the Arbitrator, he shall have jurisdiction to determine the terms of reinstatement with respect to penalties and/or rights and pay for lost time.
3:08 Upon mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union, a Board of Arbitration may be substituted for a single Arbitrator and all provisions of this Article will continue to apply so far as they are relevant. Such Board shall be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union, both of whom shall choose and agree to a third person to act as Chairperson, but in the event that the respective nominees fail to choose a third person within seven (7) normal working days, the Ontario Minister of Labour shall be asked to appoint the Chairperson.
3:09 The jurisdiction of the Arbitrator shall be limited to a decision on the dispute or question set forth in the grievance. The Arbitrator shall not have any jurisdiction to change, modify or disregard any of the provisions of this Agreement nor to substitute any new provisions in place thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to decide a dispute involving a question of a general wage level demand. All decisions of the Arbitrator arrived at in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding on all parties. The parties shall bear the expense of the Arbitrator in equal shares. (In the case of a Board of Arbitration each party shall bear the expense of the Arbitrator appointed by it and the parties shall jointly and equally bear the expense of the Chairperson).
3:10 When the Company and the Union cannot agree on the validity of a production standard, the Company and the Union will select an outside qualified Industrial Engineering Arbitrator to resolve the dispute. The decision of this third party will be binding on both the Company and the Union. Should the parties be unable to agree or obtain the services of an Arbitrator within seven (7) working days from the written request to proceed to Arbitration, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall designate the Arbitrator.
11
3:11(a)An employee who claims that he has been laid off
inconsistent with his seniority rights or not recalled in accordance with his seniority rights, may protest in writing to the Human Resources Manager within five (5)
normal working days of such alleged violation of seniority rights. If the employee's claim is upheld, he will be placed on the job to which his seniority entitles him and receive a pay adjustment as set out in 3:ll(c).
(b)	If such written protest is made more than five (5) normal working days after such alleged violation of seniority rights and his claim is upheld, he will be placed on the job to which his seniority entitles him, but any pay adjustment will only be made from the date on which such protest was made, as set out in 3:11 (c) .
(c)	Any pay adjustment will be the difference between any earnings or remuneration the employee has received during the period for which adjustment is made and the earnings he would have received had he been properly placed.
3:12 It is agreed that individual members of the Plant Negotiating Committee will not be asked to participate alone in any meeting arranged for the purpose of arriving at a decision on any subject. This does not apply to the first step of the grievance procedure, nor to any discussion of a general or informative nature.
3:13 Both parties to this Agreement undertake to abide by the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Ontario to the effect that no employer who is a party to a Collective Agreement shall declare or cause a lock-out and no employee, bound thereby, shall go on strike during the term of this Agreement. There shall be no slow-down or stoppage of work causing interference with production during the term of this Agreement.
In the event of any strike, slow-down, sit-down, or concerted stoppage of work, either partial or complete, ithe Union shall, at the request of the Company, forthwith inform the Company as to whether or not the same was authorized by the Union.
3:14 Any employee desiring to leave his work because of matters concerning this Agreement shall apply to his foreman for permission to do so, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
12
3:15 Nothing contained in this Article shall prohibit an employee from presenting a personal complaint or request directly to Management.
3:16 If the Union considers that an employee other than a
probationary employee has been unjustly discharged, or suspended, any grievance filed on behalf of the employee shall be submitted directly to the Human Resources Manager at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. This procedure also applies to Policy Grievances.
3:17 Copies of all correspondence to employees regarding
disciplinary action will be given to the Chief Steward. No correspondence to employees regarding disciplinary action shall be given to employees without a representative of the union. An explanation to warrant discipline will also be provided. However, failure of the union to provide a representative on the affected shift will not invalidate the disciplinary measure.
3:18(a)The Company agrees that no employee who has
successfully completed the probationary period will be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
(b)	When an employee is suspended or dismissed without notice, he shall have the right to discuss the matter with his Steward for a reasonable period of time before being required to leave the plant premises.
(c)	Where an employee is disciplined causing a reprimand to be documented and placed on the employee's file, such document shall be retained on the employee's active disciplinary record for a period of one (1) year following the date of the reprimand.
(d)	Should no further disciplinary action become necessary during the one (1) year period, the document shall no longer be considered a part of the employee's active disciplinary record.
(e)	Any further disciplinary action taken during the one (1) year period shall cause all active reprimands to be retained as part of the employee's active disciplinary record until the expiration of the one (1) year period applicable to the most recent reprimand.
13
(£)In the event that the employee is on leave of absence, Weekly Indemnity, or lay off for a period of thirty-one (31) or more consecutive calendar days, such one (1) year period shall be extended by the number of calendar days the employee is on leave, Weekly Indemnity or lay off.
(g)If the Company determines that the nature of the alleged violation may endanger the safety of the employee or other employees, or is of such a nature that it would be inadvisable to retain the employee in the plant, a suspension will take effect immediately. In other cases where an employee is to be suspended the suspension will not be required to be served until the Grievance Procedure up to and including Step Three (3) has been exhausted.
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
4:01(a)The normal working hours for all employees in the bargaining unit shall consist of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week Monday to Friday inclusive. These hours do not constitute a guaranteed minimum or maximum of hours in a day or week.
(b)The normal starting shift of each week shall be at 11:00 p.m. Sunday nights. The last normal working shift will finish at 11:00 p.m. Friday nights.
4:02 Employees shall be at their places ready to work at scheduled starting times.
4:03 The Company will permit one fifteen (15) minute rest period per eight (8) hour shift. The Company will permit one fifteen (15) minute rest period where shifts are three (3) hours or more, but less than five (5) hours. The time of rest periods will be scheduled by the Company.
4:04 The Company will permit one twenty (20) minute lunch period for employees on operations scheduled on three (3) shifts or on a single or double shift if continuous production is necessary providing the shift is of more than five (5) hours duration.
4:05 All hours worked in excess of normal hours shall be considered as overtime. Overtime at the rate of one and one-half times regular rates of pay will be paid as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, except where an employee is scheduled to participate in a classroom training program of less than five (5) days duration and the Company is unable to reschedule the employee's shifts to fulfill the requirements of this section.
(b)	For all hours worked-from 11:00 p.m. Friday to 11:00 p.m.
Saturday.
(c)An employee reporting for work on his regular shift if sent home before the close of his regular shift, and required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on call back, prior to the start-of his next regular shift and at this rate only.
(d)	An employee who is called at home to return to the Plant for overtime which had not been previously scheduled will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate.
(e)	No overtime will be paid for time spent by members of the Plant Negotiating Committee in meetings paid for by the Company. However, the time lost by a member of the Plant Negotiating Committee from his regular scheduled hours to attend such meetings shall be considered as part of his normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
(f)	Overtime will not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
4:06 Payment for all hours worked from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday shall be at the rate of double the regular rate of pay and at this rate only.
4:07 It is understood by the Union and employees that the right to schedule hours of work is a Management.function and that it is an obligation of each employee to work the hours scheduled within the provisions of The Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 5
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
5:01 The following thirteen (13) holidays, namely: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24, Christmas Day, Boxing Day
15
and three (3) floating holidays, if not worked, pay will be given for one standard daily shift, at the employee's regular hourly rate for the week preceding that in which the holiday occurs, providing that the employee works the last scheduled shift preceding and the first scheduled shift succeeding the holiday.
5:02 Entitlement to a designated holiday shall be subject to the
following conditions and/or exceptions:
(a)	In the case of an absence caused by a death in the family as defined by Article 6:07 of this Agreement.
(b)	In the case of sickness an employee may receive permission to leave work on either of the said shifts, if such sickness is extreme in the opinion of the Plant Management. However, the employee is required to work the full scheduled shift either immediately preceding or immediately succeeding the holiday. The Company shall retain the right to request verification of such claims.
(c)	When an employee is injured on the job on the shift
immediately preceding the holiday, and is unable to continue working, he may qualify for payment for the holiday if he returns to work as soon as he is able to do so in the opinion of the doctor handling the case. This does not apply should he qualify for Compensation for lost time as a result of the injury. An employee injured on the shift immediately following the holiday, and who is unable to continue working, must have completed the last scheduled shift preceding the holiday to qualify for payment.
(d)	When one of the holidays falls within the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he shall be paid for the holiday provided that he works his last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift following the vacation period. If the employee so requests, he will be granted an additional day off work, without pay, at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the Company if arranged prior to the scheduled vacation period. The additional day off shall not be permitted for December 24th, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day paid holidays.
(e)	Written permission to be absent prior to or following a holiday can be granted only by the Shift manager concerned.
16
(f)	When an employee is absent on either the last scheduled
shift preceding or the first scheduled shift following a holiday, but not both days, due to illness or injury, and such illness or injury may be verified by either a doctor's certificate or by a personal visit by a representative of the Company.
For the Christmas period, any employee who fails to work either the’ last regular work day prior to or the next regular work day after each Christmas Holiday period, will disqualify the employee for pay for the one (1) Holiday in the Christmas Holiday period which follows or precedes such regular work day.
(g)	If an employee is late on either of the qualifying shifts, but he notifies the Company within two (2) hours after the start of this shift, he shall receive holiday pay in proportion to the number of hours actually worked on that qualifying shift.
(h)	In the case of a Union Official who in the performance of
his Union duties is required to be absent from work and is therefore unable to complete his regular scheduled shift before or after a holiday. In such case he shall obtain permission, in advance, from his Shift Manager for such absence.
(i)	An employee who would otherwise qualify for a designated holiday, except for having been laid off within five (5) working days prior to such holiday shall receive payment for such designated holiday.
(j)	In the case of an employee who is absent on either the day before or the day subsequent to a designated holiday due to an act of God.
(k)	In the case of an employee who is absent on the day previous or subsequent to a designated
holiday by reason of answering a call for, or serving as a Juror or Subpoenaed Witness.
5:03 (a) If any such holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, it
shall be observed on Monday. If two successive holidays fall on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, they will be observed on Friday and Monday.
17
(b)	Notwithstanding (a) above, where the needs of customers
and employees may be better served by observing a holiday on a day other than the date upon which the holiday might legally fall, the date upon which any such holiday is to be observed will be determined by written mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
5:04 If the holidays, which includes the floaters, specified in Section 5:01 are worked, payment shall be made at the rate of two times the hourly rate earned for all hours worked provided that a four (4) hour minimum allowance at this rate shall be paid to all employees called in or requested to work on such holidays. Such payment will be in addition to any holiday pay for which the employee may be qualified under Section 5:01 above. A holiday shall be considered extending from 11:00 p.m. preceding the holiday and ending at 11:00 p.m. on the day of the holiday.
5:05 (a) Floater holidays must be requested by the employee at or before the time he requests his vacation leave and must be taken before December 3lst each year. Employees will not be paid for unused Floater holidays except where the employee has been prevented from using his floaters as a result of medical absence through the entire Christmas shutdown period (as specified in (e) below) and for which he is entitled to Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation Benefits.
(b)	Floater holidays must be approved by the Company in advance of the leave being taken and will be granted
as production requirements dictate on a first come first served basis. Any disagreements occurring as a result of several employees requesting the same Holiday date at the same time shall be resolved on the basis of seniority.
(c)	For purposes of determining an employee's eligibility for Floater Holidays, such Holidays are deemed to occur on June 1st and October 1st each year. An employee who has either commenced or terminated employment during the calendar year shall be entitled only to those Floaters which occur while an active bargaining unit employee on the dates specified above. Except as provided in Section 5:02 (i) above, an employee who is not actively employed in the bargaining unit on the designated date the Floater is deemed to occur, will not be granted entitlement to that Floater Holiday.
(d)	Probationary employees may apply for approval of any Floater Holiday to which he may be entitled as defined in (c) above, but under no circumstances will probationary employees be given approval for a Holiday date which falls during the probationary period.
18
(e)	Where the Company has determined that production operations will be shut down during the period from December 24th until the day following the New Year's designated Holiday, it is understood that employees who continue to have entitlement to Floater Holidays will have such holidays allocated during that period. No employee other than one who is indefinitely laid off during this period, shall be eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefit or Short Work Week Benefit.
(f)	It is understood that employees who have used up their entitlement to Floater holidays for the period from December 24th until the day following the New Year's designated holiday, when production is shut down, will take those day(s) as an unpaid leave of absence. In add^^^ these employees will not be eligible for Supplemental Unemployment Benefit or Short Work Week benefit. Further, if production is scheduled for this period, then manpower staffing requirements will be filled on a voluntary basis, provided those who volunteer are qualified to perform the available work, and only in the event volunteers do not fulfil the staffing requirement, then the remaining manpower requirement(s) will be filled in a reverse order of seniority from those employees who have used up their entitlement to Floater Holidays, provided they are qualified to perform the available work.
(g)	Where an employee has taken one or more Floater Holidays prior to being temporarily transferred to a job classification outside of the bargaining unit and such transfer results in payment for more than thirteen (13) designated Holidays for the calendar year, the employee shall be required, at the discretion of the Company, to either repay any resulting overpayment or to make up the time.
(h)	Where an employee transfers into the bargaining uni^ he shall be entitled to floater holidays in accordance with entitlement conditions outlined above for each Floater Holiday for which he has not already received time off with pay while employed in a job classification outside of the bargaining unit until he achieves a total entitlement of thirteen (13) designated Holidays for that calendar year.
ARTICLE 6 WAGE POLICIES UNDER SPECIAL CONDITIONS
19
6:01 An employee reporting for regular or overtime hours who has not been notified not to report, and who is not provided with alternative work, or an employee who has been notified to report for work and is not provided with alternative work, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular hourly rate, but this is not to apply in cases ofmachinery or power breakdown or other causes beyond the Company’s control.
6:02 No payment shall be made under the foregoing sections of this Article for time lost as a result of any stoppages of work, slow-down or strike action unless the employee or employees affected are specifically requested by the Shift Manager, in writing, to remain on the job.
6:03 When an employee is temporarily assigned to a job
classification other than his own, he will be paid at the regular hourly rate of the job classification in which he is temporarily engaged for all time so worked or at his regular hourly rate, which ever may be higher.
6:04 When an employee is transferred to another job as a result of work shortage, or because he lacks the qualifications required for his previous job, or at his own request, the rate of pay shall be that applicable to the work actually performed.
6:05 In the case of factory injuries payment is allowed for time required to visit the first aid station and/or room at the employee's regular hourly rate. For a visit to the Doctor's office or hospital in the event of a factory injury, payment shall be made for the balance of the shift at the employee's regular hourly rate if so recommended by the Doctor that the employee cannot return to work.
6:06 SHIFT PREMIUM
The Company shall pay a shift premium for all regular and overtime hours worked on the afternoon and night shifts as follows:
Second Shift (3:00 PM to 11:00 PM)	$.45 per hour
Third Shift (11:00 PM to 7:00 AM)	$.50 per hour
20
Effective April 15, 2000
Second Shift (3:00 PM to 11:00 PM) Third Shift (11:00 PM to 7:00 AM) Effective April 15, 2001 Second Shift (3:00 PM to 11:00 PM) Third Shift (11:00 PM to 7:00 AM)
$.50 per hour $.55 per hour
$.55 per hour $.60 per hour
6:07(a)In the event of bereavement in the employee's family, which shall include father, mother, husband, wife, common-law spouse, sister, brother, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse's sister-in-law, spouses brother-inlaw, grandparent, spouse's grandparent, grandchild, or a dependent as defined under Article 1:02 of the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan at the time of death, the employee will be granted permission to be absent and will be paid for time lost on regular hours for three (3) consecutive days surrounding the date of the funeral or memorial service. Saturdays, Sundays, vacations and Holidays will be discounted in determining three (3) consecutive days.
(b)For the purpose of this Section a half-brother or halfsister shall be considered as a brother or sister, a stepparent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son-or step-daughter or foster son or foster daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter.
(c)	It is understood that "in-law" relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who established the "in-law" relationship, unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
(d)	When the Company is notified, during an employee's vacation or Holiday, that a death has occurred in the employee's family, the vacation or Holiday will be extended by the length of bereavement taken, that is, up to three days, and the employee will receive Bereavement Pay for those days, provided they are regular work days, in accordance with 6:07(a) and 6:07(e).
(e)	It will be the responsibility of the employee to make claim for payment through the Human Resources Department, and to provide evidence satisfactory to the Company to support his claim. Payment for such lost time will be at the
21
employee’s regular hourly rate on a straight time basis, exclusive of all types of bonuses and premiums.
(f)Common-Law relationships’shall be considered when cohabitation has existed for at least six (6) months immediately preceding the date of the death. The employee shall provide such reasonable proof as the Company may require to verify the existence and duration of the common-law relationship.
6:08 When an employee is required to serve on a jury, is a Subpoenaed Witness, or is required to report for jury duty and is subsequently not required to serve, which prevents him from performing his regular work with the Company, he shall be paid a make-up for lost time representing the difference between any fees received from the court and his regular hourly rate, exclusive of any premiums, for the period of such service.
6:09 Should an employee receive a call for jury duty or Subpoenaed Witness which may interfere with a previously scheduled vacation period he shall immediately inform the Company in writing of such call for jury duty or as a Subpoenaed Witness of his desire to have his vacation period rescheduled and the Company upon receipt of such written request will reschedule his vacation period. It is understood that subpoenaed witness under this section refers to proceedings in a court of law.
PAY DISTRIBUTION
6:10 (a) Employees will be paid on a weekly basis and paycheques
will be distributed as follows:
1)	11:00 PM to 7:00 AM shift - on the fourth normal shift of
each regular workweek.
2)	7:00 AM to 3:00 PM Shift - on the fourth normal shift of each regular workweek.
3)	3:00 PM to 11:00 PM Shift - on the third normal shift of each regular workweek.
4)	When a designate Holiday as defined in Section 5:01 is celebrated on Thursday or Friday - one (1) day earlier.
(b)	The Company agrees to provide the Union with the current
Wage Schedules and Job Classifications which form part of the
Collective Labour Agreement.
22
6:11 For the purpose of payment of regular hourly rate, the employee’s regular hourly rate shall be the rate of his regular classification as shown in Article 6.12 plus any applicable interm increase whether boxed or unboxed.
6:12 Negotiated Wage Rates 1999-2001
The following is a list of the wage rates for all Classifications for the duration of this Collective Agreement. It is understood that the COLA at the tithe of the implementation of the April 15, 1999 rate(listed below) will begin to accumulate from zero, and will be folded according to the schedule as outlined in Article 13.
Department Classification/Title
Maintenance Journey person-Electrical
Finishing Sprayer
Fibre
Tradesperson- Electrical Lead- Electrical Master Lead- Electrical Journey person- Mechanical Tradesperson- Mechanical Lead- Mechanical Master Lead- Mechanical Oiler
Journey person- Die Repair Tradesparson - Die Repair
Assist
Blender Operator Fibre Line Operator Oven Operator
Mould Operator
Moulding Press Operator
Sewing Operator
Inspector
Trucker
Lead Hand
Mould Maintenance
Former
Press Operator Inspector Trucker Lead Hand
Finishing Line Operator
23
Department Classification/Title
1999
2000
2001
Shipping & Receiving
Lead Shipper Shipper
Receiver
Janitor
Note:	C.O.L.A. of $0.63 has been added to the above rates in
1999	from the rates shown in the Collective Labour Agreement dated April 15, 1996 to April 14, 1999.
Note:	For the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement, a
special maintenance rate of $19.00 will be paid to those employees who are assigned to the Maintenance department.
7:01 The determination of time standards is a Management function. All new or changed standards shall be explained by the Shift Manager with an Industrial Engineer to the employees involved along with the Department Steward. Data used in determining the standards may be made available at that time. A copy of the methods will be available in the Shift manager's office to the Department Steward. Standards will be posted in the department 24 hours before they become effective and shall be given a trial period of two weeks. The Union agrees that it will assist in seeing that normal effort be put forth during the trial period.
7:02 After the trial period, if a standard is disputed, it must follow the procedure set forth in Article 3. In such cases data used in determining the standard will be available for reference by the Department Steward. Any adjustments in new or changed standards shall be retroactive to the date the standard was placed in effect. Any adjustment in other disputed standards shall be retroactive to the date the objection was filed.
7:03 There shall be no change in time standards without a corresponding change in method, quality, operation layout or specification, unless mutually agreed upon.
7:04 No assistance shall be given to an employee while such employee is being studied for the purpose of setting time standards, nor shall a study be taken of a supervisor for this purpose.
ARTICLE 7 TIME STANDARDS
7:05
24
The Company will make every effort to see that weekly efficiencies are posted.
7:06 The Company uses standard Industrial Engineering practices in determining targets, and will make all information, generated through the studies, available to the Union and the Employees.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8:01(a)Seniority is preference or priority by length of service
with definite rights qualifying employees for employment when work is available, the purpose of which is to provide a declared policy of work security measured by length of service.
(b) In the event two (2) or more employees have the same
seniority date or are hired on the same day, their seniority status on the seniority list will be decided by clock number unless the provisions of Section 8:02 and/or 8:03 would decide the employee's ranking by Seniority.
8:02(a)An employee shall be considered a probationary employee and shall have no seniority rights until he has completed fifty-five (55) regular worked days or four hundred and forty (440) regular worked hours (whichever occurs first) within twelve (12) consecutive months following his date of hire. Upon completion of such probationary period, his name will be entered on the seniority list of the bargaining unit as of his date of hire.
(b)Notwithstanding the provisions of section 8:02 (a) above, employees hired as students will be considered probationary employees during their term of employment with the Company. Such employees shall not be employed prior to May 1st and will be terminated no later than the week following the Labour Day weekend.
8:03 Seniority shall be the accumulated time an employee is
employed by the Company in a position within the bargaining unit.
8:04 An employee shall lose his seniority rights and his
employment deemed terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	Voluntary termination of employment with the Company.
25
(b)	Unauthorized absence exceeding five (5) consecutive normal
working days.
(c)	Discharge, where such discharge is not reversed under the provisions of the grievance procedure.
(d)	Failure to return to work following layoff within seven (7) calendar days after the employee has been notified in accordance with Section 8:17 of this Article.
(e)	Failure to return to work on the expiration of a leave of absence or any extension thereof as defined in section 8:23.
(f)	After continuous layoff of one (1) year for those employees
having less than one (1) year of seniority at the time of layoff and after two (2) years for those having one (1) year but less than five (5) years of seniority at the time of layoff and after five (5) years for those with five (5) years of seniority and over at the time of layoff.
(g)	Upon retirement.
8:05 When an employee is transferred to another job classification, department or shift through the provisions of the job posting procedure or layoff procedure and the job to which he was transferred is eliminated due to decreased production, the employee shall have recall rights back to his prior job classification, department or shift in accordance with seniority rules as follows:
(a)	If the employee has been in the new job classification, department or shift for less than three (3) months, he must return to his former job, department or shift.
(b) If the employee has been in the new job, department or shift for three (3) months or more, he will be placed on an available job in accordance with Section 8:15.
8:06 When lay-offs take place, the Company shall, whenever possible, give employees affected seven (7) days notice of such lay-off.
8:07 An employee who desires to leave the employment of the Company shall, whenever possible, notify the Shift Manager concerned seven (7) days in advance.
8:08 Copies of Seniority Lists shall be given by the Company to the appropriate officers of the Union as soon as possible but no later than two (2) months following the signing of the Collective Agreement. The Company shall provide revised lists every six (6) months or more frequently.
26
Each time the Company provides the local Union with Seniority Lists, in accordance with the previous paragraph, a copy of the Seniority Lists applying thereto shall be posted in each department.
Seniority Lists shall rank the employees by order of seniority and shall indicate the following:
i)	Clock number
ii)	Name of employee i i i ) Job cl as s i fi cati on iv) Department v) Shift
vi) Seniority date
If requested by the Union or an individual employee, the Company's service records shall be available for reference to the members of the Negotiating Committee to the extent reasonably necessary to ascertain the accuracy of the seniority lists.
8:09 Employees will be allowed to exercise their shift preference by seniority within their classification once each year under the following schedule:
(i)	Employees will be given the opportunity to select their shift preference to be effective on the first Sunday following February 1st of each year during the life of the Agreement.
(ii)	On January 1st of each year, the Company will make available a form, to be submitted by employees desiring a change of shift no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the shift preference change.
(iii)	An employee displaced from his shift through the operation of this clause will be advised by the Company and will be asked to exercise his opportunity for shift preference within his job classification.
(iv)	An employee when exercising shift preference will bump the junior employee in the classification on his shift preference, except that where the affected employee is the junior employee in the classification, he may choose to use bumping rights as in 8:15(b).
8:10 Employees who have given long and faithful service to the Company and who are unable to perform their regular work shall be given preference on other work they are qualified to perform, at the prevailing rate of pay for such work.
27
8:11	(a) An employee who accepted a position outside of the
bargaining unit prior to December 16, 1991 shall retain the seniority he had accumulated up to the date of his transfer out of the bargaining unit and shall be permitted to return to the bargaining unit by displacing the junior employee actively at work in the plant provided he has sufficient seniority credit to do so.
(b)	An employee who accepted a position outside of the bargaining unit on or after April 15, 1996 will forfeit the seniority he had accumulated up to the date of his transfer out of the bargaining unit and shall be permitted to return to the bargaining unit as a new hire employee, retaining his service.	Further, said
employee will not be entitled to return to the bargaining unit until all bargaining unit employees have been recalled from layoff.
8:12 "Qualification", "Qualified" and "Satisfactory Service" as referred to in this Article shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as experience, competence, physical fitness, skill, knowledge, adaptability, efficiency, responsibility and integrity.
LAY-OFF AND RECALL
8:13 In the event of a reduction in the number of employees
working in the plant, on a shift, or in a department, an employee who is classified as a Lead hand or a Fibre Line Operator shall not be displaced from his classification by a more senior employee from a different job classification so long as the plant seniority of the Lead hand or Fibre Line Operator is sufficient to maintain him as an active employee.
TEMPORARY LAY-OFF
8:14 For purposes of this Agreement, a temporary lay-off shall be defined as a temporary reduction in the work force of two (2) weeks duration or less.
In the case of a lay-off which is four (4) normal working days or less, employees shall not be eligible to displace other employees during such period.
28
In the case of a temporary lay-off in excess of four (4) normal working days, an employee with seniority may displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, within the same job classification provided he can demonstrate competence on the job within two (2) shifts. Failing such or if he is the least senior in his job classification, he may displace another employee in the department who has no seniority providing he is qualified to perform the job.
In the case of a temporary layoff of either one (1) week or two (2) weeks, senior employees not subject to the layoff, will be able to request either a one (1) week or two (2) week leave of absence. Said leave shall be granted by the Company, (taking into account production and manpower Requirements), whenever possible. The maximum number of leaves of absence shall equal the number of temporary layoffs. It is designed to reduce or eliminate the need for a temporary layoff of junior employees.
In the event Customer requirements necessitate cancelling the temporary layoff, then the leave(s) of absence will be cancelled and the senior employees will return to work.
In the event Customer requirements necessitate extending the temporary layoff beyond two (2) weeks, then current leave(s) of absence under this clause, will be allowed to terminate on their normal termination date, with the senior employees returning to work. At that point further leave(s) of absence will be considered or a temporary layoff as defined in the paragraphs above will be implemented.
EXTENDED LAY-OFF
8:15 In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the total number of employees in the workforce for a period of time in excess of a period of temporary layoff as defined in 8:14 above, the Company will, in determining which employees are to be laid off, recognize the principle of seniority. Subject to the limitations of Section 8:12 and Section 8:13, displacement of employees as a result of a lay-off will occur as follows:
(a)	Probationary employees will be laid off first.
(b)	The least senior employee in the affected classification on that shift shall displace the most junior employee, provided the junior employee to be displaced has lesser seniority than his own, with his choice of one of the following options:
29
i)	may displace the most junior in his classification on the shift
ii)	may displace the most junior in the department on the shift
iii)	may	displace	the	most	junior	on	the	shift
iv)	may	displace	the	most	junior	in	the	plant
v)	may	displace	the	most	junior	in	his	classification
(c)	The Company will notify the Union	before	notifying
employees of any impending layoff.
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT PROCEDURE
8:16 (a) When the number of employees working in a classification or department must be adjusted, assignments for production work will be made from available employees who are immediately able to perform the work in question. In the event that there are insufficient employees available, the assignment will be made to the least senior qualified and available employee within the classification required.
When the number of employees working in a shift must be adjusted for that shift, it shall be done as follows:
i)	if the temporary assignment is known at the start of the
shift or before, then the affected employees shall be assigned by job classification in reverse order of seniority; if this is not the case then:
ii)	if the temporary assignment appears after the start of
the shift, then only the affected crew of the affected line will be given the assignment; assignment by job classification in reverse order of seniority will not apply - in this case (ii) only.
(b)	When the number of employees working in a shift must be adjusted for a temporary period of two (2) weeks or less, employees shall be assigned by job classification in reverse order of seniority.
(c)	Upon completion of the assignment, the employee shall be returned to his former job classification, department and shift unless the work is no longer being performed. In such case he shall be reassigned in accordance with the layoff and recall provisions of this Article.
RECALL PROCEDURE
8:17	(a) Whenever it is necessary to recall employees who have
been laid off, the order of recall will be generally in the reverse order of lay-offs.
30
(b)	When an employee has been recalled to a shift other than his preferred shift, he will be placed on his preferred shift within two (2) weeks following his return provided that there is an available job to which his seniority will allow him to return on his preferred shift.
(c)	No new employee shall be hired to fill vacancies until employees who have been laid off and retain seniority status and have the necessary qualification to fill the vacancy have been recalled to work.
8:18 Employees are required to keep addresses up to date so they can be located whenever production warrants rehiring. Employees who fail to do so and cannot be located when there is an opportunity to work shall lose their seniority.
8:19 An employee notified of recall must inform the Company of his intention to return, within three (3) normal working days, after notification by courier or registered letter to the latest address. Failure to notify of intention to return will be interpreted as refusal to do so. If the employee desires to return to work, he must do so within seven (7) calendar days after he has notified the Company of such intention. Failure to do so will result in complete loss of seniority.
8:20 In the event that an employee is unable to return to work due to illness, injury or pregnancy and so notifies the Company within seven (7) calendar days of notification of recall, his seniority status shall be preserved during the period of illness, injury or pregnancy as governed by Section 8:04 (e) .
Seniority status shall be forfeited following failure to report for work after a second notification following recovery from illness, injury or pregnancy. It is the employee's obligation to notify the Company immediately upon recovery from such illness, injury or pregnancy.
8:21 Any of the provisions of the lay-off or recall procedures may be superseded by other arrangements, for legitimate reasons, when negotiated between the Company and the Plant negotiating Committee.
JOB POSTING
31
8:22	(a) When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, it
shall be posted within five (5) regular working days, on the bulletin boards for two (2) regular, work days. Posting will identify the classification and shift to which the successful applicant will be assigned. Posting will occur for the initial vacancy plus two (2) subsequent vacancies only. It is understood that there shall be no postings from January 15 to the first Sunday in February to minimize difficulties which may arise from Article 8:09.
(b)	An employee with at least six (6) months of seniority who wishes to apply for a posted job shall do so by completing a job posting application form and submitting it to the Human Resources Department on or before the closing date identified on the posting.
A bid for a job posting will be considered as acceptance of the job if the employee is chosen as the successful applicant.
(c)	An employee who is to be absent on approved vacation leave may file a job posting application form with the Human Resources Department no earlier than three (3) days prior to the commencement of his vacation leave for a vacancy he anticipates will occur during his absence.
(d)	Except as otherwise provided in this Section, applications will be given consideration on the basis of qualifications as defined in Section 8:12 and where these are considered suitable for the vacancy, the most senior of the applicants will be given the job. In the case of a vacancy for a Lead hand, the determination of the successful applicant shall be at the discretion of the Company. In the case of a vacancy for a Skilled Trades Apprentice, candidates shall be evaluated on qualifications and other relevant criteria as determined by the Company. Where two (2) or more candidates are deemed to be equally qualified and suitable for the position, the most senior of the applicants will be awarded the job.
(e)	The Company may refuse to consider an application from any employee who has successfully bid on a permanent vacancy within the preceding six (6) months. If no one but employees with less than six months between postings, or new employees, apply for a job posting, then the employee closest to six months will be considered for the job.
(f)	In the event that it is deemed that an employee is unable to attain the existing standards of quality and efficiency of the job within the first ten (10) working days of his date of transfer to the new job, he will be returned to his former job. Such employee will not be considered as having been a successful applicant for purposes of determining his eligibility for future postings.
32
(g)	In the event a transferred employee informs the Company within ten (10) working days from the effective date of his appointment, that he wishes to return to his former job, he shall be returned to that job within two (2) weeks of his request. Such employee will not be eligible for future postings until six (6) months has elapsed since his date of return to his former job. In the event that the employee stays in the new job, his seniority shall follow as of the day following the ten (10) day trial period.
(h)	The job posting procedure shall apply to the filling of
all vacancies in the bargaining unit of four (4) weeks duration or longer. All employees with recall rights to the classification and shift shall be returned in accordance with the Recall provisions of this Article before vacancies are posted.
(i)	The Company may assign bargaining unit employees temporarily without the need for a job posting for a period of four (4) weeks. Assignments will be made at the discretion of the Company from those employees immediately able to perform the work in question on a reverse seniority basis.
(j)	An employee who has successfully bid on a temporary vacancy
which has occurred as a result of injury,	illness or leave of
absence will be returned to his former job upon the return of the absent employee. If his former job is no longer being performed, he will return to a job under the layoff and recall provisions of this Article. The employee will retain his original classification while in a temporary posting.
(k)	An employee whose health is adversely affected by his current job, and can no longer perform the job, and has supporting medical documentation from a Doctor, will then exercise his bumping rights as in 8:15(b).
(l)	For those employees affected by an employee returned to his former job, under 8:22 (f) and 8:22 (g), they shall be returned to their former jobs at the same time as the initial employee. Such employees will not be considered as having been successful applicants for purposes of determining their eligibility for future postings.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
8.23 Leave of absence may be granted to employees with seniority status under certain conditions without loss of seniority privileges. Application for such leave shall be in writing and shall identify the employee's reason(s) for requesting
33
the leave. It is understood that a leave of absence will not be approved in order for an employee to take up employment with another company. The employee shall be given written advice of the Company’s decision. Leave of absence may be granted under the following circumstances:
(a)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months and subject to extension for periods of three (3) months, up to one (1) year for employees with up to ten (10) years seniority and two (2) years for employees with over ten (10) years may be granted for extenuating causes such as non-occupational sickness or injury, bereavement, or serious personal necessity. Under extreme circumstances, a request for a further extension of leave of absence by an employee and supported by the Union would receive consideration.
(b)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months may be granted during slack periods, but those who are granted such leave must return to work within seven (7) calendar days after notice of recall has been sent, in order to retain seniority standing.
(c)	Employees who are engaged in service with the Country’s Armed Forces shall be considered on leave of absence and shall accumulate seniority during such service, in accordance with federal legislation.
(d)	Members of the Union may at the written request of the Union, be granted special leave of absence to engage in Union duties with the United Steelworkers of America, Canadian Labour Congress, the Ontario Federation of Labour or Local 296, for a period not exceeding the term of this Agreement, subject to renewal. When leave is granted for this purpose, the members shall accumulate their seniority during the full term of leave.
(e)	(i)A female who has achieved seniority status will be
granted leave of absence during pregnancy (or in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario) based on medical certification providing confirmation of the pregnancy and the estimated date of delivery.
(ii)The time period of such leave shall not exceed that permitted under the Employment Standards Act of Ontario and seniority shall continue to accrue throughout the period of the leave.
34
(iii)Notwithstanding (g) below, the employee shall give notice in writing to the Human Resources Department at least three (3)weeks prior to the date she plans to return to work. She shall provide a doctor’s certificate confirming the date of the birth and her fitness to return to regular duties.
(f)	An employee injured on the job, who subsequently becomes
a Worker’s Compensation case, and is placed on leave of absence, shall accumulate seniority during such period.
(g)	An employee who intends to return to work following an approved leave of absence, or who needs to have such leave extended, shall report to the Human Resources Department at least three (3) normal working days prior to the expiry date of his leave or his intended date of return if prior to the expiry date of the leave, so that his return to work may be arranged.
(h)	Subject to physical qualifications, such employee will be entitled to return to the job he left. If his former job is no longer available or if his seniority no longer qualifies him for his former job, he will be given the job to which he would have been displaced had he been at work - if this can be readily established, or such other suitable job which is consistent with his seniority.
(i)	An employee who becomes the parent of a child shall be granted leave of absence following the birth of the child or the coming of the child into the custody and control of a parent for the first time. Such leave shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE 9 VACATION LEAVE
9:01 Hourly rated employees shall be entitled to an annual vacation with pay based on continuous service with the Company. Vacation pay shall be calculated on the applicable percentage of the employee’s earnings for the fifty-two week period immediately preceding the last day of the previous taxation year.
35
Continuous
Service
as of December 31 of the previous year
Vacation
Leave
Vacation
Pay-
Less than 1 year
l year but less than 5 years 5 years but less than 10 years 10 years but less than 15 years 15 years but less than 25 years 25 years or more
83 of a day/** 4%
month of service	
2 weeks	4%
3 weeks	6%
4 weeks	8%
5 weeks	10%
6 weeks	12%
Employees who have been hired prior to December 31 of any year but have not accumulated at least one (1) year of continuous service shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the basis of four percent (4%) of their earnings for the period of their employment ending the last day of the previous taxation year. The vacation shall be considered to be at the rate of .83 of a day for each full month of employment during this period.
** In the event that a half-day of a day is calculated, it shall be rounded off to a full day.
9:02 An active employee who achieves his fifth, tenth, fifteenth or twenty-fifth year of continuous service with the Company between January 1st and December 31st shall receive, after such service is credited, the additional week of vacation and pay allotted to the next higher entitlement category in 9:01 above. At the discretion of the Company, the additional week . of vacation may be granted prior to the date on which such service is credited. However, vacation pay paid in advance shall be deducted from the final pay if the employee ceases to be actively employed or if employment is terminated for any reason prior to the qualification date. An employee who qualified under this section after December 24th shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year only.
9:03 Vacations will be taken at a time designated by the Company.
The Company will endeavour to schedule a vacation period of at least two (2) weeks duration during the months of July or
36
August and to provide three (3) months notice of such period. When it is necessary to continue uninterrupted production in order to meet scheduled requirements and a full shutdown of operations is not appropriate, a sufficient number of volunteers will be sought from employees who are qualified to perform the jobs required. Failing the achievement of full voluntary crews, the required number of employees by job classification shall be scheduled to work on a reverse seniority basis and their vacation rescheduled for another time. An estimate of the number of employees required will be provided at the time of notice and the recruitment of volunteers will commence immediately thereafter.
9:04 It is understood that vacation entitlement in excess of two (2) weeks need not be granted together nor consecutively with the vacation granted under Section 9:03 above.
9:05 An employee who has not taken his full vacation entitlement by the end of the Tax Year of each year shall be paid any outstanding vacation pay to which he is entitled and shall not be permitted to accrue his entitlement from year to year.
9:06 When an employee terminates his employment with the Company, he shall be paid vacation pay to which he is entitled under the terms of Section 9:01 above, up to the date of separation.
9:07 Employees who when laid off for an indefinite period, receive their vacation pay and who return to work during the vacation year, will have the value of vacation pay already received from the Company deducted from their vacation pay as specified in Section 9:01 above.
9:08 When an employee with one (1) or more years of seniority has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year because of verified sickness, injury or pregnancy and for those reasons only, the vacation pay calculated in accordance with Section 9:01 is less than four hundred and seventy-five dollars ($475.00) for an employee for each week of vacation pay, the vacation pay will be increased to the above minimum provided the employee has worked three (3) months or more during the vacation year.
9:09 (a)The following shall be included as earnings for the
purpose of calculating vacation pay: Wages Paid, Overtime Premiums, Shift Premium, Vacation Pay paid in the previous year, Designated Holiday Pay, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board Payments for Lost Time, Weekly Indemnity Payments, Short Work Week Benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
37
(b)	Workplace Safety and Insurance Board lost time earnings shall be calculated on the basis of the most recent Workplace Safety and Insurance Board’s Accident Cost Statement available on the calculation date. Additional lost time payments made subsequent to the calculation date which were not included in the current year’s vacation pay shall be included in the following year’s vacation pay calculation.
9:10 Former employees of the Company who had completed at least five (5) years of continuous service with the Company and who are rehired by the Company shall, upon completion of five (5) years of continuous service, have their prior service with the Company recognized for vacation entitlement purposes only.
9:11 Employees are to submit their vacation requests for vacation weeks no later than May 1 of each calendar year. The Company will advise of the vacation schedule by May 15 of that year. Available vacation time will be allotted by seniority within the classification and shift. In the event employees do not receive their vacation weeks as requested, the Company and the employee will endeavour to arrange a mutually acceptable time. Employees who choose vacation times prior to May 1 or who do not apply for vacation time prior to May 1 will have their vacation approved on a first come first served basis.
ARTICLE 10
FUNCTIONS OF MANAGEMENT
10:01 The Management of the Factory and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend or discharge for just cause and the right to relieve employees of their duties because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively with Management. This right shall not be used to discriminate against any employee as an individual, nor to violate the terms of this Agreement.
10:02 The Company reserves the right to discharge for just cause including but not restricted to the following:
Insubordination Chronic absence or tardiness Continued unsatisfactory workmanship Dishonesty
Intoxicationduring working hours Continued unsafe working practices
38
10:03 The control of quality and waste is a Management function and is of vital importance to the Company's well-being. The Union recognizes the need for reduced damage and waste and shall co-operate wholeheartedly in reducing such losses to a minimum.
10:04 The determination of methods is a Management function. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in the introduction of new methods and processes, and in educating its members for the need of such changes and improvements.
10:05 Nothing in this Article shall be interpreted as depriving the Union of their rights and privileges under Section 1:02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 SEVERANCE AWARD
11:01 When it becomes necessary to release an employee with five (5) or more years of credited service who is retired (1) because through no fault of his own is no longer able to meet the requirements of his job and who cannot qualify for transfer to another job within the local plant, and who cannot qualify for a disability allowance or (2) one whose employment is terminated because of the permanent closing of the plant or of a section thereof, he shall be paid a Severance-Award calculated in the following manner:
(a)	Any such employee who has five (5) years of credited service but less than ten (10) will be awarded a Severance Award of one (1) week's average pay for each year of service.
(b) Any such employee who has ten (10) years of credited service but less than fifteen (15) will be awarded a Severance Award of one and one half (1 1/2) week's average pay for each year of service.
(c)	Any such employee who has fifteen (15) or more years of credited service will be awarded a Severance Award of two
(2)	week's average pay for each year of service.
11:02 'Average Pay' shall be in an amount equal to the employee's wages for a regular non-overtime work week.
11:03 In the case of an employee whose earnings are reduced in any month following the effective date of this Agreement as a result of temporary absence to perform duties in an official or representative capacity for the Union of a non-political nature, his earnings for calculating the amount of award
39
shall be increased to reflect the compensation which he probably would have received from the Company had he been available for regular employment during such period.
11:04 An employee whose employment has been terminated and who has received a Severance Award as above provided will not be reemployed by the Company except at the Company's option and then only with the status of a new employee.
11:05 The provisions of this Article 11 shall not apply in the case of any lay-offs for reasons other than those set out in Section 11:01 of this Article.
ARTICLE 12 MISCELLANEOUS
12:01 The Company agrees to provide bulletin boards with a lock for the use of the Union. Notices placed on these boards shall be confined to Union meetings and business, Union appointments and elections and Union recreation and social affairs.
12:02 The Union shall assist the Management in seeing to it that no publicity of display matter other than that posted by the Management shall be exhibited within the plant, except on the Union bulletin boards.
12:03 Seniority employees shall receive 100% reimbursement of the cost of approved safety shoes to a maximum of eighty dollars ($80) per year. New employees of the Company who have achieved seniority shall become entitled to safety shoe reimbursement upon the achievement of three (3) months of continuous service following the achievement of seniority. Where an eligible employee's shoes have materially worn out, an additional pair to a maximum of eighty dollars ($80.00) will be allowed when approved.
12:04 Employees shall not visit other departments except in line with their regular work, if permission has been granted by the Shift Manager concerned.
12:05 The Company and the Union recognizing the importance of new products, will co-operate in the development of these new products. The Company further agrees to see that new products upon satisfactory completion of development, will be brought into regular production as soon thereafter as possible.
40
12:06 The Company will cause to be printed sufficient copies of the Collective Labour Agreement so as to provide a copy to each seniority employee actively at work following negotiations. No additional copies will be issued, but a reasonable inventory will be printed due to estimated turnover of employees.
12:07 The Union will be involved in the orientation of new
employees. During the first week of work of new employees, the Union President or Designate on the same shift, shall be allowed, during the hours of work, (30) minutes to confer with them all together as a group.
12:08 The Company shall, on the written request of any Maintenance employee, reimburse said employee for the purchase of tools and equipment, replacing those that are worn out, stolen through no fault of their own or other wise rendered unusable, in the performance of their work. Such reimbursement shall be limited to a maximum of one hundred and fifty($150.00) per year per Maintenance employee and shall not be carried over or banked to a subsequent year. This is in addition to the Company's Replacement Policy on broken tools.
12:09 In accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act, the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan - Appendix " A" , Pension Plan - Appendix " B" , Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan - Appendix " C" , Letters of Understanding #1 through #10, shall form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE 13 INTERIM INCREASE
13:01 The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
13 :02 FIRST YEAR OF THE AGREEMENT
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 1999.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 18, 1999. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April, May and June, 1999
exceeds the base for calculation.
41
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 17, 1999. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July, August and September,
1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d) The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 16, 2000. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December, 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 16, 2000. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
This adjustment will be folded into the occupational and day work rates on April 16, 2000, as specified herein.
13:03 SECOND YEAR OF THE AGREEMENT
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 2000.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 16, 2000. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April, May and June 2000
exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 15, 2000. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July, August and September,
2000	exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing January 14, 2001. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December, 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
42
(e)The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 15, 2001. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
This adjustment will be folded into the occupational and day work rates on April 15, 2001 as specified herein.
13:04	THIRD YEAR OF THE AGREEMENT
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 2001.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing July 15, 2001. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of April, May and June, 2001
exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing October 14, 2001. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July, August and September,
2001	exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing January 20, 2002. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December, 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing April 14, 2002. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of January, February and March, 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
This adjustment will be folded into the occupational and day work rates on April 14, 2002, as specified herein.
13:05 The interim increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee's pay statement.
43
13:06 In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the Index.
13:07 No adjustment retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
13:08 Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for April 1985.
13:09 Each adjustment specified in the Interim Increase will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety, except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement, will be folded-in as specified herein.
13:10 Method of Fold-In
Daywork Rates - the total amount of Interim Increase to be folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to the maximum of the day work rates.
ARTICLE 14 HEALTH AND SAFETY
14:01 The Company and the Union agree to cooperate to the fullest possible extent toward the prevention of accidents and to provide a safe, healthful working environment for all employees.
14:02 Four (4) members of the Bargaining Unit, appointed by the Union and four (4) members of Management, appointed by the Company shall constitute a Joint Health and Safety Committee. Every reasonable effort will be made to provide representation for all three (3) shifts. The Committee will be co-chaired by a member chosen by the Union and a member chosen by Management. An agenda will be submitted to the members of the Committee by the Co-chairs prior to each meeting. The Company will provide such training to the members of the Committee as is deemed necessary by the Committee to carry out their duties.
44
14:03 The general duties of the Joint Health and Safety Committee are defined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario R.S.O. 1990 and are considered a minimum standard but may be amended from time to time, however, the following list includes many of their duties:
(a)	To facilitate the promotion of health and safety in the workplace;
(b)	Two (2) members of the Joint Health end Safety Committee, one chosen by the Union and one chosen by the Company shall inspect the physical condition of the workplace at least once per month;
(c)	To investigate all serious accidents and any unsafe conditions or practices which may be reported to it in a timely manner. Such investigations shall include incidents which might have caused injury to an employee, whether or not such injury occurred;
(d)	To meet once per month for the purpose of discussing health and safety issues and promoting safety and accident prevention;
(e)	To keep records of all investigations, inspections, meetings and recommendations made by the Committee;
(f)	The Union Co-chairperson of the Committee, or designate, shall accompany all authorized government safety inspections and shall receive copies of any reports pertaining to such inspections;
(g)	Accident and injury records and Material Safety Data Sheets are available to the Committee and kept by the Company;
(h)	All concerns generated by the Joint Health and Safety Committee which are unable to be resolved within the Committee
(or otherwise by statute) may be referred through the Labpur-Management Committee for discussion and resolution. Failing resolution, the matter may be taken up as a grievance at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure;
(i)	Committee members will be entitled to take such time from work as is necessary to carry out their duties. Payment for time spent performing their duties will be at regular or premium rate as may be proper.
14:04 An employee will report to his supervisor or management representative, any unsafe condition or behaviour which he believes may endanger himself or any other employee and will provide a reasonable opportunity for the matter to be addressed.
14:05 An employee may refuse to work or do particular work where he has reason to believe that:
1)	any equipment, machine, device or thing he is to use or operate is likely to endanger himself or another employee, or
2)	The physical condition of the workplace or the part thereof in, which he works or is to work, is likely to endanger himself or another employee.
3)	Or any other reason as specified in the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
14:06 Any work refusal must follow the procedure provided in the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario R.S.O. 1990 as a mininum standard but may be amended from time to time.
14:07 No disciplinary action shall be taken against any employee by reason of the fact that he has exercised the right conferred upon him under any act respecting the occupational health and safety of employees.
14:08 The Company will, in consultation with the Joint Health and Safety Committee, provide training, equipment, information and supervision to workers to protect their health and safety.
14:09 The Company and the Union will select from among their members on the Joint Health and Safety Committee, those members to be deemed Certified Health and Safety Representatives as defined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act, which may be amended from time to time. The Company agrees to pay for the training of these members.
14:10 Collins & Aikman Canada Inc. is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees and to integrate safety and health awareness into all organizational activities. We believe that health and safety awareness and accident prevention are fundamentally important to the success of the enterprise and the well-being of our employees.
Article 15 Modified Work
15:01 The Company and the Union agree that it is in the best interests of both parties and the injured employee, to return the injured employee to work and provide him with continued employment either under the Workers’ Compensation Act for
46
injuries or illnesses before January 1, 1998 or under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act for injuries and illnesses on or after January 1, 1998.
15:02 The Company and the Union agree to identify three members of each party and form a Reinstatement Committee to establish
employment opportunities for injured workers, based on the medical restrictions of workers, and to establish light duty classifications to which they may return, or modify the workers’ existing jobs or other jobs deemed fit to comply with their capabilities.
15:03 Employees who have suffered from an occupational injury or illness shall be returned to active work where their physical restrictions and limitations do not prevent them from performing useful modified work made available by the Company, ^n their t preferred shift as determined by Article 8:09. it is understood that such employees shall retain seniority on their regular classification. Any conflicts shall be resolved through the Reinstatement Committee.
Article 16 Apprenticeships
The Company and the Union agree that the apprenticeship program is a valuable asset to the operation.
16.01 This article shall serve to confirm the agreement reached between the parties regarding Apprenticeships and the addition of the following classifications to the bargaining unit. These classifications are:
1)	Electrician - Apprentice
2)	Mechanic - Apprentice
3)	Any other trade as 'agreed between the Company and the Union.
If there is a requirement for personnel in the Maintenance Department, the Company will meet with the Labour-Management Committee, discuss employee requirements and consider the apprenticeship program in filling the openings.
16 i02 The selection of apprentices into this program will be made on the basis of qualifications as determined by the Company. A review of all candidates will be considered by a Review Committee consisting of two (2) members of the Company and two
(2) members of the Union. This Committee will make a recommendation to management prior to the selection of the successful candidate(s) .
47
16:03 It is understood, should a lay off be required in the Maintenance Department, the Apprentice will be the first subject to lay off in the respective trade. In the event of lay off, the seniority of the Apprentice will be automatically transferred to his former department and he will return to his previous job providing he has the seniority to do so. The procedure would also apply in the following situations:
1)	The Company deems his performance at work or school unsatisfactory resulting in removal from the Apprenticeship Program.
2)	The Apprentice wishes to withdraw from the program.
An Apprentice who has been laid off shall be subject to recall in Accordance with Article 8.
16:04 It is understood that all matters regarding the Apprenticeship program are governed by the Ontario Ministry of Education and Training. All of their policies shall apply including definitions of years of wage and percentages as currently established and as amended from time to time.
Wages will be a percentage of the base of the Journeyperson rate (but not less than the current Press Operator's rate) in each respective classification as provided by the following schedule:
Peri nd
ELECTRICIAN
% of Rate
1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year Completion
60
70
80
90
95
100
MECHANIC
Period 1st Year
2nd Year 3rd Year 4th Year n/a
Completion
£ of Pate 60 70 80 90
100
Upon completion of the program, and receipt of the provincial Certificate of Qualification (or written confirmation of final test results) , the Apprentice will be transferred to the
48
Journeyperson classification in the respective trade, will receive the completed rate as defined above and his accumulated seniority will be transferred to the Journeyperson classification in the respective trade and shall then elect his shift preference.
16:05 The Company will maintain records of an apprentice’s hours and will report such hours when requested. If an apprentice's hours take him to the next wage rate, he will receive the increase effective on the date his hours reached the applicable level.
16:06 It is understood that Apprentices will not necessarily be on a straight shift, and may be scheduled accordingly by the Maintenance Manager in order to provide him with the proper training that is necessary.
16.07 It is agreed that should an apprentice be required to attend school during his working hours, he will be paid a maximum of eight (8) hours per week at his regular hourly rate for the time so missed.
ARTICLE 17 TERMINATION
17:01 This Agreement shall become effective as of April 15, 1999, and shall remain in full force and effect in respect of all its terms until midnight April 14, 2002, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one (1) year unless either party gives written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendments to the other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date or any yearly period thereafter.
In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
17:02 Amendments of this Agreement may be made at any time by mutual agreement between the parties. If either party proposes amendments to this Agreement during the life thereof negotiations on such proposals shall begin within
49
twenty (20) days of receipt of written proposal. During the negotiations thereafter if no conclusion or agreement is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
17:03 Any part of this Agreement is subject to Provincial Legislation. When options or variations are permitted by Legislation then these options or variations will be subject to negotiations.
Dated at Kitchener this 9th day of June,
1999
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
Collins & Aikman Canada Inc.
United Steelworkers of America on behalf of its Local 296
(International Representative)
50
Letter of Understanding # 1 April 15, 1999
MR. DANE RICHARDS
PRESIDENT,
USWA LOCAL UNION NO. 296 141 KING STREET EAST KITCHENER, ONTARIO N2G 2K8
DEAR Mr. RICHARDS:
RE: HEAT RELIEF
On those days when it becomes necessary, one employee designated by the Union will take an outside temperature check on Plant Two property at 9:00 A.M., 11:00 A.M. and at a reasonable frequency thereafter until 1:00 A.M.
The Union shall determine the individual(s) who will be responsible for performing temperature checks and will ensure that normal production processes will not be adversely affected as a result. The Company reserves the right to verify the temperature reported.
When the outside temperature is twenty-eight degrees Celsius (28C) or more, communication of the temperature reading shall be the responsibility of the designated Union representative. Notification of the employees shall not occur unless and until the Company has been notified. In addition, when temperatures are extreme, extra relief will be provided as necessary.
Employees in the plant who cannot tolerate the heat, after discussing available alternatives with the Shift Manager, will, after four hours, on an individual basis, and upon submission 'of a Heat Relief Absence Request Form, be permitted to leave the plant, to a yearly maximum of eighteen (18) hours, and will not be required to see a Doctor, and/or make a hospital visit. It is understood that in such cases production and customer needs will continue to be met through the transfer of other employees. Moreover, it is understood that if there are not enough employees to perform the work available, the Company and the Negotiating Committee will meet to discuss possible solutions. Should the Company introduce engineering controls which reduce the temperature in the facility, both parties agree to review this letter of understanding and modify it accordingly.
During the period from Victoria Day weekend to Labour Day weekend, each employee will receive one (1) additional fifteen (15) minute break per shift.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #2
51
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President,
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE:	WASH UP ALLOWANCE
This letter shall serve to confirm the agreement reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding Wash Up Allowances.
Wash Up Allowances shall be provided as follows, at the employee's regular hourly rate, only if the employee washes up after working his shift:
Major weekly clean-up:	an 18 minute shower allowance is available to
employees who are involved with the major weekly clean-up and require it.
The Company shall provide one locker to each employee, in the appropriate change room, either full or half height.
All other employees will receive six (6) minutes of wash-up time.
Yours sincerely,
Job Classification
Minutes
FIBRE INSPECTOR FIBRE LINE OPERATOR OVEN OPERATOR MOULD MAINTENANCE MAINTENANCE MOULD OPERATOR MOULDING PRESS OPERATOR SPRAYER FORMER AERORETURNS BLENDER OPERATOR
All Lead Hands (on an "
as needs be" basis)
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #3
52
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President,
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE: CLOTHING ALLOWANCES
This letter shall confirm the agreement reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding Clothing Allowances.
The Clothing Allowances shall	be as follows:
ITEM	EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATION
EYE PROTECTION	Mechanics, Moulders on clean up, Sprayer
BUMP CAPS	Cutting Press Operators, Moulders on clean up
DUST MASKS	Operators who so request or instructed
HEARING PROTECTION	Operators where so designated
LEATHER GLOVES	Mechanics
CLOTH GLOVES	Press Operators, Truckers, personnel who require them
SLEEVING	Press Operators, Formers
COVERALLS	Moulder Operators on clean up, operator where temperature is below normal
RUBBER BOOTS	As required
COVERALLS OR PANTS/SHIRT	For Maintenance Group
RAINWEAR	For Maintenance Group as required
- APPROPRIATE GLOVES	Where required
53
It is understood that employees who receive protective clothing have responsibility for proper care and use of such.
Where appropriate, clothing allowances will be adjusted with regard for health and safety.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
54
Letter of Understanding #4 April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE: OVERTIME SCHEDULING
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during these negotiations regarding scheduling of overtime.
Whenever overtime is required on Saturdays and /or Sundays and/or designated holidays, the following procedure will be used for each operation on a shift so as to generally rotate the overtime to all employees within the shift, until the required positions are filled.
1.	The employees by seniority and job classification on their shift, on a rotational basis.
2.	The employees on the shift in the department, by seniority, who can perform the work, on a rotational basis.
3.	The employees on the shift, by seniority, who can perform the work, on a rotational basis.
The above procedure will be used for each shift scheduled.
If employees are still required, then employees not asked for overtime on their own shift will be requested as prescribed in Steps 1 and 2. Failing this, the least senior employees will be scheduled from the shift running overtime.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Every reasonable effort will be made by the Company and the Union to contact the appropriate employees according to the above.
Any refusals of overtime will be recorded in proceeding through the sequence.
B.
A
55
C.	Employees that were unavailable for contact and missed overtime work will be scheduled upon the next instance of overtime.
D.	Employees scheduled for vacation will not be eligible for overtime work during their full week of vacation which includes the Sunday and Saturday on that week.
E.	No transfer or exchange of offers will be allowed between employees and employees and Management.
F.	For call-in or stay-over overtime, the above procedure will	be
followed.
G.	Refused overtime request on Friday will not be charged.,
H. In the event an employee is improperly deprived of overtime, such employee shall be entitled to redress as follows: redress will be
of equal time and/or value as the original overtime opportunity. If the redress offer has not been made within a three (3) month period from the date of the Company's written acknowledgement of the	liability,
redress will be payment for the overtime hours deprived.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #5
56
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President
USWA Local Union No.296
141 King Street East
Kitchener, Ontario
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE; PLANT CLOSURE
1)	In the event of a full closure of the Plant, the Union shall be provided with a minimum of nine (9) weeks notice or as provided by the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
2)	Following such notification, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss and consider any suggestions the Union might have to avert such closure.
3)	If discussions between the Company and the Union do not result
in averting closure, the parties will meet to address the manner in which the closure is carried out.
4)	In the event of a partial closure of the Plant, the Company will meet with the Union in the same manner as described in (2) and (3) above, where such closure will result in the permanent layoff of all bargaining unit employees in a single department.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #6
57
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE: INTRODUCTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGY
Current and future trends in manufacturing have required individual workers to take greater responsibility and be more directly accountable for the production process. The introduction of complex technological advances, more highly automated processes, intricate problem solving methods and sophisticated mathematical validation concepts, necessitates the development of complex new skills by the workforce through retraining.
As process improvements are undertaken, both parties recognize the importance of minimizing disruption to the workforce while acquiring the necessary skills to implement the changes. With this objective in mind, it is agreed that:
(A)	The Union will be notified (at the time of project planning) when the introduction of technology will have a significant impact on the workforce either because of reduction in jobs or where new skills will need to be acquired.
(B)	Where the success of a change to equipment, operation, or procedure is dependent upon the acquisition of additional knowledge or skill on the part of the employee, retraining will be provided to the employees involved.
(C)	If it is reasonable and practical to do so, the Company will reduce the workforce through attrition when a technological change necessitates a reduction in the workforce.
Yours Sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #7
58
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE:	PROCEDURES IN THE EVENT OF PAYCHEQUE ERRORS
This letter is to confirm arrangements which have been made between the Company and the Union in the event that an error is made in an employee's pay.
a)	An error by the Company (or a source outside of the Company and beyond the control of the employee) will be corrected as follows:
i)	An error which creates a net underpayment in excess of $30.00 will be corrected immediately or as quickly as reasonably possible.
ii)	An error which creates a net underpayment of $30.00 or less will be corrected on the next paycheck.
b) Any error which creates an underpayment which has been caused as a result of an error or omission by the employee, will be paid on the next paycheque following receipt of the corrected information.
c)	When it is necessary for the Company to amend an employee's completed Time Sheet, the Company will make a concerted effort to ensure that the employee concerned is informed as soon as reasonable and practical to do so.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding # 8
59
April 15, 1999
Mr. Dane Richards
President
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards:
RE:	Q.A. CUSTOMER VISTS
This letter will confirm the agreement reached between the parties regarding Quality Assurance Customer vists.
Whenever Q.A. is to visit a Customer's production facility, then an Inspector familiar with that customer's product will be taken along whenever possible: both to provide information assisting the Q.A. personnel and to learn more about that particular product.
Yours sincerely,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
60
Letter of Understanding # 9
Mr. Dane Richards President
USWA Local Union No.296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards,
Re:	Vacation Replacement
During peak vacation periods each year, when vacations are scheduled with sufficient notice, and additional employees are needed, the Company will offer day shift openings to employees on the off shift in order of seniority by classification. This procedure will not restrict the Company from running it's operation in an effective and productive manner.
Yours truly,
Watt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
Letter of Understanding #10
61
Mr. Dane Richards President
USWA Local Union No. 296 141 King Street East Kitchener, Ontario N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Richards,
Re; Health and Safety Room
Health and Safety is of vital importance to Collins & Aikman, Kitchener, Operations, and to assist the Joint Health and Safety Committee in performing their functions as defined in the Occupational Health and Safety Act of Ontario, Company Policies and this Collective Agreement, the Company will provide a room for Health and Safety for use by the JHSC Members within six (6) months from the ratification date of this Collective Agreement. The Company will assign office furniture, a computer and telephone(for local calls only). It is understood that other Union Representatives may require a place to discuss confidential issues and this room may also be used for that purpose however, the main activity will be to afford the Joint Health and Safety Committee a place where they can assemble programs and work on activities that will enhance our health and safety program.
Yours truly,
Matt Hogan
Human Resources Manager
LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN
APPENDIX “A”
This Plan made and entered into April 15,1999, by and between Collins & Aikman Canada Inc., Kitchener, Ontario and/or its successors hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and Local Union No. 296, United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the “Union.“
The Company will establish, maintain and administer a Life and Health Insurance Plan for each eligible hourly paid employee and eligible dependents which shall consist of and be limited to the benefits as outlined herein.
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
1:01 The term “employee” means any male or female who is in the employment of the Company, and is a member of the bargaining unit and referred to hereinafter in the masculine gender.
1:02 The term “dependent” means a person defined as follows:
(1)	The spouse of an employee for purposes of any spouse’s benefits payable under the Plan. “Spouse” means the person who is legally married to the employee, except in the case of a person who has been cohabiting with the employee and has been publicly represented as the spouse of the employee for at least six months immediately preceding the time when that person’s status is required to be determined for the purpose of this Plan.
(2)	The unmarried, unemployed children of an employee who are under 21 years of age (or over 21 years of age but under 25 years of age provided such children are in full time attendance at school, college or university).
(3)	Any child of the employee 21 years of age or over, mentally or physically infirm and wholly dependent for support upon the insured employee, before his 2 1 st birthday, but this does not include the spouse of any such child.
(4)	The term “children” shall include stepchildren, foster children and other children who depend wholly upon the employee for support and live with the employee in regular parent-child relationship.
l
1:03 “Physician” means a medical practitioner who is registered under the Ontario Health Disciplines Act or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine in the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical or diagnostic services are rendered to an employee or his dependent.
1:04 The term “lay-off” means the termination of employment of an employee by the Company for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the Company to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged: “laid-off” or “to be laid-off7 shall have a like meaning.
1:05 The term "retirant" means any employee who has been retired and is eligible to receive a retirement pension or disability allowance under the Pension Plan (Appendix B) between the Company and the Union.
1:06 “Total disability” means disability by non-occupational accident or sickness which prevents the employee from meeting the requirements of his occupation for one (1) year period and from any occupation beginning with the second year.
ARTICLE n BENEFITS
2:01 Life Insurance: A principal sum for each eligible hourly employee and retirant as follows:
ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE:
Effective May 1,1999 - $35,000 Effective May 1, 2000 - $37,000 Effective May 1, 2001 - $38,000
ELIGIBLE RETIRANT: $9000
Payment of death benefit will be made in accordance with the terms of the policy issued by the Insurance Company to each eligible employee and retirant.
2:02 Life Insurance Termination and Conversion Privilege: The policy will continue in force for a period of thirty-one (31) days following termination of employment. During this period the holder of the policy shall have the privilege of obtaining, without medical examination, a policy from the Insurer according to the terms contained in the Insurance Certificate.
2
2:03 Disablement Before Age 65: If an insured employee becomes totally disabled before attaining the age of 65 years, the life insurance policy will be extended without payment of premiums in accordance with the terms contained in the Insurance Certificate. .
2:04 (a) Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance: An additional principal sum of $35,000 effective May 1, 1999, $37,000 effective May 1, 2000 and $38,000 effective May 1, 2001 will be paid in the case of accidental death or dismemberment of an eligible employee. The principal sum will be payable in the case of death or loss, or loss of use of both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes or any two of those members when such loss occurs within 365 days of the date of the accident and is caused by external, violent and accidental means. Payment of one-half of the above principal sum will be provided for in the case of loss of one hand, one foot or sight of one eye, under the same conditions. The contract will contain such limitations and conditions as are normally found in contracts issued in Ontario for insurance of this type.
(b)	Long Term Disability Plan: Effective December 1,1987, the Company shall provide Long Term Disability Benefits as herein prescribed to an eligible employee possessing two years of credited service and being totally disabled from any occupation. Such benefits will commence following exhaustion of Weekly Indemnity Benefits and will cease in the event of the following occurrence of: (a) on the month following the month of recovery, or (b) on the month following the month of death, or (c) on the month following the month in which monthly payments equals months of credited service, or (d) on the month in which the employee qualifies for a Disability Pension or a full total disability award from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board.
To be eligible and continue to be eligible for this benefit such employee shall provide medical evidence or attend a medical examination as required from time to time.
The amount of maximum monthly benefit shall be one thousand ($1,000) dollars payable for each month of credited service to a maximum duration of forty-eight (48) months of payment.
It is understood that Article 3:02 shall have no meaning to the Long Term Disability Plan.
Recurrence of Disability:	This provision shall take precedence over any
recurrent disability provision under the Company’s Weekly Indemnity Plan; whereas, if a disabled employee while receiving Long Term Disability payments recovers and returns to full-time active employment and becomes disabled within three (3) months of his return to work, a new disability qualifying period shall not be required if disability results from the same cause. In this event the employee will resume his benefit for any balance of Long Term Disability benefit payments only.
Rehabilitation: Refusal to undergo reasonable rehabilitation shall result in disqualification from Long Term Disability.
2:05 ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS INDEMNITY
(a)	If an eligible employee is totally disabled from meeting the requirements of his occupation due to a non-occupational accident or sickness, payment as outlined below will be made to such employee while under the care of a physician for a period not exceeding 52 weeks.
(b)	Benefits for disability caused through accidental injury as described above will be paid commencing with the first day an employee is unable to report for work and is deemed to be disabled by his attending physician.
(c)	If an eligible employee is totally disabled due to a non-occupational sickness, payment as outlined below will be made to such employee while under the care of a physician for a period not exceeding 52 weeks.
(d)	Benefits for disability caused through non-occupational sickness as described above will be paid commencing with the 8th day the employee is unable to report for work due to sickness. (This period shall include 5 plant working days).
(e)	Benefits for disability caused through surgery which required either a general or local anaesthetic will be paid commencing with the first day of the hospital confinement or the day of outpatient surgery excluding cosmetic surgery.
2:06 The date upon which disability terminates shall be the last day prior to the day upon which the employee’s attending physician states the employee is able to resume work.
2:07 WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
(a) The amount of Weekly Indemnity benefits will be an amount equivalent to 66 2/3% of the employee’s average hourly earnings, excluding all premiums, times 40 hours or 66 2/3% of the employee’s average insurable earnings over the last 20 weeks of insurable employment (as used by the Employment Insurance Commission), whichever is the greater, to a maximum of $525 per week.
4
(b) The amount equivalent to 66 2/3% shall be rounded off to the nearest dollar. In cases where part of the dollar is equal to or greater than 50 cents, the amount shall be rounded off to the next highest dollar.
(c)	If the earnings index under the Employment Insurance Act should change the criteria for maximum benefits, the Company may elect to adjust the maximum benefits of $525 to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the Weekly Indemnity Plan for Employment Insurance Act premium reductions.
(d)	In consideration of the amounts in the Weekly Indemnity Benefits outlined in (a) above, the Union and its members agree:
To forego the total rebate or savings to which they might be entitled, in whole or in part, under the Employment Insurance Act, as a result of the Weekly Indemnity Plan becoming and remaining approved for any reduction of premium, and that all such monies shall be retained by the Company.
(e)	Should the provisions included in this Section 2:07 fail to meet or fail to continue to meet the criteria required to maintain the Weekly Indemnity Plan as an approved plan for premium reductions under the Employment Insurance Act, the Company and the Union will, following the effective date of such legislation or change in the regulations, commence negotiations to amend these provisions providing that such amendments do not increase the aggregate cost of Weekly Indemnity to the Company before the enactment of the legislation or change in the regulations.
2:08 An employee who has received the maximum benefits he is entitled to receive for one disability, who has recovered from that disability and has been back to work for a period of 14 calendar days, will be entitled to benefits with respect to a subsequent period of disability due to the same or related causes.
2:09 Indemnity Calculation: Weekly Indemnity payments will be paid on the basis of a 5 day week and partial weeks will be paid on a daily basis calculated at 1/5 the weekly benefit for each regular working day of disability.
No employee shall be eligible for payment of an indemnity claim either full or in part for any period for which an employee is receiving other income to which the Company is either directly or indirectly a contributor.
2:10 A female employee shall be entitled to Weekly Indemnity benefits resulting from pregnancy or related causes only when the Employment Insurance Commission eliminates this benefit or the benefit period for pregnancy or related causes is not covered by E.I.
5
2:11 MEDICAL SERVICES BENEFIT
I
The Company will remit the monthly premiums to the Ontario Health Insurance Commission on behalf of each eligible employee and eligible dependent(s), if any, to qualify him or them for the OH. IP. benefits in effect. Such premiums shall be paid by the Company for each month an employee or dependent(s) is eligible under Article 3 - Eligibility. For each month in which the employee or dependent(s) is not eligible under this Agreement, the amount of the premium will be deducted from his pay.
2:12 SUPPLEMENTARY HOSPITAL EXPENSE BENEFIT
In addition to making the premium payments as defined in Section 2:11 above, the Company will provide Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefits for any eligible employee and any eligible dependent for the amount charged by the hospital for room and board in excess of the expenses covered by the provincial hospital insurance plan up to a maximum of $200 for each day of confinement to a maximum of 365 days during any one benefit period. This benefit is extended to cover substance abuse and mental health rehabilitation.
Successive periods of confinement in a hospital shall be considered as occurring during one benefit period unless the employee returns to work and completes at least fourteen (14) calendar days of full-time employment before commencement of the later confinement, or is separated by an interval of at least one (1) month or unless later confinement is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior confinement or in the case of a dependent successive periods of confinement are separated by an interval of at least three (3) months or unless the later confinement is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior confinement.
2:13 Supplementary Health Benefits: The plan will provide for each eligible employee and eligible dependent(s) the following Supplementary Health Benefits:
MAXIMUM BENEFIT
The maximum amount payable under this benefit in respect of any individual in a calendar year will be $30,000 per covered person.
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
If an employee or any eligible dependent is totally disabled on the date of termination of the employee’s insurance because of termination of employment., benefits will be continued in respect of the disabled individual during total disability for a period of up to ninety (90) days following the date of termination.
6
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following services, providing that such services are prescribed by a physician licensed to practise medicine.
1)	Qualified physiotherapists up to a maximum of $400 per calendar year and services of registered nurses, providing such nurse or physiotherapist is not ordinarily resident in the patient’s home and is not a relative of the patient.
2)	Hospital outpatient services and diagnostic laboratory and x-ray examinations not covered by a Provincial Hospital or medical insurance plan or other Hospital plan.
3)	Drugs that can be obtained by a written prescription of a physician and dispensed by a physician or by a registered pharmacist.
4)	Rental (or purchase at the discretion of the Company) of wheel chair, hospital bed, iron lung or oxygen set or other remedial appliances as prescribed by a physician.
5)	Trusses, braces and crutches.
6)	Artificial limbs (excluding myoelectric appliances) or eyes or other prosthetic appliances.
7)	Oxygen, plasma and blood transfusions, surgical dressings or bandages.
8)	Ambulance services which are certified by the attending physician as necessary, including any conveyance which is officially designated as an ambulance in any
emergency.
9)	The services of a dental surgeon including dental prosthesis required for treatment of a fractured jaw or for the treatment of accidental injuries to natural teeth within six (6) months of the accident where the injury was caused by external, violent and accidental means.
10)	Services of a duly licensed medical practitioner rendered while the employee or dependent is travelling or resident outside the Province of Ontario, payment to be limited to the amount of the charge which is in excess of the Ontario Medical Association Schedule of Fees and up to the amount which would be reasonably considered for payment if the service were rendered in Ontario.
11)	Eye glasses purchased on the written prescription of a physician or registered optometrist, subject to a maximum of $225.00 during any period of 24 consecutive months.
Exclusions - glasses for cosmetic purposes and safety glasses where a prescription is not required.
7
12)	Hearing aids on the written prescription of a medical doctor to a maximum of $800.00 in all, per person, including repairs and batteries, in any period of sixty (60) consecutive months. In the case of growing children (up to age 18) an additional
allowance of $400 per three year period shall be available for replacement ear pieces.
13)	Treatment by radium or radioactive isotopes.
14)	Services of a qualified and registered clinical psychologist in good standing up to $60 for the initial visit and up to $50 per hour for subsequent treatments to a maximum of $700 during any calendar year.
15)	Services of a Registered Massage Therapist up to $35 per treatment for a maximum of 12 treatments during any calendar year, provided such treatments are prescribed in writing by the patient’s attending physician.
16)	Services of a regularly qualified speech therapist which are certified in writing as necessary by the patient4 s attending physician or dentist up to a maximum of $400 during any calendar year.
17)	Remedial footwear or inserts as prescribed by a physician or a doctor of podiatric medicine up to a maximum of $1000 per calendar year.
18)	“Reasonable and customary charges“ exclude charges which are in excess of those usually made for the service, treatment or supplies in the absence of insurance, or in excess of the general level of the charges in the area.
19)	That portion not covered by government hospital or medical care insurance plan
of a fee for services of a Chiropractor, Osteopath, or Podiatrist for a maximum of twenty (20) treatments in any calendar year and for not more than one (1) x-ray examination per calendar year.
LIMITATIONS
The insurance under this benefit does not cover charges in respect of
-Injuries or sickness for which benefits are payable under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Act.
-Services of a physician or surgeon except as provided under “Eligible Expenses”. -Self-inflicted injuries which are not accidents.
-Injury or sickness resulting from war or from engaging in a riot, illegal disturbance of the peace, or criminal act.
8
-Addiction to drugs or alcoholism unless under the care of a physician.
-Any service for which the individual is not required to pay or for which benefits are received under any other group insurance policy.
-Services for which benefits are payable under any government hospital or medical care insurance plan unless legally permitted..
DENTAL EXPENSE BENEFIT
2:14 The Company will provide for all eligible active employees and eligible dependents Dental plan benefits as follows:
Basic services -100% of applicable O.D.A. Dental Fee Guide.
Restorative services - dentures -100% of applicable O.D.A. Dental Fee Guide.
Restorative services - crowns & bridges - 50% of applicable O.D.A. Dental Fee Guide.
An employee with seniority and his eligible dependents shall become eligible for dental benefits on the first of the month following the completion of six (6) months of continuous service with the Company.
Regardless of the O.D.A. Procedure Code used from year to year, the Company will ensure that the dental benefits continue to be covered as specified above. Coverage will be based on the ongoing Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fee Guide from the year previous to the present year.
Payment based on the Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees provided for general practitioners for the following oral care expenses:
Type A basic services -100%
a)	Diagnostic Services
Services provided by a general practitioner and required to evaluate existing conditions, including:
i)	Consultations
ii)	Oral Exams, bitewing x-rays (each limited to once every 5 months, twice in a calendar year )
iii)	Complete mouth x-rays or panoramic films (limited to once every 24 months.)
b)	Preventative services
Services required to prevent dental disease, including dental cleaning, oral hygiene instructions, and application of fluoride (each limited to once every 5 months, twice in a calendar year).
c)	Routine restorative services
Services required for treatment of dental cavities, including amalgam, acrylic or composite fillings and preformed stainless steel crowns.
d)	Routine surgical services
Routine extractions and related anaesthesia are covered, provided they are not preparatory to orthodontic services.
e)	Space maintainers
This includes charges for space maintainers where they are used as a preventative measure to maintain space. Charges for space regainers involving the movement of teeth or otherwise used for orthodontic purposes are not covered.
f)	Major surgical services
Major oral surgery, necessary suturing, post-operative treatment and related general anaesthesia, including alveoloplasty, gingivoplasty, osteoplasty and frenectomy. Surgical services that are preparatory to orthodontic services are not covered.
g)	Periodontal services
Services required for the treatment of the soft tissues and bone supporting the teeth, including gingivectomy and osseous surgery. Periodontal services incidental to orthodontic treatment are not covered.
h)	Endodontics services
Services required for the diagnosis or treatment of diseases of the tooth pulp, root canal or periapical area.
to
i)	Dental repair services
Services required for rebasing and relining of removable full or partial dentures or for repairs to broken dentures, including addition of teeth to a denture to replace at least one natural tooth while insured, once in any 2 calendar years.
Type B - Major restorative services
a)	Dentures -100%
Services required for the replacement of missing teeth through the use of removable dentures, including laboratory charges for prosthodontics materials. Coverage for both partial and full dentures is included once in any period of 3 years. Coverage is subject to limitations as defined below.
b)	Crowns & bridges - 50%
Major restorative services required for the restoration of teeth, for the reconstruction of a tooth or for the replacement of missing teeth through the use of fixed bridges. It includes crowns, inlays, onlays, fixed bridges and cast restorations.
Predetermination of Oral Care Benefits
There will be times when you want to find out what payment you may expect to receive from the Insurance Carrier before you begin a plan of oral treatment. This process is called predetermination and we strongly urge you to use it whenever the anticipated cost of the oral treatment exceeds $300.
Simply have your dental practitioner write out a treatment plan for you and take this to your Plan Administrator for transmittal to the Insurance Carrier. We will send you a statement of the amount payable by the insurance plan. This will allow you to determine your own financial obligation prior to the commencement of treatment.
Limitations
No reimbursement will be made for expenses resulting from:
-Services payable under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Act or any other statute;
-Services payable under any government plan;
-Self-inflicted injuries;
ll
-Service required as a result of war or hostilities of any kind;
-Services required as a result of your participation in a criminal offence;
-Services performed by a person who is ordinarily resident in the patient’s home;
-Services for which reimbursement is payable due to the legal liability of any other party to the extent of such reimbursement;
-Services other than those provided by a dental practitioner except those services which may be performed by legally qualified auxiliary personnel under the supervision of a dental practitioner, or those services which may be performed by a parodontal practitioner under the terms of the practitioner’s license;
-Cosmetic services;
-Crowns placed on a tooth not functionally impaired by incisal or cuspal damage;
-Dentures and bridgework (including crowns and inlays forming the abutments) to replace any teeth removed before the claimant became insured under this benefit or to replace a tooth or teeth congenitally missing;
-Dentures which have been lost, stolen or mislaid;
-Prosthetic devices which were ordered before the claimant became insured under this benefit, or which were ordered while the claimant was insured but are installed more than 30 days after termination of the insurance;
-Replacement of an existing partial or full denture, bridgework, crown inlay, onlay, or periodontal splinting unless;
(i)	the existing denture, bridgework, crown inlay, onlay or periodontal splinting is at least three years old and the replacement takes place at least one year after the claimant became insured under this benefit,
or
(ii)	the replacement is required to replace an immediate temporary denture which was installed while the claimant was insured under this benefit;
-The addition of teeth to an existing partial denture or bridgework unless the addition is required to replace one or more teeth removed while the claimant is insured under this benefit.
12
ARTICLE III ELIGIBILITY
The following regulations will determine the eligibility of present and future employees
to participate in the benefits provided in this Plan, as set out above.
3:01 An hourly paid employee actively engaged in his duties as of the effective date of this Agreement shall be entitled to applicable benefits of the plan for which he may be eligible (and providing he has fulfilled the initial eligibility requirements as outlined in Section 3:02). Present employees not actively at work on the above date, for any reason, shall become eligible upon the date of their return to active employment.
3:02 (a) An hourly paid employee hired after the effective date of this Plan will become eligible for the applicable benefits of the Plan on the first day of the month following the achievement of seniority status unless otherwise provided under the Plan. An employee not actively at work on his eligible date for any reason will become eligible upon the date of his return to active employment.
(b)	An hourly paid employee who has become eligible for benefits by virtue of continuous service with the Company acquired in a position which is outside of the bargaining unit, shall be entitled to Life Insurance and Welfare Benefits as provided by this plan, notwithstanding his status as a probationary employee within this bargaining unit.
(c)	An hourly paid employee who has become eligible for Benefits under the provisions of this plan and who accepts a position outside of the bargaining unit in order to avoid a termination of employment (Layoff), shall be entitled to the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefits in accordance with the Plan provisions governing the Job Classification in which he is then employed.
3:03 Dependents: The eligible dependent or dependents of an eligible employee shall be entitled to receive benefits as stated herein on or after the date on which such dependent or dependents are properly enrolled under the Plan, except that should a dependent actually be a hospital patient on the date the insurance takes effect, the coverage, other than that provided by the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan for such dependent, will be postponed until he or she is discharged from the hospital.
3:04 An employee will be considered to be single and without dependents until he has properly enrolled his dependents. He may be required to furnish such proof as the Company may reasonably require to establish the eligibility of any person claimed as a dependent.
3:05 An employee shall inform the Company promptly of any changes in his status or that of his dependents which would affect his or their eligibility under the plan.
13
3:06 Leave of Absence, Sickness, Injury or Pregnancy: When an eligible employee is granted leave of absence from work because of sickness, injury or pregnancy, applicable benefits of the plan for the employee and his dependents will be maintained for a period commencing with the first day of the month following the date such leave commenced and equal to the amount of seniority the employee had at the start of such leave but not to exceed a maximum period of 18 months.
3:07 Expiration of Leave of Absence Benefits: An employee, who is unable to return to work at the expiration of the period of leave of absence for which he is eligible for benefits as set out above, can continue coverage for himself and dependents, for all benefits, except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability, by payment monthly in advance to the Company of the total premiums applicable to such benefits. Such payment will be the responsibility of the employee. This privilege will terminate on termination of employment (including layoff) or termination of the plan or failure to pay premiums.
3:08 Personal Leave of Absence: An employee who is granted leave of absence for any reason other than sickness, injury or pregnancy after becoming eligible for the plan, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits for himself and dependents, except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability, until the end of the month following the month in which such absence commences.
3:09 Lay-Off: An employee who is temporarily laid off for a period not exceeding thirty-one (31) days shall continue to be eligible for all benefits of the plan.
An employee laid off for an indefinite period, whose employment is thereby terminated, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits, except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability , until the end of the month following the month in which such lay-off occurs.
However, if at the time of lay-off the employee is eligible for and continues to receive Supplemental Unemployment Benefits coverage for benefits, except Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability, will be continued up to a maximum period ceasing at the end of the sixth (6th) month following the month in which such lay-off occurs.
3:10 Return from Leave of Absence or Lay-Off: An employee who had previously been eligible under the plan and who returns to regular employment after lay-off and prior to loss of seniority rights or leave of absence where benefits have expired shall be eligible for benefits on the first day that he returns to work.
3:11 Termination of Employment: An employee, except a retirant or laid-off employee, whose employment is terminated for any reason shall cease to be eligible for benefits to which he may be entitled under this plan as of the date of
14
termination except for extended termination benefits and the provision that Life Insurance will continue for thirty-one (31) days under the conversion privilege.
3:12 Dependents of an employee or a retirant shall cease to be eligible for benefits under this plan on the date on which the employee or a retirant ceases to be eligible, and in the case of the death of an employee or a retirant, at the end of the third month following the month in which said death occurs.
3:13 Retirement: An employee who becomes a retirant and continues to remain eligible for a retirement pension or disability allowance but these benefits shall not be applicable to a person who may be eligible for a Deferred Vested Pension, shall continue to be eligible for the benefits then in effect as herein outlined:
-retirant life insurance,
-medical services benefit,
-supplementary hospital expense benefit,
-supplementary health benefit, and
-dental expense benefit.
3:14 Extended Termination Benefits: In all cases of termination of coverage while the plan is in effect, the eligible employee or dependents will be covered for Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefit and Supplementary Health Benefits for a ninety (90) day period if total disability exists continuously from date of termination and treatment is given within the ninety (90) day period.
3:15 Where an insured person is insured under another group insurance plan for Medical Services, Supplementary Hospital or Supplementary Health, benefits will not be payable with respect to that portion of any eligible expense for which benefits are paid by the other plan.
Benefits for eligible expenses incurred by an insured dependent will be determined on the following basis if the dependent is also insured under another group insurance plan:
(a)	Benefits will not be payable with respect to that portion of an expense which is eligible for reimbursement by another plan where the dependent is an insured person under the other plan.
(b)	Benefits will be reduced by the amount of the reimbursement made by another plan where the dependent is also insured as a dependent under the other plan.
15
ARTICLE IV GENERAL PROVISIONS
4:01 The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the plan.
4:02 The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an Insurance Company or Companies, or such other organizations as it may choose, to provide benefits as outlined under this contract, and upon so doing will be relieved of any individual liability to any employee other than to maintain such contract or contracts in force.
4:03 The employee shall complete any application or questionnaire relating to himself and pertinent information concerning his dependants of the facts pertaining to a claim for benefit presented by him to the Insurer through the Company. Any additional documentation required by the Company and not the Insurer will be paid by the Company.
4:04 The Company shall issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each employee eligible for benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided by the Insurer.
4:05 The Company shall have the right, and an employee claiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity, to examination of the person of the employee or his dependent by a physician appointed by it, when and as often as it may reasonably require while a claim for a benefit is pending.
4:06 Exclusions - General: Benefits outlined in this plan for employee or dependents, where applicable, will not be made for sickness or injury covered under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act of Ontario or other laws for which the employee is entitled to receive indemnity or arising in the course of service in the Armed Forces, or contracted or sustained as a direct or indirect result of war, engaging in a riot, illegal disturbance of the peace, criminal act or addiction to drugs or alcoholism unless under the care of a physician.
4:07 No payment of claim will be made if the employee fails to meet the requirements of the Insurer with respect to proof and time limitations under regulations normally included in policies written in Ontario.
4:08 Proof of claim on forms furnished by the Company must be submitted to the Company by the employee within ninety (90) days after the commencement of any disability for which weekly sickness and accident indemnity, hospitalization benefits are payable.
16
4:09 If a disagreement shall arise between the Company or its Insurer as the case may be, and an employee as to whether such employee is, or continues to be, suffering from bodily injury or sickness of a degree, extent, and type that gives rise to a claim for benefits under this plan, such disagreement shall be resolved as follows:
The employee or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company or the Insurer and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability, the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician after examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two physicians, shall be accepted by the Company or the Insurer, the Union and the employee as ix-rebuttable evidence of the facts therein disclosed, and the degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company or the Insurer and the Union.
4:10 If a disagreement shall arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for benefits or payment of claims under the plan, or if a disagreement shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as hereinbefore described, such disagreement may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Manager of Human Resources. If any such grievance shall be taken to Arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. He or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provision of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit under the Agreement. Their decision on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, Union and the Employee.
4:11 Subrogation: Where an employee or dependent receives Weekly Indemnity Benefits, or payment for Hospitalization, expenses or other payments to him or on his behalf by reason of bodily injury or sickness in respect of which some third party is under legal liability, the Company or the Insurer at the Company’s option, shall be subrogated to the employee’s or dependent’s right to compensation for the cost of the benefits and for services provided in respect of such bodily injury or sickness to the extent of the amount paid by the Company either directly or indirectly, or through coverage provided by the insurance policy in respect thereof and the employee by acceptance of the benefits, will undertake that he or the dependent entitled to compensation shall prosecute such claim against the third party at the expense of and to the extent directed by the Company what it is entitled to receive as aforesaid together with any expenses it may have paid or
17
incurred, from any monies recovered from such third party, and he or the dependent will do all acts, and execute all documents necessary to permit the Company to obtain the benefit of this clause.
ARTICLE V
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Supplemental agreements between the parties in writing and signed by the parties shall be binding and shall form part of the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan Agreement (Appendix “A”) provided they refer to this Article 5.
ARTICLE VI
MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION
6:01 The plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations, and the relevant provision of the Insurance Act of Ontario shall be deemed to apply except to the extent that such provision may be waived or are superseded by the express provisions of the plan.
6:02 If at any time a Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits described in the plan for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this plan shall terminate in respect of that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after the proclamation of such statute or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty (30) day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation of the statute, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to ensure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits and the benefits provided under this plan shall approximate in kind and money value the benefits provided under the plan before said statutory enactment.
6:03 Amendments to this plan may be made by mutual consent of both parties. Proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing by the party desiring a change and negotiations thereon shall start within twenty (20) days of such notice. During the negotiations and thereafter, if no conclusion is reached, the provisions of the plan shall remain in effect.
6:04 In the event of termination of the Collective Labour Agreement by strike or lockout, the benefits described in this Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan shall be provided for ninety (90) days following termination. The termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the payment of benefits insofar as it affects the benefits payable with respect to disabilities which were suffered or incurred prior to the date of termination.
18
Dated at Kitchener, Ontario this 9th day of June, 1999.
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
Collins & Alkman Canada Inc.
United Steelworkers of America
R. Zarsen
£U^—■
M. Wilker
K. Dawson {International Rep)
PENSION PLAN
This Plan made and entered into this 15*u day of April 1999, by and between Collins’& Aikman Canada Inc., Kitchener, Ontario and/or its successors in the province of Ontario, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company” and the United Steelworkers of America on behalf of its Local Union Number 296, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
(a)	The term “employee” means any male or female who is in the employment of the Company, and is a member of the Bargaining Unit, and referred to hereafter in the masculine gender.
(b)	The term “Credited Service” means the service of an employee which has been and remains credited to him or would be credited to him if re-employed in accordance with Article II of this Plan.
(c)	The term “Normal Retirement Date” shall mean the first day of the month following the month in which an employee’s 65th birthday occurs, or his 65th birthday if it should fall on the first day of the month.
(d)	The term “Statutory Benefit” means any old age or disability benefit payable under any Federal or Provincial legislation, as now in effect, or under any future Federal or Provincial legislation amending, superseding, supplementing, or incorporating existing Federal or Provincial Legislation, but such term does not include Workers’ Compensation, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or a benefit payable pursuant to Occupational disease laws, the Blind Persons Act, or a benefit payable on a “needs test” basis or solely on account of service in the Armed Forces or other national service, or a benefit payable to or in respect of dependents or a benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act, Canada.
For the purpose of this Plan, the amount of such Statutory Benefit shall be the amount of Statutory Benefit that an employee or retirant shall be eligible to receive as of the date he first becomes eligible to receive such Statutory Benefit, and if the employee or retirant either does not apply for or loses part or all of such Statutory Benefit through delay in applying for such benefit, by earnings while eligible for such benefit, or other act or failure to act, the amount of the Statutory Benefit may be estimated and the estimated amount applied where the term Statutory Benefit occurs.
(e)	The term “Old Age Security Date” means the first day of the month in which the employee or retirant first becomes eligible (or could become eligible but for some act or failure to act by him or by another on his behalf, such as leaving Canada, failing to make timely application or failing to notify the proper authority of his address), for the benefit under the Old Age Security Act, Canada, as in effect on the 15th day of April, 1985.
(f)	The term “totally and permanently disabled” means disabled by bodily injury or disease which shall presumably permanently, continuously and wholly prevent the employee, during the remainder of his life from meeting the job requirements of any job covered by the Collective Labour Agreement, except disability which (1) was contracted, suffered or incurred while the employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or (2) resulted from wilfully self-inflicted injury, or (3) can be established as due to service in the Armed Forces of any country.
(g)	The term “through no fault of his own” as applied to an employee’s disability shall mean that the disability shall not have resulted from or been occasioned by conditions listed under factors (1), (2) and (3), Section (f) preceding.
(h)	The term "Retirant” means a person who has been retired and is eligible to receive a retirement pension or disability allowance under the Plan.
(i)	The term “permanent closing of a section of the Plant” shall be interpreted to mean, one wherein seniority rights cannot be recognized in another area because of contractual commitments between the Union and the Company.
(j)	The spouse of the employee for purposes of any spouse’s benefits payable under the Plan, “spouse” means the person who is legally married to the employee, except in the case of a person who has been co-habiting with the employee and has been publicly represented as the spouse of the employee for at least six (6) months year immediately preceding the time when that person’s status is required to be determined for the purpose of this Plan.
(k)	The Company and the Union acknowledge that the provisions and administration of Pension Plans in Ontario are regulated by legislation and mutually agree to comply fully with all relevant legislative provisions. Should there be any difference between the plan provisions and those required by legislation, the legislative provisions shall prevail.
ARTICLE H RULES OF SERVICE
(a)	The following rules shall govern the determination of service to be credited to an employee as continuous service under the Plan.
(b)	Subject to the provisions contained in the following sections of this Article II, an employee’s credited service for all purposes under this Plan shall date from his original date of employment and shall terminate as of his normal retirement date provided he is otherwise eligible for participation under the Plan.
An employee who commences employment with the Company after December 16,1991 shall become a plan member on the first of the month immediately following the accumulation of two (2) years of continuous service.
When the calculation of service of an otherwise eligible employee involves a period in days amounting to fifteen (15) days or more, such period shall constitute one (1) additional month of service, but if the period is fourteen (14) days or less, such days are to be disregarded entirely. Such calculation shall not, however, be a factor in determination of service required as a condition or eligibility under the Plan.
(c)	Effect of Lay off on Credited Service
Lay off Commencing Prior to July 1,1964
An employee who has been re-employed within one (1) year after having been laid off for lack of work or because he was then unsuited to perform the work available may secure recognition for his prior service under the Agreement, as set forth below:
(a)	If such re-employment occurs within six (6) months, the time out shall not be deducted and prior service shall be retained.
(b)	If such re-employment occurs between six (6) months and one (1) year, the time out in excess of six (6) months shall be deducted but prior service shall be retained.
An employee who has been re-employed more than one (1) year after having left the employ of the Company for any cause, shall lose credit for all time out and for prior service and shall be classified as a new employee, except that an employee who had five (5) or more years service credit at the time of termination may regain such prior years of service under the provisions of Section (d) of this Article II.
1.
Lay off Commencing On Or After July 1,1964
1.	An employee who has been re-employed after having been laid off on or
after July 1,1964, for lack of work or because he was then unsuited to perform the work available, may secure recognition for his prior service under the Agreement as set forth below:
(a)	If such re-employment occurs within six (6) months, the time out shall not be deducted and prior service shall be retained.
(b)	If such re-employment occurs after six (6) months, but prior to loss of recall rights, under the terms of the Seniority provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, the time out in excess of six (6) months shall be deducted but prior service shall be retained.
(c)	Any employee who is rehired after voluntarily leaving the service of the Company or after having been discharged or having lost the right to recall under the Seniority provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, shall be classified as a new employee and shall lose all prior service regardless of the length of time he was out of the employ of the Company, except that an employee who had five (5) years or more of service at the time of leaving may regain his prior years of service under the provisions of Section (d) of this Article II.
(d)	Any employee, other than one who has received a termination or severance payment, with five (5) or more years of service to his credit at the time of leaving the service of the Company for any reason, who shall have served five (5) years continuously after being rehired, shall have his service credit for any prior period or periods of five (5) years or more, together with that for any intervening period or periods of service of less than five (5) years which were terminated otherwise than by voluntary resignation or discharge, restored and thereafter such periods of service shall be regarded as constituting one continuous period, the time out being omitted.
Notwithstanding the above, an employee who has previously received an entitlement under Article VII, Deferred Vested Pensions, shall not receive credit for those years of service for which payment has already been made except that such years shall be credited for purposes of establishing eligibility for retirement.
(e)	An employee shall be granted credited service for a period of up to one (1) year while in receipt of lost time benefits (which commenced on or after January 1,1990) under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act of Ontario, Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or for the period during which an employee is entitled to approved Pregnancy Leave or Parental Leave (which commenced on or after December 20,1990) under the Ontario Employment Standards Act.
(f)	The time during which an employee is on an official leave of absence shall be included in his years of service, but only if said employee returns to active service with the Company after the expiration of such leave, except however that the period of leave by reason of employment in any capacity by the International Union or affiliated body shall be excluded in determination of continuous service.
In the case of leave of absence commencing by reason of employment with the International Union service may be accumulated and credited to a maximum of three (3) years.
(g)	The records of the Company shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the credited service of an employee in accordance with this Article II unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect
(h)	In the case of retirement by reason of disability, the credited service of an employee shall terminate on the last day of active service.
(i)	Service rendered by an employee after his normal retirement date shall be included in computing pensions or allowances under this Plan.
(j)	Notwithstanding the above, absences from the plan which are deemed to be credited service are limited to the maximum permitted under the Income Tax Act and Regulation.
ARTICLE III
NORMAL RETIREMENT - AGE 65
“A” ELIGIBILITY
(a)	Each employee who has reached the sixty-fifth (65th) anniversary of his birth shall be retired from active service and awarded the retirement pension hereinafter provided.
(b)	In the event an employee is absent from active employment on the date on which his normal retirement would occur and provided that such absence is a Company approved leave of absence or lay off, and provided that the employee retains his seniority under a Collective Labour Agreement from the time that he was last actively employed, he shall be able to apply for and receive a Retirement Pension based on his credited service as of the last day of his active employment without being required to return to active employment.
(c)	No employee shall be continued in the active service of the Company beyond the normal retirement date unless the Company shall determine that his retirement would not be in its best interests. Any employee so continued in service for a period not to exceed one (1) year after the attainment of age sixty-five (65) shall, nevertheless, be awarded any retirement pension herein provided, but the payment of such pension shall be suspended until the date of retirement determined by the Company or such earlier date as may be requested by said employee. Thereafter, the employee shall be retired from active service and the pension to said employee shall be paid as hereinafter provided.
"B" AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension to an employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article III shall be the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in Article XV multiplied by his years of credited service.
ARTICLE IV
RETIREMENT AT AGE 62 - SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT “A” ELIGIBILITY
An employee who has attained age sixty-two (62) and has ten (10) or more years of credited service, or an employee who has attained age fifty-five (55) but not age sixty-two (62) and who has thirty (30) or more years of credited service, may elect to retire on or after the effective date of this Plan and shall be entitled to a monthly pension.
6
"B" AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to an employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article IV shall be:
1.	A basic pension determined by multiplying his years of credited service by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XIV.
Plus
2.	A monthly supplemental pension payable each month up to and including the month in which the retirant's sixty-fifth (65th) birthday occurs or upon his eligibility for Old Age Security Pension, whichever is earlier. The amount of such Supplementary-Pension to be determined by multiplying the Supplementary Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XIV by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of thirty (30) years of service.
ARTICLE V
RETIREMENT PRIOR TO AGE 62 EARLY RETIREMENT
“A” ELIGIBILITY
1.	An employee who has attained age sixty (60) and who has ten (10) or more years of credited service, may elect to retire on or after the effective date of this Plan, and prior to his normal retirement date, and shall be entitled to a pension.
2.	An employee who has attained age fifty-five (55), but not age sixty (60), and whose combined years of age and credited service shall total eighty-five (85) or more, may elect to retire, on or after the effective date of this Plan, and prior to his normal retirement date, and shall be entitled to a pension.
"B" AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to an employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article V shall be:
1.	A basic pension determined by multiplying his years of credited service by the Basic Benefit Rate applicable as set forth in Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XIV. Each monthly payment of the basic pension whether becoming payable before, on, or after the Old Age Security Date, is to be reduced by the lesser of(i) or (ii) below.
Plus
2.	A monthly supplemental pension payable each month up to and including the month in which the retirant's sixty-fifth (65th) birthday occurs or upon his eligibility date for Old Age Security Pension, whichever is earlier. The amount of such Supplemental Pension to be determined by multiplying the Supplementary Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates, according to Article XIV by the number of years of credited service up to
a maximum of thirty (30) years of service. The amount of the monthly Supplemental pension shall then be reduced by the lesser of(i) or (ii) below.
(i)	Four tenths of one percent (4/10 of 1%) of the total amount so computed for each month by which the effective date of his pension precedes the first day of the month coincident with or next following the sixty-second (62nd) anniversary of the retirant's birth.
(ii)	Four tenths of one percent (4/10 of 1%) of the total amount so computed for each month by which the retirant's credited service at the effective date of his pension is less than thirty (30) years.
The reduction of four tenths of one percent (4/10 of 1%) shall be applied separately to both the Basic Pension and Supplemental Pension.
8
ARTICLE VI
DISABILITY ALLOWANCE
“A” ELIGIBILITY FOR DISABILITY ALLOWANCE
(a)	Each employee who through no fault of his own has become totally and permanently disabled and whose credited service has been ten (10) years or more, shall be retired from active service and be granted a disability allowance.
(b)	If any retirant who is in receipt of a disability allowance ceases to be totally and permanently disabled, or if he shall engage in any work similar to the job requirements of any job in the bargaining unit, his disability allowance may be terminated at the Company’s option. If so terminated by the Company, he shall be rehired in a capacity consistent with his seniority and his physical and mental ability, provided he promptly applies for such work.
(c)	Each retirant to whom a disability allowance has been granted may be required from time to time, but not more frequently than at six (6) month intervals, to report at a reasonable place for physical re-examination and if such retirant shall neglect or refuse to be so re-examined, the disability allowance shall be discontinued until the continuance of his disability is verified by such an examination.
(d)	If any retirant re-enters the service of the Company at the time such disability allowance is discontinued, he shall be eligible for a retirement pension or further disability allowance under this Plan. In such a case the period of absence on disability shall be considered as a leave of absence and not a break in the continuity of his credited service.
(e)	No retirant receiving a disability allowance under this Article VI shall be entitled to any other pension or allowance under any Article of this Plan.
(f)	When a disability allowance has been granted, it shall not be made effective as long as the employee is on leave of absence and is drawing Indemnity Benefits from an insurance or compensation plan to which the Company contributes. ,
(g)	Where an employee continues to be totally and permanently disabled until his normal retirement date, his disability benefit will cease with the payment for the month immediately preceding his normal retirement date and he will be entitled to receive, commencing on his normal retirement date, the normal pension benefit accrued to his credit to the date of commencement of his disability benefit determined in accordance with Article III - Normal Retirement and the provisions of the plan as in effect at the date he became totally and permanently disabled.
"B" AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE
The amount of the monthly allowance payable to an employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article VI shall be:
1.	A basic allowance determined by multiplying his years of credited service by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XIV.
Plus
2.	A monthly supplemental allowance payable each month up to and including the month in which the retirant's sixty-fifth birthday occurs or upon his eligibility date for Old Age Security Pension, whichever is earlier. The amount of such Supplemental Allowance to be determined by multiplying the Supplemental Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XIV by the number of years of credited service up to a maximum of thirty (30) years of service less the amount of any Statutory Benefit to which the retirant may be or becomes eligible for prior to his Old Age Security Date, excluding any reduced regular C.P.P. benefit the retirant may be in receipt of.
ARTICLE VII
DEFERRED VESTED PENSION
“A” ELIGIBILITY
1. An employee who terminates employment with the Company following completion of two (2) years of service as a member of the plan, but who is ineligible for a Pension, Disability Allowance or Severance Award, shall upon application not earlier than sixty (60) days prior to his normal retirement date, be eligible for a pension under this Article and shall be considered a retirant under this Plan, but for no other purpose, and shall be entitled to his vested interest under this Article (but no other benefit) commencing with the month following the month in which he attains age sixty-five (65) years.
to
2.	The provisions dealing with Deferred Vested interest in each previous Pension and Severance Pay Agreement are to continue to apply to a former employee whose services with the Company were terminated during the term of such Agreement.
3.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article VII, the Deferred Vested Retirement Pension shall not be less than the Deferred Life Annuity prescribed by the Pension Benefits Act, 1965 of Ontario, and the same guarantee of pension payments shall apply in respect of such Deferred Life Annuity, as if he retired under Article III, Normal Retirement.
"B" AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to a retirant under the provisions of this Article VII shall be:
A basic pension determined by multiplying his years of credited service, up to his last day of active employment, by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates, Article XIV (a).	'
ARTICLE VIII FORM OF BENEFIT
(a)	NORMAL FORM OF BENEFIT - MEMBERS WITHOUT SPOUSES
Where an employee does not have a spouse on the date on which Pension payments commence and subject to guarantee periods as otherwise provided by this plan, the normal form of Pension Benefit is payable monthly in equal installments on the last day of each calendar month during the lifetime of a retired member.
(b)	NORMAL FORM OF BENEFIT - MEMBERS WITH SPOUSES
Where an employee has a spouse on the date on which Pension payments commence, the normal form of Pension Benefit is payable monthly on the last day of each calendar month during the lifetime of the retired member and continuing after the death of the member, to his spouse for his/her remaining lifetime in an amount equal to 60% of the amount payable to the member. In such cases the amount of pension payable to the retired member will be actuarially reduced.
A member who has a spouse on the date Pension payments commence may not elect any other form of Pension unless:
(i) The amount of Pension payable to the survivor of the member and his spouse is not less than 60% of the Pension payable during the joint lives of the member and his spouse, or
11
(ii)	The employee delivers to the Company, within the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date upon which payment of the Pension is to commence, the written Waiver of the employee and the employee’s spouse in the form prescribed under the Pension Benefits Act and this Waiver is not revoked by either the employee or his spouse prior to the commencement of the Pension.
(c)	FORM APPLICABLE TO SUPPLEMENT PENSION BENEFITS
Supplemental pension benefits payable pursuant to Article IV, Article V, and Article VI are not payable to a surviving spouse and will cease at the end of the month in which the retirant's death occurs.
(d)	OPTIONAL FORM OF BENEFIT
In lieu of the normal form of Pension payable under Paragraph (a) and (b) above, an employee may elect, except in respect of a Disability Pension payable under Article VI and subject to Paragraph b (ii), to receive one of the following optional forms of Pension Benefit by giving written notice of such election to the Company prior to the commencement date of the employee’s monthly Pension payments. The optional forms of Pension Benefit will be the actuarial equivalent of the Pension Benefit the employee would otherwise have received under the normal form taking into account the value of any Death Benefit otherwise provided by this Plan, if any, and are as follows:
(i) Life, Guaranteed 10 years or 15 years
An employee who retires may elect to receive an actuarially reduced amount of Monthly Pension which will continue to him during his remaining lifetime, but will be guaranteed to be payable, in any event, for not less than 120 or 180 months. Payments to be made after the retirant's death will be continued to his beneficiary, or if none, his estate.
(e)	An election of an optional form of Benefit under (i) above may be cancelled at any time provided written notice of the revocation or change is received by the Company prior to the commencement date of the employee’s monthly Pension payment, but no new election may be made thereafter.
(a)	If an employee dies:
ARTICLE IX DEATH BENEFIT
(I)	While employed by the Company prior to the commencement of his Pension, but after completing two (2) years of service as a member of the plan; or
12
(2)	After terminating employment with the Company with an entitlement to a Deferred Pension,
The member‘s spouse will be entitled to receive a Death Benefit in an amount equal to the commuted value of the Deferred Pension commencing on his normal retirement date to which the employee was entitled or would have been entitled under Article VII if he had terminated his employment immediately before his death. The spouse may elect to receive the benefit in one of the following forms:
(i)	A lump sum payment; or
(ii)	An Annuity payable for the spouse’s lifetime, as may be provided by the amount in (i), commencing either immediately or on the first day of the month on or next following the date at which the spouse attains age 65.
If the spouse fails to make an election within ninety (90) days of being advised of the entitlement under this Section, the spouse will be deemed to have elected the immediate Pension described in paragraph (ii).
(b)	If an employee dies prior to the commencement of his Pension and he has no spouse, the employee’s beneficiary or, if none, his estate will receive a lump sum equal to the commuted value of the Deferred Pension to which the employee was entitled or would have been entitled under Article VII if he had terminated his employment immediately before his death.
The right to designate or to revoke a designation of a beneficiary pursuant to this Section is to be exercised by the execution by the employee or retirant, and by delivery to the Company, of an instrument in writing, which expressly provides that the designation or revocation, whichever is the case, is made with reference to this plan.
Upon delivery to the Company, prior to or on or after the death of the employee or retirant, of a designation or a revocation of a designation of a beneficiary made pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs of this Section, the designation or revocation, even if it is contained in a Will, or an instrument purporting to be a Will, relates back to and has effect as and from the date of its execution but without prejudice to the Company, the Trustees, or any Insurance Company on account of any payment or payments made under this Plan.
(c)	If an employee dies following the commencement of his Retirement Pension and before he has received a total of sixty (60) monthly Pension payments, the balance of the sixty (60) monthly payments, exclusive of any monthly Supplemental Pension, will continue to be paid to his beneficiary or, if none, to his estate unless the retirant was receiving a Joint & Survivor Pension or has elected a ten (10) or fifteen (15) year Guarantee period, in which case the provisions of the elected option will apply.
13
ARTICLE X
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a)	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Plan for the operation and administration of the Plan and the policies of administration shall be determined by the Company whose decision with respect to any questions shall be final and binding for all purposes, subject to the provisions of Article XI of this Plan.
(b)	Neither this Plan nor any action taken by the Company or its representative shall be construed as giving any employee any right to be retained in the employment of the Company, and all employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or lay off to the same extent as if this Plan had not become effective, without liability on the part of the Company for a retirement pension or other allowance other than wages due and unpaid and any Severance Award to which an employee may be entitled under the Agreement.
(c)	Assignment of Retirement Pension or Disability Allowances, or Severance Awards, under the Collective Labour Agreement will not be recognized except when approved by the Company, and any Retirement Pensions or Disability Allowances, or Severance Awards may be suspended or terminated if an assignment thereof or any transfer of an interest therein by operation of law or otherwise is made, or if the same is attached or seized under or by virtue of legal proceedings.
(d)	In the case of an otherwise eligible employee who is regularly employed on a “part time” basis, the amount of the pension or allowance shall be reduced to an amount which will have the same proportionate relationship as the regular hours of such an employee have to the normal hours of a “full time” employee,
(e)	Any employee shall give proof of age by evidence satisfactory to the Company when requested to do so.
(f)	All applications for Retirement Pension or Disability Allowance must be made out on forms approved by the Company.
(g)	The Company will assume no superannuation responsibility for termination or retirement pensions or allowances or otherwise to employees who are not eligible under the provisions of this Plan.
(h)	The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may reasonably request, from time to time, concerning the operation of this Plan in so far as it affects retirants thereunder whom it has represented.
14
ARTICLE XI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE INFORMATION
(a)	If any dispute shall arise between the Company and any employee, former
employee or retirant represented by the Union with reference to eligibility, age, credited service or amount of pension or allowance, or suspension or termination of pension or allowance, such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance procedure of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect between the company and the Union omitting, however, all steps prior to the presentation of the grievance to the Manager of Human Resources.
If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall have only the authority to interpret and apply the provisions of this Plan, and of any applicable provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement relating to Grievance Procedure, but shall have no authority to alter, add to or subtract from any such provisions in any way. The decision of the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee, former employee or retirant. If any dispute shall arise as to whether any employee, former employee or retirant, who is represented by the Union, is or continues to be permanently or totally disabled, as defined in this Plan, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
Such employee, former employee, or retirant shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union, or their decisions, if they shall be in agreement, shall be final and binding. If they shall disagree, the issue shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The decision of such third physician after examination of the person concerned and consultation with the other two physicians appointed by the parties shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee, former employee, or retirant concerned. The fees and expenses of any such third physician shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
(b)	The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may reasonably request, from time to time, concerning the operation of this Plan and the administration of this Plan insofar as it affects retirants thereunder whom it has represented.
15
ARTICLE XII FINANCING
(a)	The Company shall establish a Pension Fund which shall consist of a trust fund or funds and/or an Insurance Company, or Government Annuities Branch contract or contracts for the purpose of providing the Benefits under this Plan.
The Company shall pay currently into the Pension Fund, such amounts as the actuary, retained by the Company, shall certify to be necessary to provide the current service costs and for amortization within the period prescribed by law of any unfunded liability or experience deficiency after taking into consideration the assets of the Pension Fund and such other factors as may be deemed relevant. The Company at its option may, from time to time, pay into the Pension Fund additional amounts.
(b)	Disbursement from Pension Fund
The Pension Fund shall be used, on proper authorization of the Board in accordance with the Agreement, to pay such pensions, allowances or awards as are payable under the Plan.
(c)	The pensions, allowances or awards which shall be payable in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall be paid solely from the Pension Fund and each employee or retirant or other person who shall claim the right to any payment under the Plan shall be entitled to look only to the Pension Fund for such payment, and no liability for the payment of pensions, allowances or awards under the Plan shall be imposed upon the Board, the Company, or the officers, directors or stockholders of the Company save to the extent to which the Company shall fail to carry out the provisions of (a) of this Article XII.
ARTICLE XIII UNDERTAKINGS
(a) The Company agrees that during the term of this Plan or any extension thereof, this Plan shall continue in effect without modification or change insofar as it may be applicable to employees represented by the Union, except as provided in Section (c) below.
16
(b)	The Union agrees that during the term of this Plan or any extension thereof, neither the Union nor any of its representatives shall (1) make any demands that this Plan be changed in any respect or terminated or that a new pension Plan or additional severance awards be established for the employees represented by the Union or that the Company contribute or pay any greater amount for employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of this Plan, (2) engage in or continue to engage in or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production in the Company’s plant for the purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination; except during the last seventy-five (75) days of the term of this Plan or any renewal thereof, the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the union with respect to any of the matters contained in this Plan, except as provided in Section (c) below.
(c)	The only exception to the above Sections will be that if Federal or Provincial Legislation is made effective after the date hereof, providing for contributions by the Company or changes in the present method of financing Company pension payments and accrual of funds, or should changes be made in the Old Age Security Act 1951 (as amended), the Company shall have the option to amend, and/or integrate this Plan by notice in writing to the Union, provided that the aggregate benefits a retiring individual employee shall receive under such amended Plan is not thereby reduced in amount, so that the amount such individual shall receive from the Company when added to that part of the benefits provided by any government plan which are financed or paid for by a compulsory contribution from the Company, shall not be less than the amount of benefits provided under this Plan.
(d)	Should the Company elect not to amend, and/or integrate the Plan as provided in Section (c) above and as a result benefits to the individual retiring employee in the aggregate are lessened thereby, the Union shall have the right to re-open for renegotiations, with respect only to the affected benefit, sixty (60) days after the official proclamation of such change, modification, or supplementation, and negotiations with respect only to the affected benefits will commence within fifteen (15) days, and if negotiations are not completed before termination of the notice period, this Plan shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon thirty (30) days written notice.
Such notice shall be given only on such date as will allow for termination of this Plan to coincide with the termination of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect. In the event of such termination, the provisions of this Plan shall continue to operate in-the manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
(e)	The Company agrees, during the term of this Plan or any extension thereof, to provide the Union with a minimum of the tri-annual reports on the Plan.
17
ARTICLE XIV PENSION BENEFIT RATES
(a)	Basic Benefit Rate
Effective April 15, 1999 the basic benefit rate shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month per year of credited service.
Effective April 15,2000 the basic benefit rate shall be twenty-seven dollars ($27.00) per month per year of credited service
Effective April 15,2001 the basic benefit rate shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per month per year of credited service
(b)	Supplemental Allowance
Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of service to a maximum of thirty (30) years of credited service.
(c)	For the purpose of calculating the amount of Pension, but not for the purpose of establishing eligibility or for any other purpose, credited service as determined under Article n of this Plan, will be adjusted to the nearest one-twelfth (1/12) of a year, up to and including the third decimal.
ARTICLE XV
EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AND TERMINATION
Umbrella Provisions
In the event of termination of the Collective Labour Agreement by strike or lockout, the benefits described herein shall be provided for ninety (90) days following termination. Termination of this Plan shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the Pension Plan insofar as it effects the pensions of those retiring before the termination date and no pension granted prior to such termination shall be reduced, suspended or discontinued except as specifically provided in the Pension Plan.
18
It is understood that amendment to the Pension Plan in accordance with this Plan, is subject to approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Pension Plan by such Pension Authorities and Commissions and subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of this Plan by the relevant Tax Authorities to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Company agrees with the Union that the Company will provide the pensions and pay the Severance Awards provided for herein which are awarded to those who become eligible therefore during the term of this Plan or any renewal thereof. No action in performance of the terms of this Plan and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
Should such approval or acceptance of the above named authorities be refused or withdrawn, negotiations will be started by the parties in an effort to make such changes as are required to obtain approval. In the event of failure in such negotiations, but in any case not later than the effective date of such refusal or withdrawal, this Plan will be terminated. In such event; either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect (solely for the purpose of obtaining Conciliation Service on the matter in dispute) and the other party shall join in such application. If, subsequent to notice of termination of the Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Plan under these circumstances the parties settle any differences between them then the Collective Labour Agreement if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until termination according to its provisions.
19
Dated at Kitchener, Ontario, this 9th day of June, 1999.
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
United Steelworkers of America on behalf of its LocaL296
M. Wilker
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN APPENDIX C
This Plan made and entered into April 15,1999, by and between Collins & Aikman Canada Inc., Kitchener, Ontario and/or its successors, hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, and the United Steelworkers of America, on behalf of its Local Union No.296, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
WHEREAS: The parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan by Agreement dated 15th day of February, 1986 and
WHEREAS: The parties have agreed to certain modifications and amendments of the
Plan,
Now, therefore, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
As used herein:
1.	“Company” means Collins & Aikman Canada Inc., Kitchener.
2.	“Union” means Local Union No. 296, United Steelworkers of America.
3.	“Plan” means the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, established by this Agreement, between the Company and the Union.
4.	“Trustee” means the trustee of the General Fund established under the Plan.
5.	“Collective Agreement" means the Collective Labour Agreement, dated April 15, 1999, between the Company and the Union as may be amended or supplemented, or any successor agreement.
6.	“Bargaining Unit” means the unit of employees covered by the Collective Agreement.
7.	“Employee” means an employee of the Company who, during the life of this Agreement, is in the Bargaining Unit as defined in and covered by the Collective Agreement. This plan specifically excludes payments into the fund and payment of benefits from the fund on behalf of the part time employees.
1
8 “Regular Benefit” or “Weekly Supplemental” means a Weekly Benefit as is payable under Article VII, Section I, of this plan.
9.	“Short Week Benefit” means such Weekly Benefit as is payable under Article XII of the Plan.
10.	“Benefit” means a Regular Benefit or a Short Week Benefit or both, as indicated by the context.
11.	“Fund” or “General Fund” means a trust fund maintained under this Plan from which Benefits may be payable to employees.
12.	“Seniority” means the seniority status in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
13.	“Active Payroll“ means an employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he draws pay while in the Bargaining Unit.
14.	“Plant” means Collins & Aikman Canada Inc., Kitchener.
15.	“Employment Insurance” means the system or program, established by law, for paying benefits to persons on account of their unemployment, under which an individuals eligibility for benefit payments is not determined by application on a “means” or “disability” test, and “Employment Benefit” means a Benefit payable under such system.
16.	“Credit Unit” means a unit, or fraction thereof, credited to an employee under the Plan.
17.	“Work Week” or “Pay Period” means a calendar week beginning on Sunday at the regular starting time of the shift to which the employee is assigned or was last assigned immediately prior to being laid off.
18.	“Full Week” or "Week" when used in connection with the period of lay-off means (i) a period of lay-off equivalent to a work week or (ii) a work week for which an employee shall have been scheduled or offered work for less than 20 hours, including hours paid for but not worked, and “full week of lay-off” shall include any such week, or (iii) with respect to a Short Week Benefit payable to an employee, a work week during which the Compensated or Available Hours (as defined in Article XII, Section 2) total less than the number of hours in his Standard Work Week, but not to exceed 40; provided, however, that if there is a difference between the starting time of a full week and of a week under the Employment Insurance system, the full week shall be paired with the week under the Employment Insurance system which corresponds most closely thereto in time. Each week within a continuous period of lay-off does not constitute a new separate layoff.
19.	(a) “Average Hourly Earnings” for the purposes of this Plan, means the straight time hourly earnings of the applicant and shall be based on the applicant’s last three weeks of employment in the Bargaining Unit on the most recent job on which he had job seniority. Such “Average Hourly Earnings” shall be determined by dividing the applicant’s earnings including Night Shift Bonus, but excluding overtime and all other premium payments, by the corresponding straight time hours worked during the same three week period.
If a general wage increase has become effective between the period for which average hourly earnings has been calculated and the date of lay-off, such general wage increase shall be added to the average hourly earnings so calculated.
In order to provide a minimum appropriate to the current wage scales in the plant, the average hourly earnings shall in no case be deemed to be less than seven dollars($7.00) per hour for the purpose of calculating the benefits payable.
(b) “Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings” means the straight time hourly earnings of an employee and shall be determined by dividing the employees earnings including Night Shift Bonus but excluding all other premium payments during the last pay period preceding the Short Work Week, by the corresponding straight time hours worked during the same pay period.
20.	“Dependents” means any person recognized as such under the provisions of the Dominion Unemployment Insurance Act, 1955, by the Employment Insurance Commission.
ARTICLE II
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND
The Company shall establish and maintain a Fund in accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, with a Chartered Bank or qualified Trust Company, selected by the Company as Trustee. The Company’s contributions shall be made into the Fund, the assets of which shall be held invested and applied by the Trustee, all in accordance with the Plan. Benefits shall be payable only from such Fund. The Company shall provide in the contract with the Trustee that the Fund shall be held in cash or invested only in general obligations of the Government of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province and/or any institution meeting the requirements of the Plan.
ARTICLE III
MAXIMUM FUNDING AND TRUST FUND POSITION
Section 1. Maximum Funding
There shall be a Maximum Funding of the Fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provision of Section 2 of this article). The Maximum Funding of the Fund for each month after the effective date of this Plan shall be determined by multiplying the sum of (a) the number of employees on the active payroll and (b) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll but who have Credit Units by (c) $750.00.
The above number of employees and persons shall be as determined by the Company from its records as of the latest date for which the figures are available prior to the first Monday in the month for which the Maximum Funding is being determined (or prior to the pay period, if the Maximum Funding is being determined for a pay period).
Section 2. Trust Fund Position
There shall be a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for the Fund for each calendar month. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Funds as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such month. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that whenever the Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month is less that ten percent (10%), such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan only to the first pay period beginning within such month, and thereafter there shall be determined a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for such Fund for each pay period until the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds ten percent (10%). When the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds such percentage, such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for such purposes to each pay period until a Trust Fund Position for the following calendar month shall be applicable pursuant to this Section. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for a Particular pay period shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund at the close of business on Friday preceding such pay period, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such pay period.
4
Section 3. Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the Maximum Funding or the Trust Fund Position shall be made on account of any subsequent discovered error in the computations or the figures used in making the computation, except(i) in the case of an error in bad faith, or (ii) in the case where after discovery of and error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shall only be prospective in effect, unless such adjustment would be substantial in the opinion of the Company. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to excuse the Company from making up any shortage in its contributions to the Fund.
ARTICLE IV
CONTRIBUTION BY COMPANY Section 1. Company Contributions
Commencing with the pay period beginning December 16,1979, and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable Trust Fund Position of the Fund is less than 100%, the Company shall make a contribution to the Fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying six cents ($.06) by the total number of hours of which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or such lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the assets in the General fund up to their Maximum Funding for such Fund).
Commencing with the pay period beginning December 15,1988, and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is less than the figure shown in Column A; the Company shall make a contribution to the Fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying the applicable figure in Column B by the total number of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or less amount as will bring the total market value of the Fund to the then-applicable Trust Fund Amount in Column A, in which case, the remainder of said total number of hours shall be multiplied by the next lower figure in the applicable Column B).
Column A $150. or less $300.or less $450. or less $550. or less $650. or less $750. or less
Column B .13 .12 .11 .10 .09 .08
5
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan, the Company shall not be obligated to make any contributions to the Fund with respect to any pay period for which the applicable Trust Fund Position of such Fund is 100% or more, and no contribution to the Fund for any pay period shall be in excess of the amount necessary to bring the total market value of the assets in such Fund up to the Maximum Funding for such Fund.
Section 2. When Contributions are payable
Contributions by the Company to the fund shall be made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day in the calendar week following the pay day for the work week with respect to which contribution is being made. Except that in periods in which the Trust Fund Position equals or exceeds 10%, weekly contributions may be accumulated and made on or before the close of business in the first regularly scheduled work day of the calendar week in which the Friday used for determining the Trust Fund Position falls.
ARTICLE V
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS Section 1. Application for Benefits
No person shall be eligible for a Benefit unless and until he shall have made due application therefore in accordance with the procedure established by the Company under the Plan and shall have met the eligibility requirements of Section 2 of this Article.
Section 2. Eligibility far Regular Benefits
An applicant shall be eligible for Regular Benefit:
A)	if the applicant is on a Maternity or Parental Leave as defined in the Employment Standards Act;
B)	if he is on lay-off from the Company with respect to the week for which application is made and the first day of such week is on or after February 11,1969 and if
(a)	such lay-off
(1)	was from the Bargaining Unit covered by the Collective Agreement;
(2)	occurred in a reduction of force or temporary lay-off and was not the consequence of a condition which qualified the applicant for Benefits under any Agreement between the parties which provides for Severance Pay, Retirement of Disability Allowance or Weekly Sickness Indemnity;
6
(3)	was not for disciplinary reasons;
(4)	was not a consequence of
(i)	any strike, slow-down, work stoppage, picketing (whether or not by the employee), or concerted action, at the Company Plant, or any dispute of any kind involving employees, whether at the Company Plant or elsewhere, or
(ii)	any fault attributable to the applicant or
(iii)	any war or hostile act of a foreign power (but not Government Regulation or Controls connected therewith), or
(iv)	sabotage, or insurrection
(v)	shall not apply to, the first two (2) weeks of lay-off resulting from such cause.
(b)	with respect to such week, the applicant:
(1) has to his credit at least one-quarter (.25) Credit Units;
(2) has registered at and has reported to an office maintained by the Employment Insurance Commission and has reported to an employment office maintained by the manpower department and has not failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable under such Employment Insurance; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply with respect to a week of temporary lay-off during which the employee is eligible for a Benefit under the Plan but is ineligible for Employment Insurance Benefit solely for the reason set forth in Section 2 (b), (3) (iv) of this Article;
(3)	has received an Employment Insurance Benefit not currently under protest or was ineligible to receive such a benefit only (i) because the week was a second “waiting week” within his benefit year under the Employment Insurance System, or was an Employment Insurance System “waiting week” immediately following a week for which he received an Employment Insurance System Benefit, or occurring within less than 52 weeks since his last Employment Insurance System “waiting week” (ii) because he did not have, prior to his lay-off, a sufficient period of work in employment covered by the Employment Insurance system or
(iii)	because of a limit under the Employment Insurance system of the period of time for which Employment Insurance Benefits are payable to the applicant, provided, however, a Benefit shall be payable under the foregoing only in the period between the last day Employment Insurance Benefits were payable and the last day Employment Insurance Benefits would have been payable if the
7
applicant had been entitled to fifty-two (52) weeks of Employment Insurance payments; or (iv) because he was employed by the Company or otherwise compensated as defined under the provisions of the Employment Insurance System in an amount equal to or in excess of the amount which disqualified him from an Employment Insurance Benefit;
(4)	has had at least one (1) full week of lay-off by the Company in the current Employment Insurance Commission benefit period, for which he received no benefit under the S.U.B. plan, though otherwise eligible for such a benefit apart from this paragraph 4; or, has had a waiting week in such benefit period in which he receives income sufficient to disqualify him for an Employment Insurance benefit provided he would otherwise be eligible for a benefit under the terms of this S.U.B. plan;
(5)	has not (i) refused an offer by the Company of available work which the Company may properly require him to accept under the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or had not (ii) refused to accept work when first recalled pursuant to the Collective Agreement;
(6)	has appeared personally and reported during such week at the location designated for the purpose if required by the Company, pursuant to the Article XI;
(7)	was not eligible for, and was not claiming, any accident or sickness or other disability Benefit (other than a survivors allowance) whether publicly or privately financed, or a Pension or Retirement Benefit financed in whole or in part by the Company; provided, however, eligibility for, or the claiming of any such disability Benefit shall not disqualify an applicant for a Benefit, if the applicant would have been eligible for such disability Benefit had he been actively at work and the receipt of such disability Benefit payment does not disqualify him from receiving an Employment Insurance Benefit;
(8)	was not in the services of the Armed Forces of Canada;
(9)	did not receive any Employment Benefit from, or under any contract, plan or arrangement of, any other employer; and he was not eligible for such a Benefit from, or under any contract, plan or arrangement of, any employer with whom he has greater seniority or service than with the Company; and;
(10)	has a Benefit computed under the Plan of at least ten dollars ($10.00); provided that any Benefits denied by reason of this paragraph shall be accumulated and paid at the end of each thirteenth week of Benefits or at the time the last benefit is due as a result of a lay-off, whichever is earlier.
8
(11)	was not eligible for a Short Week Benefit under Article XII.
Section 3. Appeal From Denial Of Employment Insurance Benefit
(a)	With respect to any week for which an applicant for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit has applied and has been denied an Employment Insurance Benefit, which denial is being appealed by the applicant through the procedure provided therefore under the Employment Insurance system, the Weekly Supplemental Benefit shall not be paid to the applicant, but, if the applicant is eligible to receive a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan except for such denial, of the Employment Insurance Benefit, an amount equal to such Weekly Supplementary Benefit shall be withdrawn and set aside by the Trustee in a separate account until such dispute shall have been determined. If the dispute shall be finally determined in favour of the applicant, the amount in such separate account shall be paid to him; if the dispute shall be finally determined adversely to the applicant, the amount in such separate account shall be returned to the Fund.
(b)	During the period that payment of a Weekly Supplemental Benefit for any week is suspended pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 3, the number of Credit Units which would be cancelled because of such payment shall be held in suspension pending the outcome of such dispute; provided that if an applicant with Credit Units so held in suspension is at any time eligible to receive a weekly Supplemental Benefit except that he does not have sufficient Credit Units (other than those held in suspension) to entitle him to such Benefit, the Trustee shall pay to him the amount of such Weekly Supplemental Benefit out of the amount previously set aside in a separate account as provided in subsection (a) of this Section 3, and shall cancel the appropriate number of the applicant’s Credit Units which have been held in suspension. Upon the determination of such dispute, such Credit Units as are still held in suspension shall be cancelled or re-instated in such manner as will place the applicant in the same position with respect to Credit Units (i) as he would have been had the payment been made as applied for, if such dispute shall be determined in his favour, or (ii) as he would have been had such payment not been applied for, if such dispute shall be determined against him or if he shall effectively withdraw his appeal against the denial of such Employment Insurance Benefit.
Amounts so withdrawn and set aside by the Trustee nevertheless shall be included in computing the Trust Fund Position of the Fund. Credit Units so held in suspension, pending the outcome of such dispute, shall not be considered as cancelled in determining the number of persons laid off who have Credit Units in computing the Maximum Funding.
(c)
9
ARTICLE VI CREDIT UNITS
Section 1. Accrual of Credit Units
(a) Credit Units shall have no fixed value in terms of either time or money, but shall be a means of determining duration of benefits under the varying circumstances from time to time prevailing. Credit Units shall be credited to the employee currently and at the rates specified in subsection (b) of this Section, provided, however, that;
(1) No employee may have to his credit in the aggregate at any one time more than one hundred and thirty (130) Credit Units under this Plan as specified below, no more than seventy-eight (78) of which may have been accumulated prior to December 16, 1982.
Years Of Employee’s	Maximum Credit
Seniority	Units
Less than 5 years	52
5 years but less than 15 years	78
15 years or more	130
(2)(a) No employee shall be credited with any Credit Unit prior to the first day as of which he has at least one (1) year of seniority and is on the Active Payroll in the Bargaining Unit, but as of such day he shall be credited with Credit Units for work weeks subsequent to his seniority date at the rate specified in subsection (b) of this section.
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph 1 (a), 2(a) only, an employee shall be considered to be on the Active Payroll and shall be allowed to accumulate credited seniority during:
(i)	a period of lay-off, not exceeding forty-five (45) days, immediately preceding the date on which he would have attained one year of seniority had he not been laid off;
(ii)	a period of unauthorized absence not in excess of seven (7) calendar days;
(iii)	a period of authorized leave of absence, but not exceeding the first ninety (90) days of such authorized leave of absence;
(iv) a period of absence while receiving Workplace Safety and Insurance Board benefits;
(v) a period of disciplinary suspension, not exceeding 14 calendar days.
(b)	For work weeks commencing on or after January 10,1971, Credit Units shall be
credited at the rate of one-half (.50) of a Credit Unit for each work week for which the employee draws pay (Credit Units accumulated prior to January 10,1971, having been accumulated at the rate specified in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan between the parties dated March 28,1968).
(c)	For the purpose of accruing Credit Units under this Section, a full work week for an employee means a work week occurring while he is in the Bargaining Unit and for which he draws pay for at least twenty (20) hours.
Time lost when excused for Local Union business, and a leave of absence for Local Union Business, shall. be included in determining a full work week under this Section.
Section 2. Forfeiture of Credit Units
A person shall forfeit permanently all Credit Units with which he shall have been credited if at any time:
(a)	he shall lose his seniority under the provisions as stipulated in the Collective Agreement;
(b)	he shall be on lay-off from the Bargaining Unit for a continuous period of thirty (30) months, or
(c)	he shall wilfully misrepresent any material fact in connection with an application by him for Benefits under the Plan.
Section 3. Transfers out of or into Bargaining Unit
If an employee is transferred out of the Bargaining Unit his Credit Units shall be cancelled. They shall be reinstated, however, if he is transferred back to the Bargaining Unit with, or after he acquires, at least one year’s seniority therein.
An employee of the Company excluded from the Bargaining Unit who has transferred to a job within the Bargaining Unit, according to the stipulations of the Collective Agreement, shall accrue Credit Units for his full weeks worked in the Bargaining Unit and shall be credited with such Credit Units when he is credited with at least one year of seniority.
11
ARTICLE VII AMOUNT OF
WEEKLY SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT
Section 1. Amount of Regular Benefit
The Weekly Supplemental Benefit payable to any eligible applicant for each week of continuous lay-off beginning on or after the effective date of this Plan shall be an amount which when added to his Weekly Employment Insurance Benefit Rate and other Compensation, will equal eighty percent (80%) of his weekly straight time pay as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
For the purpose of this Article, an applicant’s weekly straight time pay shall be computed by multiplying his average hourly earnings as defined in Article 1 by 40
Employment Insurance and Other Compensation
For all purposes of this Article, “Employment Insurance and other compensation” shall mean:
(1)	all amounts by which the applicant’s earnings or remuneration, or otherwise, as defined under the law of the Employment Insurance Regulations, exceed the allowable earnings under Employment Insurance regulations;
(2)	all amounts he would have received from the Company for hours scheduled or offered him but not worked; the amount being computed on the basis of “Average Hourly Earnings” as herein defined;
(3)	the amount of all other Benefits in the nature of compensation or Benefits for Unemployment received or receivable under Municipal, Provincial, or Federal laws and regulations.
Section 3. Insufficient Credit Units for Full Benefit
If an applicant shall have available less than the full number of Credit Units required to be cancelled for the full amount of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit (as set forth in Article Vm) for any week for which he is other-wise eligible, he shall be paid only that portion of such Weekly Supplemental Benefit as bears the same relation to the full amount thereof as his available Credit Units bear to the Credit Units required to be cancelled for such full amount, but no payment shall be made if such payment would be less than ten dollars ($10.00).
0)
(b)
Section 2.
(a)
12
Section 4. Effect of Low Trust Fund Position
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the Plan, if, and as long as the applicable Trust Fund Position for any week shall be less than four percent (4%), no Weekly Supplemental Benefit for such week shall be paid.
Section 5. Withholding Tax
The trustee shall deduct from the amount of any Benefit as computed under the Plan any amount required to be withheld by the Trustee or the Company by reason of any laws or regulation, for payment of taxes or other-wise to any Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Government.
Section 6. Union Dues Deduction
The Trustee shall deduct from benefits, Union membership dues of those employees who so authorize by a written assignment in such amount as may be fixed by the local Union.’
ARTICLE VIII DURATION OF BENEFITS
Section 1. Number of Weeks of Benefits
The number of weeks for which an eligible applicant shall receive a Weekly Supplemental Benefit payment shall be determined on the basis of the number of his Credit Units and the Trust Fund Position applicable to the weeks for which Weekly Supplemental Benefits are paid to him. When all of an eligible applicant’s Credit Units have been cancelled, he shall be entitled to no further Benefits until he shall have been credited with additional Credit Units.
Section 2. Credit Units to be Cancelled on Payment of a Benefit
The number of Credit Units to be cancelled for any Weekly Supplemental Benefit shall be determined on the basis of the (i) seniority, of the person to whom such Benefit is paid, at the time of his lay-off; plus, up to 45 days of credited seniority accumulation if such person was laid off not more than 45 days prior to the date on which he would have attained one (1) year of seniority, had he not been laid off, and (ii) the Trust Fund Position applicable to the week for which such benefit is paid, in accordance with the following table:
13
And if the seniority of the person to whom such Benefit is paid is:
1	5	10	15	20
BUT.	BUT	BUT	BUT	YRS.
LESS	LESS	LESS	LESS	&
THAN	THAN	THAN	THAN	OVER
5 YRS	10 YRS.	15 YRS.	20 YRS.	
If the Trust Fund Position applicable to the week for which such Benefit paid is: The Credit Units cancelled for such Benefit shall be:
80% or over	1.00
70-79.99%	1.15
60-69.99%	1.30
50-59.99%	1.50
40 - 49.99%	2.00
30 - 39.99%	2.50
20 - 29.99%	3.33
10 - 19.99%	5.00
4 - 9.99%	7.50
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50 2.00
2.50 3.33 5.00
Under 4% -No Benefit Payable-
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50 2.00
2.50 3.33
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50 2.00
2.50
1:00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.15
1.30
1.50
2.00
provided, however, that one half of the number of Credit Units required to be cancelled according to the table will be cancelled for an unscheduled Short Week Benefit when with respect to such week the employee has earned from the Company an amount equal to or in excess of eighty percent (80%) of his Weekly Straight time pay; and no Credit Units shall be cancelled when an employee receives (i) a short Week Benefit for a Scheduled Short Work Week, or (ii) a Short Week where such Benefit is payable for a period of less than three (3) hours.
The Company shall advise the employee of the number of Credit Units cancelled for each benefit payment and the number of Credit Units remaining to his credit after such payment.
14
ARTICLE IX
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND CONTINUATION OF PLAN
Section 1. Effect of Amended Plan
This Amended Plan on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, when it becomes effective, shall supersede and completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits concluded between the parties March 28,1968, as from time to time thereafter amended. However, until such time as this Plan becomes effective, the Plan shall be governed in all respects by the terms of the original Agreement of March 28,1968, as heretofore amended.
Section 2. Federal and Provincial Income Tax Rulings
This Plan shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department with respect to the Plan, including particularly the determination that Company contributions to the Plan constitute currently deductible business expenses and that such contributions are not taxable income to the Trust under the Dominion Income Tax Act, and applicable Provincial and /or Municipal Corporations Tax Acts, as now in effect or as may be hereafter in effect.
Section 3. Employment Insurance Supplementation and Commission Rulings
It is the purpose of this Plan to supplement Employment Insurance Benefits to the levels here-in provided, and not to replace or duplicate them.
This amended Plan shall not become effective, and Weekly Supplemental Benefits shall not be payable to the applicants under this Plan, unless and until it shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Company by administrative rulings from the Employment Insurance Commission of the Dominion Government or competent authorities, or by amendments to the Employment Insurance Act, that supplementation (as hereafter defined) is permitted. When such rulings or amendments are obtained, Weekly Supplemental Benefits shall be paid to eligible applicants (provided that the requirements of Section 2 of this Article have been met) with respect to work weeks commencing on or after the date of the commencement of the first work week following the date on which such rulings or amendments shall have been received.
(a)
(b)
15
for purposes of this Section “Supplementation44 means recognition of the right of a person to receive both an Employment Insurance Benefit and a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan for the same week of lay-off at approximately the same time and without reduction of the Employment Insurance Benefit because of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit under this Plan.
Application for Rulings
The Company shall apply promptly for the rulings described in Section 2 and 3 of this Article. In the event any of the rulings are withheld because of objection to any of the provisions of the amended Plan, the Company and the Union shall meet to negotiate changes pertaining only to the clauses or sections that may have caused approval to be withheld.
Section 5. Effect of Withholding
If the Company at any time shall be required to withhold any amount from any contribution to the Fund by reason of any Federal, Provincial or Municipal law or regulation, the Company shall have the right to deduct such amount from such contribution and to pay only the balance to the Fund.
Section 6.
(c)
Section 4,
In the event that any ruling required under Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article, having been obtained, shall be revoked or modified in such manner as no longer to be satisfactory to the Company, all obligations of the Company under the Plan shall cease and the Plan shall thereupon terminate and be of no further effect (without in any way affecting the validity or operation of the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration and paying Weekly Supplemental Benefits, all in accordance with the provisions of the Plan until the assets of the Fund shall have been exhausted except that Section 4 of Article VII shall not be applicable.
ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1. Liability
(a)	The Provisions of these Articles I through XIII constitute the entire Plan. The provisions of Article IV express, and shall be deemed to express completely each and every obligation of the Company with respect to the financing of the Plan and providing for benefits and payments. Without limiting the foregoing, no Benefit shall be payable from the General Fund except as stated in the Plan, and the Company shall not be obligated to provide for any benefit or payment not provided
16
for in the Plan, or to make any contribution to the General Fund not specifically provided for in the Plan, even though the assets in the Fund should be insufficient to pay Benefits to which eligible persons would have been entitled under the Plan were the assets of such Fund adequate to pay such Benefits; and the Union shall not call upon the Company to make or provide for any such benefit or payment. The Company shall not be obligated to make up, or provide for making up, any depreciation, or loss arising from depreciation, in the value of the securities held in the Fund (other than as contributions by the Company may be required under the provisions of Article IV, when the Trust Fund Position of the Fund is less than one hundred percent (100%)); and the Union shall not call upon the Company to make up, or to provide for making up, any such depreciation or loss.
(b)	The Company, the Trustee, and the Union, and each of them, shall not be liable because of any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely upon the correctness of any information furnished to it by an authorized representative of any of the others.
(c)	The Trustee shall be directed to hold or to invest the assets of the Fund only in cash or general obligations of the Government of the Dominion of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province, irrespective of the rate of return, or the absence of any return thereon, and without any absolute or relative limit upon the amount that may be invested in any one or more types of investment; and the Trustee shall not be liable for making or retaining of any such investment or for realized or unrealized loss thereon whether from normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
(d)	Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to
relieve any person from liability for wilful misconduct or fraud.
Section 2. Company Authority
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to qualify, limit, or alter in any manner the Company’s sole and complete authority and discretion to establish, regulate, determine, or modify at any time levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of hiring and lay-off, production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shall be done, marketing of its products, or any other matter related to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if this Plan were not in existence; nor shall it be deemed to confer upon the Union any voice in such matters.
17
Section 3. To Whom Benefits Are Payable In Certain Conditions
Benefits shall be payable hereunder only to the person who is eligible therefore, except that if such a person is deceased or is unable to manage his affairs for any reason, any Benefit payable to him shall be paid to his duly appointed legal representative, if there be one, and, if not, to the spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents of such person as the Company in its discretion may determine. Any payment so made shall be a complete discharge of any liability with respect to such Benefit. In the case of death, no Benefit shall be payable with respect to any period following the last full week of lay-off immediately preceding the person’s death.
Section 4. No Vested Interest
No person shall have any right, title, or interest in or to any of the assets of the Fund or in or to any Company contribution thereto.
Section 5. Non Alienation of Benefits
No benefit shall be subject in any way to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, or encumbrance of any kind, except for deduction of Union dues, and any attempt to accomplish the same shall be void. In the event that such an attempt has been made with respect to any Benefit due to or to become due to any person, the Company in its sole discretion may terminate the interest of such person in such Benefit and apply the amount of such Benefit to or for the benefit of such person, his spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependants as the Company may determine, and any such application shall be a complete discharge of all liability with respect to such Benefit.
Section 6. Amendment and Termination of the Plan
The Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated, except as may be proper or permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Upon any termination of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate in all respects except that the assets then remaining in Fund shall be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then in effect and shall be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration and to pay Benefits to eligible applicants laid off or thereafter laid off, in the order, each week, of the respective date as of which they were laid off, Section 4 of Article VII shall not be applicable. In the event there are any assets in the Fund, after all of the above payments have been made, the Company will commence negotiations with the Union to reach an agreement for the equitable distribution of the remaining assets of the SUB fund and if agreement is not reached within a period of ninety (90) days, the funds shall be divided into equal amounts among all the employees at that date on the active payroll of the Company who have
18	.' V'
(a)
(b)
Credit Units uncancelled and remaining to their credit, in amounts to such Credit Units.
Section 7. Status of Person Receiving Benefits
Neither the Company’s contributions nor any Benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of any employee’s wages for any purpose. No person who receives any Benefit shall for that reason be deemed an employee of the Company during such period, and he shall not thereby accrue any greater right to participate in, accrue or receive Benefits under any other employee Benefit Plan to which the Company contributes than he would if he were not receiving such Benefits.
Section 8. Armed Services
An employee who enters the Armed Services of Canada directly from the employ of the Company shall have his Credit unit cancelled, if however, he is entitled to reinstatement according to the provisions of the Collective Agreement such cancelled Credit Units will be reinstated upon such reinstatement of employment.
ARTICLE XI
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
Section 1. General
The determination of the eligibility under the Plan of any person who applies for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit and the payment under the Plan of such Benefit shall be made and administered under and in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Section 2. Application for a Benefit
The Company shall have the right to establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures concerning the times and places at which persons desiring to establish eligibility for and/or to apply for a Weekly Benefit shall report in order to comply with the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 1 and 2 of Article V, and concerning the form, content and substantiation of applications for Benefits.
So far as practicable, such procedures shall require the applicant to apply for a Benefit under the Plan for any week of lay-off during the same week as, or in any event, no later than four (4) weeks after he has received his Employment Insurance Benefit for such week of lay-off.
The Company shall designate an office or department at the Plant where persons laid off from such Plant may appear for the purpose of complying with such requirements.
19
An applicant shall be required to exhibit his Employment Insurance Benefit cheque for the week with respect to which application for a Benefit under the Plan is made, or the payment receipt or similar document showing receipt of the Employment Insurance Benefit for such week; provided, however, that if the applicant was ineligible, as provided in subsection (b) (3) of the Section 2 of Article V, to receive an Employment Insurance Benefit for such week, such applicant, shall in lieu of exhibiting such cheque, payment receipt or similar document, furnish proof satisfactory to the Company that he was ineligible solely for the reason therein set forth.
Employment Insurance Benefits shall be presumed to have been received by the applicant on the date set forth on the cheques therefore, or, on the date on the copy of the payment receipt or similar document.
In addition, an applicant for a Benefit under the Plan may be required to state, in writing under oath, (i) whether he received or was entitled to receive any Benefit from any source other than the Plan and the Employment Insurance system, for the week with respect to which application is made, and if so, the source and amount thereof; (ii) the amount earned from all sources during such week and the source thereof; and (iv) such further and additional evidence and information as the Company may deem to be material and relevant in order to enable the Company to determine whether such person is eligible to be paid a Benefit under the Plan, and if so, the amount of such Benefit.
Section 3. Determination of Eligibility
(a)	When a person files an application for a Benefit under the Plan in accordance with Section 2 of this Article, and furnishes to the Company the evidence and information required to be furnished under such Section, the Company promptly thereafter shall:
(1)	determine whether such person is an eligible person and, if he is determined to be an
eligible person,
(2)	determine the number of uncancelled Credit Units to the credit of such eligible person, and,
(3)	determine whether any Weekly Supplemental Benefit is payable to such eligible person, and, if so, the amount thereof.
If the Company determines that a Weekly Supplemental Benefit is payable to an eligible person with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made, it shall deliver prompt written notice thereof to the Trustee setting forth the name of such eligible person and the amount of such Benefit. Upon receipt of such notice, the Trustee shall be required to make payment of such Benefit from the Fund
20
(b)
to such eligible person within a reasonable time. If the Company determines, after a person has been paid one or more Weekly Supplemental Benefits under the Plan, that such Benefit or Benefits should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount or amounts (as the result of a subsequent disqualification for Employment Insurance Benefits or otherwise), a written notice thereof shall be mailed to such person and such person shall return the amount of overpayment to be reimbursed to the Fund by making a deduction from future Weekly Supplemental Benefits otherwise payable to such person or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to such person, or both. The Company is authorized to make such deduction from the employee’s compensation and in such event pay the amount deducted to the Trustee. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, at such time as such amount of overpayment is recovered by the Fund, the number of Credit Units of such person, if any, therefore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of benefits shall be restored to him, except to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his Credit Units above one hundred and thirty (130) at the time thereof, and except as otherwise provided in Article VI, Section 2. The Payment of Benefits under the Plan may be made by, and the return of amounts of overpayment may be made to the representative of the Trustee appointed by it for such purpose in the Plan. Such representatives may be persons employed by the Company.
(c)	If the Company determines that a person is not entitled to a Weekly Supplemental Benefit with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made, it shall send prompt written notice thereof to him.
(d)	In making weekly wage calculations for purposes of Benefit determination, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the official form filed by the applicant with the Company for income tax withholding purposes; and the applicant shall have the burden of establishing that he is entitled to a greater number of withholding exemptions than he shall have claimed on such form.
Section 4. Power and Authority of the Company
The Company shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and appropriate in order to carry out its duties under this Article, including, without limitation, the following:
(a)	To obtain from employees, persons filing application for Weekly Supplemental Benefits, eligible persons, the Trustees, and elsewhere such information as the Company shall deem necessary in order to carry out its duties under this Article.
(b)	To investigate the correctness and validity of information furnished by any person who applies for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit.
21
To make appropriate determinations pursuant to this Article.
To determine the Trust Fund Position of the Fund in the manner and at the times specified in the Plan, including collection of data necessary to make such determinations:.
To establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given under this Article.
To establish and maintain necessary records.
To prepare and distribute information explaining the Plan.
To round out figures, use averages and composites, and employ other customary and routine accounting techniques as it may deem necessary and appropriate.
(i)	The Company agrees that during the term of this Plan, or any extension thereof, to provide the Union with the Annual Reports on the Plan.
Section 5. Appeals Procedure
(a)	First Step Appeals
The Company shall designate one (1) person to serve as its representative for the consideration of Appeals by applicants and the Union shall be paid for time lost from work in attending meetings with the Company representative for the consideration of such Appeals, by the Company through its Payroll Accounts and all such payments shall be recovered by the Company from the Fund.
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
Any person who shall have been determined by the Company not to be entitled to any Benefits, who shall have been determined to be entitled to be paid a Weekly Supplemental Benefit that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes he is entitled, who questions the number of Credit Units credited to him at the time of lay-off, who has had more of his Credit Units cancelled than he believes correct or who is determined to be ineligible for a Benefit which determination is disputed by him, may appeal such determination by presenting an Appeal, on a form to be provided for that purpose to the Union representative.
Such written Appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of a cheque of such smaller amount by the Trustee to such person. In the situation where a number of employees have filed applications for Benefits under substantially identical conditions, an appeal may be filed with respect to all such employees. The representative receiving said written Appeal will promptly furnish one copy to the Company representative.
22
If the Union representative shall find that such Appeal is justified, he shall so notify the Company representative, and the Company representative and Union representative shall meet within ten (10) days from the date of the Appeal (or such extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such Appeal.
In the event the two (2) parties cannot agree upon the disposition of the Appeal, the Union representative, at the request of the applicant, may refer the matter to the “Board of Appeals” for disposition, on a form to be provided for that purpose, within the time limit and in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 5 (b) of this Article XI.
(b)	(1) Within twenty (20) days after disposition of an Appeal by the Company and the Union representatives, the Union representative may request a ruling by the Board of Appeals. Such request shall be in writing, shall specify the respects in which the Plan is claimed to have been violated and shall set forth the facts relied upon as justifying a reversal or modification of the determination appealed from. A copy of said request will be furnished to the Company representative. The Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction to act upon an Appeal made after the time specified above or upon an Appeal which does not otherwise comply with this sub-paragraph.
Subject to the limitations of sub-paragraph (2) set forth below, the handling and disposition of such a request to the Board of Appeals shall be in accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board. The applicant, the Union representative, or the Union members of the Board of Appeals may withdraw any appeal to the Board at any time before it is decided by the Board.
(2)	In ruling upon Appeals, the Board shall have no authority to waive, vary, qualify, or alter in any manner, the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan, the procedure for applying for Weekly Supplemental Benefits set forth therein, or any other provision of the Plan, and shall have no jurisdiction other than to determine, on the basis of the facts presented and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan:
(i)	whether the first stage Appeal and the Appeal to the Board were made within the time and in the manner specified in this Section;
(ii)	whether the person is an eligible person with respect to the Benefit involved and, if so,
(iii)	the amount of any Benefit payable;
(iv)	whether the accrual or cancellation of Credit Units was properly determined.
(3)	There shall be no appeal from the decision of the Board of Appeal. It shall be final and binding upon the Union, its members, the person involved, the Trustee, and the
23
Company. The Union will discourage any attempt of its members to appeal and will not encourage or co-operate with any of its members in an appeal to any Court or Labour Board from any decision of the Board, nor will the Union or its members by any other means attempt to bring about a settlement of any claim or issue on which the Board is empowered to rule hereunder.
(c)	Applicability of Appeals Procedure
The Appeals procedure set forth in this Section may be employed only for the purpose specified in the Plan. Such procedure shall not be used to appeal a denial of an Employment Insurance Benefit or to determine whether or not a Benefit should have been paid under an Employment Insurance system (Appeal procedures thereunder being the exclusive remedy therefore).
The Board of Appeals shall have no power to determine questions arising under any Collective Labour Agreement, even though relevant to the issues before the Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefore by the applicable Collective Labour Agreement, and all determinations made pursuant to such Agreement shall be accepted by the Board.
(d)	Composition and Procedure - Board of Appeals
(1)	There shall be established a Board of Appeals consisting of four (4) members, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company members) and two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Union (hereinafter referred to as the Union members) at least one of whom shall be appointed from the Bargaining Unit, the other may be an International Representative of the U.S.W. of A. Each member of the Board shall have an alternate. In the event a member is absent from a meeting of the Board, his alternate may attend, and, when in attendance, shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of such member. Either the Company or the Union at any time may remove a member appointed by it and may appoint a member to fill any vacancy among the members appointed by it. The Company and the Union each shall notify the other in writing of the members respectively appointed by it before such appointment shall be effective.
(2)	If the members of the Board are unable to arrive at a decision by a majority vote, they shall, within five (5) working days, meet to appoint an impartial Chairman to sit as a member of the Board to determine the matter. Failing to agree upon such a Chairman within ten (10) working days, they shall jointly apply to the Minister of Labour to appoint an impartial Chairman. The impartial Chairman shall be considered a member of the Board for the particular dispute and shall vote only in matters within the Board’s authority to determine.
24
(3)	At least one (1) Union member and one (1) Company member shall be required to be present at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the Board, the Company members shall have a total of two
(2)	votes and the Union Members shall have a total of two (2) votes, the vote of any absent member being given to the member present appointed by the same party.
Decisions of the Board shall be by a majority of the votes cast.
(4)	The Board shall not maintain any separate office or staff, but the Company and the Union shall be responsible for furnishing such clerical and other assistance as its respective members of the Board shall require. Copies of all Appeals, Reports and other Documents to be filed with the Board pursuant to the Plan shall be filed in triplicate, one copy to be sent to the Company members at the address designated by them and the other two copies to be sent to the Union members at the address designated by them.
Section 6. Costs of Administering Plan
(a)	Expenses of Trustee
The cost and expenses incurred by the Trustee under the Plan shall be charged to the Fund.
(b)	Cost of Administrative Services Performed by the Company.
The Company shall have the right to be reimbursed each year from the General Fund for the cost of the Company of services performed by it during the preceding year in carrying out its duties under the Plan (other than those incurred or on behalf of its members of the Board and its representatives designated for the consideration of appeals pursuant to Section 5(a) of this Article, which, under the provisions of this Article, are to be borne by the Company) as certified to by a qualified independent firm of certified public accountants selected by the Company.
(c)	Cost of Board of Appeals
The Chairman of the Board shall receive compensation in such amount and on such basis as may be determined by the other members of the Board, and such remuneration, as well as reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board for forms and stationery required in connection with the handling of Appeals shall be borne by the General Fund. Company members and Union members shall serve without compensation from the Fund.
25
Section 1. Reports
(a)	Reports by the Company
(1)	The Company shall notify the Local Union, in duplicate, with reasonable promptness, of the amount of the Trust Fund Position for the Fund as determined by it from time to time under the Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the number of employees on the Active Payroll and the Number of laid off persons having Credit Units, upon the basis of which such determination was made.
(2)	The Company shall furnish to the Local Union, in duplicate, a statement certified by a qualified independent firm of Certified Public Accountants selected by the Company. Such report is to be made once during the term of the Agreement:
(i)	showing the number of hours for which employees drew pay from the Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions to the General Fund during each period of the preceding years, and
(ii)	verifying the accuracy of the information furnished by the Company during the preceding years pursuant to subsection (a) (1) of this section.
The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan.
(b)	Reports by the Trustee
(1) Not later than the second Tuesday following the first Monday of each month, beginning with the month following the month in which the Company shall have made its first contribution under the Plan, the Trustee shall furnish to the Union, in duplicate, and the Company (i) a statement showing the total market value of the Fund as of the close of Business ‘on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month; and (ii) a statement showing the amounts, if any, paid as Weekly Supplemental Benefit from the Fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 8. Grievance Procedure
No question involving the interpretation or application of the Plan, except the extent otherwise specified in Section 5 of this Article, shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in the Collective Labour Agreement.
26
ARTICLE XII SHORT WEEK BENEFIT
Section 1. Eligibility
An employee shall be eligible for a Short Week Benefit with respect to a week
commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement, or December 16,1978,
whichever shall occur later, only if:
(a)	He has at least one (1) year seniority as of the last day of such week; and
(b)	During such week he works for the Company but his Compensated or Available Hours (determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article) total less than the number of hours in his standard work week (but not to exceed 40); and
(c)	During some part of such week he was on a lay-off from the bargaining unit in accordance with the provisions of subsection 2 (a) of Article V; and
(d)	With respect to such week, he satisfied all the conditions of eligibility set forth under subsection 2(b) of Article V, except subsection (b) (2), (b) (3), (b) (4), (b) (6), (b) (11); and
(e)	With respect to such week, he is ineligible to receive a full Employment Insurance Benefit only because (i) his wages or remuneration from the Company are equal to or in excess of his Allowable Earnings under the Employment Insurance System, or (ii) he has been employed by the Company for a period which would disqualify him for a full Employment Insurance Benefit or full “waiting week” credit, or (iii) the circumstances described in (i) or (ii) above occurring in conjunction with one or more of the reasons set forth in subsection 2 (b) (3) of Article V; and
(f)	With respect to such week the Maximum Funding Position was four percent (4%) or more; and
(g)	The employee does not have a period or periods of lay-off in the week and in the preceding or the following week which occur in such sequence that the employee has a “Week of Unemployment” (as defined under the applicable Employment Insurance System) which includes some part of the week; provided, however, that when an employee returns to work for the Company after a period of seven or more consecutive days of lay-off, with respect to which he has established a System which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, he may apply for a partial Short Week Benefit for any hours of lay-off on days within the Work Week in which he returned
27
to work which are not included within any established Employment Insurance System “Week of Unemployment”. Such partial Short Week Benefit shall be calculated on the basis of the number of hours for which the employee would regularly have been compensated for such days if he had not been laid off and his Compensated or Available Hours for such days; and all of the eligibility requirementsapplicable to a Short Week Benefit for a Work Week shall apply to such days except the requirement of this subsection (g).
Section 2. Compensated or Available Hours
For purposes of this Plan, Compensated or Available Hours for a week shall include:
(a)	all hours for which an employee receives pay from the Company (including call-in pay and holiday pay but excluding pay in lieu of vacation) with each hour paid at premium rates to be counted as one (1) hour; and
(b)	all hours scheduled for or made available to the employee by the Company but not worked by the employee (including any period on leave of absence). When work is offered and refused, hours charged will not exceed hours made available and such hours will be charged in the following order:
(i)	to the Employees who actually perform the work offered,
(ii)	to the Employees who signified their intention to work and then failed to report,
(iii)	to Employees who first refused the opportunity for the work in the event that insufficient Employees offered to work the hours available; and
(iv)	On Saturdays and/or Sundays, all the provisions of this Section 2 will apply, except that: hours will not be charged to employees who first refuse, provided other employees are offered the work and the work is actually performed; and hours will not be charged to those employees who refuse or actually work the hours subsequently offered to them as a result of a refusal to work the hours by the employees first scheduled:
(c)	all hours not worked by the employee because of any of the reasons specified in subsection 2 (a) (2) of Article V; and
(d)	all hours not worked by the employee which are in accordance with a written agreement between the Company and the Union or which are attributable to absenteeism of other employees; and
28
(e)	with respect to any employee whose regularly scheduled Work Week is less than the Standard Work Week (not to exceed 40 hours) for the shift on which the employee works, the number of hours by which such employee’s regular Work Week is less than the standard Work Week (not to exceed 40); and
(f)	all hours not worked by the employee because of a change in shift resulting from a request of the employee; and
(g)	all hours not worked by the employee because of a reduction in standard work week by written agreement with the Union; and
(h)	all hours not worked by the employee because of full or partial shutdown requested or agreed to in writing by the Union.
Section 3. Determination of Amount
(a) The Short Week Benefit payable to any eligible employee:
(1) for a Scheduled Short Work Week shall be an amount equal to the product of
(1)	Eighty percent (80%) of his “Short Work Week Rate” multiplied by (ii) the number by which the number of hours in his standard Work Week (not to exceed 40) exceeds the number of his Compensated or Available Hours for such week (with any fractional hour expressed as a decimal to the nearest tenth), determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article;
(2)	for an Unscheduled Short Work Week shall be an amount equal to the product of(i) Eighty percent (80%) of his “Short Work Week Rate” multiplied by (ii) the number by which the number of hours in his standard Work Week (not to exceed 40) exceeds the number of his Compensated or Available Hours for such week (with any fractional hour expressed as a decimal to the nearest tenth), determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article;
(3)	“Short Work Week Rate” shall be the employee’s Average Hourly Earnings as defined in Article 1.
(b) For purposes of the Plan, a “Scheduled Short Work Week” with respect to an employee is a Short Work Week which the Company Schedules in order to reduce the production of the Plant, department or other unit in which the employee works, to a level below the level at which the production of such Plan, department or unit would be for the week were it not a Short Work Week, but only where such reduction of production is for the purpose of adjusting production to customer
29
demand.
(c)	For purposes of the Plan, an "Unscheduled Short Work Week” with respect to an employee is any Short Work Week:
(1)	which is not a Scheduled Short Work Week as defined in Article XII, subsection 3 (b); or
(2)	in which an employee returns to work from lay-off to replace a separated or absent employee (including an employee failing to respond or tardy in responding to recall), or returns to work after a full week of lay-off in connection with an increase in production, but only to the extent that the Short Work Week is attributable to such cause.
(d)	For any Short Work Week with respect to an employee which results both from the circumstances set forth in subsection 3(b) as well as those in subsection 3(c) of this Article XII, (i) the Benefit for the hours of the Short Work Week attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3(b) shall be calculated on the basis that the hours attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3(c) were Compensated or Available Hours and (ii) the Benefit for the hours of the Short Work Week attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3(c) shall be calculated on the basis that the hours attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3(b) were Compensated or Available Hours. The Benefit for such a Short Week shall be the sum of the Benefits calculated in both (i) and (ii).
(e)	Any Short Week Benefit computed under the preceding Sections of this Article shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3,4, and 5 of Article VII.
Section 4. Method of Payment
A Short Week Benefit shall be paid from the Fund. No application for such Benefit shall be required of the employee except as otherwise provided in Section 5 of this Article. Any Short Week Benefit payable for a week under the provisions of this Article XII shall be in lieu of any other Benefit payable under this Plan with respect to such week except as otherwise provided under subsection l(g) of this Article XII.
Section 5. Application for Determination
If an employee believes himself entitled to a Short Week Benefit for a week under this Article XII (which he does not receive on the date when Short Week Benefits for such week are paid) he may make written application therefore in accordance with procedures established by the Company. The Company shall promptly determine the employee’s eligibility for a Short Week Benefit, and such Benefit shall be paid or denied in accordance with such determination.
30
If the Company determines that an employee is not entitled to a Short Week Benefit with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made it shall send prompt written notice thereof to him.
ARTICLE XIII GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1
This Plan on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits and the Plan established by the provision of Article I through XIII hereof, shall continue in effect until midnight April 14, 2002, except as otherwise provided in, and subject to the terms of the Plan.
Section 2. Obligations During Term of the Plan
During the term of this Plan or Agreement neither the Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to the Plan or Agreement except as provided in Article IX, Section 5.
Section 3. Changes Required to Obtain Rulings
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan or Agreement, the Company with the consent of the Union, may during the term of the Agreement of this Plan, make revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purpose, structure, and basic provisions thereof, which shall be necessary under Article IX of the Plan. Any such revision shall adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan.
31
z/^/
<?tv
Dated at Kitchener this rJxtdZ day o, 1999
Signed on behalf o:
tlje parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
32