CoDective J^u>ooi^iq^nMin^r,i-.; x
EJt^lasaniiMfiiAnnmn I /o’7
Benefit Flan1	--------' “ *
Agreement on Unemployment'
Pension and Severance Award Agreement between
BECKERS LAY-TECH INC. Kitchener
Beckers
and
The United Bnitber, Cork, Linoleum and Plasfic Workers of America
Local Union No. 296, of Kitchener, Ontario
December 16,1985 • December 15,1988
a o'?
iP -3 1987,
INDEX
Page
Collective Labour Agreement .	4-55
Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan Agreement................................. 56-87
Agreement on Supplemental
Unemployment Benefit Plan..........	88-132
Pension and Severance Award Agreement ........................... 133 -158
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT SUBJECT INDEX
Section
Absence before and after a Holiday . . .	5,01
Accumulation Seniority ................... 8.03
Address, Change of, Affecting Seniority 8.17 Arbitration Procedure	3.07
Average Earnings, Calculation of . . .	6.10
Bereavement Pay........................... 6.14
Delay Time................................ 6,02
r Determination of Department Seniority
after Transfer .................. 8,05-8.07
Discharge for Cause ..................... 10,02
Disputed Standard..........................7.02
Employees Covered by Agreement..........	2.01
Exceptions to Holiday Pay Qualifications 5.01
‘Experimental Work and Pay....i......... 6,11
Failure to Report for Work after Recall 8.17 Functions of Management . ..1 7.01-10,01-10,04'
‘Grievance Procedure ..................... 3.07
Holidays - Paid........................... 5.01
Hours of Work ..........................   4.01
Illness Before or After Paid Holiday ... 5.01(f)
Injury at Work ................... 5.01(c)-6.12
Job Posting ..................
Jury Duty ....................
Key Operations ...............
Lay-Off.......................
Leave of Absence .	.	.	.
Leave of Absence - Seniority
Loss of Seniority Rights .....
Maternity Leave ..............
Negotiating Committee ........
8.20
6.15
8.14
8.15 8.21
8.03
8.04 8.21(e) 3.03
-- 2
Section
Negotiating Procedure ............
Night Shift Premiums .............
Overtime Pay - for Work on Paid
Holidays ......................
Overtime - Other .................
Paid Holidays ....................
Pass to Enter Department .........
Payment for Stoppage of Work .....
Payment for Waiting Time .........
Personal Complaint ...............
Probationary Period ..............
Recall Procedure .................
Reduction in Time Standards ......
Report - In Pay ..................
Rest Periods .....................
Retroactive Pay - Time Standards ...
- Unjust Discharge Seniority ........................
—	Records ..................
Shift Premiums ...................
Stoppage of Work .................
Strike ...........................
Temporary Lay-Off ................
Time Standards ...................
Transfers
—	Employee Request .........
■—■ Lack of Work ..............
—	Seniority ................
Trial Period, New Standard .......
Union Dues .......................
Vacation Policy ..................
Waiting Time .....................
3.01-	3.06
...	6.13
...	5.03
4.02-	4.03
.... 5.01
...	3.15
....	6.04
...	6.02
...	3.13
...	8.02
...	8.16
...	7.02
....	6.03
....	6.06
...	7.02
..	3.14
8.01-8.21 ....	8.09
....	6.13
3.11-6.04 ....	3.11
8.13-8.14 7.01-7.05
....	8.19
....	6.09
8.05-8.07
...	7.02
2.01-2.11 9.01-9.08 ... 6.02
3
AGREEMENT
between
BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., KITCHENER
and
LOCAL UNION NO. 296 UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM
and
PLASTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA, KITCHENER, ONTARIO
This Agreement is made and entered into this 15th day of December, 1985, by and between BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., Kitchener, (previously identified by the predecessor company as General Product Division! Textile and Allied Products of Kitchener, Ontario), referred to as the Company and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Local Union No. 296, Kitchener, Ontario, hereinafter refeered to as the Union.
PURPOSE
It is the mutual desire of the parties to this Agreement to promote co-operation and harmony and to formulate rules and establish orderly procedures to govern the relationship between the Union and the Company.
The Union realizes the necessity of encouraging full productivity consistent with fair labour practices and in conformity with this Agreement, and agrees that it will co-operate with Management in discouraging any practice which imposes any unreasonable restriction on production. The Union recognizes the necessity of the efforts of Management to improve production, establish efficient
— 4 —
methods, eliminate waste in production, conserve materials and supplies and improve the quality of workmanship and that it is desirable to strengthen goodwill between the Company, the employees, the customers, the Union and the public.
Therefore, both parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND SCOPE OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all hourly paid employees except shift managers, supervisors, full time department clerks, office staff and laboratory technicians.
1.02	The Company agrees to meet and negotiate with the accredited representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to hours of work, rates of pay and working conditions of employees covered by this Agreement.
1.03	There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, coercion or intimidation either by the Company or by employees, or by the Union or its members, with or in respect to Union activities or membership,
1.04	The Union agrees that neither its officers nor its members shall solicit membership, nor conduct any Union business on Company time except as outlined under the grievance procedure, or by special written permission of the Human Resources Manager.
1.05	Both parties recognize the value of goodwill between the employees and the Company and to this end agree that neither party will make any destructive criticism of Union or Company officials. Criticisms that may be offered will be made in confidence and for the purpose of making constructive changes in existing conditions.
— 5 —
ARTICLE 2
DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
2.01	Any employee covered by this Agreement who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, maintain membership to the extent of paying membership dues.
2.02	Any person hired as a new employee or any employee transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall sign an application for membership in Local Union No. 296 U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. and an authorization for deduction of dues and shall as a condition of employment, maintain membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues.
2.03	Any employee who is in the bargaining unit and who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union not later than fifteen (151 davs after the effective date of this Agreement and shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues. An employee who is on lay-off, on leave of absence, or absent due to injury or illness shall comply with the requirement of this Section not later than fifteen (15) days following his return to work.
2.04	Section 2.01, 2.02, and 2.03 shall not apply to an employee who is denied membership in the Union or whose membership therein has been terminated for reasons other than his failure to tender the amount of monthly membership dues, as determined bv Local Union No. 296 in accordance with the constitution of the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A., and which are uniformly required of all members as a condition of acquiring or retaining memberhip therein.
— 6 —
2.05
(a)	In the event any employee fails to become a member of the Union as provided in Section 2.02 or 2.03 above, the Union shall eive written notice to the ‘Company and to-the employee of such failure. Such employee shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit unless he has, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice, presented evidence that he has become a member of the Union, or that he was denied membership for reasons other than his failure to tender the monthly membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the local union in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. Constitution.
(b)	Any employee who has become a member of the Union and who thereafter fails to maintain his membership in the Union to the extent of paying membership dues shall not be retained on a job in the bargaining unit, provided that the Union shall have given written notice to the Company and to such employee of such failure and such employee shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Article within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice.
2.06	All present employees, new employees and employees transferred into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall have their membership dues deducted from their wages by signing the authorization for deduction form as provided in Section 2.10. The authorization form for deduction of dues which has been signed by present employees in the bargaining unit under the provisions of all previous Collective Agreements between the parties shall be authorization for the Company to deduct membership dues in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2.07	The authorization forms for deduction of dues which have been, or which may be, executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof, and if the termination of this agreement and any extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Agreement, these authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement. Any authorization shall cease to be effective upon termination of employment or upon transfer to an occupation outside the bargaining unit.
2.08	On the individual employee’s first pay day of each month, or in the case of a new employee the first pay day in the month following employment, the Paymaster shall make deductions from the wage of employees in accordance with authorizations then in his hands, and shall forward such deductions to the Union within one week thereafter, together with a list of employees from whose wages dues have been deducted.
2.09	It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Company from time to time of changes in the amount of Union dues, not later than the 25th of any calendar month. Changes so notified shall be effective on the first pay day of the following month.
2.10	The authorization referred to in Section
2.06	above shall be completed in triplicate on forms supplied by the Company. The original shall be retained by the Company and one copy retained by the employee and the other by the Union.
The following form of authorization shall be used.
8
BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., Kitchener
Authorization for Deduction of Union Dues Name: . . . ..................
I, the undersigned employee, hereby authorize BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., Kitchener, to deduct from wages owing me, and the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund to deduct from any Supplemental Unemployment Benefits payable to me from the S.U.B. Fund, commencing with my first pay in
the month of....and subsequently from
my first pay in each month the amount of first month’s Dues, rejoining Dues or monthly Dues, as applicable, and as determined by Local Union No. 296, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America in accordance with the U.R.C.L, & P.W.A, Constitution — the same to be remitted by the Company to the Union.
This authorization shall continue in effect for the duration of the present Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof; and if termination of the present Collective Agreement or extension or renewal thereof is followed by the execution of a new Collective Agreement this authorization shall continue in effect for the duration of the new Collective Agreement and any extension or renewal thereof; and shall be irrevocable during such period or periods.
Date .........
Signed .......
Witness.......................
Address..........., . . . ,...
Clock No......................
2.11	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company and the Trustee of the Supplemental
— 9 —
Unemployment Benefit Fund harmless from any claims, suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Company making any deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE 3
NEGOTIATIONS AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.01	Both parties agree to meet promptly to discuss and negotiate any complaint which may originate by either party and every effort shall be exerted mutually to settle the matter at issue as quickly as possible.
3.02	The Union agrees to bring to the attention of Management, through the channel of the procedure laid down in this Article, any cause for dissatisfaction or any unsafe working conditions or practices, immediately it is known to the Union.
3.03	A Plant Negotiating Committee not to exceed five (5) Union Members who are regular employees of the Company with at least one year’s seniority shall be elected by the Union.
3.04	Each of the following departments shall have one Steward per shift to represent those employees:
(a)	Fibre Preparation and Moulding
(b)	Fibre Finishing.
3.05	The Union shall keep Management informed by written notice to the Human Resources Manager, of the personnel comprising the Executive Board of the Union, the Negotiating
' Committee; and the Department Stewards.
10
3.06	The Company will pay members of the Plant Negotiating Committee and a representative steward, but not exceeding five (5) employees in total, at their average hourly earned rate (straight time) up to a maximum of four hundred (400) hours per year for meetings held for the purpose of discussing matters other than wage and/or contract negotiations. Any additional meetings shall be paid for by the party calling the meeting.
Within the allotted hours, as noted above, the Company will pay the members of the Plant Negotiating Committee for time spent in meetings with the Company at Step 3 and Step 4 of the grievance procedure.
Within the allotted hours, as noted above, the Company will pay the members of the Plant Negotiating Committee for time spent at one meeting per month, not to exceed two and one half (214) hours, to discuss production requirements.
The Company shall pay four members of the Negotiating Committee eight (8.0) regular hours rate of pay for each meeting during negotiations for the renewal of the Agreements between the Company and the Union at which an officer of the Ministry of Labour is not in attendance. Such time will be paid for at straight time earnings to a maximum of eight hours per day, per Committee member.
3.07	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The procedure as laid down in this section shall be followed in negotiations for settlement of complaints or grievances on the part of employees.
Step 1 — Any employee who has a complaint as an individual shall, with, without, or through his steward, who may call in the chief steward, discuss the matter with the Area Manager in order to reach a settlement; any negotiations started with the steward may be continued with him.
— 11 —
Step 2 — Failing settlement through the Area Manager, the complaint shall be referred in writing by the Chief Steward to the Plant Manager. A de cision at this step must be reached within three working days of receipt of the written statement of the grievance.
Step 3 — Failing settlement through the Plant Manager, the Plant Negotiating Committee shall submit the written statement of the grievance to the Human Resources Manager and a meeting shall be held with the Plant Negotiating Committee at a time mutually agreed upon within two full working days from receipt of the written statement of the grievance.
Step 4 — Failing settlement, under the above procedure, the Plant Negotiating Committee shall meet with a Management Committee and/or the Vice-President Manufacturing within two full working days, if possible. A written decision will be rendered within 5 working days after the conclusion of the meeting(s) of this step 4. It is understood that an International Representative of the U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A .may participate in this step. It is further agreed that, where there is a standard in dispute, the Union may, at this fourth step of the grievance procedure, with the approval of the Company, use the services of a U.R.W. Time Study Engineer who may observe and/or study the job in dispute.
It is agreed and understood that the time limits set out in the Grievance Procedure Steps 1 through 4 may be extended by mutual agreement in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Step 5 — Failing a settlement under the above procedure any grievance respecting violation or interpretation of the Agreement, may be referred to a Board of Arbitration as hereinafter provided at the request of either party. This request shall be made not later than thirty-five (35) days after
•—■ iz ■—
completion of step 4 of the Grievance Procedure and shall be in writing addressed to the other party and shall name their member to the Board of Arbitration. Upon receipt of such notification the second party will appoint their member to the Board of Arbitration and such appointment shall be made within fifteen (15) days. Such Board shall be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union, both of whom shall choose and agree to a third person to act as Chairman, but in the event that the parties chosen fail to choose a third person within seven (7) normal working days, the Ministry of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall be asked to appoint a person as Chairman.
3.08	In cases of Arbitration concerning the discharge or suspension of an employee, a single Arbitrator will be substituted for the Board of Arbitration, as provided for in this Article III, if requested by either the Union or the Company.
In cases of Arbitration concerning other than the discharge or suspension of an employee, a single Arbitrator may be substituted for the Board of Arbitration, as provided for in this Article III upon mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
In cases of substitution of a single Arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration, as provided above, all other applicable provisions of this Article III will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
On a question pertaining to “Time Standards” a representative of a reputable Industrial Engineering Firm shall be retained as chairman and whoever is so selected shall be required to make or have made a thorough time study of the standard disputed and to report to the Board the information obtained from his study. No additional person shall be employed by the chairman to make studies without the consent of the Board Members representing both parties. Both members of the
— 13 —
Board may make, or have made, such time studies as they may require for submission to the Board.
The Company and the Union shall within three (3) normal working days from the date of appointment of the Arbitrators sign a joint stipulation or failing this, separate stipulations of the dispute on the question which is to be arbitrated. Such stipulation or stipulations, shall contain a statement of the issue in dispute and in addition, may include a brief statement of the position of either party on the question at issue.
Unless otherwise mutually agreed bv the parties hereto, the Arbitration hearing shall begin within five (5) normal working days from the date of filing the stipulation with the Board. The jurisdiction of the Arbitration Board shall be limited to a decision on the dispute or question set forth in the stipulations. The Arbitration Board shall not have any jurisdiction to change or disregard any of the provisions of this Agreement nor to substitute any new provisions in place thereof, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement. It is agreed that the Arbitration Board shall not have the authority to decide a dispute involving a question of a general wage level demand. All decisions of the Board of Arbitration arrived at in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding on all parties. Each of the parties hereto shall bear the expense of the Arbitrator appointed by it and the parties shall jointly and equally bear the expense of the Chairman.
3.09
(a)	An employee who claims that he has been laid off inconsistent with his seniority rights or not recalled in accordance with his seniority rights, may protest in writing to the Human Resources Manager within five (5) normal working days of such alleged violation of seniority rights. If the employee’s claim is upheld, he
— 14 —
will be placed on the job to which his seniority entitles him and receive a pay adjustment as set out in 3.09 (c).
(b)	If such written protest is made more than five (5) normal working days after such alleged violation of seniority rights and his claim is upheld, he will be placed on the job to which his seniority entitles him, but any pay adjustment will only be made for the date on which such protest was made, as set out in 3.09 (c).
(c)	Any pay adjustment will be the difference between any earnings or remuneration the employee has received during the period for which adjustment is made and the earnings he would have received had he been properly placed.
3.10	It is agreed that individual members of the Plant Negotiating Committee will not be asked to participate alone in any meeting arranged for the purpose of arriving at a decision on any subject. This does not apply to the first step of the grievance procedure, nor to any discussion of a general or informative nature.
3.11	There shall be no lockout, strike, sit-down, slow-down, nor stoppage of work either partial or complete over any matters covered by the Agreement during its term.
In the event of any strike, slow-down, sit-down, or concerted stoppage of work, either partial or complete, the Union shall, at the request of the Company, forthwith inform the Company as to whether or not the same was authorized by the Union.
3.12	Any employee desiring to leave his work because of matters concerning this Agreement shall apply to his foreman for permission to do so, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
15
3.13	Nothing contained in this Article shall prohibit an employee from presenting a personal complaint or request direct to Management.
3.14	If the Union considers that an employee other than a probationary employee has been unjustly discharged or suspended, the question shall be subject to review under the procedure as set forth in Section 3.07 steps 3 and 4 and 5. Protest of such a discharge or suspension to be effective must be made in writing within five (5) normal working days to the Human Resources ‘Manager by the Union or the employees concerned. If arbitration on the matter becomes necessary the Board shall, if the discharge or suspension is not sustained, determine the terms of reinstatement with respect to penalties and/or rights and pay for lost time.
3.15	In the event that an employee is subiect to disciplinary action, any previous record that is two (2) years or more from the date of the current discipline will not be considered.
3.16	When a member of the Negotiating Committee or a steward is required to enter the plant during his hours off duty for purpose of Union business he shall apply to the Human Resources Manager for permission to do so, and if written permission is granted, he shall so advise the foreman of the department which he enters before proceeding with his Union business. This written permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
A permanent pass shall be issued to the President and to the Vice-President of the Union for their sole use during their term of office in the carrying out of their duties as Union Officials. It is understood that before leaving their work, the President or the Vice-President of the Union shall first obtain permission from his Area Manager and will contact a Management Representative before conducting Union business in any department.
16 —
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME
4.01
(a)	The normal working hours for all employees in the bargaining unit shall consist of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week Monday to Friday inclusive. These hours do not constitute a guaranteed minimum or maximum of hours in a day or week.
(b)	The normal starting shift of each week shall be at 11:00 p.m. Sunday nights. The last normal working shift will finish at 11:00 p.m. Friday nights.
4.02	All hours worked in excess of normal hours shall be considered as overtime. Overtime at the rate of one and one-half times regular rates of pay will be paid as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
(b)	For all hours worked from 11:00 p.m. Friday to 11:00 p.m. Saturday.
(c)	An employee reporting for work on his regular shift if sent home before the close of his regular shift, and required to report back for work within the twenty-four (24) hour period, shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on call back, prior to the start of his next regular shift and at this rate only.
(d)	An employee called in at the Company’s re-auest for work not continuous with his sche-&led shift, will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours at one and one-half times his regular rate of pay or at one and one-half t&es his regular rate of pay for the hours worked, whichever is greater. If the call-in is during the hours when overtime is payable at the double time rate under Section 4.03, then payment for the four (4) hours minimum or
— 17 —
for hours worked, as stipulated above, will be at the double time rate.
The minimums will not apply when such unscheduled work forms a continuous period with the employee’s regularly scheduled working hours and commences within one and one-half (1)4) hours of his regularly scheduled working hours.
(e)	No overtime will be paid for time spent by members of the Plant Negotiating Committee in meetings paid for by the Company. However, the time lost by a member of the Plant Negotiating Committee from his regular scheduled hours to attend such meetings shall be considered as part of his normal shift hours in determining overtime on his regular shift.
(f)	Overtime will not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
4.03	Payment for all hours worked from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday shall be at the rate of double the regular rate of pay and at this rate only.
4.04	It is understood by the Union and employees that the right to schedule hours of work is a management function and that it is an obligation of each employee to work the hours scheduled within the provisions of The Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE 5 PAID HOLIDAYS
5.01	The following eleven (11) holidays, namely: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, December 24th, and Christmas Day, and one (1) floating holiday, the date of which is to be mutually agreed upon by April 1st of the year in which the holiday
— 18 —
occurs, if not worked, pay will be given for one standard daily shift, at the average hourly earned rate for the week preceding that in which the holiday occurs, providing that the employee works in the last scheduled shift preceding and the first scheduled shift succeeding the holiday; except that these requirements shall be subject to the following exceptions regarding work on these shifts.
(a) In the case of an absence of not more than three (3) davs’ duration caused bv bereavement in the ‘immediate family, which shall mean death of father, father-in-law, mother, mother-in-law, husband, wife, sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, spouse’s sister-m-law, spouse’s brother-in-law, spouse’s grandparent, or a dependent who lives in the employee’s household and is registered as a dependent on his TD-1 Income Tax Form on file at the time of death.
(bj) In case of sickness an employee mqv receive ’ permission to leave work on &her of the said shifts, if such sickness is extreme in the opinion of the Plant Management. However, the employee is required to work the full scheduled shift either immediately preceding or immediately succeeding the holiday. The Company shall retain the right to request verification of such claims.
(c)	When an employee is injured on the job on the shift immediately preceding the holiday, and is unable to continue working, he may qualify for payment for the holiday if he returns to work immediately he is able to do so in the opoinion of the doctor handling the case. This does not apply should he qualify for Compensation for lost time as a result of the injury. An employee injured on the shift immediately following the holiday, and who is unable to continue working, must have com-
— 19
pleted the last scheduled shift preceding the holiday to qualify for payment.
(d)	When one of the holidays falls within the vacation period of an employee otherwise eligible for such holiday pay, he shall be paid for the holiday provided that he works his last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift following, the vacation period. If the employee so requests, he will be granted an additional day off work, without pay, at a time mutually agreeable between the employee and the Company if arranged prior to the scheduled vacation period. The additional day off shall not be
Eemitted for the December 24th, Christmas >ay and New Year’s Day paid holidays, or the floater holiday should it be observed on or about the Christmas-New Year’s period.
(e)	Written permission to be absent prior to or following a holiday can be granted only by the Area Manager concerned.
(f)	When an employee is absent on either the last scheduled shift preceding or the first scheduled shift following a holiday, but not both days, due to illness or injury, and such illness or injury may be verified1 by either a doctor’s certificate or by a personal visit by a representative of the Company.
(g)	If an employee is late on either of the qualifying shifts, but if he notifies the Company within two (2) hours after the start of his shift, he shall receive holiday pay in proportion to the number of hours actually worked on that qualifying shift.
(h)	In the case of a Union Official who in the performance of his Union duties is required to be absent from work and is therefore unable to complete his regular scheduled shift before or after a holiday. In such case he shall obtain permission, in advance, from his foreman for such absence.
20
(i)	An employee who would otherwise qualify for a designated holiday, except for having been laid off within five (5) working days prior to such holiday shall receive payment for such designated holiday.
5.02	If any such holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on Monday. If two successive holidays fall on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Monday, they will be observed on Friday and Monday.
5.03	If the holidays specified in Section 5.01 are worked, payment shall be made at the rate of two times the hourly rate earned for all hours worked provided that a four (4) hour minimum allowance at this rate shall be paid to all employees called in or requested to work on such holidays. Such payment will be in addition to any holiday pay for which the employee may be qualified under Section 5.01 above. A holiday shall be considered as extending from 11:00 p.m. preceding the holiday and ending at 11:00 p.m. on the day of the holiday.
ARTICLE 6
WAGE POLICIES UNDER SPECIAL CONDITIONS
6.01	If an employee is requested to remain on the premises, a full time allowance will be made for all stoppages in excess of six minutes.
6.02	Payment for waiting time will be at the employee’s average hourly earned rate, but not more than the 90% level of the occupational wage scale of the job.
6.03	An employee reporting for work who has no reason to believe that work is not available will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours’ work, or a time allowance for four (4) hours at the rates given in Section 6.02. This will not apply in the case of power or machinery breakdown,
— 21 —
weather conditions, or other factors beyond the control of the Company, nor if the employee could not be notified because of his failure- to advise the Company of a change of address. It is understood that the employee- may be supplied with other suitable work and if he refuses to accept such work he shall not qualify for payment.
A part-time employee shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours under the above applicable conditions.
6.04	No payment shall be made under the foregoing sections of this Article for time lost as a result of any stoppages of work, slow-down or strike action unless the employee or employees affected are specifically requested by the Area Manager, in writing, to remain on the job.
6.05	Employees shall be at their places ready to work at scheduled starting times. Employees shall not quit working until their designated quitting time. Any violation of this clause shall call for discipline by the Company.
6.06	The Company will permit one ten (10) minute rest period per eight (8) hour shift. The Company will permit one ten (10) minute rest period where shifts are three (3) hours or more, but less than five (5) hours. The time of rest periods will be scheduled by the Company.
6.07	The Company will permit one eighteen (18) minute lunch period for employees on operations scheduled on three rotating shifts or on a single or double shift if continuous production is necessary providing shift is of more than five (5) hours duration.
6.08	When work is available on an employee’s regular occupation and he is requested to do other work, he will be paid at the rate earned on the temporary occupation or at his average hourly earned rate, whichever is the higher.
-- 22 —
6.09	When an emojovee is transferred to another job as a result of work shortage, or because he lacks the qualifications required for his previous job, or at his own request, the rate of pay shall be that applicable to the work actually performed.
6.10	An employee’s average hourly earned rate shall be calculated by dividing the straight-time earnings, exclusive of all premiums, by the straight-time hours worked in the last week in which the employee has worked at least four (4) days, except when a paid holiday falls within the week, when the days worked shall be at least three (3) days. Hours worked on overtime or on odd jobs during vacation shutdown will be excluded in the calculation of an employee’s average hourly earned rate.
6.11	For experimental work not covered by standards and the taking of inventory, employees will be paid their average hourly earned rate.
6.12	In the case of factory injuries payment is allowed for time required to visit the first-aid stations and/or room at the employee’s average hourly earned rate. For a visit to the Doctor’s office or hospital in the event of a factory injury, payment shall be made for the balance of the shift at the employee’s average hourly earned rate if so recommended by the Doctor that the employee cannot return to work.
6.13	Night Shift Premium
On three shift operations, the Company will pay off-shift premium of twenty-seven (27) cents per hour (effective December 14, 1986, twenty-nine (29) cents per hour and effective December 13, 1987, thirty-one (31) cents per hour) for work on the second shift (three p.m. to eleven p.m.) and thirty-two (32) cents per hour (effective December
— 23 —
14,	1986, thirty-four (34) cents per hour and effective December 13, 1987, thirty-six (36) cents per hour) for work on the third shift (eleven p.m. to seven a.m.).
On two shift operations, the Company will pay off-shift premium of twenty-seven (27) cents per hour (effective December 14, 1986, twenty-nine (29) cents per hour and effective December 13, 1987, thirty-one (31) cents per hour).
Nieht or shift premiums are not payable to part-time employees, except when such employees are required to replace regular employees and work a full eight hour shift.
6.14	In the event of bereavement in the employee’s family, which shall include father, mother, husband, w.ife, sister, brother, son, daughter,1 father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse’s sister-in-law. spouse’s brother-in-law, grandparent, spouse’s grandparent, grandchild or a dependent who lives in the employee’s household and is registered as a dependent on his TD-1 Income Tax Form on file at the time of death, the employee will be granted permission to be absent and will be paid for time lost on regular hours during his regular work week for three (3) consecutive days including the funeral day. If, however, the funeral is not attended, he will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
For the purposes of this section a half-brother or half-sister shall be considered as a brother or sister, a step-parent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent, a step-son or step-daughter or foster son or foster daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter.
It is understood that “in-law” relationships will be broken by divorce but not death of the blood relative who established the “in-law” relationship, unless and until the in-law relative or employee remarries.
24
When death in the family causes the absence of an employee from work within the normal work week prior to the normal work week in which the funeral occurs, the intervening Saturday and/ or Sunday will be discounted in determining three consecutive days, referred to above, unless such Saturday and/or Sunday are normal scheduled working days.
It will be the responsibility of the employee to make claim for payment through the Human Resources Department, and to provide evidence satisfactory to the Company to support his claim. Payment for such lost time will be to the employee’s average hourly earnings on a straight time basis, exclusive of all types of bonuses and premiums. If the employee is eligible for any other form of remuneration to which the Company contributes, payment shall not be made under this section for such day or days.
6.15	When an employee is required to serve on a jury, is a Subpoenaed Crown Witness, or is required to report for jury duty and is subsequently not required to serve, which prevents him from performing his regular work with the Company, he shall be paid a make-up for lost time respre-senting the difference between any fees received from the court and his average hourly earned rate on a straight time basis, for regular hours, exclusive of all types of bonuses and premiums, for the period of such service.
Should an employee receive a call for jury duty or Subpoenaed Crown Witness which may interfere with a previously scheduled vacation period he shall immediately inform the Company in writing of such call for jury duty and of his desire to have his vacation period rescheduled and the Company upon receipt of such written request will reschedule his vacation period.
6.16	The Company agrees to provide the Union with the current Wage Schedules and Job
— 25 —
Classifications which form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The following wage increases shall be added to the Occupational rates at the 100% level and to the Day Work rates:
Effective December 16,1985 — $.38 per hour.
Effective December 14,1986 — $.27 per hour.
Effective December 13,1987 — $.30 per hour.
In addition the following inequities shall be added:
Maintenance
-effective December 16,1985—$.10 per hour.
-effective December 14,1986—$.10 per hour.
-effective December 13,1987—$.05 per hour. Lead Hand
-effective December 16,1985—$.10 per hour.
-effective December 14, 1986—$.05 per rour. Trucker
-effective December 16,1985—$.05 per hour.
-effective December 14,1986—$.05 per hour.
ARTICLE 7 TIME STANDARDS
7.01	The determination of time standards is a Management function. All new or changed standards shall be explained by the Shift Manager with an Industrial Engineer to the employees involved along with the Department Steward. Data used in determining the standards may be made available at that time. A copy of the methods will be available in the Shift Manager’s office to the Department Steward. Standards will be posted in the department 24 hours before they become effective and shall be given a trial period of two weeks. The Union agrees that it will assist in
— 26 —
seeing that normal effort be put forth during the trial period.
7.02	After the trial period, if a standard is disputed, it must follow the procedure set forth in Article 3. In such cases data used in determining the standard will be available for reference by the Department steward. Any adjustments in new or changed standards shall be retroactive to the date the standard was placed in effect. Any adjustments in other disputed standards shall be retroactive to the date the objection was filed.
7.03	There shall be no change in time standards without a corresponding change in method, quality, operation layout or specification, unless mutually agreed upon.
7.04	No assistance shall be given to an employee while such employee is being studied for the purpose of setting time standards! nor shall a study be taken of a supervisor for this purpose.
7.05	The Company will make every effort to see that weekly efficiencies are posted.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
8.01	S eniority is preference or priority by length of service with definite rights qualifying employees for employment when work is available, the purpose of which is to provide a declared policy of work security measured by length of service.
8.02	An employee shall be considered a probationary employee and shall have no seniority rights until he shall have completed 3 months continuous employment or if such time is interrupted by lay-off then 4 months of actual employment within 12 months of his original hiring date. Upon completion of the probationary period specified
— 27 —
above, all time worked plus properly approved absences, except the time spent on lay-off, shall be cumulative in computing seniority and establishing seniority rights.
8.03	Seniority shall be accumulated by time worked in the employ of the Company, plus time lost not in excess of six (6) continuous months due to lav-off durine slack periods or approved leaves of absence, except that-in the case of leave of absence directly attributable to extenuating illness or injury, seniority may be accumulated up to an amount equivalent to the seniority of the employee at the start of such leave, but such accumulation during lost time may not exceed twelve (12) months, or except as provided for in Section 8.21 (c), (d), (e) and (f) and in all instances seniority accumulated shall be credited to such employee upon his return to work.
An employee who has five (5) or more years’ seniority, may accumulate up to one (1) year seniority during lay-off or properly approved leave of absence as provided in Section 8.21 Seniority accumulated shall be credited to such employee upon his return to work
8.04	An employee shall lose his seniority rights for any of the following reasons:
(a)	Voluntary termination of employment with the Company.
(b)	Unauthorized absence exceeding five (5) consecutive normal working days.
(c)	Discharge, except as provided in Section 3.14.
(d)	Failure to return to work following lay-off within seven (7) calendar days after the employee has been notified as per paragraph 8.17 of this article.
(e)	Failure to return to work on expiration of leave of absence or any extension thereof.
— 28 —
(f)	After continuous lay-off of one year for those employees having less than one (1) year’s seniority and after two (2) years for those having one (1) year but less than five (5) years’ seniority and after five (5) years for those with five (5) years’ seniority and over.
8.05
(a)	When an employee with seniority is transferred to another department or is recalled from layoff to a department other than the department from which he was laid off, he will continue to accumulate seniority in his former department for a period of three months and upon completion of three months satisfactory service in the new department, his seniority, including accumulation, will be transferred to the new department.
(b)	When an employee with seniority is transferred to another department under Section 8.15 (c) (iii), his seniority shall be established in the new department immediately on transfer, solely to prevent his displacement from the department by employees with less plant seniority. Similarly, job seniority shall be established in the new department but only when the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the job. Such employee will, however, be eligible for recall to his former department as provided for in Section 8.07.
8.06
(a)	When an employee with seniority is transferred to another job within his department, other than the job from which he was laid off, he will continue to accumulate seniority on his former job for a period of three months and upon completion of three months satisfactory service on his new job, his seniority, including accumulation, will be transferred to the new job.
— 29 —
(b) When an employee is displaced to another job under Section 8.15 (c) (ii), his seniority shall be established on the new job on transfer, solely to prevent displacement from the job by employees with less plant seniority but only if the employee has attained the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of the job. Such employee will, however, be eligible for recall to his former job as provided for in Section 8.07.
8.07	When due to decreased production in one job or department, an employee is transferred to a different job or department then that employee shall be subject to recall, in accordance with seniority rules, as follows:
(i)	If the employee has been in the new job or department for less than three months, he must return to the job or department from which he was displaced.
(ii)	If the employee has been in the new job or department for three months or more, he may return to his former job or department only through application for transfer.
8.08	When lay-offs take place, the Company shall, whenever possible, give employees affected seven ('71 davs’ notice of such lay-off.
An employee who desires to leave the employment of the Company shall, whenever possible, notify the Shift Manager concerned seven (7) days in advance.
8.09	A seniority list shall be posted in each department of the plant showing the accumulated seniority status of employees in that department. This list shall be revised at least once a year. A copy of all lists posted shall be given to the Union President. If requested by the Union or an individual employee, the Company’s service records shall be available for reference to the members of the negotiating committee to the extent reason- 30 —
ably necessary to ascertain the accuracy of the seniority lists.
8.10	Employees who have given long and faithful service to the Company and who are unable to perform their regular work shall be given preference on other work they are qualified to perform, at the prevailing rate of pay for such work.
811 An employee of the Company excluded from the bargaining unit may be transferred to a vacant job in the bargaining unit, and will have plant service converted to plant seniority at the time of such transfer. Such employee would also be eligible for previous seniority for which he may have been previously credited except that an employee formerly in the bargaining- unit may displace the least senior employee with less seniority than his own on his former job.
8.12	“Qualification”, “Qualified” and “satisfactory service” as referred to in this Article shall be determined by the Company on the basis of such items as experience, competence, physical fitness, skill, knowledge, adaptability, efficiency, responsibility and integrity.
8.13	In the case of a temporary lay-off of employees in a department for a period up to but not exceeding two (2) weeks, such employees shall not be eligible to displace employees of other departments during such period. In the case of layoff extending over one (1) week an employee with seniority may displace another employee in the department who has no seniority, providing he has had previous satisfactory service on that job.
8.14	Operators employed on jobs known as “Key Operations” shall not be subject to lay-off other than on the basis of job seniority. These jobs are Lead Hand, Line Operator, Garnet-Oven Maintenance, Master Mechanic, Lead Mechanic and Mechanic First Class.
— 31 —
8.15	Lay-Off Procedure
In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in a department for a period of time in excess of a period of a temporary reduction as stipulated in Section 8.13 the Company will, in determining which employees are to be laid off, recognize the principle, of seniority in displacement of employees from a job, and lay-off will be in order of seniority of employees of the department and also subject to the limitations of key operations and qualifications and according to the following procedure:
(a)	A probationary employee who is displaced from the job on which he is employed will be laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications.
(b)	An employee, who has qualified for seniority privileges but has less than two (2) years of seniority and who is displaced from the job on which he is employed, may:
(i)	Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, on the job on which he has seniority, provided he has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job. If he is the least senior employee on his job, he may —
(ii)	Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, in the department in which he has seniority, on a job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he is the least senior employee in the department, he will be laid off, except that he may displace a probationary employee in the plant or be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications
— 32 —
(c)	An employee, who has two (2) or more years of seniority and who is displaced from the job on which he is employed, may:
(i)	Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, on the job on which he has seniority, provided he has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job. If he is the least senior employee on his job, he may —
(ii)	Displace the least senior employee, having less seniority than his own, in the department in which he has seniority, on a Job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he is the least senior employee in his department, he may —
(iii)	Displace the least senior employee having less seniority than his own, in the plant, on a job for which he has the necessary qualifications. If he is the least senior employee in the plant, he will be laid off, except that he may be placed on a vacant job for which he has the necessary qualifications.
(d)	If an employee at time of lay-off has previous satisfactory service on another job in the plant and has the qualifications required to maintain the production standard of that job, he may return to it and displace any employee with less seniority.
8.16	Recall Procedure
(a) Whenever it is necessary to recall employees who have been laid off, the order of recall will be generally in the reverse order of lay-offs, according to the following procedure:
(i) If the vacancy to which an employee is to be recalled is on a key operation, those employees with previous satisfactory service on that operation, who have been laid off and retain seniority status, will be recalled in order of seniority.
— 33 —
(ii)	Employees having two (2) years or more seniority, who have been laid off and retain seniority status, and have the necessary qualifications, will be recalled in order of seniority.
(iii)	Employees having less than two (2) years’ seniority, who have been laid off and retain seniority status and have the necessary qualifications, will be recalled in order of seniority on a departmental basis.
(b)	No new employee shall be hired to fill vacancies until employees who have been laid off and retain seniority status and have the necessary qualifications to fill the vacancy have been recalled to work.
8.17	Employees are required to keep addresses up to date so they can be located whenever production warrants re-hiring. Employees who fail to do this and cannot be located when there is an opportunity to work shall lose their seniority.
An Employee notified of recall must inform the Company of his intention to return, within three (3) normal working days, after notification by registered letter to the latest address. Failure to notify of intention to return will be interpreted as refusal to do so. If the employee desires to return to work, he must do so within seven (7) calendar days after he has notified the Company of such intention. Failure to do so will result in complete loss of seniority.
In the event that an employee is unable to return to work due to illness, injury or pregnancy and so notifies the Company within seven (7) calendar days of notification of recall, his seniority status shall be preserved during the period of illness, injury or pregnancy as governed by Section 8.04 (e). Seniority status shall be forfeited following failure to report for work after a second notification following recovery from illness, injury or pregnancy. It is the employee’s obligation to
— 34 —
notify the Company immediately upon recovery from such illness, injury or pregnancy.
8.18	Any of the provisions of lay-off or recall procedure may be superseded by other arrangements, for legitimate reasons, when negotiated between the Company and the Plant Negotiating Committee.
8.19	An employee with at least six months seniority who wishes to transfer from his job to another- job or department in the bargaining unit shall make a written application in triplicate (one copy to be retained by the employee) stating the job or department to which he desires to transfer. The application shall be made through the employee’s Shift Manager who shall note on the application the date that it was received and forward the application to the Human Resources Department An employee shall not have more than one application pending. Such application shall automatically be cancelled after one year. Subject to the qualifications of the applicant, and the necessity of maintaining an efficient work force, the applicant with the most seniority will be transferred when a vacancy which is not the result of a lay-off occurs. An employee transferred under this section shall not be eligible for a second transfer under this section for a period of six months from the date of transfer.
8.20	When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, excluding lead hands, the information shall be nosted on the bulletin boards for forty-eight (48) hours (two full working days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or Holiday) excluding any subsequent vacancies, the applications received in answer to this notice and those filed previously with the Human Resources Department requesting transfer under Section 8.19 will be considered in filling the vacancy, subject to the qualifications as defined in Section 8.12, the most senior of these applicants will be given the job.
— 35 —
(a)	In the event that the employee is unable to meet the requirements of the job within the normal learning period, he will "be returned to the job he came from and the Company shall fill the position with the runner-up; in the event of no runner-up the position shall be reposted.
8.21	Leave of Absence
Leave of absence may be granted to employees with seniority status under certain conditions without loss of seniority privileges. Application for such leave shall be in writing and the employee shall be given written advice of the decision. Leave of absence may be granted under the following circumstances:
(a)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months and subject to extension for periods of three (3) months, up to one (1) year for employees with ur> to ten (10) .years’ seniority and two (2) years for employees with over ten (10) years’ seniority may be granted for extenuating causes such-as sickness, injury, bereavement or serious personal necessity. Under extreme circumstances, a request for a further extension of leave of absence by an employee and supported by the Union would receive consideration.
(b)	Leave of absence not exceeding three (3) months may be granted during slack periods, but those who are granted such leave must return to work within seven (7) calendar days after notice of recall has been sent, in order to retain seniority standing.
(c)	Employees who are engaged in service with the Country’s Armed Forces shall be considered on leave of absence and shall accumulate seniority during such service, in accordance with federal legislation.
— 36
(d)	A member of the Union may at the written request of the Union, be granted special leave of absence to engage in Union duties with the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Canadian Labour Congress.. the Ontario Federation of Labour or Local 296, for a period not exceeding the term of this Agreement, subject to renewal. When leave is granted for this purpose, the members shall accumulate their seniority during the full term of leave.
(e)	A female employee may be granted leave of absence between the fourth and fifth months of pregnancy (or in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act of Ontario) based on medical certification. Within a four (4) month period after childbirth she shall report to the Fluman Resources Department with a doctor’s certificate stating date of birth of the child and declaring her physical fitness for work. Subject to physical qualifications? she shall be entitled to return to work as provided for in subsection 8.21 (g). Seniority may be accumulated up to an amount equivalent to the seniority credited to the employee at the start of such leave, but not in excess of twelve (12) months accumulation.
(f)	An employee injured on the job, who subsequently becomes a Workers’ Compensation case, and is placed on leave of absence, shall accumulate seniority during such period.
(g)	An employee who intends to return to work following an approved leave of absence, or who needs to have such leave extended, shall report to the Fluman Resources Department at least three (3) normal working days prior to the expiry date of his leave or his intended date of return if prior to the expiry date of the leave, so that his return to work may be arranged.
— 37 —
Subject to physical qualifications, such employee will be entitled to return to the job he left. If his former job is no longer available or if his seniority no longer qualifies him for his former job, he will be given the job to which he would have been diclaced had he been at work — if this can be-readily established, or such other suitable job which is consistent with his seniority.
ARTICLE 9 VACATION
9.01	Hourly rated employees of the Company who have accumulated one (1) or more year’s seniority as of June 30th of any year, shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the following basis:
(a)	Such employees having one year’s seniority or more as of June 30th shall receive two weeks’ vacation with pay amounting to 4% of their earnings for the 12 month period ending on that date.
(b)	Such employees having five years’ seniority or more as of June 30th, shall receive three weeks’ vacation with pay amounting to 6% of their earnings for the 12 month period ending on that date. An employee who qualifies for such vacation may be requested to work during his third week of vacation and if he so agrees, he shall receive vacation pay in lieu of such vacation. It is understood that the third week need not necessarily be given consecutively with the other two weeks.
(c)	Employees having twelve years’ seniority or more as of June 30th, shall receive four weeks’ vacation with pay amounting to 8% of their earnings for the 12 month period ending on that date. Employees who qualify for such vacation pay may, at the discretion of the Com-
— 38 —
pany be granted their fourth week of vacation or vacation pay in lieu of time off, according to production requirements. If time off is .granted by the Company the third week and the fourth- week need not be given together nor consecutively with the other two weeks.
(d)	Such employees having twenty years’ seniority or more as of June 30th, shall receive five weeks’ vacation with pay amounting to 10% of their earnings for the twelve month period ending on that date. Employees who qualify for such vacation pay may, at the discretion of the Company be granted their fifth week of vacation or vacation pay in lieu of time off, according to production requirements. If time off is granted by the Company the third week, fourth week and fifth week need not be given together nor consecutively with the other two weeks.
(e)	Such employees having thirty years’ seniority or more as of June 30th, shall receive six weeks’ vacation with pay amounting to 12% of their earnings for the 12 months period ending on that date. Employees who Qualify for such vacation pay may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted their sixth week of vacation or vacation pay in lieu of time off, according to production requirements If time off is granted by the Company the third week, fourth week, fifth week and sixth week need not be given together nor consecutively with the other two weeks.
(f)	An active employee who accumulated and is credited in the current calendar year, with five, twelve, twenty or thirty years seniority between June 30th and December 31st shall receive, after such seniority is credited, one additional week’s, vacation with pay amounting to 2% of his earnings for the twelve months ending June 30th of the current year. At the discretion of
— 39 —
the Company, the additional week’s vacation may be granted prior to the date on which such seniority is credited, however, vacation pay paid in advance shall be deducted from the final pay if the employee ceases to be actively employed or if the employment is terminated for any reason prior to the qualification date. An employee who qualifies under this subsection after December 24th shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year only.
9.02	Hourly paid employees who are in the employ of the Company as of June 30th of any vear but have not accumulated at least one year’s seniority shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the basis of 4% of the earnings during the period of continuous service during the prior twelve months. The vacation shall be considered to be at the rate of one and one-half day for each full month of employment. In the event that a half-ay is calculated, it shall be rounded out to one day.
9.03	When an individual leaves the employ of the Company after June 30th and prior to the vacation date and has qualified for vacation pay as outlined in Section 9.01, he shall be paid the amount of vacation earned at the time of separation.
9.04	Employees who when laid off for an indefinite period, receive their vacation pay and who return to work during the vacation year, will have the value of vacation pay already received from from the Company deducted from their vacation pay a specified in Section 8.01 and 9.02 above.
9.05	Vacations will be taken at a time designated bv the Conjpanv. The Comnanv will endeavour to-give three months’ notice-and to schedule the vacation period during the months of July or August. In the event, however, that it is necessary to continue uninterrupted production in order to
— 40 —
meet scheduled requirements, vacation shall be taken at some other time designated by the Company during the vacation year.
9.06	Vacation pay shall be made on the regular pay day immediately prior to the employee’s vacation.
9.07	When a regular full time employee with one (1) or more years’ seniority has been unable to work for a portion of the preceding vacation year because of verified sickness, injury or pregnancy and for those reasons only, the vacation pay calculated in accordance with Section 9.01 is less than $276.00 for an employee for each week of vacation pay, the vacation pay will be increased to the above minimum provided the employee has worked three (3) months or more during the vacation year
9.08	The following shall be included as earnings for the purpose of calculating vacation pay: Wages Paid, Overtime Premiums, Night Shift Premium, Vacation Pay paid in the previous year, Designated Holiday Pay, Workmen’s Compensation Payments for Lost Time, Weekly Indemnity Payments, Short Work Week Benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and O.H.I.P. Premiums which are regarded as income under the Income Tax Act.
ARTICLE 10
FUNCTIONS OF MANAGEMENT
10.01	The Management of the Factory and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, or discharge for just cause and the right to relieve employees of their duties because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively with Management. This right shall not be used to discriminate against any employee as an individual, nor to violate the terms of this Agreement.
— 41 —
10.02	The Company reserves the right to discharge for just cause including but not restricted to the following:
Insubordination.
Chronic absence or tardiness.
Continued unsatisfactory workmanship.
Dishonesty.
Intoxication during working hours.
Continued unsafe work practices.
10.03	The control of quality and waste is a Management function and is of vital importance to the Company’s well-being. The Union recognizes the need for reduced damage and waste and shall cooperate whole-hartedly in reducing such losses to a minimum.
10.04	The determination of methods is a Management function. The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company in the introduction of new methods and processes, and in educating its members for the need of such changes and improvements.
10.05	Nothing in this Article shall be interpreted as depriving the Union of their rights and privileges under Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The Company agrees to provide bulletin boards with a lock for the use of the Union. Notices placed on these boards shall be confined to Union meetings and business, Union appointments and elections and Union recreation and social affairs.
11.02	The Union shall assist the Management in seeing to it that no publicity or display matter other than that posted by the- Management shall be exhibited within the plant, except on the Union bulletin boards.
— 42 —
11.03	The Union agrees to co-operate with the Company on the promotion of Safety in the Factory. Two members of the bargaining unit appointed by the Union and two members of management appointed by the Company shall constitute a Safety Committee and will meet once per month for the purpose of promoting safety and accident prevention. Payment for lost time from regular hours to attend the monthly meeting will be at the employees’ average hourly earnings.
11.04	The Company shall refund to each eligible seniority employee, a maximum of fifty (50) percent of the cost of purchase of company approved safety shoes once in each twelve (12) month period.
11.05	Emnjovges shall not visit other departments except in line with their regular work, if permission has been granted by the Shift Manager concerned.
11.06	The Company and the Union recognizing the importance of new products, will cooperate in the development of these new products. The Company further agrees to see that new products upon satisfactory completion of development, will be brought into regular production as soon thereafter as possible.
11.07	Employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work which replaces production or maintenance employees on their regular jobs, except in the event of an emergency, or for the purpose of training, taking inventory or experimental work.
11.08	In accordance with the Ontario Labour Relations Act, Appendix “A” — Interim Increase, Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan, Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, Pension and Severance Award Plan and numbered Letters of Understanding No. 1 through No. 5, shall form part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
— 43 —
ARTICLE 12 TERMINATION
12.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1985. and shall remain in
'Tull force and ellectm respect of all its terms until midnight December 15, 1988, and shall continue in eflFeaft thereafter from year to year for further periods of one (1) year unless either party gives written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date., this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
12.02	Amendments of this Agreement may be made at any time by mutual agreement between the parties. If either party proposes amendments to this Agreement during the life thereof negotiations on such proposals shall begin within twenty (20) days of receipt of written proposal. During the negotiations thereafter if no conclusion or agreement is reached, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
12.03	Any part of this Agreement is subject to Provincial Legislation. Where options or variations are permitted by Legislation then these options or variations will be subject to negotiations.
44 —
Dated at Kitchener this 30th day of January, 1986.
Signed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.
Beckers Lay-Tech Inc.,
Kitchener.
G. P. BECKER
R. L. WRIGHT
P. JO YANOVICH
Local Union No. 296 United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America.
R. S. DAHL
F. HAMMAR
J. WELSH
A. POCZIK
C. BARSONY, Int. Rep.
— 45 —
LABOUR AGREEMENT INTERIM INCREASE
1.	The amount of the interim increase shall be calculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1971= 100) and herinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December 1985.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning March 23, 1985. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1985, January and February 1986 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing June 22, 1986. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, April and May 1986 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period beginning September 21, 1986. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, July and August 1986 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing December 21, 1986. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .3 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, October and November 1986 ex— 46 —
ceeds the base for calculation. This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates on December 21, 1986 as specified herein.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December 1986.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing March 15, 1987. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .28 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1986, January and February 1987 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing June 14, 1987. It will reflect one cent ($.01) ner hour for each full .28 noints that the average C.P.I. for the months of March, April and May 1987 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 20, 1987. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .28 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, July and August 1987 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	The fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing December 20, 1987. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each .28 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of September, October and November 1987 exceeds the base for calculation.
This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates on December 20, 1987 as specified herein.
— 47 —
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	The base for calculation: the average C.P.I. for the months of October, November and December 1987.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing March 20, 1988. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C,P.I. for the months of December 1987, January and February 1988 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	The second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing June 26, 1988. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average G.P.I., fob the months of March, April and May 1988 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	The third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing September 25, 1988. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of June, July and August 1988 exceeds the base for calculation.
This adjustment will be folded into the Occupational and Day Work Rates on September 25, 1988 as specified herein.
5.	The Interim Increase will be considered as earnings but will be boxed separately from other wage payments on the employee’s time card.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the Index.
48
7.	No adjustments retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the Interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for December 1985.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Increase will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety, except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement, and the third adjustment in the third year of the Agreement, will be folded-in as specified herein.
10.	Method of Fold-In
(a)	Daywork Rates — the total amount of Interim Increase to be folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to maximum of the day work rates.
(b)	Incentive Rates — the total amount of Interim Increase to be folded-in as specified herein will be unboxed and added to all incentive Occupational Rates Scales at the 100% level.
49 —
Letter of Understanding No. 1
November 25, 1985
Raymond Dahl, President,
Local Union No. 296,
U.R.C.L. and P.W. of A.,
141 King St. East,
Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Dahl:
This letter shall serve to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding tied seniority employees and their work records.
Therefore; in the event that two or more employees having the same seniority meet the conditions of Article 8.15, such employees will be laid off on the basis of their work records during the most recent two years. Should the work records be equal, lay off will be decided by lot.
Also, in the event that two or more employees having the same seniority meet the conditions of Article 8.16, such employees will be recalled on the basis of their work records during the most recent two years. Should the work records be equal, recall will be decided by lot.
Yours truly,
P. Jovanovich
Director-Human Resources /sb
— 50 —
January 15, 1986
Letter of Understanding No. 2
Mr. Raymond S. Dahl, President, Local Union No. 296,
U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A.,
141 King St. East,
Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Dahl:
Re: Wash Up Allowance
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding Wash Up Allowances.
Wash Up Allowances shall be provided as follows only if the employee washes up after working his shift;
Job Classification
LINE OPERATOR OVEN OPERATOR SAND BLASTER GARNET & OVEN MAINTENANCE 18 MECHANICS	18
MOULDING PRESS OPERATOR 18
Major weekly clean-up; an 18 minute shower allowance is available to employees who are involved with the major weekly clean-up and require it.
Minutes
18
18
18
Yours truly,
P. Jovanovich
Director-Human Resources /sb
— 51 -
January 15, 1986
Letter of Understanding No. 3
Mr. Raymond S. Dahl, President,
Local Union No. 296,
U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A.,
141 King St. East,
Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Dahl:
Re: Clothing Allowances
This letter shall serve to confirm the agreement reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding Clothing Allowances.
The Clothing Allowance shall be as follows:
Item
EYE PROTECTION
BUMP CAPS
DUST MASKS
HEARING
PROTECTION
LEATHER GLOVES CLOTH GLOVES
SLEEVING
COVERALLS
RUBBER BOOTS
Employee Classification
Mechanics, Moulders on clean up.
Cutting press operators, moulders on clean up.
Operators who so request or instructed.
Operators where so designated.
Mechanics.
Press operators, truckers, personnel who require.
Press operators, formers. Mechanics, moulder operators on clean up, operator where temperature is below normal.
As required
52 —
Mr. Raymond S,. Dahl, President January 15, 1986 Page 2
It is understood that employees who receive protective clothing have responsibility for proper care and use of such.
Where appropriate clothing allowances will be adjusted with regard for health and safety.
Yours truly,
P. Jovanovich
Director-Human Resources /sb
53 —
Letter of Understanding No. 4
January 15, 1986
Mr. Raymond S. Dahl, President.
Local Union No. 296,
U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A.
141 King St. East,
Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Dahl:
Re: Skilled Trades Between Plants
This letter shall serve to confirm the agreement reached between the parties during recent negotiations regarding shared Skilled Trades Between Plants.
It is the desire of both parties to improve the knowledge and competence of Beckers skilled trades and minimize the requirement of outside contractors; therefore, on occasions where necessary, skilled trades personnel may be assigned work in any Plant so as to assist that Plant’s operations and maintenance work, as well as provide any training required.
It is understood that this practise shall not result in a skilled trades employee being assigned away from his home Plant a majority of the time except in cases of major installations, removals or due to a loss of a skilled trades employee and then only for that duration.
Yours truly,
P. Jovanovich
Director-Human Resources /sb
54
Letter of Understanding No. 5
January 15, 1986
Mr. Raymond S. Dahl, President,
Local Union No. 296,
U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A.
141 King St. East,
Kitchener, Ontario.
N2G 2K8
Dear Mr. Dahl:
This letter will confirm the agreement made during negotiations concerning payments of wages to the Local Union President.
The Company will pay the Local Union President for time lost from his regular hours in the administration of the Collective Labour Agreement thusly, conduct of legitimate Local Union matters. The President shall first obtain permission from his Shift Manager and will contact a Management Representative before conducting Union business in any department.
Such payment shall be charged against the allotted hours in Section 3.06. Payment will be straight time Average Hourly Earnings.
Yours truly,
P. Jovanovich
Director-Human Resources /sb
55
LIFE INSURANCE AND WELFARE BENEFIT PLAN
This Agreement made and entered into this 15th day of December, 1985, by and between Beckers Lay-Tech Inc., Kitchener, hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Local Union Number 296, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
1.01	The term “Employee” means any male or female who is in the regular full time employment of the Company, and is a member of the Bargaining Unit, referred to hereinafter in the masculine gender.
1.02	The term “Dependent” means a person defined as follows:
(1)	The spouse of an employee--for purposes of any spouse’s benefits payable under the Plan, “spouse” means the person who is legally married to the employee, except in the case of a person of the opposite sex who has been cohabiting with the employee and has been publicly represented as the wife or husband of the employee for at least one vear immediately preceding the time when that person’s status is required to be determined for the purpose of this plan.
(2)	The unmarried, unemployed children of an employee who are under 21 years of age (or over 21 years of age but under 25 years of age provided such children are in full time attendance at school, college or university).
(3)	Any child of the employee twenty-one years of age or over, mentally or physically infirm and wholly dependent for support upon the insured
— 56 —
employee, before his twenty-first birthday, but this does not include the spouse of any such child.
(4)	The term “children” shall include stepchildren, foster children, and other children who depend wholly upon the employee for support and live with the employee in regular parent-child relationship.
1.03:	“Physician” means a medical practitioner
who is registered under the Medical Act of the Province of Ontario or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine in the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical or diagnostic services are rendered to an employee or his dependent.
1.04	The term “Layoff’ means the termination of employment of an employee by the Company for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the Company to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; “laid off” or “to be laid off” shall have a like meaning.
1.05	The term “Retirant” means any employee who has been retired and is eligible to receive a retirement pension or disability allowance under the Pension and Severance Award Agreement between the Company and the Union.
2.01 Life Inurance: A principal sum for each eligible hourly paid employee and retirant as follows:
Payment of death benefit will be made in accordance with the terms of the policy issued by the Insurance Company to each eligible employee and retirant.
ARTICLE 2 BENEFITS
Eligible employee Eligible retirant
57
2.02	Life Insurance Termination and Conversion Privilege: The policy will continue in force for a period of 31 days following termination of employment. During this period the holder of the policy shall have the privilege of obtaining, without medical examination, a policy from the Insurer according to the terms contained in the insurance certificate.
2.03	Disablement Before Age 65: If an insured employee becomes totally disabled before attaining the age of 65 years, the life insurance policy will be extended without payment of premiums in accordance with the terms contained in the insurance certificate.
2.04	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance: An additional principal sum of $16,000 will be paid in the case of accidental death or dismemberment of an eligible employee. The principal sum will be payable in the case of death or loss of use of both hands, both feet or sight of both eyes or any two of those members when such loss occurs within 365 days of the date of the accident and is caused by external, violent and accidental means. Payment of one-half of the above principal sum will be provided for in the case of loss of one hand, one foot or sight of one eye, under the same conditions. The contract will contain such limitations and conditions as are normally found in contracts issued in Ontario for insurance of this type.
(b)	Long Term Disability Plan: Effective December 1,1987, the Company shall provide Long Term Disability Benefits as herein prescribed to an eligible employee possessing two years of credited service and being totally disabled from any occupation. Such benefits will commence following exhaustion of weekly indemnity benefits and will cease in the event of the following occurrence of: (a) on the month following the
— 58 —
month of recovery, or (b) on the month following the month of death, or (c) on the month following the month in which monthly payments equals months of credited service or (d) on the month in which the employee qualifies for a Disability Pension or a full total disability award from Workers’ Compensation Board.
To be eligible and continue to be eligible for this benefit such employee shall provide medical examination as required from time to time.
The amount of maximum monthly benefit shall be four hundred (400) dollars per month; per month of credited service to a maximum duration of forty-eight (48) months of payment.
It is understood that Welfare Article 3.02 shall have no meaning to the long term disability plan.
Recurrence of Disability: This provision shah take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Company’s weekly indemnity plan; whereas, if a disabled employee while receiving long term disability payments recovers and returns to full-time active employment and becomes disabled within three months of his return to work, a new disability qualifying period shall not be required if disability results from the same cause, in this event the employee will resume his benefit for any balance of long term disability benefit payments only.
Rehabilitation: Refusal to undergo reasonable rehabilitation shall result in disqualifications from Long Term Disability.
2.05	Accident and Sickness Indemnity:
(a)	If an eligible employee is totally disabled due to a non-occupational accident, payment as
— 59 —
outlined below will be made to such employee while under the care of a physician for a period not exceeding 52 weeks.
(b)	Benefits for disability caused through accidental injury as described above will be paid commencing with the first day an employee is unable to report for work and is deemed to be disabled by his attending physician.
(c)	If an eligible employee is totally disabled due to a non-occupationa sickness, payment as outlined below will be made to such employee while under the care of a physician for a period not exceeding 52 weeks.
(d)	Benefits for disability caused through sickness as described above will be paid commencing with the eighth day of continuous disability, provided, however, that the eight day waiting period shall not commence to accrue prior to the first day the employee is unable to repori for work and is deemed to be disabled bv his attending physician. If, however, during- this waiting period the sickness necessitates surgery, for which a “Surgical Expense Benefit” is payable, the Weekly Indemnity Benefit will be paid commencing with the first day of disability for which the employee is eligible for a daily Hospital Expense Benefit as a result of hospital confinement.
(e)	Benefits for disability caused through sickness, which necessitates confinement in a hospital for a period of at least one full day commencing during the waiting period, will be paid commencing with the first day of disability for which the employee is eligible for a Daily Hospital Expense Benefit as a result of hospital confinement.
2.06	The date upon which disability terminates shall be the last day prior to the day upon which the employee’s attending physician states the employee is able to resume work.
— 60 —-
2.07
(a)	Weekly Indemnity Benefit: The amount of weekly indemnity benefits will be an amount equivalent to 66%% of the employee’s Average Hourly Earnings, excluding all premiums, times 40 hours or 66%% of the employee’s average insurable earnings over the last 20 weeks of insurable employment (as used by the Unemployment Insurance Commission), whichever is the greater, to a maximum of 297.00 per week.
(b)	The amount equivalent to 66%% shall be rounded off to the nearest dollar. In cases where part of the dollar is equal to or greater than 50 cents, the amount shall be rounded off to the next highest dollar.
(c)	If the earnings index under the Unemployment Insurance Act should change the criteria
for maximum benefits, the Company may elect to adjust the maximum benefits of $297.00 to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the Weekly Indemnity Plan for Unemployment Insurance Act premium reductions.
(d)	In consideration of the amounts in the Weekly Indemnity Benefits outlined in (a) above, the Union and its members agree:
To forego the total rebate or savings to which they might be entitled, in whole or in part, under the Unemployment Insurance Act, as a iresult of the Weekly Indemnity Plan becoming and remaining approved for any reduction of premium, and that all such moneys shall be retained by the Company.
(e)	Should the provisions included in this section
2.07	fail to meet or fail to continue to meet the criteria required to maintain the Weekly Indemnity Plan as an approved plan for premium reductions under the Unemployment In-
61
surance Act, the Company and the Union will, following the effective date of such legislation or change in the regulations, commence negotiations to amend these provisions providing that such amendments do not increase the aggregate cost of Weekly Indemnity to the Company before the enactment of the legislation or change in the regulations.
2.08	Successive periods of disability shall be considered as one period of disability, unless the employee returns to work and completes at least 2 weeks of active and full-time emDlovment before commencement of the later disability-or unless the later disability is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior disability and commences after the employee has returned to work.
2.09	Indemnity Calculation: Weekly Indemnity payments will be paid on the basis of a 5 day week and partial weeks will be paid on a daily basis calculated at 1/5 the weekly benefit for each regular working day of disability.
No employee shall be eligible for payment of an indemnity claim either full or in part for any period for which an employee is receiving other income to which the Company is either directly or indirectly a contributor.
2.10
(a)	A female employee will not be eligible for Weekly Indemnity Benefit resulting from pregnancy or related causes.
(b)	If the Unemployment Insurance Commission changes its regulations, generally, to discontinue payments for claims relating to pregnancy, the plan will be revised to provide the payments provided for in Section 2.07 above but shall be limited to a period of 6 weeks.
2.11	Medical Services Benefit: The Company will remit the monthly premiums to the Ontario
— 62 —
Health Insurance Commission on behalf of each eligible employee and eligible dependent(s), if any, to qualify him or them for the O.H.I.P. benefits in effect. Such premiums shall be paid by the Company for each month an employee or dependents) is eligible under Article 3 — Eligibility. For each month in which the employee or depen-dent(s) is not eligible under this Agreement, the amount of the premium will be deducted from his pay.
2.12	Supplementary Hospital Erpense Benefit: In addition to making the premium payments as defined in Section 2.11 above, the Company will provide Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefits for any eligible employee and any eligible dependent for the amount charged by the hospital for room and board in excess of the expenses covered by the provincial hospital insurance plan up to an amount equal to the difference between the charges for standard ward and standard semiprivate accommodation for each day of confinement to a maximum of 365 days during any one benefit period.
Successive periods of confinement in a hospital shall be considered as occurring during one Benefit Period unless the employee returns to work and completes at least fourteen (14) calendar days of full-time employment before commencement of the later confinement, or unless the later confinement is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior confinement; or in the case of a dependent successive periods of confinement are separated by an interval of at least 3 months or unless the later confinement is due to causes wholly different from those of the prior confinement.
2.13	Supplementary Health Benefits-The plan will provide for each eligible employee and eligible dependent(s) the following Supplementary Health Benefits:
63
MAXIMUM BENEFIT
The maximum amount payable under this benefit in respect of any individual in any one 12 month period will be:
(a)	$20,000 less the amount paid under this benefit in respect of the individual.
(b)	$1,000
whichever is the greater amount.
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
If an employee or any eligible dependent is totally disabled on the date of termination of the employee’s insurance because of termination of employment, benefits will be continued in respect of the disabled individual during total disability for a period of up to 90 days following the date of such termination.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses mean reasonable and customary charges for the following services, providing that such services are prescribed by a physician licensed to practice medicine.
-Services of registered nurses and qualified physiotherapists, providing such nurse or physiotherapist is not ordinarily resident in the patient’s home and is not a relative of the patient;
-hospital out-patient services and diagnostic laboratory and X-ray examinations not covered by a Provincial hospital or medical insurance plan or any other hospital plan;
-prescription drugs dispensed by a physician or by a registered pharmacist on the written. prescription of a physician;
-rental (or purchase at the discretion of the Company) of wheel chair, hospital bed, iron lung or oxygen set or other remedial appliances as prescribed by a physician;
— 64 —
-trusses, braces and crutches;
-artificial limbs or eyes or other prosthetic appliances;
-oxygen, plasma or blood transfusions, surgical dressings or bandages;
-ambulance services which are certified by the attending physician as necessary, including any conveyance which is officially designated as an ambulance in any emergency;
-the services of a dental surgeon for treatment of a fractured jaw or for the treatment of accidental injuries to natural teeth within six months of the accident where the injury was caused by external, violent and accidental means;
-services of a duly licensed medical practitioner rendered while the employee or dependent is travelling or resident outside the Province of Ontario, payment to be limited to the amount of the charge which is in excess of the Ontario Medical Association Schedule of Fees and up to the amount which would be reasonably considered for payment if the service were rendered in Ontario;
-eye glasses purchased on the written prescription of a physician or registered optometrist, subject to a maximum of $125.00 during any period of 24 consecutive months. Exclusions— sun glasses, glasses for cosmetic purposes, and safety glases where a prescription is not required.
-hearing aids on the written prescription of a medical doctor to a maximum of $400.00 in all, per person, including repairs and batteries. In the case of growing children (up to age 18) an additional allowance of $200.00 per three year periods shall be available for replacement of ear pieces;
-treatment by radium or radioactive isotopes;
65
-room and board in a licensed private hospital, other than a home for the aged, which is under the supervision of a registered nurse or physician up to $15,00 per day for a maximum of 120 days during the lifetime of the insured individual;
-services of a qualified and registered clinical psychologist in good standing up to $35.00 for the initial visit and up to $20.00 per hour for subsequent treatments to a maximum of $300.00 during any period of 60 consecutive months;
services of a registered masseur up to $10.00 per treatment for a maximum of 12 treatments during any period of 60 consecutive months, provided such treatments are prescribed in writing by the patient’s attending phyisician;
-services of a regularly qualified speech therapist which are certified in writing, as necessary by the patient’s attending physician or dentist up to a maximum of $300.00 during any period of 60 consecutive months;
-remedial footwear as prescribed by a physician or a doctor of podiatric medicine;
-“Reasonable and customary charges” exclude charges which are in excess of those usually made for the service, treatment or supplies in the absence of insurance, or in excess of the general level of the charges in the area.
LIMITATIONS
The insurance under this benefit does not cover
charges in respect of —
-injuries or sickness for which benefits are payable under any Workers’ Compensation Act;
-services of a physician or surgeon except as provided under “Eligible Expenses”;
-self-inflicted injuries which are not accidental;
— 66 —
-injury or sickness resulting from war or from engaging in a riot, illegal disturbance of the peace, criminal act;
-addiction to drugs or alcoholism unless under the care of a physician;
-any service for which the individual is not required to pay or for which benefits are received under any other group insurance policy;
-services for which benefits are payable under any government hospital or medical care insurance plan other than those specified under “Eligible Expenses”.
2.14	“Dental Expense Benefit — The Company will provide for all eligible active employees and eligible dependents, the basic Dental Plan, Rider 1, Rider 2, fully paid dentures each three years and fifty percent coverage for Crowns and Bridges, as detailed in the Dental Listing herein.
Coverage will be based on the Ontario Dental Association schedule of fees:
Effective February 1, 1986, the 1985 O.D.A. Fee Schedule;
Effective February 1, 1987, the 1986 O.D.A. Fee Schedule.
Payment based on the Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees provided for general practitioners for the following oral care expenses:
ONTARIO DENTAL ASSOCIATION CODES AND PROCEDURES
(explanation of codes can be obtained from your Dentist)
Examinations OHIO, 01120, 01130
Initial examination of a new patient (once every 3 years)
— 67 —
01200
Re-examination of a previous patient (once every 6 months)
01400
Specific examination
01300, 94400, 94100, 94200
Emergency Examination and/or consultation
Consultations
05100
Treatment Planning-per unit of time 05200
With patient 93100
Another Dental Practitioner
Specific Diagnostic Procedures 04100
Bacteriologic cultures for determining of pathologic agents
04200
Dental carries susceptibility test
04300, 04310
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue
04330
Cytological examination 04400
Pulp Vitality tests
Radiographic Examination and Interpretation (X-Ray)
02100
Intraoral periapical films, complete series (once every 3 years)
68 —
02111-02120 (inclusive)
Intraoral periapical films, one to ten films
02131-02134 (inclusive)
Occlusal films 02141-02144 (inclusive)
Posterior bitewing films (once every 6 months)
02201-02204 (inclusive)
Extraoral films
02304
Sinus examination 02400
Sialography
02430
Use of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions 02504, 02505
Temporomandibular joint films 02600
Panoramic film (once every 3 years)
02701-02705 (inclusive)
Cephalometric films
02800
Interpretation of radiographs from another source — per unit of time
02920
Tomography
02930
Hand and wrist (as diagnostic aid for dental treatment)
Preventive Services 11100, 11200, 11300
Scaling and Polishing (once every 6 months) 12400
Topical Fluoride treatment — 69 —
13200, 13210
Oral Hygiene Instruction (once every 6 months) 43310
Occlusal Equilibration (8 units of time every 12 months)
Treatment of Dental Caries (Fillings)
39930
Sedative (palliative) dressing Amalgam Restorations
21101-21105 (inclusive)
Primary Teeth
21211-21215 (inclusive)
Permanent Anterior and Bicuspid Teeth
21221-21225 (inclusive)
Permanent Molar Teeth 21301-21305 (inclusive)
Pin reinforcement
22101, 22102
Silicate restorations
23101-23223 (inclusive)
Acrylic or composite restorations
Surgical Services — Removal of Teeth
Removal of Erupted Tooth — uncomplicated 71101
Single Tooth 71111
Each additional tooth in same surgical site Surgical Removals 72100
Removal of Erupted Tooth (complicated)
72210, 72220, 72230, 72240
Removal of Impacted Tooth
— 70 —
Removal of Residual Roots 72310
Soft tissue coverage 72320
Bone tissue coverage Anaesthesia
92110, 92120, 92201, 92202, 92215, 92251, 92252, 92310, 92311, 92330, 92340
Periodontal Services
(Diagnosis and Treatment of Gum Tissues) Non-surgical services — per unit of time 41100
Application of displacement dressing 41200
Management of acute infection and other oral lesions
41300
Desensitization of tooth surface Surgical services
42001
Gingival curettage
42002
Gingivoplasty
42003
Gingivectomy
42100
Osseous surgery 42103, 42104
Osseous grafts •—• single, multiple site 42200, 42300 Soft tissue grafts
— 71 —
42310
Vestibuloplasty
42500
Post surgical treatment — periodontal —■ per unit of time
Adjunctive Periodontal Services 43200, 43210
Provisional splinting — intracoronal, extra coronal — per unit of time
43400
Periodontal scaling and root planning — per unit of time
43600
Special periodontal appliances (including occlusal guards)
Endodontic Services
31100, 31110
Pulp capping
32201, 32202, 32210, 32211 Vital pulpotomy
33100, 33120, 33200, 33220,
33300, 33320, 33400, 33420
Root Canal Therapy
33501, 33502, 33503, 33504,
33511, 33512, 33513, 33514 Apexification
34101, 34102, 34103, 34104, 34111, 34112, 34114, 34115. 34201. 34202. 34203, 34212 Periapical Services Root Amputation 34401, 34402
Amputation at one root-two roots
Other Endodontic Procedures (Preparation of
Tooth for Treatment)
— 72 —
39100
Gingival curettage 39110
Alveolectomy
39120
Banding of tooth to maintain sterile operating field
39210, 39220, 39230, 39300 Hemisection
39400
Chemical bleaching only — per unit of time
39501, 39502, 39503, 39600
Intentional Removal, Apical Filling and Reimplantation
39901, 39902, 39903, 39904,
39910, 39940, 39960, 39970,
39980, 39985
Emergency Procedures
Surgical Services
72410, 72411, 72412
Surgical exposure of tooth
72430
Transplantation of a tooth 72440
Surgical repositioning of a tooth 72450
Enucleation of an unerupted tooth and follicle 73100, 73110
Aleveoplasty — per unit of time 73119, 73120
Gingivoplasty and/or Stomatoplasty 73133, 73134, 73135, 73140, 73141 Osteoplasty — per unit of time
— 73 —
74108, 74109, 74408, 74409
Surgical Excision
75100, 75110 Surgical Incision 76198, 76210, 76250, 76310,
76350, 76910, 76950, 76951
Fractures
77800, 77810, 78110 Frenectomy
79104, 79301, 79302, 79303,
79304, 79305, 79306, 79307,
79308, 79401, 79601, 79602,
79603, 79604
Miscellaneous Surgical Services 96100, 96101
Adjunctive General Services Drugs (Injections)
100% payment based on the Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees provided for general practitioners for the following oral care expenses:
Prosthetic Services 51100
Complete Maxillary Denture (once every 3 years)
51110
Complete Mandibular Denture (once every 3 years)
51120, 51300, 51310, 51320,
51600, 51610, 51620
Complete Maxillary and Mandibular Dentures (once every 3 years)
52120, 52121, 52220, 52221 52230, 52231, 52320, 52321,
52400, 52410, 52500, 52510,
74
52520, 52525, 52530, 52531,
52535, 52600, 52610, 52630,
52800
Removal Partical Dentures (once every 3 years) 54240, 54300, 54301, 54302 Denture Adjustments
55101, 55102, 55103, 55104,
55201, 55202, 55203, 55204,
55520, 55530, 55700
Denture Repairs
56200, 56201, 56210, 56211,
56220, 56221, 56230, 56231,
56260, 56262, 56263,
56270, 56271, 56272, 56273 Denture Rebasing, Relining
50% payment based on the Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees provided for general practitioners for crowns and bridges:
24101, 24103, 24200, 24201, 24300
Gold Foil Restorations 25100, 25200, 25300, 25500 Metal Inlay Restorations 25601, 25602, 25603, 25604, 25605
Retentive Pins
26100, 26700
Porcelain Restorations
27100, 27110, 27130, 27140,
27200, 27210, 27300, 27310,
27401, 27403, 27411, 27413,
27421, 27500, 27700, 27701,
27702, 27710. 27711, 27712,
27800, 27810, 29100, 29300,
29500, 29510, 29600, 29610,
29800, 29900
Crowns and other Restorative Services
75
60100, 60700
Prosthodentic Evaluation (once every 3 years)
62100, 62200, 62500, 62510,
62600, 62700, 62800
Pontics (once every 3 years)
65200, 65300, 65400, 65500 Retainers (once every 3 years)
66100, 66200, 66300, 66400,
66500, 66600, 66610, 66620 Repairs (once every 3 years)
67100, 67101, 67110, 67200,
67210, 67400, 67410, 67600,
69300
Retainers — Crowns (once every 3 years)
69610, 69620, 69701, 69702,
69703, 69704, 69705, 69800
Splinting (once every 3 years)
Predetermination of Oral Care Benefits
There will be times when you want to find out what payment you may expect to receive from the Insurance Carrier before you begin a plan of oral treatment. This process is called predetermination and we strongly urge you to use it whenever the anticipated cost of the oral treatment exceeds $300.
Simply have your dental practitioner write out a treatment plan for you and take this to your Plan Administrator for transmittal to the Insurance Carrier. We will send you a statement of the amount payable by the insurance plan. This will allow you to determine your own financial obligation prior to the commencement of treatment.
76
Limitations
No reimbursement will be made for expenses
resulting from:
-services payable under any Workers’ Compensation Act or any other statute;
-services payable under any government plan;
-self-inflicted injuries;
-services required as a result of war or hostilities of any kind;
-services required as a result of your participation in a criminal offence;
-services performed by a person who is ordinarily resident in the patient’s home;
-services for which reimbursement is payable due to the legal liability of any other party to the extent of such reimbursement;
-services other than those provided by a dental practitioner except those services which may be performed by legally qualified auxiliary personnel under the supervision of a dental practitioner, or those services which may be performed by a paradental practitioner under the terms of the practitioner’s license;
-cosmetic services;
-crowns placed on a tooth not functionally impaired by incisal or cuspal damage;
-dentures and bridgework (including crowns and inlays forming the abutments) to replace any teeth removed before the claimant became insured under this benefit or to replace a tooth or teeth congenitally missing;
-dentures which have been lost, stolen, or mislaid;
-prosthetic devices which were ordered before the claimant became insured under this benefit,
— 77 —
or which were ordered while the claimant was insured but are installed more than 30 days after termination of the insurance:
-replacement of an existing partial or full denture, bridgework, crown, inlay, onlay, or periodontal splinting unless;
(i)	the existing denture, bridgework, crown, inlay, onlay or periodontal splinting is at least three years old and the replacement takes place at least one year after the claimant became insured under this benefit,
or
(ii)	the replacement is required to replace an immediate temporary denture which was installed while the claimant was insured under this benefit;
-the addition of teeth to an existing partial denture or bridgework unless the addition is required to replace one or more teeth removed while the claimant is insured under this benefit.
ARTICLE 3 ELIGIBILITY
The following regulations will determine the eligibility of present and future employees to participate in the benefits provided in this Plan, as set out above.
3.01	Any regular full time hourly paid employee actively engaged in his duties as of the effective date of this Agreement shall be entitled to applicable benefits of the plan for which he may be eligible (and providing he has fulfilled the initial eligibility requirements as outlined in Section 3.02). Present employees not actively at work on the above date, for any reason, shall become eligible upon the date of their return to active employment.
78
3.02	A regular full time hourly paid employee hired after the effective date of this Agreement will become eligible for the applicable benefits of the plan on the first day of the third month following the month in which employment begins, provided that he is actively employed on the working day coincident with or next following that date. An employee not actively at work on his eligible date for any reason will become eligible upon the date of his return to active employment.
3.03	Dependents: The eligible dependent or dependents of an eligible employee shall be entitled to receive benefits as stated herein on or after the date on which such dependent or dependents are properly enrolled under the plan, except that should a dependent actually be a hospital patient on the date the insurance takes effect, the coverage, other than that provided by the Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan for such dependent, will be postponed until he or she is discharged from the hospital.
3.04	An employee will be considered to be single and without dependents until he has properly enrolled his dependents. He may be required to furnish such proof as the Company may reasonably require to establish the eligibility of any person claimed as a dependent.
3.05	An employee shall inform the Company promptly of any changes in his status or that of his dependents which would affect his or their eligibility under the plan.
3.06	Leave of Absence, Sickness, Injury or Pregnancy: When an eligible employee is granted leave of absence from work because of sickness, injury or pregnancy, applicable benefits of the plan for the employee and his dependents will be maintained for a period commencing with the first
79
day of the month following the date such leave commenced and equal to the amount of seniority the employee had at the start of such leave but not to exceed a maximum period of 18 months.
3.07	Expiration of Leave of Absence Benefits: An employee, who is unable to return to work at the expiration of the period of leave of absence for which he is eligible for benefits as set out above, and continues coverage, for himself and dependents, for all benefits, except weekly indemnity, by payment monthly in advance to the Company of the total premiums applicable to such benefits. Such payment will be the responsibility of the employee. This privilege will terminate on termination of employment (including lay-off) or termination of the plan or failure to pay premiums.
3.08	Personal Leave of Absence: An employee who is granted leave of absence for any reason other than sickness or injury after becoming eligible for the plan, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits for himself and dependents, except weekly indemnity, until the end of the month following the month in which such absence commences.
3.09	Employee not Eligible for Leave of Absence: An employee eligible for the benefits of the plan who has not established seniority and, therefore, not entitled to leave of absence, whose employment is terminated because of absence due to disability in excess of one week shall cease to be eligible for benefits as of the date of termination except for life insurance conversion privilege as outlined herein.
3.10	Lay-Off: An employee who is temporarily laid off for a period not exceeding 21 days shall continue to be eligible for all benefits of the plan.
— 80 —
An employee laid off for an indefinite period, whose employment is thereby terminated, shall continue to be eligible for all benefits, except weekly indemnity, until the end of the month following the month in which such lay-off occurs.
However, if at the time of lay-off the employee is eligible for and continues to receive Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, coverage for all benefits, except Weekly Indemnity, will be continued up to a maximum period ceasing at the end of the sixth month following the month in which such lay-off occurs.
3.11	Return from Leave of Absence or Layoff: An employee, who had previously been eligible under the plan and who reutrns to regular employment after lay-off and prior to loss of seniority rights or leave of absence where benefits have expired shall be eligible for benefits on the first day that he returns to work.
3.12	Termination of Employment: An employee, except a retirant or laid-off employee, whose employment is terminated for any reason shall cease to be eligible for benefits to which he may be entitled under this plan as of the date of termination except for extended termination benefits and the provision that Life Insurance will continue for 31 days under the conversion privilege.
3.13	Dependents of an employee shall cease to be eligible for benefits under this plan on the date on which the employee ceases to be eligible, and in the case of the death of an employee, at the end of the month following the month in which said death occurs.
3.14	Retirement: An employee who becomes a retirant and continues to remain eligible for a retirement pension or disability allowance but
81
these benefits shall not be applicable to a person who may be eligible for a Deferred Vested Pension, shall continue to be eligible for the benefits then in effect as herein outlined:
—retirant life insurance,
-medical services benefit,
-supplementary hospital expense benefit, -supplementary health benefit, and -dental expense benefit.
3.15	Extended Termination Benefits: In all cases of termination of coverage while the plan is in effect, the eligible employee or dependents will be covered for Supplementary Hospital Expense Benefit and Supplementary Health Benefits for a 90 day period if total disability exists continuously from date of termination and treatment is given within the 90 day period.
3.16 When an insured person is insured under another group insurance plan for Medical Services, Supplementary Hospital or Supplementary Health, benefits will not be payable with respect to that portion of any eligible expense for which benefits are paid by the other plan.
Benefits for eligible expenses incurred by an insured dependent will be determined on the following basis if the dependent is also insured under another group insurance plan:
(a)	Benefits will not be payable with respect to that portion of an expense which is eligible for reimbursement by another plan where the dependent is an insured person under the other plan.
(b)	Benefits will be reduced by the amount of the reimbursement made by another plan where the dependent is also insured as a dependent under the other plan.
— 82 —
ARTICLE 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4.01	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Plan.
4.02	The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an Insurance Company or Companies, or such other organizations as it may choose, to provide benefits as outlined under this contract, and upon so doing will be relieved of any individual liability to any employee other than to maintain such contract or contracts in force.
4.03	The employee shall complete any application or questionnaire relating to himself and to the number, sex and age of his dependents or the facts pertaining to a claim for benefit presented to him by an insurer through the Company or otherwise.
4.04	The insurer shall issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each employee eligible foi benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided by the insurer.
4.05	The Company shall have the right, and an employee claiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity, to examination of the person of the employee or his dependent, by a physician appointed by it, when and as often as it may reasonably require while a claim for a benefit is pending.
4.06	Exclusions — General: Benefits outlined in this plan for employee or dependents, where applicable, will not be payable for sickness or injury covered under the Workers’ Compensation Act of Ontario or other laws for which the employee is entitled to receive indemnity or arising in the course of service in the Armed Forces, or contracted or sustained as a direct or indirect result
— 83
of war, engaging in a riot, illegal disturbance of the Deace, criminal act or addiction to drugs or alcoholism unless under the care of a physician.
4.07	No payment of claim will be made if the employee fails to meet the requirements of the insurer with respect of proof and time limitations under regulations normally included in policies written in Ontario.
4.08	Proof of claim on forms furnished by the Company must be submitted to the Company by the employee within ninety days after the commencement of any disability for which weekly sickness and accident indemnity, hospitalization benefits are payable.
4.09	If a disagreement shall arise between the Company or its insurer as the case may be, and an employee as to whether such employee is, or continues to be, suffering from bodily injury or sickness of a degree, extent, and type that gives rise to a claim for benefits under the plan, such disagreement shall be resolved as follows:
The employee or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability, the question shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The opinion of the third physician after examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two physicians, shall be accepted by the Company or the insurer, the Union and the employee as irrebutable evidence of the factstherein disclosed, and the degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled person, The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company or the insurer and the Union.
4.10	If a disagreement shall arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for benefits or payment of claims under
— 84 —
the plan, or if a disagreement shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as hereinbefore described, such disagreement mav be taken as a grievance under the grievance- provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Human Resources Manager. If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or board of arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. He or it shall have no authority to add or subtract from any provision of this Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit under the Agreement. Their decision on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, Union and the employee.
4,11	Subrogation: Where an employee or dependent receives Weekly Indemnity Benefits, or payment for Hospitalization, expenses or other payments to him or on his behalf by reason of bodily injury or sickness in respect of which some third party is under legal liability, the Company or the insurer at the Company’s option, shall be subrogated to the employee’s or dependents right to compensation for the cost of the benefits and for services provided in respect of such bodily in-
r' or sickness to the extent of the amount paid _ the Company either directly or indirectly, or through coverage provided by the insurance policy in respect thereof and the employee by acceptance of the benefits, will undertake that he or the de-pendenut so entitled to compensation, shall prosecute such claim against the third party at the expense and to the extent directed by the Company and pay over to the Company what it is entitled
85
to receive as aforesaid together with any expenses it may have paid or incurred, from any moneys recovered from such third party, and he or the dependent will do all acts, and execute all documents necessary to permit the Company to obtain the benefit of this clause.
ARTICLE 5
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Supplemental agreements between the parties in writing and signed by the parties shall be binding and shall form part of the Life Insurance and Welfare Benefit Plan Agreement provided they refer to this Article 5,
ARTICLE 6
MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION
6.01	The plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations, and the relevant provision of the Insurance Act of Ontario shall be deemed to apply except to the extent that such provisions may be waived or are superseded by the express provisions of the Agreement.
6.02	If at any time a Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one or more of the benefits described in the plan for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this Agreement shall terminate in respect of that benefit or benefits upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after the proclamation of such statute or upon the date the statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty (30) day period or such longer period as may expire after date of proclamation of the statute, the par- 86 —
ties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any amendments required or desirable to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits and the benefits provided under this plan shall approximate in kind and money value the benefits provided under the plan before said statutory enactment.
6.03	Amendments to this Agreement may be made by mutual consent of both parties. Proposed amendments shall be submitted in writing by the party desiring a change, and negotiations thereon shall start within twenty days of such notice. During the negotiations and thereafter, if no conclusion is reached, the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in effect.
6.04	In the event of termination of the plan under the provisions of this Agreement, all insurance under the plan will terminate at the end of the month in which such termination occurs.
6.05	This Agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1985, and shall remain in full force and effect, in regDect to all its terms until midnight December 15, 1988, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one (1) year unless either party gives written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
— 87
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into December 15, 1985, by and between Beckers Lay-Tech Inc., Kitchener, hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and Local Union No. 296, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
WHEREAS: The parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan by Agreement dated 15th day of February, 1968 and
WHEREAS: The parties have agreed to certain modification and amendments of the Plan,
Now, therefore, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
As used herein:
1.	“Company” mean BECKERS LAY-TECH INC., Kitchener.
2.	“Union” means Local Union No. 296, United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America.
3.	“Plan” means the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, established by this Agreement, between the Company and the Union.
4.	“Trustee” means the trustee of the General Fund established under the Plan.
5.	“Collective Agreement” means the Collective Labour Agreement, dated December 15, 1985, between the Company and the Union as may be amended or supplemented, or any successor agreement.
88
6.	“Bargaining Unit” means the unit of employees covered by the Collective Agreement.
7.	“Employee” means any regular full time employee of the Company who, during the life of this Agreement, is in the Bargaining Unit as defined in and covered by the Collective Agreement. This plan specifically excludes payments into the fund and payment of benefits from the fund on behalf of the part time employees.
8.	“Regular Benefit”, or “Weekly Supplemental Benefit” means a Weekly Benefit as is payable under Article VII, Section 1, of this Plan.
9.	“Short Week Benefit” means such Weekly Benefit as is payable under Article XII of the Plan.
10.	“Benefit” means a Regular Benefit or a Short Week Benefit or both, as indicated by the context.
11.	“Fund” or “General Fund” means a trust fund maintained under this Plan from which Benefits may be payable to employees.
12.	‘Seniority” means the seniority status in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
13.	“Active Payroll” — An employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he draws pay while in the Bargaining Unit.
14.	“Plant” means Beckers Lay-Tech Inc., Kitchener.
15.	“Unemployment Insurance” means the system or program, established by law, for paying benefits to persons on account of their unemployment under which an individual’s eligibility for benefit payments is not determined by application on a “means” or “disability” test, and an “Unemployment Benefit” means a Benefit payable under such system.
— 89 —
16.	“Credit Unit” means a unit, or fraction thereof, credited to an employee under the Plan.
17.	“Work Week” or “Pay Period” means a calendar week beginning on Sunday at the regular starting time of the shift to which the employee is assigned or was last assigned immediately prior to being laid off.
18.	“Full Week” or “Week” when used in connection with the period of layoff means (i) a period of lay-off equivalent to a work week or (ii) a work week for which an employee shall have been scheduled or offered work for less than 20 hours, including hours paid for but not worked, and “full week of layoff” shall include such week, or (iii) with respect to a Short Week Benefit payable to an employee, a work week during which the Compensated or Available Flours (as defined in Article XII, Section 2) total less than the number of hours in his Standard Work Week, but not to exceed 40; provided, however, that if there is a difference between the starting time of a full week and of a week under the Unemployment Insurance system, the full week shall be paired with the week under the Unemployment Insurance system which corresponds most closely thereto in time. Each week within a continuous period of lay-off does not constitute a new separate lay-off.
19.	(a) “Average Hourly Earnings” for the purposes of this Plan, means the straight time hourly earninss of the applicant and shall be based on the-applicant’s last three weeks of employment in the Bargaining Unit on the most recent iob on which he had iob seniority. Such “Average Hourly Earnings” shall be determined by dividing the applicant’s earnings including Night Shift Bonus, but excluding overtime and all other premium payments, by the corresponding straight time
— 90 —
hours worked during that same three week period.
If a general wage increase has become effective between the period for which average hourly earnings has been calculated the date of layoff: such general wage increase shall be added to the average hourly earnings so calculated.
In order to provide a minimum appropriate to the current wage scales in the plant, the average hourly earnings shall in no case be deemed to be less than three dollars ($3.00) per hour for the purpose of calculating the benefits payable.
(b) “Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings” means the straight time hourly earnings of an employee and shall be determined by dividing the employee’s earnings including night shift bonus but excluding all other premium payments during the last pay period preceding the Short Work Week, by the corresponding straight time hours worked during the same pay period.
20.	“Dependents” means any person recognized as such under the provisions of the Dominion Unemployment Insurance Act, 1955, by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
ARTICLE II
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND
The Company shall establish and maintain a Fund in accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, with a chartered bank or qualified trust company, selected by the Company as Trustee. The Company’s contributions shall be made into the Fund, the assets of which shall be held invested and applied by the Trustee, all in accordance with the Plan. Benefits shall be payable only from such Fund. The Company shall
— 91 —
provide in the contract with the Trustee that the Fund shall be held in cash or invested only in general obligations of the Government of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province and/or any institution meeting the requirements of the Plan.
ARTICLE III MAXIMUM FUNDING AND TRUST POSITION
Section 1. Maximum Funding
There shall be a Maximum Funding of the Fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provision of Section 2 of this Article). The Maximum Funding of the Fund for each month after the effective date of this Agreement shall be determined by multiplying the sum of (a) the number of employees on the active payroll and (b) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll but who have Credit Units by (c) $750.00.
The above number of employees and persons shall be as determined by the Company from its records as of the latest date for which the figures are available prior to the first Monday in the month for which the Maximum Funding is being determined (or prior to the pay period, if the Maximum Funding is being determined for a pay period).
Section 2. Trust Fund Position
There shall be a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for the Fund for each calendar month. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Funds as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such month. The Trust Fund
— 92 —
Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that whenever the Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month is less than ten percent (10%), such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan only to the first pay period beginning within such-month, and thereafter there shall be determined a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for such Fund for each pay period until the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds ten percent (10%). When the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds such percentage, such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for such purposes to each pay period until a Trust Fund Position for the following calendar month shall be applicable pursuant to this Section. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for a particular pay period shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund at the close of business on the Friday preceding such pay period, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such pay period.
Section 3. Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the Maximum Funding or the Trust Fund Position of the Fund shall be made on account of any subsequently discovered error in the computations or the figures used in making the computation, except (i) in the case of an error in bad faith, or (ii) in the case where after discovery of an error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shall only be prospective in effect, unless such adjustment would be substantial in the opinion of the Comapny. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to excuse the Com-from making up any shortage in its contri-
utions to the Fund.
93
ARTICLE IV
CONTRIBUTIONS BY COMPANY
Section 1. Company Contributions
Commencing with the pay period beginning December 16, 1979, and with respect to each pay period thereafter, for which the applicable Trust Fund Position of the Fund is less than 100%, the Company shall make a contribution to the Fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying six cents ($.06) by the total numb& of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such pay period (or such lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the assets in the General Fund up to the Maximium Funding for such Fund).
Commencing with the pay period beginning December 15, 1985, and with respect to each pay period thereafter;, for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is less than the figures shown in Column A, the Company shall make a contribution to the Fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying the applicable figure in Column B by the total number of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such nav neriod for such lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the Fund to the then-applicable Trust Fund Amount in Column A, in which case, the remainder of said total number of hours shall be multiplied by the next lower figure in the applicable Column B).
Column A
Column B
$150. or less $300. or less $400. or less $500. or less
$650. or less $750. or less
.11
.10
.09
.08
.07
.06
— 94
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to make any contribution to the Fund with respect to any period for which the applicable Trust Fund Position of such Fund is 100% or more, and no contribution to the Fund for any pay period shall be in excess of the amount necessary to bring the total market value of the assets in such Fund up to the Maximum Funding for such Fund.
Section 2. When Contributions Are Payable
Contributions by the Company to the fund shall be made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day in the calendar week following the pay day for the work week with respect to which contribution is being made. Except that in periods in which the Trust Fund Position equals or exceeds 10%, weekly contributions may be accumulated and made on or before the close of business in the first regularly scheduled work day of the calendar week in which the Friday used for determining the Trust Fund Position falls.
ARTICLE V
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS Section 1. Application for Benefits
No person shall be eligible for a Benefit unless and until he shall have made due application therefore in accordance with the procedure established by the Company under the Plan and shall have met the eligibility requirements of Section 2 of this Article.
Section 2. Eligibility for Regular Benefits
An applicant shall be eligible for a Regular Benefit only if he is on lay-off from the Company with respect to the week for which application is made and the first day of such week is on or after February 11, 1969 and if
— 95 —
(a)	such layoff:
(1)	was from the Bargaining Unit covered by the Collective Agreement;
(2)	occurred in a reduction of force or temporary layoff and was not the consequence of a condition which qualified the applicant for Benefits under any Agreement between the parties which provides for Severance Pay, Retirement or Disability Allowance or Weekly Sickness Indemnity;
(3)	was not for disciplinary reasons;
(4)	was not a consequence of (i) any strike, slowdown, work stoppage, picketing (whether or not by employee), or concerted action, at the Company Plant, or elsewhere, or (ii) any fault attributable to the applicant or (iii) anv war or hostile act of a foreign power’ (but not government regulation of controls connected therewith), or (iv) sabotage, or insurrection, or (v) any act of God, however, this subsection (v) shall not apply to the first two (2) weeks of layoff resulting from such cause; and
(b)	with respect to such week, the applicant:
(1)	has to his credit at least one-quarter (.25) Credit Units;
(2)	has registered at and has reported to an office maintained by the Unemployment Insurance Commission and has reported to an employment office maintained by the manpower department and has not failed or refused to accept employment deemed suitable under such Unemployment Insurance; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply with respect to a week of temporary lay-off during which the employee is eligible for a Benefit under the Plan but is ineligible for Unemployment Insurance Benefit solely for the reason set forth in Section 2 (b) (3) (iv) of this Article;
— 96 —
(3)	has received an Unemployment Insurance Benefit not currently under protest or was ineligible to receive such a benefit only (i) because the week was a second “waiting week” within his benefit year under the Unemployment Insurance System, or was an Unemployment Insurance System “waiting week” immediately following a week for which he received an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, or occurring within less than 52 weeks since his last Unemployment Insurance System “waiting week” (ii) because he did not have, prior to his layoff, a sufficient period of work in employment covered by the Unemployment Insurance system or (iii) because of a limit under the Unemployment Insurance system of the period of time for which Unemployment Insurance Benefits are payable to the applicant, provided, however, a Benefit shall be payable under the foregoing only in the period between the last day Unemployment Insurance Benefits were payable and the last day Unemployment Insurance Benefits would have been payable if the applicant had been entitled to fifty-two (52) weeks of Unemployment Insurance payments; or (iv) because he was employed by the Company or otherwise compensated as defined under the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance system in an amount equal to or in excess of the amount which disqualified him from any Unemployment Insurance Benefit;
(4)	has had at least one (1) full week of layoff by the Company in the current Unemployment Insurance Commission benefit period for which he received no benefit under the S.U.B. plan, though otherwise eligible for such a benefit apart from this paragraph 4; or, has had a waiting week in such benefit period in which he receives income sufficient to disqualify him for an Unemployment Insurance benefit provided he would otherwise be eligible for a benefit under the terms of this S.U.B. plan;
— 97 —
(5)	has not (i) refused an offer by the Company of available work which the Company may properly require him to accept under the provisions of the Collective Agreement, or has not (ii) refused to accept work when first recalled pursant to the Collecive Agreement;
(6)	has appeared personally and reported during such week at the location designated for that purpose if required by the Company, pursuant to the provisions of Article XI;
(7)	was not eligible for, and was not claiming, any accident or sickness or other disability Benefit (other than a survivor’s allowanced whether publicly or privately financed, or a Pension or Retirement Benefit financed in whole or in part by the Company; provided, however, eligibility for. or the claiming of any such disability Benefit’ shall not disqualify an applicant for a Benefit if the applicant would have been eligible for such disability Benefit had he been actively at work and the receipt of such disability Benefit payment does not disqualify him from receiving an Unemployment Insurance Benefit;
(8)	was not in the services of the Armed Forces of Canada;
(9)	did not receive any Unemployment Benefit from, or under any contract, plan or arrangement of, any other employer; and he was not eligible for such a Benefit from, or under any contract, plan or arrangement of, any employer with whom he has greater seniority or service than with the Company; and
(10)	has a Benefit computed under the Plan of at least Two Dollars ($2.00); provided that any Benefits denied by reason of this paragraph shall be accumulated and paid at the end of each thirteenth week of Benefits or at the time the last Benefit is due as a result of a layoff, whichever is earlier.
— 98 —
(11)	was not eligible for a Short Week Benefit under Article XII.
Section 3. Appeal From Denial of
Unemployment Insurance Benefit
(a)	With respect to any week for which an applicant for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit has applied and has been denied an Unemployment Insurance Benefit, which denial is being appealed by the applicant through the procedure provided therefore under the Unemployment Insurance system, the Weekly Supplemental Benefit shall not be paid to the applicant, but, if the applicant is eligible to receive a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan except for such denial, of the Unemployment Insurance Benefit, an amount equal to such Weekly Supplemental Benefit shall be withdrawn and set aside by the Trustee in a separate account until such dispute shall have been determined. If the dispute shall be finally determined in favour of the applicant, the amount in such separate account shall be paid to him; if the dispute shall be finally determined adversely to the applicant, the amount in such separate account shall be returned to the Fund.
(b)	During the period that payment of a Weekly Supplemental Benefit for any week is suspended pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 3, the number of Credit Units which would be cancelled because of such payment shall be held in suspension pending the outcome of such dispute; provided that if an applicant with Credit Units so held in suspension is at any time eligible to receive a Weekly Supplemental Benefit except that he does not have sufficient Credit Units (other than those held in suspension) to entitle him to such Benefit, the Trustee shall pay to him the amount of such Weekly Supplemental Benefit out of the amount
— 99 —
previously set aside in a separate account as provided in subsection (a) of this Section 3, ‘and shall cancel the appropriate number of the applicant’s Credit Units which have been held in suspension. Upon the determination of such dispute, such Credit Units as are still held in suspension shall be cancelled or reinstated in such manner as will place the applicant in the same position with respect to Credit Units (i) as he would have been had the payment been made as applied for if such dispute shall be determined in his favour, or (ii) as he would have been had such payment not been applied for, if such dispute shall be determined against him or if he shall effectively withdraw his appeal against the denial of such Unemployment Insurance Benefit.
(c)	Amounts so withdrawn and set aside by the Trustee. nevertheless shall be included in computing the Trust Fund Position of the Fund. Credit Units so held in suspension, pending the outcome of such dispute, shall not be considered as cancelled in determining the number of persons laid off who have Credit Units in computing the Maximum Funding.
ARTICLE VI CREDIT UNITS
Section 1. Accrual of Credit Units
(a)	Credit Units shall have no fixed value in terms of either time or money, but shall be a means of determining duration of benefits under the varying circumstances from time to time prevailing. Credit Units shall be credited to the employee currently and at the rates specified in subsection (b) of this Section, provided, however, that
100
(1)	No employee may have his credit in the aggregate at any one time more than one hundred and four (104) Credit Units under this Plan as specified below, no more than seventy-eight (78) of which may have been accumulated prior to December 16, 1982.
Years of Employee’s	Maximum
Seniority	Credit Units
I.ess than 5 years	52
5 years but less than 15 years	78
15 years or more	104
(2)	(a) No employee shall be credited with any Credit Unit prior to the first day as of which he has at least one (1) year of seniority and is on the Active Payroll in the Bargaining Unit, but as of such day he shall be credited with Credit Units for work weeks subsequent to his seniority date at the rate specified in subsection
(b)	of this section.
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph 1 (a) (2) (a) only,, an employee shall be considered to be on the Active Payroll and shall be allowed to accumulate credited seniority during:
(I)	a period of layoff, not exceeding forty-five (45) days immmediately preceding the date on which he would have attained one year of seniority had he not been laid off;
(II)	a period of unauthorized absence not in excess of seven (7) calendar days;
(El) a period of authorized leave of absence, but not exceeding the first ninety (90) days of such authorized leave of absence;
(IV)	a period of absence while receiving Workers’ Compensation Benefits;
(V)	a period of disciplinary suspension, not exceeding 14 calendar days.
— 101 -
(b)	For work weeks commencing on or after January 10, 1971, Credit Units shall be credited at the rate of one-half (.50) of a Credit Unit for which the employee draws pay (Credit Units accumulated prior to Jaanuary 10, 1971, having been accumulated at the rate specified in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan between the parties dated March 28, 1968)
(c)	For the purpose of accruing Credit Units under this Section, a full work week for an employee means a work week occurring while he is in the Bargaining Unit and for which he draws pay for at least twenty (20) hours.
Time lost when excused for Local Union business, and a leave of absence for Local Union business, shall be included in determining a full work week under this Section.
Section 2. Forfeiture of Credit Units
A person shall forfeit permanently all Credit Units with which he shall have been credited if at any time:
(a)	he shall lose his seniority under the provisions as stipulated in the Collective Agreement;
(b)	he shall be on layoff from the Bargaining Unit for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months or
(c)	he shall wilfully misrepresent any material fact in connection with an application by him for Benefits under the Plan.
Section 3. Transfers Out Of or Into Bargaining Unit
If an employee is transferred out of the Bargaining Unit his Credit Units shall be cancelled. They shall be reinstated, however,, if he is transferred back to the Bargaining Unit with, or after he acquires, at least one year’s seniority therein.
— 102 —
An employee of the Company excluded from the Bargaining Unit who has transferred to a job within the Bargaining Unit, according to the stipulations of the Collective Agreement, shall accrue Credit Units for his full weeks worked in the Bargaining Unit and shall be credited with such Credit Units when he is credited with at least one year of seniority.
ARTICLE VII AMOUNT OF
WEEKLY SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT
Section 1. Amount of Regular Benefit
(a)	The Weekly Supplemental Benefit payable to anv elieible armlicant for each full week of co&u&s lay-off beginning on or after the effective date of this agreement shall be an amount which when added to his Unemployment Insurance Benefit and other compensation, will equal eighty percent (80%) of his weekly straight time pay as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)	For the purpose of this Article, an applicant’s weekly straight time pay shall be computed by multiplying his average hourly earnings as defined in Article 1 by 40.
Section 2. Unemployment Insurance and Other Compensation
(a) For all purposes of this Article, “Unemployment Insurance and other compensation” shall mean:
(1) all amount by which the applicant’s earnings or remuneration, or otherwise, as defined under the law of the Unemployment Insurance Regulations, exceed the allowable earnings under Unemployment Insurance regulations;
— 103 —
(2)	all amount he would have received from the Company for hours scheduled or offered him but not worked; the amount being computed on the basis of “Average Hourly Earnings” as herein defined,
(3)	the amount of all other Benefits in the nature of compensation or Benefits for Unemployment received or receivable under Municipal, Provincial, or Federal laws and regulations.
Section 3. Insufficient Credit Units for Full Benefit
If an applicant shall have available less than the full number of Credit Units required to be cancelled for the full amount of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit (as set forth in Article VIII) for any week for which he is otherwise eligible, he shall be paid only that portion of such Weekly Supplemental Benefit as bears the same relation to the full amount thereof as his available Credit Units bear to the Credit Units required to be cancelled for such full amount, but no payment shall be made if such payment would be less than Two Dollars ($2.00).
Section 4. Effect of Low Trust Fund Position
Notwithstanding .any of the other provisions of the Plan, if, and as long as the applicable Trust Fund Position for any. week shall be less than four percent (4%), no Weekly Supplemental Benefit for such week shall be paid.
Section 5. Withholding Tax
The Trustee shall deduct from the amount of any Benefit as computed under the Plan any amount required to be withheld by the Trustee or the Company by reason of any law or regulation, for payment of taxes or otherwise to any Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Government.
— 104 —
Section 6. Union Dues Deduction
The Trustee shall deduct from benefits, Union membership dues of those employees who so authorize by a written assignment in such amount as may be fixed by the Local Union.
ARTICLE VIII DURATION OF BENEFITS Section 1. Number of Weeks of Benefits
The number of weeks for which an eligible applicant shall receive a Weekly Supplemental Benefit payment shall be determined on the basis of the number of his Credit Units and the Trust Fund Position applicable to the weeks for which Weekly Supplemental Benefits are paid to him. When all of an eligible applicant’s Credit Units have been cancelled, he shall be entitled to no further Benefits until he shall have been credited with additional Credit Units.
Section 2. Credit Units to be Cancelled on Payment of a Benefit
The number of Credit Units to be cancelled for any Weekly Supplemental Benefit shall be determined on the basis of the (i) seniority, of the person to whom such Benefit is paid, at the time of his layoff; plus, up to 45 days of credited seniority accumulation if such person was laid off not more than 45 days prior to the date on which he would have attained one (1) year of seniority, had he not been laid off, and (ii) the Trust Fund Position applicable to the week for which such Benefit is paid, in accordance with the following table:
— 105
And if the seniority of the person to whom such Benefit is paid is:
1	5	10	15	20
But	But	But	But	Yrs.
Less	Less	Less	Less	&
Than 5 Yrs.
Than 10 Yrs.
Than Than Over 15 Yrs. 20 Yrs.
If the Trust Fund Position applicable to the week for which such Benefit paid is:
The Credit Units cancelled for such Benefit shall be:
80% or over 1.00 70-79.99%	1.15
60-69.99%	1.30
50-59.99%	1.50
40-49.99%	2.00
30-39.99%	2.50
20-29.99%	3.33
10-19.99%	5.00
4 - 9.99%	7.50
Under 4%
1.00	1.00
1.00	1.00
1.15	1.00
1.30	1.15
1.50	1.30
2.00	1.50
2.50	2.00
3.33	2.50
5.00	3.33 -No Benefit
1.00	1.00
1.00	1.00
1.00	1.00
1.00	1.00
1.15	1.00
1.30	1.15
1.50	1.30
2.00	1.50
2.50	2.00 Payable —
provided, however, that one half of the number of Credit Units required to be cancelled according to the table will be cancelled for an unscheduled Short Week Benefit when with respect to such week the employee has earned from the Company an amount equal to or in excess of eighty percent (80%) of his Weekly Straight time pay; and no Credit Units shall be candled when an employee receives (i) a Short Week Benefit for a Scheduled Short Work Week, or (ii) a Short Week Benefit for an Unscheduled Short Work Week where such Benefit is payable for a period of less than three
(3)	hours.
— 106 —
The Company shall advise the employee of the number of Credit Units cancelled for each Benefit Payment and the number of Credit Units remaining to his credit after each payment.
ARTICLE IX
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND CONTINUATION OF PLAN
Section 1. Effect of Amended Agreement
This Amended Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, when it becomes effective, shall supersede and completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits concluded between the parties October 6, 1967, as from time to time thereafter amended. However, until such time as this Agreement becomes effective, the Plan shall be governed in all respects by the terms of the original Agreement of March 28, 1968, as heretofore amended.
Section 2. Federal and Provincial Income Tax Rulings
This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, a currently effective ruling or rulings, satisfactory to the Company, holding that the amendment of the Plan accomplished hereunder does not modify, alter, or change in any manner the ruling issued by the Minister or the applicable Treasury Department wth respect to the Plan, including partcular-ly the determinaton that Company contributions to the Plan constitute currently deductible business expenses and that such contributions are not taxable income to the Trust under the Dominion Income Tax Act, and applicable Provincial and/or Municipal Corporations Tax Acts, as now in effect or as may be hereafter in effect.
— 107 —
Section 3. Unemployment Insurance
Supplementation and Commission Rulings
(a)	It is the purpose of this Plan to supplement Unemployment Insurance Benefits to the levels herein provided, and not to replace or duplicate them.
(b)	This amended Agreement shall not become effective, and Weekly Supplemental Benefits shall not be payable to the applicants under this Agreement, unless and until it shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Company by administrative rulings from the Unemployment Insurance Commission of the Dominion Government or competent authorities, or by amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act, that supplementation (as hereafter defined) is permitted. When such rulings or amendments are obtained, Weekly Supplemental Benefits shall be paid to eligible applicants (provided that the requirements of Section 2 of this Article have been met) with respect to work weeks commencing on or after the date of the commencement of the first work week following the date on which such rulings or amendments shall have been received.
(c)	For purposes of this Section, “Supplementation” means recognition of the right of a person to receive both an Unemployment Insurance Benefit and a Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan for the same week of lay-off at approximately the same time and without reduction of the Unemployment Insurance Benefit because of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit under this Plan.
— 108 —
Section 4. Application for Rulings
The Company shall apply promptly for the rulings described in Section 2 and 3 of this Article. In the event any of the rulings are withheld because of objection to any of the provisions of the amended Agreement, the Company and the Union shall meet to negotiate changes pertaining only to the clauses or sections that may have caused ap-pioval to be withheld.
Section 5. Effect of Withholding
If the Company at any time shall be required to withhold any amount from any contribution to the Fund by reason of any Federal, Provincial or Municipal law or regulation, the Company shall have the right to deduct such amount from such contribution and pay only the balance to the Fund.
Section 6.
In the event that any ruling required under Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article, having been obtained, shall be revoked or modified in such manner as no longer to be satisfactory to the Company, all obligations of the Company under the Plan shall cease and the Plan shall thereupon terminate and be of no further effect (without in any way affecting the validity or operation of the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration and paying Weekly Supplemental Benefits, all in accordance with the provisions of the Plan until the assets of the Fund shall have been exhausted except that Section 4 of Article VII shall not be applicable.
109 —
ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1. Liability
(a)	The provisions of these Articles I through XIII constitute the entire Plan. The provisions of Article IV express, and shall be deemed to express, completely each and every obligation of the Company with respect to the financing of the Plan and providing for benefits and payments. Without limiting the foregoing, no Benefit shall be payable from the General Fund except as stated in the Plan, and the Company shall not be obligated to provide for any benefit or payment not provided for in the Plan, or to make any contribution to the General Fund not specifically provided for in the Plan, even though the assets in the Fund should be insufficient to pay Benefits to which eligible persons would have been entitled under the Plan were the assets of such Fund adequate to pay such Benefits; and the Union shall not call upon the Company to make or provide for any such benefit or payment. The Company shall not be obligated to make up, or to provide for making up, any depreciation, or loss arising from depreciation., in the value of the securities held in the Fund (other than as contributions by the Company may be required under the provisions of Article IV, when the Trust Fund Position of the Fund is less than one hundred percent (100%); and the Union shall not call upon the Company to make up, or to provide for making up, any such depreciation or loss.
(b)	; Union,
of any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely upon the correctness of any information furnished to it by an authorized representative of any of the others.
because
110
(c)	The Trustee shall be directed to hold or to invest the assets of the Fund only in cash or general obligations of the Government of the Dominion of Canada and/or the Government of a Canadian Province, irrespective of the rate of return, or the absence of any return thereon, and without any absolute or relative limit upon the amount that may be invested in any one or more types of investment; and the Trustee shall not be liable for the making or retaining of any such investment or for realized or unrealized loss thereon whether from normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
(d)	Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing in this Section shall be deemed to relieve any person from liability for wilful misconduct or fraud.
Section 2. Company Authority
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to qualify, limit, or alter in any manner the Company’s sole and complete authority and discretion to establish, regulate, determine, or modify at any time levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of hiring and layoff, production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shall be done, marketing of its products, or any other matter related to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if this Plan were not in existence; nor shall it be deemed to confer upon the Union any voice in such matters.
Section 3. To Whom Benefits Are Payable In Certain Conditions
Benefits shall be payable hereunder only to the person who is eligible therefore, except that if such a person is deceased or is unable to manage his affairs for any reason, any Benefit payable to
— Ill —
him shall be paid to his duly appointed legal representative. if there be one., and, if not, to the spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents of such person as the Company in its discretion may determine. Any payment so made shall be a complete discharge of any liability with respect to such Benefit. In the case of death, no Benefit shall be payable with respect to any period following the last full week of layoff immediately preceding the person’s death.
Section 4. No Vested Interest
No person shall have any right, title, or interest in or to any of the assets of the Fund or in or to any Company contributions thereto.
Section 5. Non Alienation of Benefits
No benefit shall be subject in any way to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, or encumbrance of any kind, except for deduction of Union dues, and any attempt to accomplish the same shall be void. In the event that such an attempt has been made with respect to any Benefit due or to become due to any person, the Company in its sole discretion may terminate the interest of such person in such Benefit and apply the amount of such Benefit to or for the benefit of such person, his spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents as the Company may determine, and any such application shall be a complete dischage of all liability with respect to such Benefit.
Section 6. Amendment and Termination Of The Plan
(a)	The Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated, except as may be proper or permissible under the terms of the Plan.
(b)	Upon any termination of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate in all respects except that the assets then remaining in the Fund shall be
— 112 —
subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then in effect and shall be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration and to pay Benefits to eligible applicants laid off or thereafter laid off, in the order, each week, of the respective date as of which they were laid off. Section 4 of Article VII shall not be applicable. In the event there are any assets in the Fund, after all of the above payments have been made, the parties shall negotiate an Agreement for the eauitable distribution of the Funds and if agreement is not reached within a period of 90 days, the Funds then remaining after paying all expenses of administration, shall be divided in equal amounts among all the employees at that date on the Active Payroll of the Company who have Credit Units uncancelled and remaining to their credit, in amounts proportionate to such Credit Units.
Section 7. Status Of Person Receiving Benefits
Neither the Company’s contributions nor any Benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of the employee’s wages for any purpose. No person who receives any Benefit shall for that reason be deemed an employee of the Company during such period, and he shall not thereby accrue any greater right to participate in, accrue or receive Benefits under any other employee Benefit Plan to which the Company contributes than he would if he were not receiving such Benefits.
Section 8. Armed Services
An employee who enters the Armed Services of Canada directly from the employ of the Company shall have his Credit Units cancelled, if, however, he is entitled to reinstatement according to the provisions of the Collective Agreement such cancelled Credit Units will be reinstated upon such reinstatement of employment.
— 113 —
ARTICLE XI
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN Section 1. General
The determination of the eligibility under the Plan of any person who applies for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit and the payment under the Plan of such Benefit shall be made and administered under and in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 2. Application For A Benefit
The Company shall have the right to establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures concerning the times and places at which persons desiring to establish eligibility for and/or to apply for a Weekly Benefit shall report in order to comply with the eligibility requirements set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of Article V, and concerning the form, content and substantiation of applications for Benefits.
So far as practicable, such procedures shall require the applicant to apply for a Benefit under the Plan for any week of lay-off during the same week as, and after, he shall have received his Unemployment Insurance Benefit for such week of layoff.
The Company shall designate an office or department at the Plant where persons laid off from such Plant may appear for the purpose of complying with such requirements.
An applicant shall be required to exhibit his Unemployment Insurance Benefit cheque for the week with respect to which application for a Benefit under the Plan is made, or the payment receipt or similar document showing receipt of the Unemployment Insurance Benefit for such week; provided, however, that if the applicant was ineligible, as provided in subsection (b) (3) of Section 2 of Article V, to receive an Unemployment
— 114 —
Insurance Benefit for such week, such applicant, shall, in lieu of exhibiting such cheque, payment receipt or similar document, furnish proof satisfactory to the Company that he was ineligible solely for the reasons therein set forth.
Unemployment Insurance Benefits shall be presumed to have been received by the applicant on the date set forth on the cheques therefore, or, on the date on the copy of the payment receipt or similar document.
In addition, an applicant for a Benefit under the Plan may be required to state, in writing under oath,, (i) whether he received or was entitled to receive any Benefit from any source other than the Plan and the Unemployment Insurance system, for the week with respect to which atmlication is made, and if so, the ‘source and amount thereof; (ii) the amount earned from all sources during such week and the source thereof; (iii) the identity and number of his dependents; and (iv) such further and additional evidence and information as the Company may deem to be material and relevant in order to enable the Company to determine whether such person is eligible to be paid a Benefit under the Plan, and if so, the amount of such Benefit.
Section 3. Determination Of Eligibility
(a)	When a person files an application for a Benefit under the Plan in accordance with Section 2 of this Article, and furnishes to the Company the evidence and information required to be furnished under such Section, the Company promptly thereafter shall:
(1)	determine whether such person is an eligible person and, if he is determined to be an eligible person,
(2)	determine the number of uncancelled Credit Units to the credit of such eligible person, and
— 115 —
(3)	determine whether any Weekly Supplemental Benefit is payable to such eligible person, and, if so, the amount thereof.
(b)	If the Company determines that a Weekly Supplemental Benefit is payable to an eligible person with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made, it shall deliver prompt written notice thereof to the Trustee setting forth the name of such eligible person and the amount of such Benefit. Upon receipt of such notice. the Trustee shall be required to make payment of such Benefit from the Fund to such eligible person within a reasonable time. If the Company determines, after a person has been paid one or more Weekly Supplemental Benefits under the Plan, that such Benefit or Benefits should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount. or amounts (as the result of a subsequent disqualification for Unemployment Insurance Benefits or otherwise), a written notice thereof shall be mailed to such person and such person shall return the amount of overpayment to the Trustee. If such person shall fail to return such amount promptly, the Trustee shall arrange for an amount equal to the amount of overpayment to be reimbursed to the Fund bv making a deduction from future Weekly Supplemental Benefits otherwise payable to such person or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to such person, or both. The Company is authorized to make such deduction from the employee’s compensation and in such event pay the amount deducted to the Trustee. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, at such time as such amount of overpayment is recovered by the Fund, the number of Credit Units of such person, if any, therefore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of benefits shall be restored to him, ex— 116 —
cept to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his Credit Units above one hundred and four (104) at the time thereof, and except as otherwise provided in Article VI, Section 2. The payment of Benefits under the Plan may be made by, and the return of amounts of overpayment may be made to the representative of the Trustee appointed by it for such purpose in the Plan. Such representatives may be persons employed by the Company.
(c)	If the Company determines that a person is not entitled to a Weekly Supplemental Benefit with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made, it shall send prompt written notice thereof to him.
(d)	In making weekly wage calculations for purposes of Benefit determination, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the official form filed bv the applicant with the Company for income tax w&holding purposes; and the applicant shall have the burden of establishing that he is entitled to a greater number of withholding exemptions than he shall have claimed on such form.
Section 4. Power and Authority of the Company
The Company shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and appropriate in order to carry out its duties under this Article, including, without limitation, the following:
(a)	To obtain from employees, persons filing application for Weekly Supplemental Benefits, eligible persons, the Trustees, and elsewhere such information as the Company shall deem necessary in order to carry out its duties under this Article.
(b)	To investigate the correctness and validity of information furnished by any person who applies for a Weekly Supplemental Benefit.
— 117 —
(c)	To make appropriate determinations pursuant to this Article.
(d)	To determine the Trust Fund Position of the Fund in the manner and at the times specified in the Plan, including collection of the data necessary to make such determinations.
(e)	To establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given under this Article.
(f)	To establish and maintain necessary records.
(g)	To prepare and distribute information explaining the Plan.
(h)	To round out figures, use averages and composites, and employ other customary and routine accounting techniques as it may deem necessary and appropriate.
Section 5. Appeals Procedure
(a)	Fist Step Appeals
The Company shall designate one (1) person to serve as its representative for the consideration of Appeals by applicants and the Union shall designate a representative for the same purpose. The employee designated as the representative of the Union shall be paid for time lost from work in attending meetings with the Company representative for the consideration of such Appeals, by the Company through its Payroll Accounts and all such payments shall be recovered by the Company from the Fund. Any person who shall have been determined by the Company not to be entitled to any Benefits. who shall have been determined to be entitled to be paid a Weekly Supplemental Benefit that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes he is entitled, who questions the number of Credit Units credited to him at the time of layoff, who has had more of his Credit Units cancelled than he believes correct or who is deter- 118 —
mined to be ineligible for a Benefit which determination is disputed by him, may appeal such determination by presenting an Appeal, on a form to be provided for that purpose to the Union representative. Such written Appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days following the date of notice of such determination or denial or reduction of such Benefit to such person, or within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of a cheque of such smaller amount by the Trustee to such person. In the situation where a number of employees have filed applications for Benefits under substantially identical conditions, an appeal may be filed with respect to one of such employees and the decision thereon shall apply to all such employees. The representative receiving said Written Appeal will promptly furnish one copy to the Company representative.
If the Union representative shall find that such Appeal is justified, he shall so notify the Company representative, and the Company representative and Union representative shall meet within ten (10) days from the date of the Appeal (or any extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such Appeal.
In the event the two (2) parties cannot agree upon the disposition of the Appeal, the Union representative, at the request of the applicant, may refer the matter to the “Board of Appeals” for disposition, on a form to be provided for that purpose, within the time limit and in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 5 (b) of this Article XI.
(b)	(1) Within twenty (20) days after disposition of an Appeal by the Company and the Union representatives, the Union representative may request a ruling by the Board of Appeals. Such a request shall be in writing, shall specify the respects in which the Plan is claimed to have
— 119 —
been violated and shall set forth the facts relied upon as justifying a reversal or modification of the determination appealed from. A copy of said request will be furnished to the Company representative. The Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction to act upon an Appeal made after the time specified above or upon an Appeal which does not otherwise comply with this sub-paragraph. Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (2) set forth below, the handling and disposition of such a request to the Board of Appeals shall be in accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board. The applicant, the Union representative, or the Union members of the Board of Appeals may withdraw any Appeal to the Board at any time before it is decided bv the Board.
(2)	In ruling upon Appeals, the Board shall have no authority to waive, vary, qualify, or alter in any manner, the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan, the procedure for applying for Weekly Supplemental Benefits set forth therein, or any other provision of the Plan, and shall have no jurisdiction other than to determine, on the basis of the facts presented and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan:
(i)	whether the first stage Appeal and the Appeal to the Board were made within the time and in the manner specified in this Section;
(ii)	whether the person is an eligible person with respect to the Benefit involved and, if so,
(iii)	the amount of any Benefit payable;
(iv)	whether the accrual or cancellation of Credit Units was properly determined.
(3)	There shall be no appeal from the decision of the Board of Appeals. It shall be final and binding upon the Union, its members, the person involved, the Trustee, and the Company.
— 120 —
The Union will discourage any attempt of its members to appeal and will not encourage or co-operate with any of its members in any appeal to any court or labour board from any decision of the Board, nor will the Union or its members by any other means attempt to bring about a settlement of any claim or issue on which the Board is empowered to rule hereunder.
(c)	Applicability of Appeals Procedure
The Appeals procedure set forth in this Section may be employed only for the purposes specified in the Plan. Such procedure shall not be used to appeal a denial of an Unemployment Insurance Benefit or to determine whether or not a Benefit should have been paid under an Unemployment Insurance system (Appeal procedures thereunder being the exclusive remedy therefore).
The Board of Appeals shall have no power to determine questions arising under any Collective Labour Agreement, even though relevant to the issues before the Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefore by the applicable Collective Labour Agreement, and all determinations made pursuant to such Agreement shall be accepted by the Board.
(d)	Composition and Procedure-Board of Appeals
(1) There shall be established a Board of Appeals consisting of four (4) members, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company members) and two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Union (hereinafter referred to as the Union members) at least one of whom shall be appointed from the Bargaining Unit, the other may be an International Representative of the U.R.C.L. & P.W. of A. Each member of the
— 121 —
Board shall have an alternate. In the event a member is absent from a meeting of the Board, his alternate may attend, and, when in attendance, shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of such member. Either the Company or the Union at any time may remove a member appointed by it and may appoint a member to fill any vacancy among the members appointed by it. The Company and the Union each shall notify the other in writing of the members respectively appointed by it before any such appointment shall be effective.
(2)	If the members of the Board are unable to arrive at a decision by a majority vote, they shall, within five (5) working days, meet to appoint an impartial Chairman to sit as a member of the Board to determine the matter. Failing to agree upon such a Chairman within ten (10) working days, they shall jointly apply to the Minister of Labour to appoint an lm-partial Chairman. The impartial Chairman shall be considered a member of the Board for the particular dispute and shall vote only in matters within the Board’s authority to determine.
(3)	At least one (1) Union member and one (1) Company member shall be required to be present at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the Board, the Company members shall have a total of two (2) votes and the Union members shall have a total of two (2) votes, the vote of any absent member being given to the member present appointed by the same party. Decisions of the Board shall be by a majority of the votes cast.
(4)	The Board shall not maintain any separate office or staff, but the Company and the Union shall be responsible for furnishing such clerical and other assistance as its respective members
— 122 —
of the Board shall require. Copies of all Appeals, Reports and other Documents to be filed with the Board pursuant to the Plan shall be filed in triplicate, one copy to be sent to the Company members at the address designated by them and the other two copies to be sent to the Union members at the address designated by them.
Section 6. Cost of Administering Plan
(a)	Expenses of Trustee
The cost and expenses incurred by the Trustee under the Plan shall be charged to the Fund.
(b)	Cost of Administrative Services Performed by the Company
The Company shall have the right to be reimbursed each year from the General Fund for the cost of the Company of services performed by it during the preceding year in carrying out its duties under the Plan (other than those incurred or in behalf of its members of the Board and its representatives designated for the con-sideration-of appeals pursuant to Section 5 (a) of this Article, which, under the provisions of this Article, are to be borne by the Company) as certified to by a qualified independent firm of certified public accountants selected by the Company.
(c)	Cost of Board of Appeals
The Chairman of the Board shall receive compensation in such amount and on such basis as may be determined by the other members of the Board, and such remuneration, as well as reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board for forms and stationery required in connection with the handling of Appeals shall be borne by the General Fund. Company members and Union members shall serve without compensation from the Fund.
—123 —
Section 7. Reports
(a)	Reports by the Company
(1)	The Company shall notify the Local Union, in duplicate, with reasonable promptness, of the amount of the Trust Fund Position for the Fund as determined by it from time to time under the Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the number of employees on the Active Payroll and the number of laid off persons having Credit Units, upon the basis of which such determination was made.
(2)	The Company shall furnish to the Local Union, in duplicate, a statement certified by a qualified independent firm of certified public accountants selected by the Company. Such report is to be made once during the term of the Agreement:
(i)	showing the number of hours for which employees drew pay from the Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions to the General Fund during each period of the preceding year, and
(ii)	verifying the accuracy of the information furnished by the Company during the preceding year pursuant to subsection (a) (1) of this Section.
The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan.
(b)	Reports by the Trustee
(1) Not later than the second Tuesday following the first Monday of each month, beginning with the month following the month in which the Company shall have made its first contribution under the Plan, the Trustee shall furnish to the Union, in duplicate, and the Company (i) a statement showing the total market value of the Fund as of the close of business
— 124 —
on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month; and (ii) a statement showing the amounts, if any, paid as Weekly Supplemental Benefits from the Fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 8. Grievance Procedure
No question involving the interpretation or application of the Plan, except to the extent otherwise specified in Section 5 of this Article, shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE XII SHORT WEEK BENEFIT Section 1. Eligibility
An employee shall be eligible for a Short Week Benefit with respect to a week commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement, or December 16, 1978, whichever shall occur later, only if:
(a)	He has at least one (1) year of seniority as of the last day of such week; and
(b)	During such week he works for the Company but his Compensated or Available Hours (determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article) total less than the number of hours in his standard work week (but not to exceed 40), excluding any week for which holiday pay is the only pay received from the Company); and
(c)	During some part of such week he was on a lay-off from the bargaining unit in accordance with the provisions of subsection 2 (a) of Article V; and
(d)	With respect to such week, he satisfies all the conditions of eligibility set forth under subsection 2 (b) of Article V, except subsections
(b)	(2), (b) (3), (b) (4), (b) (6), (b) (11); and
— 125 —
(e)	With respect to such week, he is ineligible to receive a full Unemployment Insurance Benefit only because (i) his wages or remuneration from the Company are equal to or in excess of his Allowable Earnings under the Unemployment Insurance System, or (ii) he has been employed by the Company for a period which would disqualify him for a full Unemployment Insurance Benefit or full “waiting week” credit, or (iii) the circumstances described in (i) or (ii) above occurring in conjunction with one or more of the reasons set forth in subsection 2 (b) (3) of Article V; and
(f)	With respect, to such week the Maximum Funding Position was four percent (4%) or more: and
(g)	The employee does not have a period or periods of lav-off in the week and in the preceding or the foilowing week which occur in such sequence that the employee has a “Week of Unemployment” (as defined under the applicable Unemployment Insurance System) which includes some part of the week; provided, however, that when an employee returns to work for the Company after a period of seven or more consecutive days of lay-off, with respect to which he has established a System which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, he may apply for a partial Short Week Benefit for any hours of lay-off on days within the Work Week in which he returned to work which are not included within any established Unemployment Insurance System “Week of Unemployment”. Such partial Short Week Benefit shall be calculated on the basis of the number of hours for which the employee would regularly have been compensated for such days if he had not been laid off and his Compensated or Available Hours for such days; and all of the eligibility requirements applicable to a
— 126 —
Short Week Benefit for a Work Week shall apply to such days except the requirement of this subsection (g).
Section 2. Compensated or Available Hours
For purposes of this Agreement, Compensated
or Available Hours for a week shall include:
(a)	all hours for which an employee receives pay from the Company (including call-in pay and holiday pay but excluding pay in lieu of vacation) with each hour paid at premium rates to be counted as one (1) hour; and
(b)	all hours scheduled for or made available to the employee by the Company but not worked by the employee (including any period on leave of absence). When work is offered and refused, hours charged will not exceed hours made available and such hours will be charged in the following order:
(i)	to the Employees who actually perform the work offered,
(ii)	to Employees who signified their intention to work and then failed to report,
(iii)	to Employees who first refused the opportunity for the work in the event that insufficient Employees offered to work the hours available.
(c)	all hours not worked by the employee because of any of the reasons specified in subsection 2 (a) (2) of Article V; and
(d)	all hours not worked by the employee which are in accordance with a written agreement between the Company and the Union or which are attributable to absenteeism of other employees; and
(e)	with respect to any employee whose regularly scheduled Work Week is less than the standard Work Week (not to exceed 40 hours) for the
— 127 —
shift on which the employee works, the number of hours by which such employee’s regular Work Week is less than the standard Work Week (not to exceed 40); and
(f)	all hours not worked by the employee because of a change in shift resulting from a request of the employee; and
(g)	all hours not worked by the employee because of a reduction in standard work week by written agreement with the Union: and
(h)	all hours not worked by the employee because of full or partial shutdown requested or agreed to in writing by the Union.
Section 3. Determination of Amount
(a)	The Short Week Benefit payable to any eligible employee:
(1)	for a Scheduled Work Week shall be an amount equal to the product of (i) Eighty percent (80%) of his “Short Work Week Rate” multiplied by (ii) the number by which the number of hours in his standard Work Week (not to exceed 40) exceeds the number of his Compensated or Available flours for such week (with any fractional hour expressed as a decimal to the nearest tenth), determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article;
(2)	for an Unscheduled Short Work Week shall be an amount equal to the product of (i) Eighty percent (80%) of his “Short Work Week Rate” multiplied by (ii) the number by which the number of hours in his standard Work Week (not to exceed 40) exceeds the number of his Compensated or Available Elours for such week (with any fractional hour expressed as a decimal to the nearest tenth), determined as provided in Section 2 of this Article;
(3)	“Short Work Week Rate” shall be the employee’s Average Hourly Earnings as defined in Article I.
— 128 —
(b)	For purposes of the Plan, a “Scheduled Short Work Week” with respect to an employee is a Short Work Week which the Company schedules in order to reduce the production of the Plant, department or other unit in which the employee works, to a level below the level at which the production of such Plant, department or unit would be for the week were-it not a Short Work Week, but only where such reduction of production is for the purpose of adjusting production to customer demand.
(c)	For purposes of the Plan, an “Unscheduled Short Work Week” with respect to an employee is any Short Work Week:
(1)	which is not a Scheduled Short Work Week as defined in Article XII, subsection 3 (b); or
(2)	in which an employee returns to work from lay-off to replace a separated or absent employee (including an employee failing to respond or tardy in responding to recall), or returns to work after a full week of lay-off in connection with an increase in production, but only to the extent that the Short Work Week is attributable to such cause.
(d)	For any Short Work Week with respect to an employee which results both from the circumstances set forth in subsection 3 (b) as well as those in subsection 3 (cl of this Article XII, (i) the Benefit for the hours of the Short Work Week attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3 (b) shall be calculated on the basis that the hours attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3 (c) were Compensated or Available Hours and (ii) the Benefit for the hours of the Short Work Week attributable to the circumstances set forth in subsection 3 (c) shall be calculated on the basis that the hours attributable to the circumstances
— 129 —
set forth in subsection 3 (b) were Compensated or Available Hours. The Benefit for such a Short Week shall be the sum of the Benefits calculated in both (i) and (ii).
(e)	Any Short Week Benefit computed under the preceding Sections of this Article shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3, 4, and 5 of Article VII.
Section 4. Method of Payment
A Short Week Benefit shall be paid from the Fund. No application for such Benefit shall be required of the employee except as otherwise provided in Section 5 of this Article. Any Short Week Benefit payable for a week under the provisions of this Article XII shall be in lieu of any other Benefit payable under this Plan with respect to such week except as otherwise provided under subsection 1 (g) of this Article XII.
Section 5. Application for Determination
If an employee believes himself entitled to a Short Week Benefit for a week under this Article XII (which he does not receive on the date when Short Week Benefits for such week are paid) he may make written application, therefore, in accordance with procedures established by the Company. The Company shall promptly determine the employee’s eligibility for a Short Week Benefit, and such Benefit shall be paid or denied in accordance with such determination. If the Company determines that an employee is not entitled to a Short Week Benefit with respect to the week for which application for such Benefit is made it shall send prompt written notice thereof to him.
130
ARTICLE XIII GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1.
This Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits and the Plan established by the provisions of Article I through XIII hereof shall continue in effect until midnight December 15, 1988, except as otherwise provided in, and subject to, the terms of the Plan.
Section 2. Obligations During Term of the Plan
During the term of this Plan or Agreement neither the Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to the Plan or Agreement except as provided in Article IX, Section 5.
Section 3. Changes Required to Obtain Rulings
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan Agreement, the Company, with the consent of the Union, may during the term of the Agreement of this Plan, make revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purpose, structure, and basic provisions thereof, which shall be necessary to obtain or maintain any rulings required under Article IX of the Plan. Any such revision shall adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan.
Section 4. Duration and Termination
This Agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1985, and shall remain in full force and effect in respect of all its terms until midnight December 15, 1988, and shall continue in effect thereafter from year to year for further periods of one (1) year unless either party gives written notice of termination or written notice of proposals for amendment to the other party prior to, but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the
— 131 —
expiry date or any yearly period thereafter. In the event of written notice having been given by either party as provided herein, negotiations shall commence within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice with a view to completing a new Agreement. Should such negotiations extend beyond the expiration date, this Agreement shall not expire, but shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, or until a new Agreement is entered into by the parties, whichever date shall occur first.
132
PENSION AND SEVERANCE AWARD PLAN
This Agreement made and entered into this 15th day of December 1985, by and between Beckers Lay-Tech Inc., Kitchener, hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, Local Union Number 296, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE I INTERPRETATIONS
(a)	The term “Employee” means any male or female who is in the employment of the Company, and is a member of the Bargaining Unit, and referred to hereafter in the masculine gender.
(b)	The term “Credited Service” means the service of an Employee which has been and remains credited to him or would be credited to him if re-employed in accordance with Article II of this Agreement.
(c)	The term “Normal Retirement Date” shall mean the first day of the month following the month in which an Employee’s 65th birthday occurs, or his 65th birthday if it should fall on the first day of the month.
(d)	The term “Statutory Benefit” means any old age or disability benefit payable under any Federal or Provincial legislation, as now in effect, or under any future Federal or Provincial legislation amending, superseding, supplementing, or incorporating existing Federal or Provincial legislation, but such term does not include Workers’ Compensation or a benefit payable pursuant to Occupational disease laws, the Blind Persons Act, or a benefit payable on a “needs test” basis or solely on account of
— 133 —
service in the Armed Forces or other national service, or a benefit payable to or in respect of dependents, or a benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act, Canada.
For the purpose of this Agreement, the amount of such Statutory Benefit shall be the amount of Statutory Benefit that an Employee or Re-tirant shall be eligible to receive as of the date he first becomes eligible to receive such Statutory Benefit, and if the Employee or Retirant either does not apply for or loses part or all of such Statutory Benefit through delay in applying for such benefit, by earnings while eligible for such benefit. or other act or failure to act, the amount of ‘the Statutory Benefit may be estimated and the estimated amount applied where the term Statutory Benefit occurs.
(e)	The term “Old Age Security Date” means the first day of the month in which the Employee or Retirant first becomes eligible (or could become eligible but for some act or failure to act by him or by another on his behalf, such as leaving Canada, failing to make timely application or failing to notify the proper authority of his address), for the benefit under the Old Age Security Act, Canada, as in effect on the 15th day of December, 1985.
(f)	The term “totally and permanently disabled” means disabled by bodily injury or disease which shall presumably permanently, continuously and wholly prevent the Employee, during the remainder of his life from meeting the job requirements of any job covered by the Collective Labour Agreement, except disability which (1) was contracted, suffered or incurred while the Employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or (2) resulted from wilfully self-inflicted injury, or (3) can be established as due to service in the Armed Forces of any country.
— 134 —
(g)	The term “through no fault of his own” as applied to an Employee’s disability shall mean that the disability shall not have resulted from or been occasioned by conditions listed under factors (1), (2) and (3), section (f) preceding.
(h)	The term “Retirant” means a person who has been retired and is eligible to receive a retirement pension or disability allowance under the Agreement.
(i)	The term “permanent closing of a section of the Plant” shall be interpreted to mean, one wherein seniority rights cannot be recognized in another area because of contractual commitments between the Union and the Company.
(j)	The spouse of the employee for purposes of any spouse’s benefits payable under the Plan, “spouse” means the person who is legally married to the employee, except in the case of a
Eerson of the opposite sex who has been co-abiting with the employee and has been publicly represented as the wife or husband of the employee for at least one year immediately preceding the time when that person’s status is required to be determined for the purpose of this plan.
ARTICLE II RULES OF SERVICE
(a)	The following rules shall govern the determination of service to be credited to an Employee as continuous service under the Agreement.
(b)	Subject to the provisions contained in the following sections of this Article II. an Employee’s Credited Service for all purposes under this Agreement shall date from his original date of employment and shall terminate as of his Normal Retirement Date provided he is otherwise eligible for participation under the Agreement.
— 135 —
When the calculation of service of an otherwise eligible Employee involves a period in days amounting to fifteen (15) days or more, such period shall constitute one aclditional month of service, but if the period is fourteen (14) days or less; such days are to be disregarded entirely. Such calculation shall not, however, be a factor in determination of service required as a condition of eligibility under the Agreement.
(c)	Effect of Lay-Off on Credited Service.
Lay-off Commencing Prior to July 1, 1965.
1.	An Employee who has been re-employed within one year after having been laid off for lack of work or because he was then unsuited to perform the work available may secure recognition for his prior service under the Agreement, as set forth below:
(a)	If such re-employment occurs within six months, the time out shall not be deducted and prior service shall be retained.
tbl If such re-employment occurs between six months and one year, the time out in excess of six (6) months shall be deducted but prior service shall be retained.
2.	An employee who has been re-employed more than one year after having left the employ of the Company for any cause, shall lose credit for all time out and for prior service and shall be classified as a New Employee, except that an Employee who had five or more years service credit at the time of termination may regain such prior years’ service under the provisions of section (e) of this Article II.
Lay-off Commencing on or after July 1, 1965.
1. An Employee who has been re-employed after having been laid off on or after July 1, 1965, for lack of work or because he was then unsuited to perform the work available, may
— 136 —
secure recognition for his prior service under the Agreement as set forth below:
(a) If such re-employment occurs within six months, the time out shall not be deducted and prior service shall be retained.
(d)	Any Employee who is rehired after voluntarily leaving the service of the Company or after having been discharged or after having lost the right to recall under the Seniority provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement, shall be classified as a New Employee and shall lose all prior service regardless of the length of time he was out of-the employ of the Company, except that an Employee who had five years or more of service at the time of leaving may regain his prior years’ service under the provisions of section (e) of this Article II.
(e)	Any Employee, other than one who has received a termination or severance payment, with five or more years of service to his credit at the time of leaving the service of the Company for any reason, who shall have served five years continuously after being rehired, shall have his service credit for any prior period or periods of five years or more, together with that for any intervening period-or periods of service of less than five years which were terminated otherwise than by voluntary resignation or discharge, restored- and thereafter such periods of service shall be regarded as constituting one continuous period, the time out being omitted.
(f)	(i) When an Employee is hired on a temporary basis and later is transferred to a permanent basis, his service record shall begin at original hiring date.
(ii) Persons who become permanent Employees shall be granted service credit for temporary work performed on vacation, while pursuing a
— 137 —
course of study at college or university, provided that application for employment is made immediately after completion of college studies. Service credit will be granted for the vacation period or periods spent in the employ of the Company even though the Employee did not work each vacation while pursuing his course of study. Only periods worked shall be included as continuous service.
(g)	The time during which an Employee is on an official leave of absence shall be included in his years of service, but only if said Employee returns to active service with the Company after the expiration of such leave, except however that the period of leave by reason of employment in any capacity by the International Union or affiliated body shall be excluded in determination of continuous service.
In the case of leave of absence commencing by reason of employment with the International Union, service may be accumulated and credited up to a maximum of three years provided that the Employee does not accrue benefits for such service under another pension plan.
(h)	The records of the Company shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the Credited Service of an Employee in accordance with this Article II unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
(i)	In the case of retirement by reason of disability, the Credited Service of an Employee shall terminate on the last day of active service.
(j)	Service rendered by an Employee after his Normal Retirement Date shall not be included in computing pensions or allowances under this Agreement.
— 138
ARTICLE III
NORMAL RETIREMENT — AGE 65 “A” ELIGIBILITY
(a)	Each employee who has reached the sixty-fifth anniversary of his birth shall be retired from active service and be awarded the retirement pension hereinafter provided.
(b)	In the event an Employee is absent from active employment on the date on which his Normal Retirement would occur and provided that such absence is a Company-approved leave of absence or a lay-off, and provided that the Employee retains his seniority under a Collective Labour Agreement from the time that he was last actively employed, he shall be able to apply for and receive a Retirement Pension based on his Credited Service as of the last day of his active employment, without being required to return to active employment.
“B” AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to an Employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article III shall be the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in Article XV multiplied by his years of Credited Service.
ARTICLE IV
RETIREMENT AT AGE 62 “A” ELIGIBILITY
An employee who has attained age 62 and has ten or more years of Credited Service, may elect to retire on or after the effective date of this Agreement and shall be entitled to a monthly pension.
— 139 —
“B” AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to an Employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article IV shall be:
1.	A Basic Pension determined by multiplying his years of Credited Service by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XV.
Plus
2.	A monthly Supplemental Pension payable each month up to and including the month in which his Old Age Security date occurs. The amount of such Supplemental Pension to be determined by multiplying the Supplementary Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XV by the number of years of Credited Service up to a maximum of 30 years of service less the amount of any Statutory Benefit to which the Retirant may be or becomes eligible for prior to his Old Age Security Date.
ARTICLE V
RETIREMENT PRIOR TO AGE 62
“A” ELIGIBILITY
1.	An Employee who has attained age 60 and who has ten or more years of Credited Service, may elect to retire on or after the effective date of this Agrement, and prior to his Normal Retirement, Date, and shall be entitled to a pension.
2.	An Employee who has attained age 55, but not age 60, and whose combined years of age and Credited Service shall total 85 or more, may elect to retire on or after the effective date of this Agreement, and prior to his Normal Retirement Date, and shall be entitled to a pension.
— 140 —
“B” AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to an Employee retired pursuant to the provisions of this Article V shall be:
1.	A Basic Pension determined by multiplying his years of Credited Service by the Basic Benefit Rate applicable as set forth in Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XV. Each monthly payment of the basic pension whether becoming payable before, on, or after the Old Age Security Date, is to be reduced by the lesser of (i) or (ii) below.
Plus
2.	A monthly Supplemental Pension payable each
month up to and including the month in which his Old Age Security Date occurs. The amount of such Supplemental Pension to be determined by multiplying the Supplementary Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates, according to Article XV by the number of years of Credited Service up to a maximum of 30 years of service less the amount of any Statutory Benefit to which the Retirant may be or becomes eligible for prior to his Old Age Security Date. The amount of the monthly Supplemental Pension shall then be reduced by the lesser of (i) or (ii) below.
(i)	Four-tenths of one percent (4/10 of 1%) of the total amount so computed for each month by which the effective date of his pension precedes the first day of the month coincident with or next following the sixty-second (62nd) anniversary of the Retirant’s birth.
(ii)	Four-tenths of one percent (4/ 10 of 1%) of the total amount so computed for each month by which the Retirant’s Credited Service at the effective date of his pension is less than thirty-seven (37) years.
— 141 —
The reduction of four-tenths of one percent (4/10 of 1%) shall be applied separately to froth the Basic Pension and Supplemental Pension.
ARTICLE VI
DISABILITY ALLOWANCE “A” ELIGIBILITY FOR DISABILITY ALLOWANCE
(a)	Each Employee who through no fault of his own has become totally and permanently disabled and whose Credited Service has been ten (10) years or more, shall be retired from active service and be granted a disability allowance service and be grantead a disability allowance.
(b)	If any Retirant who is in receipt of a disability allowance ceases to be totally and permanently disabled, or if he shall engage in any work similar to the job requirements of any job in the bargaining unit, his disability allowance may be terminated at the Company’s option. If so terminated by the Company, he shall be rehired in a capacity consistent with his seniority and his physical and mental ability, provided he promptly applies for such work.
(c)	Each Retirant to whom a disability allowance has been granted may be required from time to time, but not more frequently than at six month intervals, to report at a reasonable place for physical re-examination and if such Retirant shall neglect or refuse to be so re-examined, the disability allowance shall be discontinued until the continuance of his disability is verified by such an examination.
(d)	If any Retirant re-enters the service of the Company at the time such disability allowance is discontinued, he shall be eligible for a retirement pension or further disability allowance
— 142 —
under this Agreement. In such a case the period of absence on disability shall be considered as a leave of absence and not a break in the continuity of his Credited Service.
(e)	No Retirant receiving a disability allowance under this Article VI shall be entitled to any other pension or allowance under any Article of this Agreement.
(f)	When a disability allowance has been granted, it shall not be made effective as long as the Employee is on leave of absence and is drawing indemnity benefits from an insurance or compensation plan to which the Company contributes.
“B” AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE
The amount of the monthly allowance payable
to an Employee retired pursuant to the provisions
of this Article VI shall be:
1.	A Basic Allowance determined by multiplying his years of Credited Service by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XV.
Plus
2.	A monthly Supplemental Allowance payable each month up to and including the month in which his Old Age Security date occurs. The amount of such Supplemental Allowance to be determined by multiplying the Supplemental Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates according to Article XV by the number of years of Credited Service up to a maximum of 30 years of service less the amount of any Statutory Benefit to which the Retirant may or becomes eligible for prior to his Old Age Security Date.
143
ARTICLE VII
DEFERRED VESTED PENSION
A.	ELIGIBILITY
(1)	An Employee whose services with the Company are terminated who has ten (10) years or more Credited Service at the date of termination of his employment, but who is ineligible for a Pension, Disability Allowance or Severance Award, shall upon-application not earlier than sixty (60) davs nrior to his Normal Retirement Date, be eligible for a Pension under this Article, and shall be considered a Retirant under this Agreement, but for no other purpose, and shall be entitled to his vested interest under this Article (but no other benefit) commencing with the month following the month in which he attains age sixty-five (65) years.
(2)	The provisions dealing with Deferred Vested interest in each previous Pension and Severance Pay Agreement are to continue to apply to a former Employee whose services with the Company were terminated during the term of such Agreement.
(3)	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article VII, the Deferred Vested Retirement Pension shall not be less than the Deferred Life Annuity prescribed by the Pension Benefits Act, 1965 of Ontario, and the same guarantee of pension payments shall apply, in respect of such Deferred Life Annuity, as if he retired under Article III, Normal Retirement.
B.	AMOUNT OF PENSION
The amount of the monthly pension payable to a Retirant under the provisions of this Article VII shall be:
A Basic Pension determined by multiplying his years of Credited Service, up to his last day of active employment, by the Basic Benefit Rate as set forth in the Pension Benefit Rates, Article XV.
— 144 —
ARTICLE VIII SEVERANCE AWARD
(a)	When it becomes necessary to release an Employee with five (5) or more years of Credited Service who is retired (1) because through no fault of his own is no longer able to meet the requirements of his iob and who cannot qualify for transfer to another job within the-local plant, and who cannot qualify for a disability allowance — or (2) one whose employment is terminated because of the nermanent closing of the plant or of a section thereof, he shall be paid a Severance Award calculated in the following manner:
1.	Any such Employee who has five (5) years of Credited Service but less than ten (10) will be awarded a Severance Award of one-half (’/2) week’s average pay for each year of service.
2.	Any such Employee who has ten (10) years of Credited Service but less than fifteen (15) will be awarded a Severance Award of ‘one (1) week’s average pay for each year of service.
3.	Any such Employee who has fifteen (15) years of Credited Service but less than twenty (20) will be awarded a Severance Award of one and one-half (l'/i) week’s average pay for each year of service.
4.	Any such Employee who has twenty (20) or more years of Credited Service will be awarded a Severance Award of two (2) weeks’ aver, age pay for each year of service.
(b)	“Average Pay” as expressed in the foregoing section (a) with respect to Employees with five (5) but less than ten (10) years of Credited Service will be computed on the basis of the average earnings received by the Employee during his entire period of employment with the Company. “Average Pay” as expressed in
— 145 —
the foregoing section (a) with respect to Employees with ten (10) or more years of Credited Service shall be computed on the basis of the average weekly rate received by the Employee during the ten (10) consecutive years in which he shall have received the highest annual compensation from the Company.
In the case of an employee whose earnings are reduced in any month following the effective date of this Agreement as a result of temporary absence to perform duties in an official or representative capacity for the Union of a nonpolitical nature, his earnings for calculating the amount of award shall be increased to reflect the compensation which he probably would have received from the Company had he been available for regular employment during such period.
(c)	An Employee whose employment has been terminated and who has received a Severance Award as above provided will not be reemployed by the Company except at the Company’s option and then only with the status of a new employee.
(d)	The provision of this Article VIII shall not apply-in the case of any lay-offs for reasons other than those which are set out in section (a) of this section.
(e)	For any Employee whose service is terminated under the provisions of this Article VIII, and who is entitled to a deferred vested pension under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act 1965 for service after January 1, 1965, the Severance Award calculated in accordance with this Article shall be reduced by the percentage that the years of service dating from January 1, 1965, bears to the total years of service of the eligible employee.
146 —
ARTICLE IX PAYMENT
(a)	Retirement Pensions or Disability Allowances shall be paid as monthly income to the Retir-ant on the last day of each calendar month following the date of retirement or the effective date of disability, during the lifetime of the Retirant, unless suspended or terminated or deferred as provided elsewhere in this Agreement.
(b)	In the case of a Retirant’s death, payment of the allowance up to and including the last day of the calendar month in which death occurs will be paid to the Retirant’s legal representative or, at the option of the Company, to such member or members of his immediate family as the Company may determine.
(c)	Optional Form of Payment
An Employee may, by notice in writing, on a form provided by the Company and submitted to the Company ■—■ (i) on or before the Employee’s 60th birthday, or (ii) after the Employee’s 60th birthday, but prior to the date the Employee leaves active employment and before he reaches age 65, and accompanied by evidence of good health, satisfactory to the Company — elect that, if and when he becomes eligible for a Normal Retirement Pension at age 65, his Retirement Pension calculated in accordance with the formula set forth in Article III shall be converted to a pension of equal actuarial value as determined by the Company payable for a 10 or 15 year term certain as set forth in the said notice of election, and for the Employee’s remaining lifetime, if any.
The actuarial reduction shall be calculated on and made from the amount arrived at under Article 111.
147
An Employee who has made an election pursuant to this provision may, at any time prior to age sixty-five (65) revoke the election by submitting written notice of such revocation to the Company, but may not thereafter make a new election under this provision.
An election made by an Employee pursuant to this provision shall be inoperative and ineffective in the event of the death of the Employee prior to his 65th birthday.
Where an election pursuant to this provision comes into effect and the Retirant dies prior to the month of expirv of the term certain elected, payments of the actuarily equivalent Retirement Pension will be paid to the Retirant’s Beneficiary, if any, otherwise to his estate, from and-including the month following the Retirant’s death, to and including the month of expiry of the term certain elected. The estate of the Retirant or of a Beneficiary shall have the right, at any time, when entitled to receive any payments pursuant to this provision, to elect to receive, in lieu of remaining payments, such commuted value to be determined on the basis of interest at such rate as may be determined by the Company. Subject to the provisions of this section, an Employee or Retirant who has elected the optional form of payment in accordance with this Agreement may designate a beneficiary or new beneficiary to receive the payments, if any,, to be made under this Agreement after his death. An Employee or Retirant who has designated a beneficiary or a new beneficiary pursuant to this section may revoke any such designation, but such revocation shall not revoke his election of the optional form of payment.
The right to designate or to revoke a designation of a beneficiary pursuant to this section is to be exercised by the execution by the
— 148 —
Employee or Retirant, and by delivery to the Company, of an instrument in writing, which expressly provides that the designation or revocation, whichever is the case, is made with reference to this Agreement.
Upon delivery to the Company, prior to or on or after the death of the Employee or Retirant, of a designation or a revocation of a designation of a beneficiary made pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs of this section, the designation or revocation, even if it is contained in a Will, or in an instrument purporting to be a Will, relates back to and has effect as and from the date of its execution but without prejudice to the Company, the Trustees, or any Insurance Company, on account of any payment or payments made under this Agreement.
td) Joint and Survivor Option
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Pension and Severance Award Agreement a pension and/or a survivor pension may be payable in accordance with the provision of Article IX. An employee who shall have made this election not less than six (6) months prior to retirement and who has had for at least one (1) year, a spouse, may elect that his pension be payable as follows:
(i)	provided the Employee’s Joint and Survivor Option election is in effect at his Normal Retirement, Retirement At Age 62 or Retirement Prior to Age 62, the basic monthly pension amount as determined in accordance with these applicable Articles shall be converted into a reduced pension of equal actuarial value as determined by the Company and shall be payable each month thereafter during the Retirant’s lifetime. Commencing with the month following the month of death of the Retirant, a survivor’s pension equal to fifty (50)
— 149 —
percent of such actuarially reduced basic monthly pension shall be payable to the said spouse, provided such spouse is then living and each month thereafter during the lifetime of such spouse.
Supplementary pensions are not payable to a surviving spouse and will cease at the end of the month in which the death of the Retirant occurred.
(ii)	An Employee’s Joint and Survivor Option Election shall be made by application in writing on a form supplied by the Company and submitted to the Company with proof of age and of the marriage. Such election may be revoked prior to retirement. In addition, the death of said spouse or dissolution of their marriage prior to the date on which the first pension payment is due to the Employee shall also nullify the Joint Survivor Option election.
An Employee’s Joint Survivor Option election shall be effective upon submission of the Employee’s application; provided., however, that no Joint Survivor Option election may become effective after the Employee’s Retirement date.
(iii)	If the Joint Survivor Option election is not in effect at the Employee’s Retirement, pension benefits will be payable as otherwise provided in this Pension and Severance Award Agreement.
(e) Guaranteed Pension Payments
In the event of the death of a Retirant retired under Article III, Normal Retirement, or under Article IV, Retirement at age 62 or an employee who has attained age 55 with 37 years or more of credited service? who has retired after the effective date of this Agreement, and before he has received sixty monthly payments of the amount calculated in accordance
-- 150 —
with Article III, Section “B” or Article IV, Section “B” (1), or Article V, Section “B” (1),
subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Article IX, the balance of such sixty monthly payments (exclusive of any monthly supplemental pension) will continue to be paid to his named beneficiary or, if none, to his estate.
ARTICLE X
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a)	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Agreement and the policies of administration shall be determined by the Company whose decisions with respect to any questions shall be final and binding for all purposes, subject to the provisions of Article XI of this Agreement.
(b)	Neither this Agreement nor any action taken by the Company or its representative shall be construed as giving any Employee any right to be retained in the employment of the Company, and all Employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if this Agreement had not become effective, without liability on the part of the Company for a Retirement Pension or other allowance other than wages due and unpaid and any Severance Award to which an Employee may be entitled under this Agreement.
(c)	Assignment of Retirement Pensions or Disability Allowances, or Severance Awards, under this Agreement will not be recognized except when approved by the Company, and any Retirement Pensions or Disability Allowances, or Severance Awards may be suspended or terminated if an assignment thereof or any transfer of an interest therein by operation of law or
— 151 —
otherwise is made, or if the same is attached or seized under or by virtue of legal proceedings.
(d)	In the case of an otherwise eligible Employee who is regularly employed on a “part- time” basis, the amount of the pension or allowance shall be reduced to an amount which will have the same proportionate relationship as the regular hours of such an Employee have to the normal hours of a “full time” Employee.
(e)	Any Employee shall give proof of age by evidence satisfacory to the Company when requested to do so.
(f)	All applications for Retirement Pension or Disability Allowance must be made out on forms approved by the Company.
(g)	The Company will assume no superannuation responsibility for termination or retirement pensions or allowances or otherwise to Employees who are not eligible under the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE-INFORMATION
(a) If any dispute shall arise between the Company and any Employee, former Employee or Retirant represented by the Union with reference to eligibility, age, Credited Service or amount of pension or allowance, or suspension or termination of pension or allowance, such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance procedure of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect between the Company and the Union omitting, however, all steps-prier to the presentation of the grievance to the Human Resources Supervisor.
If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the
— 152 —
Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration shall have only the authority to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement, and of any ap-Dlicable provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement relating to Grievance procedure, but shall have no authority to alter, add to or subtract from any such provision in any way. The decision of the Arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the Employee, former Employee or Retir-ant. If any dispute shall arise as to whether any Employee, -former Employee or Retirant, who is represented by the Union, is or continues to be permanently or totally disabled, as defined in this Agreement, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
Such Employee, former Employee, or Retirant shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company and by a physician appointed for that purpose bv the Union, and their decisions, if they shall be in agree: ment, shall be final and binding. If they shall disagree, the issue shall be submitted to a third physician selected by the said two physicians. The decision of such third physician after examination of the person concerned and consultation with the other two physicians appointed by the parties shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the Employee, former Employee., or Retirant concerned. The fees and expenses of any such third physician shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
(b)	The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may reasonably request, from time to time, concerning the operation of this Agreement and the administration of this Agreement insofar as it affects Retirants thereunder whom it has represented.
153 —
ARTICLE XII FINANCING
(a)	The Company shall establish a Pension Fund which shall consist of a trust fund or funds and/or an Insurance Company, or Government Annuities Branch contract or contracts for the purpose of providing the Benefits under this Agreement.
The Company shall pay currently into the Pension Fund, such amounts as the actuary, retained by the Company, shall certify to be necessary to provide the current service costs and for amortisation within the period prescribed by law of any unfunded liability or experience deficiency after taking into consideration the assets of the Pension Fund and such other factors as may be deemed relevant. The Company at its option may, from time to time, pay into the Pension Fund additional amounts.
(b)	Disbursement from Pension Fund.
The Pension Fund shall be used, on proper authorization of the Board in accordance with the Agreement, to pay such pensions, allowances or awards as are payable under the Agreement.
(c)	The pensions, allowances or awards which shall be payable in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall be paid solely from the Pension Fund and each Employee or Retirant or other person who shall claim the right to any payment under the Agreement shall be entitled to look only to the Pension Fund for such payment, and no liability for the payment of pensions, allowances or awards under the Agreement shall be imposed upon the Board, the Company, or the officers, directors or
— 154 —
stockholders of the Company save to the extent to which the Company shall fail to carry out the provisions of (a) of this Article XII.
ARTICLE XIII UNDERTAKINGS
(a) The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof, this Agreement shall continue in effect without modification or change insofar as it may be applicable to Employees represented by the Union, except as provided in section (c) below.
Cbt The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof, neither the Union nor any of its representatives shall (1) make any demands that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that a new pension-Agreement or additional severance awards be established for the Employees represented by the Union or that the Company c&tribute or-pay any greater amount for such Employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of this Agreement—(2) engage in or continue to engage in or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production in the Company’s plant for the purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination; and except during the last seveny-five (75) days of the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters contained in this Agreement, except as provided in section (c) below.
(c)	The only exception to the above sections will be that if Federal or Provincial Legislation is made effective after the date hereof, providing for contributions by the Company or changes
- - 155 —
in the present method of financing Company pension payments and accrual of funds, or should changes be made in the Old Age Security Act 1951 (as amended), the Company shall have the option to amend, and/or integrate this agreement bv notice in writing to the Union, provided that the aggregate benefits a retiring individual Employee shall receive under such amended agreement is not thereby reduced in amount. so that the amount such individual shall receive from the Company when added to that part of the benefits provided by any government plan which are financed or paid for bv a compulsory contribution from the Company, shall not be less than the amount of benefits provided under this Agreement.
(d)	Should the Company elect not to amend, and/ or integrate the Agreement as provided in Section (c) above and as a result benefits to the individual retiring Employee in the aggregate are lessened thereby,, the Union shall have the right to re-open for re-negotiations, with respect only to the affected benefit, 60 days after the official proclamation of such change, modification, or supplementation, and negotiations with respect only to the affected benefits will commence within 15 days, and if negotiations are not completed before termination of the notice period, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon thirty (30) days, written notice. Such notice shall be given only on such date as will allow for termination of this Agreement to coincide with the termination of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect. In the event of such termination, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to operate in the manner as provided in the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
— 156
ARTICLE XIV
EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AND TERMINATION
“Umbrella Provision”-In the event of termination of the Collective Labour Agreement by strike or lock-out, the benefits described herein shall be provided for ninety (90) days following termination. Termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discounting the pension plan insofar as it affects the pensions of those retiring before the termination date and no pension granted prior to such termination shall be reduced, suspended, or discontinued except as specifically provided in the Pension Plan.
It is understood that amendment to the Pension and Severance Award Agreement in accordance with this Agreement, is subject to the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of the Pension and Severance Award Agreement by such Pension authorities and commissions and subject to obtaining and retaining such acceptance of this Agreement by the relevant tax authorities to establish that the Company is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted., the Company agrees with the Union that the Company will provide the pensions and pay the Severance Awards provided for herein which are awarded to those who become eligible therefore during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof. No action in performance of the terms of this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union.
Should such approval or acceptance of the above named authorities be refused, or withdrawn, ne-
— 157 —
gotiations will be started by the parties in an effort to make such changes as are required to obtain approval. In the event of failure in such negotiations, but in any case not later than the effective date of such refusal or withdrawal, this Agreement will be terminated. In such event, either the Union or the Company may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect (solely for the purpose of obtaining Conciliation Service on the matter in dispute) and the other party shall join in such application. If subsequent to notice of termination of the Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement under these circumstances, the parties settle any differences between them, then the Collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until termination according to its provisions.
ARTICLE XV
PENSION BENEFIT RATES
(a)	Basic Benefit Rate
$10.75 per month per year of credited service; however, an Employee who retires on or after December 15,1985 and prior to December 15, 1988, in accordance with Article III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the Pension and Severance Award Agreement, will receive a pension computed in accordance with the terms of the Pension and Severance Award Agreement except that hi basic pension will be determined by multiplying his years of credited service by $13.00 in lieu of the Basic Benefit rate set forth in Article XIV.
(b)	Supplemental Allowance
$9.25 per month per year of credited service to a maximum of 30 years of credited service.
— 158 —