OCT 0 5 1999
SOURCE				
EFF.	9£		(9LI	SJc
TERM.				lb
No. OF JMPAOY^ES ' NOMBRE O’cMr’LOYES		I		
COLLECTIVE LABOUR
agreement
between
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
COLLINGWOOD PLANT
THE EMPLOYER
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF LOCAL 834L
THE UNION
APRIL 26, 1998 TO
APRIL 26,2002
EAGLE
ARTICLE 1
Purpose...................................................... 1
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation.................................................. 1
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement............................................   3
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work .................................................. 4
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay
ARTICLE 6
Seniority ...................................................... 10
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays............................................. 17
ARTICLE 8
Vacations ................. .................................... 19
ARTICLE 9
Union Security.................................................. 21
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure........................... 23
ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous ................................................ 26
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement
APPENDIX "A" ........................................................... 30
Interim Wage increase .................................................. 34
Compressed work Schedule ..............................................  37
6 2/3 Day, Four Crew Work Schedule...................................... 42
Letters °f Understanding................................................ 45
E
Experimental Work	5.21	10
	F	
First Aid Visit	5.07	7
Funeral Leave	5.11	8-9
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure	G 10.01-10.16	23-26
Hiring in Rates	H 5.02	6
it ft ii	Appendix A	30-33
Holidays-Observation of	7.01-7.03	17-18
H II if	Letter #21	68
-Payment of	7.04-7.07	18-19
Hours of Work	4.01	4-6
Interpretation	I	2.01-2.02	1-2
Job Evaluations	J	Letter #25	72
Job Responsibilities		Letters #3,4	47-49
Jury Duty		5.10	8
Lay-off	L	6.09-6.12	11-13
Leave of Absence-Maternity		6.16	14
-Personal		6.17	14
-Union or		6.19	15
Elective Office			
Letters of Understanding -Accumulation of Seniority -Clarification of Term "Qualification" -Classified/Unclassifted Jobs -Coveralls
■Drug Related Problems -Floating Holidays -Group R.R.S.P -Job Evaluations -Job Responsibilities -Lay-offwhile on Weekly Indemnity or Workers' Compensation -Line Up (Posting of)
-Mechanical Serv. Sect. Manning -Misc. Items 1998 Agreement -Missed Overtime -Modified Work Programme -Overtime Distribution -Plant Closing -Recording of Overtime -Retaining Seniority -Safety Shoes -Students
-Tax Calculation on Vacation Pays -Team Leaders
-Transfer to Mechanical Service Section
-Vacation Scheduling
-Vacation Shutdown
-Washup time
-Work Run-out
M
Maternity Leave
Mechanical Service Section Manning Medical Disqualification Miscellaneous Modified Work Programme
Letter # 7	52
Letter # 16	62
Letter # 17	63-64
Letter # 11	56
Letter # 1	45
Letter #21	68
Letter #27	74
Letter #25	72
Letter #3	47
Letter # 19	66
Letter #23	70
Letter #4	49
Letter #28	75-76
Letter #14	60
Letter #24	71
Letter #26	73
Letter #22	69
Letter # 15	61
Letter #8	53
Letter # 10	55
Letter #9	54
Letter # 12	57
Letter #20	67
Letter #13	58-59
Letter #5	50
Letter #6	51
Letter #2	46
Letter # 18	65
6.16	14	
Letter #4		49
6.18	15	
11.01-11.07		26-27
Letter #24	71	
N
Notations
10 16
26
s
Safety Shoes		Letter #10	55
Scope of Agreement		3.01-3.04	3
Seniority		6.01-6.24	10-17
-Accumulate		6.05-6.12	11-12
ll		Letter #19	66
-Calculate		6.01	10
-Loss of		6.02-6.04	10
M		Letter #7	52
-Retain		Letter #8	53
-Super Seniority		6.11	12
Shift Change Request Form		Attachment B	77
Shift Premium 6 2/3 Day, 4-Crew schedule		5.08	42-44
Stewards		11.03	26
Students	T	Letter #9	54
Team Leaders		Letter #20	67
Temporary Assignment		5.15-5.18	
II it		6.20	
Temporary Assignment Form		Attachment C	
Transfers		6.20-6.21	16-17
H	U	Letter #13	58-59
Union Dues		9.01-9.03	21-22
Union Notices		11.01	
Union Security Union Stewards	V	9.01-9.05 11.03	21-23 26
Vacations		8.01-8.08	19-21
il	w	Letter #5,6,12	50,51,
Washup Time		Letter #2 6.24	46
Work Run-out			17
>• it		Letter # 18	65
1
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the 26lh day of April, 1998 between Goodyear Canada Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", with respect to certain employees at its Collingwood Factory, and The United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the employer regarding any employee covered by this agreement.
(b)	That the Union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership.
ARTICLE 2
INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this Collective Agreement and in Its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the foHowinj words and expressions will have the meaning hereinafter given to them:
(a)	"Employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory, Collingwood, Ontario.
(b)	"employee" means and includes each and every employee of the Employer at its Collingwoo< Factory, save and except those employees covered by a Collective Labour Agreement with Th< International Union of Operating Engineers, quality assurance inspectors, supervisors, person above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff.
"probationer" means an employee without seniority.
7
2.01	(d) "probationary period" consists of the first 672 working hours including overtime.
(e)	"qualification" means the ability to perform the operation to which an employee is assigned in
a	competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually
obtained from such operation; "to qualify" and "qualified" shall have a like meaning.
"layoff means the termination of work of an employee by the Employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the Employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; "laid off or "to be laid off shall have a like meaning.
the term "base rate" or "rate of pay" shall mean the rate per hour for all day work operations.
the term "average hourly earnings" as used in this Agreement is defined as an employee's hourly earnings exclusive of all premiums; average hourly earnings will be based, where possible, on the earnings for the second week prior to date of application.
the term "vacancy" shall not include a vacancy caused by any of the following:
(j) when an employee is absent by reason of sickness or accident;
(ii)	when an employee is on vacation;
(iii)	when an employee is on an authorized leave of absence;
(iv > when a qualified employee is in layoff status.
"seniority" or "section seniority" means the status that an employee acquires after he/she has worked for the Employer for the period of time prescribed in Section 2.01 (d) in any twenty-four month period.
" held' means hired into or transferred into the position, qualified for the job and have retainec the skills and ability necessary to perform the job.
“temporary" shall mean up to and including six (6) months, with any extension imhaTly agreec upon.
2.02	In this Collective Agreement, wherever the pronoun "he" appears it shall be construed as meaning am employee, male or female. In addition, the words "will" and "shall" are considered to bt interchangeable.
J
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all employees and the Employer recognizes the Union as the soie collective bargaining agent for the said employees for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
3.02	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the Employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline employees and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or discharged without just cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement;
(C) to determine the qualificationsof each employee;
(d) to operate and manage its business in all respects and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine- the number and location of plants • the products to be manufactured
-	the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
-	the engineering and design of its products
-	the control of material and parts to be incorporated into the product.
The Employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	There shall be no lockout, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof.
3.04	In the event that any ofthe provisions ofthis Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial Law now existing, cr hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that
4
such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(1) The regular weekly schedule for the plant is a five-day forty-hour week, from Monday to Friday
inclusive. However, this shall not be construed as a guarantee of a specified number of hours ot work per day or of days of work per week.
The hours of work will be as follows:
One Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with one half hour lunch period
Two Shift Operation: 8:00 a.m. to4:00 p.m.
4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Three Shift Operation: 1st: 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
2nd: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00p.m.
3rd: 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight with a 20 minute paid lunch period
Shipping & Receiving: Steady Day Shift:
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. with one hour lunch period
Maintenance Service Section: Steady Day Shift:
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with one-half hour lunch period
The above shift times may be changed by the Employer at any time after prior discussion with the Union Bargaining Committee and notification to the employees involved.
(2) The Union recognizes that it is the function of the Employer to schedule hours of work and the employee's obligation to work the hours scheduled, provided that the working schedule is in conformity with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act and the Regulations issuec thereunder.
The Employer undertakes to distribute overtime work equally and impartially among all employees in the department in the following manner insofar as it is reasonably practicable to do so:
1)	Among all employees who are regularly assigned to the operation who are willing to work;
5
2)	Among all qualified employees on shift in the department who are willing to work;
3)	Among all capable employees on shift in the department who are willing to work;
4)	Among all other qualified employees in the department who are willing to work;
5)	Among all other capable employees in the department who are willing to work;
6)	Among all employees who are qualified and who are willing to work;
7)	Among all employees who are capable of performing the operation in a reasonably efficient manner who are willing to work:
8)	Among all employees regularly assigned to the operation if necessary.
Weekend overtime for the employees regularly assigned to the operation will be offered in the following order:
Day Shift Overtime:	1 st Day shift
2nd Afternoon Shift 3rd Midnight Shift
Afternoon Shift Overtime:	1 st Afternoon Shift
2nd Midnight Shift 3rd Day Shift
Midnight Shift Overtime:	1st Midnight Shift
2nd Day Shift 3rd Afternoon Shift
Taking shift alignment into account, when scheduling overtime for both Saturday and Sunday, preference will be given to employees who are willing to work both days.
Overtime resulting in double shifts will not be asked unless it is an emergency.
Weekend overtime requirements of 2 hours or less, immediately preceding or following the regular work week, will be distributed as per the regular work week.
Maintenance:
Employees on rotating shifts will be asked for overtime for the floor first.
For overtime on special assignments the employees assigned to the job will be asked first.
6
Failing this anyone in the Mechanical Service Section can be asked.
4.02	Overtime work means all the time worked in excess of an employee'seight-hour shift in any twenty-foui hour period; it also means ail work done by an employee from the end of the third shift Friday until the start of the first shift Monday.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an employee's working hours at his/her own request.
(c)	The regular shift change.
(d)	The time spent on employee committee work or similar activity; however, such time will be
considered part of an employee's shift hours in determining overtime hours on regula departmental work, provided that the time occurred during the employee':
regular shift hours.
4.03	A ten-minute rest period will be observed during each half of the employee's shift, at a time to be determined by the Employer. An employee who is requested to work at least two hours overtime, wil be granted a ten-minute rest period. If an employee works more than two hours overtime he/she will be granted a twenty-minute rest period at a time determined by the Employer, in addition to the regular rest periods when they are observed on such shift. If an employee works more than four hours overtime beyond the end of the shift, he/she will be granted the lunch period which is regular!; granted on that shift. Smoking will be permitted in designated areas during the rest period.
4.04	The Employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an employee because he/she has done overtime work unless the employee consents to such reduction, provided that a reduction on ai employee's regular working time may always be made by the Employer to comply with the Employment Standards Act of the Province of Ontario and regulations thereunder.
4.05' The Employer will provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
ARTICLES RATES OF PAY
5.01	The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix "A" and is attachei
hereto, and forms part of this agreement. They shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of thi: Collective Agreement.
7
5.02	The minimum hiring-in rates of pay in effect for the duration of this Collective Agreement are as set out in Appendix "A
5.03	All overtime shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except for the period from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday, when double time shall be paid; however, overtime premium will not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
5.04	An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one hour after he/she has left work and two hours before his/her next scheduled shift, shall receive either four hours at his/her regular rate of
pay orregular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for actual time worked, whichever is the greater. It is understood that when such emergency is over, the employee will be permitted to leave the plant.
5.05	When an employee has not been notified of a change in his/her starting time and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, heishe shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for four hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the employee has advised the Employer of his/her last and correct address and telephone number, if any. This shall apply only when conditions are within the Employer's control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and ifhe/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.06	When an employee reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for four hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the breakdown were within the Employer's control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and ifhe/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.07	An employee who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital or to a doctor's office shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for time lost on his/her shift less any monies received as Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits.
5.08	Employees on afternoon and night shift operations shall be granted premium paymentas follows: -For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled afternoon shift - $.35 per hour.
-For all hours worked on the regularly scheduled night shift-$.40 per hour.
5.09	Each member of the Bargaining Committee who is present at meetings called by the Employer, at the regular monthly meeting with the Employer or at a Step III or Step IV Grievance Meeting with the Employer shall be paid at his/her average hourly earnings for the period commencing one-half hour prior to the designated starting time of the meeting until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. He/she shall be paid his/her average hourly earnings for time lost from his/her regular shift while attending negotiation meetings with the Employer for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
8
5.10	An employee who is required to serve as a juror in a legally constituted oourtoras a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount received for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for the time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their supervisor within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection forjury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness.
(b)	Any employee called forjury duty or who is subpoenaed as a Crown witness and who is
temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
(c)	Employees selected forjury duty or who are subpoenaed as a Crown witness who are on other than day shift shall be assigned to the day shift those days they are required to serve.
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payments, the employee must furnish a written statement from
the	appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
The Employer agrees to continue the regular pay schedule of an employee serving on a jury for the duration of his/her continuous absence. It is understood that these wages are being paid on an advance basis and the employee must, upon return, provide the above mentioned written statement and reimburse any overpayment.
fe) Should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection forjury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a Crown witness, his/her foreman will reschedule said employee's vacation, if he/she so requests, in the current year.
5 11 An employee on the acUve payroll of the Employer who is excused solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, son. daughter, husband, wife, brother, sister, parent-in-law or grandchild, will, upon presentation of proof of death, be granted permission to be absent and will be paid for time lost from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence for three consecutive days including the day of the funeral.
In the case of an employee excused by the Employer solely because of the death and funeral of a grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,brother-in-law, sister-in-law,spouse's brother-in-law, spouse's sister-in-law, spouse's grandparent or a dependent who lives in the household of the employee, will be compensated, upon presentation of proof of death at his/her average hourly earnings for time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence, up to a maximum of three days for each such death and funeral, This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements for and/or attend the funeral. If however the funeral is not attended, and/or arrangements were not made by the employee, he/she will be paid for lost time on only one of the above mentioned days.
9
If additional time off is required, approval must be obtained from the Industrial Relations Manager subject to an explanation.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster-parent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son or stepdaughter or foster-son or foster-daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only when the stepparent or foster-parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support of such child.
5.12	An employee will be paid average hourly earnings for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her Employer.
5.13	Obvious mathematical errors in rate calculation and obvious inaccuracies relating to job content made at the time the rate was computed will be corrected, unless more than ninety days have elapsed since
the rate was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
5.14	- It is agreed that the Employer shall base its standards on the full use of an employee's time, which
consists of full productive time on thejob less reasonable allowances.
5.15	When there is insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shift's work and the employee is temporarily assigned to a day work operation on which he/she is
experienced, he/she shall be paid the base rate of the temporary assignment, providing a satisfactory effort is made.
5.16	When there is insufficient work on an employee's regular operation to complete a full shift's work anc
the	employee is temporarily assigned to another operation on which he/she is inexperienced, he/she shall
be	paid either the base rate of thejob assigned or his/her average hourly earnings of his/her regular
operation, whichever is the lower, provided a satisfactory effort is made.
5.17	If the Employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit of the Employer, to another operation on which he/she is inexperienced, while there is work available on the employee's regular operation, he/she will be paid his/her average hourly earnings, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.18	If the Employertemporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit of the Employer, to another operation on which he/she is experienced while there is work available on the employee's regular eperatkn, he/she will be paid his/her average hourly earnings or the base rate of the temporary operation, whichever is higher, providing he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
5.19	Time lost on a shift by an employee, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any
other reason beyond the employee's control but within the Employer's control, shall be paid for at the rate of his/her average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the Employer and the employee, the employee shall be paid average hourly earnings, not to exceed base rate, for all time lost on his/her shift during the period he/she is required by the Employer to remain on thejob.
10
5.20
5.21
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
work.
In the circumstances contemplated in Section 5.19, when an employee finishes his/her shift on an operation providing for a higher rate of pay, he/she shall receive the higher rate of pay in addition to pa\ for time lost.
All experimental work covered by an interdepartmental order will be paid at average hourly earning; providing a satisfactory effort is made.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
Seniority shall be calculated after completion of 672 working hours including overtime.
fin employee shall lose his/her seniority when he/she resigns or is discharged.
A laid off employee shall lose the seniority which he/she had at the date of his/her layoff wheneve;
he/she fails to:
(a)	Inform the Employer of the address at which he/she can be reached when required to report tc work. Changes of such address may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Industrial Relation: Department, and will be acknowledged in writing.
(b)	Notify the Employer of his/her intention to return to work within one working day after having been notified to do so by messenger or Within three working days after a notice to do sd has been sent by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her last address on the records of the Employer.
(c)	Report for work within seven days after he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work, provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the employee furnishes; reason satisfactory to the Employer within thirty days of his/her failure.
In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without
notice or other action on the part of the Employer.
(1)	An employee with seniority who is laid off and is not recalled to work by the Employer during
the following twenty-four month period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
12) (a) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status who held less tten five years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service to a maximum of nine months and will be credited with such seniority and service upon return tc
(b) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status, who held five years or more of seniority at time: of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and ait
11
to a	maximum of eighteen months and will be credited with such seniority and service upon
return to work.
The accumulation of seniority and service provided for in this subsection shall not exceed the period of service attained by the employee as of the last day he/she worked prior to his/her layoff.
6.05 An employee vifti seniority who is absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accidentoi sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Lift insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Employer and the Union shall be entitlec to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(1)	An employee who has less than five years of continuous service with the Employer will be entitled tc accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one year.
(2)	An employee who has five or more years of continuous service with the Employer, will be entitled tc accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two years.
6.06	An employee with seniority who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits as a result of z
compensable	injury suffered while in the employ of the Employer will continue to accumulate seniority
during the period in which he/she is in receipt of such benefits.
6.07	The accumulation of seniority provided for in Sections 6.05 and 6.06 shall not exceed the period oi service attained by the employee as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to such illness oi accident. The seniority so accumulated will be credited to the employee upon his/her return to work.
6.08	The probationer shall be a new employee during the whole of his/her probationary period. His/he: employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall tht employer have any obligation to rehire him/her or to offer him/her work.
LAYOFF
6.09	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions contained in this Article, the plant shall be dividec into two Sections:
Hose Manufacturing Section Mechanical Service Section
(1) For the purpose of lay-off and bumping rights only, the mechanical services section will be divided intc two departments:
(a)Electrical Service Department
12
(b) Maintenance Service Department
6.10	No employee with seniority shall be laid off before all probationers in the same section are laid off
6.11	The members of the Union Bargaining Committee and Executive Board shhll be granted super senior! t> in their own sections. In the event that any of these employees should become subjectto layoff he/she shall not be laid off but shall instead displace the employee with the least seniority in his/her section provided that he/she is qualified to perform the work of that employee.
6.12	(a) When it becomes necessary to lay-off an employee, the employee with the least seniority ir
either the classified, or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee, anc he/she will have the right to displace other employees with less seniority as follows:
Employees on Classified Jobs
The surplus employee from a classifiedjob will:
(j) Displace the employee with the least seniority on the last classifiedjob held by the displaced employee in the factory un which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factor, seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing the above, the employee would regress through his/her classifiedjob positions in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace suck employee.
(ii)	Displace the employee with the least seniority on any unclassifiedjob in the factory on which
he/she is qualified provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee Failing the above, the employee would displace the lowest unclassified jot position in the factory, providing his/her seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
Employees on Unclassified jobs
The surplus employee on an unclassifiedjob will:
(iii)	Displace the employee with the least seniority on the last unclassifiedjob held by the displacec employee in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniorm is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing the above, the employee would regress through his/her unclassifiedjob positions in the factory on which he/she has qualifications, providing his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
Failing the above, he/she would displace the lowest unclassifiedjob position in the factory provided his/her seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
liv) Find his/her rightful position in accordance with Article 6.12 (a).
13
6.12	(b) Voluntary Layoffs
(j) If, in accordance with these layoff provisions of Article 6, a layoff situation occurs, employeefs) in the affectedjob classification(s) will be given the option, in order of seniority, to accept a voluntary layoff.
(jj) When a voluntary layoff is possible, the Company will notify the Union by providing a list of the number of employees that mast be surplussed in thejob classification(s). In addition, a departmental notice will be posted. Employees who wish to apply for voluntary layoff, out of seniority must make application to their area manager within 48 hours of the positing of the notice.
(iii) Employees on voluntary layoff will be recalled only to thejob held at time of layoff. If more than one employee is on voluntary layoff from the same last job held, the least senior of that group will be recalled first.
Civ) Upon request, an employee on voluntary layoff will be placed on the regular recall list and be reinstated with the regular reinstatement provisions contained in this Article 6.
(v) When the regular recall list is exhausted, employees on voluntary layoff will be recalled in reverse order of seniority and before any new employees are hired.
REINSTATEMENT
6.13	(1) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former employees, an
employee who was placed on other work in the factory from a classified group, shall be reinstated in the classified group in which he/she worked immediately prior to the &te of placement, provided he/she is entitled to do so by virtue of his/her seniority, except that if the said employee has worked for six consecutive months on his/her newjob, he/she may in this case retain his/her newjob by filing a written verification to hold fhatjob and is noted and filed by the Company.
(2) An employee who was placed on other work in the factory from an unclassified job shall be reinstated to his/her former unclassifiedjob; except that, if the said employee has workec six	consecutive months on his/her newjob, he/she may in this case retain his/her newjob
by filing	a written verification to hold thatjob and is noted and filed by the Company.
After ail employees have been reinstated or transferred accordingto the provisions of Subsection (1), the balance of employees in a layoff status shall be recalled in the following manner:
(a) All employees with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority to classifiec jobs that may be vacant provided the employee is qualified on such classifiedjob.
15
he/she is able to perform the work. The employee will be credited with service and seniority during thi period while he/she is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two months. Welfare benefits, exclusivt of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of tw< months.
6.18	An employee who is confirmed to be medically unable to continue working on his/her own operatior but is capable of handling lighter work will regress through his/her previousjob positions to ajoboi which heishe is qualified and capable of handling provided heishe has the seniority to do so. Failing tha heishe will find his/her rightful place as outlined in Section6.12.
Failing that an employee who has suffered serious injury or impairment from Goodyear employmen which results in permanent disability, or an employee with ten or more years of continuou-service who is unable to continue on his/her own operation but is capable of handling lighter work may be assigned to and/or retained at work upon mutual agreement between the Union and th< Company notwithstandingthe provisions of this Article provided the employee has more seniority thai the employee who heishe displaces.
6.19	(1) An employee who is selected as a delegate to a convention of the United Steelworkersof
America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Ontario Federation of Labour, specific Union duties or Municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose, provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the plant.
(2)	An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer for, or representative©
the United Steelworkers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congres or to the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/he employment with the Employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave o absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upot termination of this Collective Agreement. For two years following the date the leave of absence i: granted, the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement an< thereafter will	retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force
Followingthe	termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return t(
work for the Employer,	heishe shall be reinstated to ail privileges of employment and he/she shal
work in the department which heishe had left or similar work at the the: such work. For pension purposes only, such employee shall be creditec and service which he/she has accumulated pursuant to the precedin; first becomes eligible for a pension or severance award from one or tht Steelworkers of America, or the Canadian labour Congress or tht Labour. As soon as he/she becomes eligible for a pension o the employee then receives no credit for such accumulate! seniority and service which heishe had at the date ofthi
be offered the same current rate of pay for with the seniority paragraph until he/she other of the United Ontario Federation of severance from such organization, seniority and service but retains the
16
commencement of his/her leave of	absence and will not have to return to active
employment with the Employer to qualify fora	pension or severance award it
otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the	date of the employee's
application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
6.20	Ail employees who transfer out of the Bargaining Unit will forfeit their rights to return to the Bargaining Unit.
An employee who has been temporarily assigned outside the Bargaining Unit (not to exceed 6 months in a one year period)and who returns to the Bargaining Unit shall have seniority equivalent to the length of his/her continuous seniority with the Employer and shall be placed on the job which he/she previously performed.
Temporary assignments will include a 30 day evaluation period during which time, if either party has problems with the assignments will be renewed. By mutual agreement vdththe Bargaining Committee (if no objections are raised) the assignment will be extended up to a maximum of 3 months. If the project is incomplete an additional extension, up to a maximum of 6 months must be mutually agreed upon.
If cutbacks occur during the temporary assignment resulting in layoffs the employee will return to the job which he/she previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined in Article.6. Section 6.12.
6.21 (1)
(a) Employees shall be granted the right to transfer only upon completion of one year of continuous service.
An employee vifh seniority who wishes to transfer to another operation in the plant shall file a written request with the industrial Relations Department, stating the specific operation desired.
Each employee will be permitted to have one request for Transfer on file at any given time, A copy of each request for transfer will be provided to the employee involved and the Union President or his/her designate.
(b)	Requests for transfer shall expire after one (1) year or upon refusai to accept the transfer
offered.
(3)	When a vacancy occurs, a notice of such vacancy shall be posted in the factory for at least 72 (seventy -two) hours exclusive of Saturday, Sunday and/or holidays. Only the written applications	made by employees prior to or during the posting shall be considered.
17
All subsequent vacancies created fcy the filling of the vacancy will not be posted but will be filled from the transfers on file in the Industrial Relations Department. If no transfers on file then normal hiring practices will prevail.
(4)	The employee with the longest seniority who has a request on file for transfer on that specific operation, or who has applied through posting and who can qualify, shall be transferred. An employee will be transferred to the Mechanical Service Department only if he/she is
qualified	for ajob on which a vacancy exists in that department.
(5)	If it is determined th£the newjob is beyond the capabilities of the transferred employee within a period of not mare than 40 hours that employee shall be allowed to return to his/her previous job. Ail subsequent nsfers created by the original job posting will, in tumretum to their previous position.
(6)	An employee transferred at his/her own request to another operation will be paid the rate ol his/her previous operation or 100 an hour below the maximum of the operation to which he/she has transferred whichever is the lesser until such time as he/she is qualified on the new operation, at which time he/she will then be paid the maximum rate of that operation.
An employee who is transferred and fails to qualify on the new operation will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group.
An employee who has had a request for transfer honoured under the provisions of 6.21 will not be permitted to have another request for transfer honoured until the expiration of 1 year.
(8)	The Employer undertakes to notify the Local Union of vacancies available as a result of the establishment fcy the Employer of new operations or technology new to the plant at least five full normal working days before the vacancy occurs and a copy of such notification will be placec upon the plant bulletin boards. A discrepancy on rate of pay will be settled by an arbitrator.
6.22 For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments of the factory and classified and unclassified j obs shall be given by the Employer to the Union from tune to time.
6.23	& is understood that, in the application of Article 6, where an employee may exercise his/her seniority rights consideration in each case, will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, tc ensure the safety of himself/herself and others, and it will, in no way, limit the right of the employer tc maintain a competent working force. This article is, in no way meant to be discriminatory and is intended to reflect the bona fide occupational requirements of the job.
6.24	When an employee’swork is run-out, and there is no other work to which he/she is assigned, within five working days, seniority provisions will be applied in accordance with Article 6.
ARTICLE 7
18
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday is deemed to begin at the start of the first shift on the day of the holiday. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some employees to work afterthe start of the firstshift to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In the Mechanical Service Section, the minimum number of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer loss of time.
7.02	Employees who qualify will be paid an amount equal to their regular rate of pay for one standard shift for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day,	Civic Holiday,	Last working day
Good Friday,	Labour Day,	before Christmas,
Victoria Day,	Thanksgiving Day,	Christmas Day,
Canada Day,	Boxing Day
and two (2) additional holidays which will be floating holidays, the date of which will be selected by the Employer.
if an additional statutory holiday is proclaimed by either level of government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
7.03	In event that Canada Day or Civic Holiday should fall during a scheduled Plant vacation shutdown period, such holiday will be observed on another date during the calendar year designated by the Employer after discussion with the Union Bargaining Committee.
7.04	Only the employee who actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift before and his/her first regular scheduled shift following the holiday shall receive holiday pay. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the employee's Department Foreman.
Subjectto the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.05	An employee required to work on a holiday shall be paid double time-for time worked, in addition to holiday pay.
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works his/her last regular scheduled shift before and his/her first regular scheduled shift
19
following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an employee is absent on his/her regular scheduled shift before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.04. Subjectto the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited to a thirty da) period	exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive
holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or on the day before or the day after	his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the
employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	An employee who is laid offwltiiiii a period of five working days immediately preceding a holiday, ana who is actually at work on the day of layoff, shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLED
VACATIONS
8.01	in order to bring everyone to a common vacation year and forthe purpose of computingthe vacation entitlement and the vacation pay, the vacation year shall be the calendaryear.
8.02 An employee with less thanone year of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year a vacation of one-half day for each complete month he/she hac worked during the previous calendar year, since the last date of hiring and he/she shall receive
as vacation pay 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear since the last date of hiring.
An employee who completes one year of continuous service during the current year shall be granted ir the currentyear a second week of vacation on his/her completion of one year of continuous service ir. addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service, and will receive as vacation pay for that second week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
8.03	An employee with one year or more but less than five years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendaryear shall be granted in the current year two weeks of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 4% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
8.04	(1) An employee with five years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous
calendaryear shall be granted in the current year three weeks of vacation and he/she shall receive as vacation pay 6% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear since the last date of hiring.
(2)
An employee who completes five years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five years of
20
continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee with twelve years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year four weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 8% of hisher earnings in the previous calendaryear.
(4) An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a fdurth week of vacation on hisher completion of twelve years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and Will receive as vacation pay for that fourth week of vacation2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear,
An employee with twenty years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year five weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 10% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear.
An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a fifth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service as ofDecember 31 cf the previous calendaryear shall be granted in the current year six weeks of vacation and_ will receive as vacation pay 12% of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
(8)	An employee who completes twenty-five years of continuous service during the current year shall be granted in the current year a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty-five years of continuous service in addition to the vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation 2% of his/her earnings in the previous calendaryear.
(9)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service has the option to either take the time off or work the sixth week of vacation. Scheduling of vacation
will remain as per Section 8.05.
(10)	An employee working an 8 hour shift schedule with three weeks or more of vacation is entitled to take their 2nd, 3rd, and 5* weeks of vacation one day at a tame. They must take the 1“, 4dl, and 6* week of vacation in a 40 hour block. The employee who has
21
booked their vacation for full weeks Will have preference over the one day at a time vacation.
8.05	Vacations may be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such time as may be most convenient to the Employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
8.06	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the following items shall be included: actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the preceding year, Workers' Compensation payments for lost time and Weekly Indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
8.07	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendaryear owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Workers’ CompensationAct, and forthis reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $240.00 per week, provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than three months before vacation is granted.
8.08	An employee with one year of continuous service or more, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason will receive the appropriate amount of vacation pay to which he/she is entitled under the provisions of this Article. This shall include vacation pay calculated on his/her earnings during the previous calendaryear and the current calendaryear to his/her date of separation, less any monies which he/she shall have received in the form of vacation pay with respect to these periods.
An employee With less than one year of continuous service, who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason will receive as vacation pay, four percent of his/her earnings since his/her last date of hiring less any monies which be/she shall have received in the form of vacation pay With respect to his/her period of employment.
ARTICLE 9
9.01	(a) Any employee who is a member of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this
Agreement shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying Union dues, in accordance with the constitution of the U.S.W.A. as determined by the Local Union and uniformly required of all members of the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
(b)	Any employee in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement as a condition of his/her
continued employment and shall maintain his/her membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in subsection9.01 (a).
22
(c)	Any person hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application for Union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her Union membership on the same terms and
to the same extent as provided in subsection 9.01 (a).
(d)	All present employees and all new employees including employees transferred into the
bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted firm their earnings by signing	the dues authorization and deduction form as provided in Section 9.02.
9.02	(a) The Employer will deduct the authorized Union dues and assessments from the third pay
received in each month of each employee from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form in the following form:
Date...........19....
"Effective as of this date, I hereby authorize Goodyear Canada Inc. to deduct from wages due me, current monthly Union dues and any unpaid regular monthly dues, initiation fee, rejoining fee (ifrnyvland general assessment which are established by Local Union 834L and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Agreement, the amount of which deductions shall have been notified by the Union to the Employer from time to time. Said dues to be remitted by the Employerto the U.S.W.A. This assignment and authorization shall be irrevocable in accordance vdth the provisions of Article 9 of the Collective Agreement between the Union and the Employer and I acknowledge that I understand the provisions cf Article 9 thereof.
Signature
Street Address..............................
Town.................... TelephoneNumber...........................
Clock Card Number.......	Department Number.
(b)	If there are insufficient monies in the third pay in any calendar month to enable the Employer to deduct all of the Union dues for such month, the deduction shall be made firm the next succeeding pay to which the employee is entitled.
(c)	All authorizations for Union dues are to be executed in triplicate by the employee concerned.
One	copy is to be retained by the employee who executed the authorization, one copy is to
be given	to the Treasurer of Local 834L, and the third copy is to be retained by the Employer.
9.03	The Employer, when remitting to the Treasurer of Local 834L the Union dues deducted as herein provided, will furnish the Union with a list of the names and clock card numbers of employees, classified as follows:
(1)
Employees from whose pay deductions have been made, and the amount of such deductions.
(2)
Employees from whose pay no deductions have been made, and the reason therefore.
(3)
Employees who are no longer employees of the Employer.
(4)
A completed check-off certification form supplied by the Union.
9.04	The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed ty the execution of a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Agreement.
9.05	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any claims, suits, judgements,
attachments and firm any other form of liability as a result of the Employer making any deductions	in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will
make	refunds directly to all employees from whom a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVE________AM ARBITRATION____________:EDI
10.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the employee and the Employer shall be dealt with as provided hereunder.
10.02	An employee who has a complaint may discuss it either personally or through the intervention of his/her steward with his/her immediate supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the Grievance Procedure.
Step I
The grievance may be discussed fcy the steward and/or a Union representative with the supervisor of the department in which the grievance originated. A verbal decision will be rendered by the Supervisorwithin a period of one day, if possible.
Step n
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 1 of this procedure, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and may be discussed by the Steward and/or a Union representative with the Production Manager/Business Centre Manager and the Industrial Relations Manager of the Emrdnve'- within a ^riod of not more than five normal working days following a decision at
24
Step 1, A decision will be rendered in writing by these parties within a period of three normal working days if possible.
Step in
If no satisfactory solution is reached at StepII ofthis procedure,	thegrievancemaybediscussed
by the Bargaining Committee of the Union and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose, including the Industrial Relations Manager, within a period of not more than five normal working days following a decision at StepII ofthis procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Industrial Relations Manager to the President of the Union not later than five normal working days following the commencement of the discussion in StepIH if possible.
Step IV
If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step HI of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the Union and a representative of the International Utim and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose, including the Plant Manager, provided that, within a period of not more than five normal working days after receipt by the Union of the decision in Step III, it notifies the Employer of its desire to proceed to Step IV.
Such meeting will be held within ten normal working days. The Plant Manager or his/her designated representative shall render his/her decision within five normal working days from date of this meeting.
Step V
If the grievance has not been settled at Step IV and if the grievance is one which concerns-the application, administration .interpretation or an alleged violation of the Agreement, either party may refer such grievance to a Board of Arbitration by deliveringto the other party in writing within thirty-five days of the receipt of the decision in Step 1V a statement of intention to refer the grievance to a Board of Arbitration.
NOTE:	Wherever working days is referred to in Article 10 it refers to the employee's
normal work schedule.
10.04	It is agreed that the aggrieved employee shall be ± liberty and may be required by either party to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	(1) In all cases of arbitration a single arbitrator will be substituted for a Board of Arbitration
provided	for in this Article 10 unless the Union and Employer mutually agree to proceed by means
of a	Board of Arbitration.
(2)
subsection
In all cases of substitution of a single arbitrator for a Board of Arbitration as outlined in
(1)	of Section 10.05 all other applicable provisions of Article 10 will continue to apply so far as they are relevant.
25
10.06	Each party will, with five normal working days of the notice referred to in Step V, nominate a person to represent it on the Board of Arbitration and notify the other party of the name of such person; the two persons so nominated will forthwith appoint a third person to act as Chairman of the Board of Arbitration. If they are unable to agree upon a Chairman within 48 hours after receipt of notice of their appointment they will jointly request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint a Chairman.
10.07	Such Chairman, together with the two nominees above, shall constitute the Board of Arbitration, and
they	shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch. The decision of
the majority of the Board made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employee or employees concerned.
10.08	Each ofthe parties will bear the expense of the arbitrator nominated by it; the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman of the Board.
10.09	The Board of Arbitration shall, wherever possible, render its decision within thirty days of the conclusion - of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of the Board to render its decision within. the
time limit specified shall not deprive it ofjurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
10.10	The Board of Arbitration shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this
Collective Agreement or to substitute any	new provisions for any existing provisions or to give
any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Agreement.
10.11	Any or ail of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement in writing.
DISCHARGE CASES
10.12	An employee with seniority who claims to have been discharged or suspended unjustly may file a claim in writing with the Industrial Relations Manager within five normal working days of ceasing to work, stating that he/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
10.13	All such cases shall be handled at Step HI of the grievance procedure within three normal working days of the receipt of the claim from the employee who has been discharged or suspended, if no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of Steps III and IV of the grievance procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
10.14	If it is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or suspended he/she shall be reinstated, and he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.15	The Board of Arbitration shall have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify such action, and shall have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the employee is to receive for the period of his/her discharge or suspension if he/she is subsequently
26
reinstated.
In calculating the amount of pay the employee is to receive if reinstated, the Board of Arbitration shall deduct therefrom any monies earned by the employee from other employment and any Unemployment insurance benefits received by the employee during the period of	his/her suspension or dischaige
and retained by him/her.
10.16	(1) An employee will be given a copy of any notation concerning his/her misconduct orinefficiency
at the time it is placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded ' to the President of the Union by the Industrial Relations Manager of the Employer.
(2)	Notations not repeated within a one year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
(3)	Notations repotting offenses involving violation of the no-strike provisions in the Agreement not repeated within a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01 The Employer agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and other Union business or affairs on the bulletin board in the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed, however, that such notices shall be subject to approval by the Industrial Relations Manager.
11.CE A Bargaining Committee consisting of four members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the	Employer, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the Union, in a manner
determined	by the Union. The Employer shall be informed by the Union, in writing, of the personnel of the
Committee and of any changes which may occur frcmtime to time.
11.03 The Union shall have the right to select a minimum of two stewards per shift and one steward for the Mechanical Service Section, however, there shall not be more than one steward for every ten employees on the Seniority List.
A list of stewards shall be submitted to the Employer in writing by the local Union before the Employer is required to recognize such appointments.
27
11.04	Any notice to be given by one party to the other shall be addressed as follows:
To the Union:	President, Local 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
To the Company:	Manager, Industrial Relations,
Goodyear Canada Inc.,
Mountain Road,
Collingwood. Ontario.
11.05	No person who is not included in the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit; however, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new employees, supervision or salaried trainees or the handling of emergency situations.
11 06	(1) It is the renewed and continuing intent of the Company to work with the Union and with the
United Steelworkers of America, to provide a safe and healthy working environment at the Collingwood Plant.
We commit to meet with the Health & Safety Committee to review any safety concerns and to implement measures to prevent future accidents/injuries.
(2) The Employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect employees from injury and sickness. The Union agrees to oo-cperate with the Employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
(3)	A Plant Health & Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than four members representing the Employer and not more than four members representing local Onion. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
(4)	The committee shall meet not less than once per month in order to discuss safety problems. The Committee's function will include a monthly tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee Will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verily that adopted recommendations are being complied with.
(5j The Committee will be provided, upon request, with known information on toxic materials being used in the plant operations. Employees using toxic materials should be familiarized with safe handling of same.
(6)
One comr
'ember representing the Employer and one member representing the local
28
11.07
12.01
12.02
12.03
Union shall be advised as soon as possible following any serious injury in the plant for the purpose of investigation of the accident and to help determine the cause of injury and suggest preventive measures.
(7) Each employee shall use reasonable care forthe cleanlinessof his machine and the immediate working area.
The letters cf Understandingnumber 1 through 28, the Interim Wage Increase provisions, the Continuous Operation Agreement and the Compressed Work Schedule, the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, the Health and Life Insurance Agreement and the letters of understanding numbered 1 through 8, and the understanding of the: Dental Plan are attached hereto, and form part of this agreement.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COXLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement and the Health and Life Insurance Agreement, this Collective Agreement constitutes the entire one between the Employer and the Union; it shall remain in force from the 26th day of April, 1998 to the 26th day of April 2002, and thereafter firm year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months or more than three months prior to the anniversary date.
If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, this Collective Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
If either party gives to the other a notice of proposais for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If na agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight of April 26,2002, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Collective Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year less one day until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 74 of the Labour Relations Act, 1992 has been completed.
IN WITNES^WHEREOF THE PARTIES hereto have executed this Agreement this -&L day of. tSAfl ^	1999
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA COLLINGWOOD FACTORY LOCAL UNION 834L
J. Thompson
J. Chamelot, Int. Rep
30
L. Loughran
D. Ward
J. Chamelot, Int. Rep.
APPENDIX "A"
Attached to and forming ia± of the Col lecti ve Labour Agreement between Goodyear Canada Inc., Collingwood Factory, Collingwood, (Mario and the United Steelworkers of America terminating on April 26,2002.
Effective April 26/98
Department	Job Classification	
STORES	Storeman/woman	14.38
SHIPPING	Shipping& Warehouse Pool	14.38
	Receiving and/or Shipping Clerk	14,38
CEMENT HOUSE	Cement House	14.18
SLITTER	Friction Slitter	14.18
PLASTIC EXTRUDER	Operator	14.48
TUBER	Operator (one madwoman operation)	14.68
	Operator (two man/woman operation)	14.38
	2nd Man/Woman	14.13
CROSSHEADS	#1 X-head operator (two madwoman operation) operating with in-line cutter on X-heads larger than 4"	14.93
	#2 X-head operator (one madwoman operation) operating with automatic wind-up on X-heads larger than 4"	15.08
31
#2 X-head operator (two madwoman operation)	14.83
X-heads larger than4"
#4 X-head operator (one madwoman operation)	14.83
operating with automatic wind-up on X-heads 4" or smaller
#4 X-head operator (two madwoman operation)	14.58
(two madwoman operation)
X-heads 4" or smaller
CROSSHEADS	X-head Relief Operator	14.38
Service (Tuber & X-heads)	14.23
Stockman/woman	14.23
2ndMan/woman	14.13
Reclaim Uncured Hose	13.93
TEXTILE SPIRAL/	Operator
TEXTILE BARRIER LINE	Cord Rewind
DIV. "A" WRAPPER	Operator	14.38
CURVED RAD	Cure Operator	14.48
	Synchronous Manufacturing	14.48
	Cure Service	14.23
	Wink Cutter Operator	14.18
	Inspect & Pack	14.13
	Pack Service Sub Assembly	14.13
	Trim & Cure Relief	14.13
	Utility	14.13
	Trim Saws non-relief	14.03
BLOW OUTS	Mandrel Blow Out	14.18
FINAL END	Reel-O-matic operator	14.23
	Coil, cut& Couple	14.13
	Foster Allen Cutter	14.13
	Mandrel Prep	14.13
	Service	14.13
	Clean & Print	14.03
OPEN SEAM CURE/REEL	Cure & Reel	14.23
32
BLOW/REEL	Operator	14.28
VERTICAL & WARDWELL		
BRAIDERS	Operator	14.33
KNITTERS	Operator	14.18
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS/ Operator		14.38
WIRE WINDERS	Wire Winders	14.38
LABOUR POOL	Labour Pool	11.49
(1)	Rates effective April 26, 1998 include all previous C.O.L. A. increases as well asSl.OO general increase.
(2)	These rates will be increased as follows:
Effective April 25,1999	40 cents general wage increase
Effective April 30, 2000	25 cents general wage increase
Effective April 29,2001	25 cents general wage increase
As agreed during negotiations, 27 cents is to be withheld from C.O.L.A. (Interim Wage) increases; 14 cents will be withheld in the first year of the agreement and 13 cents will be withheld in the second year.
Unrecovered C.O.L. A. monies will be carried into the next years of the contract.
All other C.O.L. A increases generated through the lifetime of this agreement will be added to these rates as they take effect.
Ail Lead Hands selected by the Employer in the Ksa Manufacturing Section will receive 200 per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Labour Trainer or Team Leader Rate).
All Labour Trainers selected by the Employer in the Hose Manufacturing Section will when training receive 300 per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Team Leader Rats).
All Team Leaders selected by the Employer in the Hose Manufacturing Section will receive 750 per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Labour Trainer Rate).
New employees in the Hose Manufacturing Section will be hired at a rate of SI 1.49 per hour, and will be paid that rate for the first 4 months of active employment. Beginning the fifth (5^ month, and continuing through the twelfth (12") month of employment, such employees will be paid at a rate of $12.50 per hour. These rates will be increased by the amounts of any future General Wage Increase and/or Cost of Living Adj ustments during the life of this agreement.
Effective April 26/98
MECHANICAL	With	Without
. ... _ _ . N	Ticket	Ticket-
Electrician	18.38	15.58
Other Trades	18.23	15,43
Lubricate & Oil		14.88
All Lead Hands selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will receive 200 per hour above the maximum rate of their trade. (Rate does not apply to Labour Trainer or Team Leader rates).
All Labour Trainers selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will when training receive 300 per hour above the maximum rate in their department. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Team Leader rates)
All Team Leaders selected by the Employer in the Mechanical Service Section will receive 750 per hour above the maximum rate in their depariment. (Rate does not apply to Lead Hand or Labour Trainer rates)
Effective
STARTING RATES	April 26/98
MECHANICAL	With	Without
SERVICE SECTION	Ticket	Ticket
Electrician	17.49	14.74
Other Trades	17.34	14.59
Students		13.09
An employee will progress from the hiring-in-rate by 100 per hour eacn nmth, based on ment util the employee reaches the maximum rate for his/her job or until qualified whichever comes first.
(3)	Rates effective April 26, 1998 include S1.00 general increase, 250 skilled trades ticket premium and previous C.O.L. A. payments.	
(4)	These will be increased as follows:	
	Effective April 25, 1999	40 cents general wage increase 25 cents skilled trades ticket premium
	EffectiveApril 30, 2000	25 cents general wage increase
34
25 cents skilled trades ticket premium
Effective April 29, 2001	25 cents general wage increase
25 cents skilled trades ticket premium
Unrecovered C.O.L. A. monies will be carried into the next year of the contract.
All other C.O.L. A. increases generated through the lifetime of this agreement will be added to these rates as they take effect.
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and re-calculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986: 100)and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement:
(a)	“The base for calculation”- the averageC.P.I. for the months of February 1998, March 1998 and April 1998.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following July 15, 1998. It will reflect one cent (11) per hour for each full .096 paints that the average C.P, I. for the months of April 1998, May 1998, and June 1998 exceeds the base for calculation less the 14 cents carved out of the C.O.L. A. payments, based on 1998 negotiations.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period followingOct. 15,1998. It will reflect one cent(l^) per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I. for the months of July 1998, August 1998, and Sept.1998 exceeds the base for calculation less the 14 cents carved out of the C.O.L. A. payments, based on 1998 negotiations.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Jan. 15, 1999.
It will reflect one cent (10)	per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. for
the	months of Oct. 1998, Nov. 1998, and Dec. 1998, exceeds the base for
calculation less the
14 cents carved out of the C.O.L. A. payments, based on 1998 negotiations.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15,1999. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I. for
the months of Jan. 1999, Feb. 1999, and March 1999, exceeds the base for calculation less the 14 cents carved out of the C.O.L.A. payments, based on 1998 negotiations.
35
Any portion of the 14 cents of C.O.L.A. payment not recovered in the first year of the agreement, will be carried over to the next year and/or subsequent years.
3.	Second Year of Agreement:
(a)	"The base for calculation" ■ the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1999,
March 1999, and April 1999.
Any portion of the 13 cents of C.O.L.A. payment not recovered in the second year ofthe agreement will be carried over to the next year and/or subsequent years.
(by The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following July 15,
1999.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of April 1999, May 1999 and June 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Oct. 15,
1999.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P,I, for the months of July 1999, Aug. 1999 and Sept. 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following Jan. 15,
1999.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I, for the months of Oct. 1999, Nov. 1999 and Dec. 1999 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15,
2000.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of Jan. 2000, Feb. 2000 and fcfer.2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of Agreement:
(a)	'The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2000,
March 2000, and April 2000.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period followingJuly 15,
2000.	It will reflect one cent (le)per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I. for the months of April 2000, May 2000 and June 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be Calculated and paid as of the pay period following October 15,
2000.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of July 2000, August 2000 and Sept. 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
ij-j A third adjustment wiii be caicuiated and paid as of the pay period following January 15,
36
(e)
2001,	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.t. for the months of Oct. 2000, Nov. 2000 and Dec. 2000 exceeds the base for calculation.
A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15,2001. It will reflect one cent(10) per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I. forthe months of Jan. 2001, Feb. 2001 and March 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
Fourth Year of Agreement: (a)
"The base for calculation" • the average C.P.I. forthe months of February 2001, March 2001 and April 2001.
(5) The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following July 15,
2001.	It will refleetonecent(l0) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. forthe months of April 2001, May 2001 and June 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following October 15,
2001.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. forthe months of July 2001, Aug. 2001 and Sept. 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period following January 15,
2002.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the averageC.P.I. forthe months of Oct. 2001, Nov. 2001 and Dec. 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be Calculated and paid as of the pay period following April 15,
2002.	It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .096 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of Jan. 2002, Feb. 2002 and March 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
6.	The interim increase will be considered as earnings and will be included with other wage payments on the employee's time card.
7.	in the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustments to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the
first pay period following receipt of the index.
8.	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
9.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer's Price Index calculated on the same basis and m the rame form as that published for February, 1998.
37
10.	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second, third and fourth years of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the third and fourth years of the Agreement, and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the fourth year of the Agreement.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULE - 12 HOUR SHIFTS
This letter sets out the conditions under which the parties agree to implement a Compressed Work Schedule with twelve( 12) hour shifts for all employees at the Collingwood Plant.
For the purpose of this Agreement, the Compressed Work Schedule is defined as the re-arrangement of working time that both reduces the number of days and increases the number of hours worked per day.
In view of the potential impact on the employees and operations and in order to attain equitable and effective practices for initiai transition to the scheduling of operations onto the 6 2/3 day schedule, ajoint committee nTade up of the bargaining committee of Local 834L and the Employer will be established The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relation to the implementation of the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a nrininun notification of 1 month prior to the scheduling of the 6-2/3 day schedule.
The Employer undertakes to assure the continuation of the schedule for a minimum period of three months. It is understood however, that this will not prevent the Employer from adjusting manning counts to maintain an efficient operation.
Anyone removed from the 6-2/3 schedule due to the manning count adjustments will not be reassigned to such schedule until a further 30 day notice period has been observed, unless the employee agrees to waive the notice period.
38
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month prior to the discontinuation of the 6-2/3 day schedule whenever possible. It is understood that in some situations advance notice will not be possible.
In the event the Compressed Work Schedule is terminated, the 6-2/3 day, Four (4) Crew Work Schedule will be implemented in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement. However, if the Committee mutually agrees upon a different 6-2/3 Day, Four (4) Crew Work Schedule it may be adopted in place of the 6 2/3 Day, Four (4) Crew Work Schedule in the Collective Labour Agreement.
AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to ail employees who are scheduled on the Compressed Work Schedule, with the following exceptions:
ARTICLE 4 - Hours of Work
In reference to Section4,01, as per Appendix "A" for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, the regular weekly schedule is an average of forty (40) hours, based on a thirty-two (32) hour and forty-eight (48) hour rotation, within a period from 8:00 a.m. Sunday to 8:00 am. Sunday. (In any week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary.)
OVERTIME HOURS
in reference to Section4.02, "Overtime Work" means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular eight (8) hour or twelve (12) hour shift schedule.
ARTICLE 5- Rates of Pay
In reference to Section 5.03, all overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half, except the period from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday, when double time will be paid.
SHIFT PREMIUM
In reference to Section 5.08, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, shift premium payment shall be granted as follows:
For all hours worked between 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. • S.35 per hour.
For all hours worked between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. - S.40 per hour.
39
JURY DUTY
In reference to Section 5.10, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee who is required to serve on ajury or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her average hourly earnings for time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift of twelve (12) hours by reason of such service.
BEREAVEMENT
In reference to Section 5.11, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, an employee will be compensated at his/her average hourly earnings for time lost by him/her upon his/her regular work schedule by reason of such absence, for a maximum of thirty-six (36) hours for each such death or funeral for bereavement as referred to in Paragraph 1 of Article 5.11.
All other claims for bereavement will be compensated as referred to in Paragraph 2 of Article 5.11 ARTICLE 6- Job Postings
In reference to Section 6.21, when an operation(s) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operation on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
ARTICLE 7 -Designated Holidays
In reference to Section 7.01, for employees on the Compressed Work Schedule, a holiday is deemed to be for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 12:00 am. on the day immediately prior to the holiday to 12:00 a.m. the day of the holiday, except Good Friday, which will be observed for a twenty-four (24)hour period from 8:00 a.m. the day of the holiday to 8:00 a.m. the day following the holiday.
In reference to Section 7,02, subject to other provisions of this Article 7, an employee will be paid an amount equal to 12 hours at a straight time rate of pay if the holiday occurs on his or her regularly scheduled work day. If the holiday occurs on a regularly scheduled day off, the employee will be paid an amount equal to 8 hours at a straight time rate of pay except for Statutory holidays in which case the employee would be paid an amount equal to 12 hours at a straight time rate of pay.
ARTICLE 8 - Vacations
For vacation purposes, the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 8:00 a.m. Sunday.
One Day At A Time Vacations
1 Employees working on a 12 hour shift schedule with three (3 )or more weeks of vacation may
exercise the option of taking one (1) week of vacation one day at a time. The first day requested, if granted, will determine if the week is a 32, 36, or 48 hour week.
40
a. Payment to be made when the full week (32, 36, or 48 hour) is used. Employees who exercise the
option to taking the 3fd week of vacation one day at a time, and do not take all days prior to December 1st of the current year, will be paid pay-in-lieu at the end of the first pay period of December.
3.	The scheduling of a vacation one or two days at a time must be approved by the Business Centre Manager, and not in conflict with production requirements, and be requested at least 10 days in advance. The advance requirement may be waived at management discretion, based on circumstances.
4.	Vacation day(s) granted or denied will be indicated on a form and a copy will be given to the employee. Vacations booked for a full week will take priority over vacations requested one (1) day at a time.
ABSENTEE REPLACEMENT
OVERTIME POLICY
it is not the policy of the Company to schedule an employee to work for more than twelve (l 2) consecutive hours at one time, except in emergency situations.
OVERTIME COVERAGE
As the implementation of the Compressed Work Schedule may present problems in filling vacancies caused by absences and other operating requirements, it is, therefore, necessary to establish a procedure so that employees who are scheduled off will be available to work overtime.
Overtime record of all employees who are available to work overtime, will continue to be maintained and overtime will be allocated and distributed based on departmental practices.
However, if the number of qualified employees, who have so made themselves available for overtime coverage, is not sufficientto ensure adequate coverage, a joint committee will meet to review the problem and agree to an alternate procedure.
If there continues to be a problem with providing adequate overtime coverage, the Company will designate employees to be available for overtime coverage on their scheduled days off or terminate the schedule based on the terms of this Agreement.
ADVANCE NOTICE:
41
When an employee has reason to be absent on his/her next regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
RELIEF:
An employee, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift will remain on the job until other provisions can be made, but limited to a two (2) hour period, while alternate arrangements are made.
12 HOUR SHIFTS
D • Day Shift	8:00 a.m. to	8:00 p.m.
N - Night Shift	8:00 p.m. to	8:00 a.m.
(A) - Afternoon Shift 4.00 p.m. to	12:00 a.m.
(N) • Night Shift	12:00 a.m. to	8:00 a.m.
EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF: 2-2, 3-2, 2-3 Rotation
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
CREW NO. 1	(Ni	DD	DD	D D (A)	NN	NN	NN
CREWNO.2	(A)	NN	NN	NN(N)	DD	DD	DD
CREW NO.3	DD	DD	(A)	DD NN		NN(N)	NN
42
CREWN0.4 NN NN (N) NN
D D D D (A) D D
CREW PREMIUMS 41- S.90 per hour worked #2 - $.90 per hour worked #3 - S.90 per hour worked #4 * S.90 per hour worked
APPENDIX TO COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 6 2/3 DAY. FOUR 141 CREW WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 26lb day of April, 1998 between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect to ail employees at Collingwood located at 101 Mountain Road, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and Local Union 834L of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
It is understood and agreed that in orderto make full use of the Collingwood Plant, the Employer may schedule any operation(s), as required on a 6 2/3 day, four (4) crew schedule, as per Attachment A.
When it becomes necessary for the Employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operations on the 6 2/3 day work schedule a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each employee to work a regular schedule of forty hours per week.
in order to attain equitable and affective practices for initial transition to the scheduling of operations on tq the 6 2'3 day schedule, ajoint committee made up of Bargaining Units of the Local Union and the Employer will be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and io attempt to resolve problems as they arise in relation to the implementation of the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
43
ATTACHMENT A
THE 6 2/3 DAY. FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE
D-DAY SHIFT A - AFTERNOON SHIFT N - NIGHT SHIFT 28 DAY CYCLE SHIFT ROTATION: DAYS - NIGHTS - AFTERNOONS EMPLOYEES WORKS-OFF: 7-1, 3-1, 3-2, 7-4
MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFSS MTWTFS S CREW NO. 1 DDD NNNNNNN	A A A A A A A DDD
CREW NO.2 A A DDD DDD NNNNNNN	AAA A. A
CREWNO.3	A A A A AAA DDD DDD NNNNNNN
CREW NO.4
NNNNN
AAAAAAA DDD DDD NN
44
CREW PREMIUMS:	#1 - S.90 per hour worked
K2 • $.90 per hour worked #3 - $.90 per hour worked #4 • $.90 per hour worked
OVERTIME PROVISIONS:
1st Scheduled day off time and one-half 2nd Scheduled day of double time 3rd scheduled day off time and one-half 4th Scheduled day off double time
ATTACHMENT A (cont'd)
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month prior to the scheduling of the 6-2/3 day schedule.
The Employer undertakes to assure the continuation of the schedule for a minimum period of three months. It is understood however, that this will not prevent the Employer from adjusting manning counts to maintain an efficient operation.
Anyone removed from the 6-2/3 schedule due to the manning count adjustments will not be reassigned to such schedule until a further 30 day notice period has been observed, unless the employee agrees to waive the notice period.
The Employer undertakes to provide the Local Union with a minimum notification of 1 month prior to the discontinuation of the 6-2/3 day schedule whenever possible. It is understood that in some situations advance notice will not be possible.
The terms and conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 6 2/3 day work schedule with the following exceptions:
1,	In reference to Section 4.01, as per Attachment A for employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the regular weekly schedule is a five day, 40 hour week within a period from the start of the night shift
45
Monday to the end of the afternoon shift Sunday.
2.	The provision under Section 5.03 will not apply to employees on the 6 2/3 day work schedule.
3.	in reference to Section 6.21, when a new operation(s) vacancy occurs in a section or on an operation on the 6 2/3 day work schedule, the vacancy will be posted in the section for seventy-two hours (exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
LETTER#!
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
During recent negotiations, both the Union and the Company have agreed that the following disciplinary procedure constitutes a very important step in the control and eventual eradication of drug-related problems in our plant, and that this action is taken in the best possible interest of all concerned.
The following are considered to be serious breaches of Plant Rules and Regulations, and offenders will be subject to discipline up to and including dismissal.
46
Reporting to work or being at work:
1) impaired by drugs.
21 Taking into the body (by whatever means i.e. orally, injection, sniffing, rubbing, etc.) any drug that might impair one's ability to perform his/her duties and create a hazard to others.
3) Possessing drugs on Company premises, specifically drugs prohibited under the Narcotic Control Act for schedules "0" and "H" of the Food and Drug Act.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #2
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President.
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America. Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
As we understood in recent negotiations, employees required by the Employer to perform any of following
47
operations will be allowed to take a twenty minute period, prior to the end of their regular shift, in order to wash up. These operations are: clean out bag house, clean out water tanks, clean out curve rad pits, horizontal braiders overhaul, when stripping decks is required.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
LETTER #3
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood. Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning operations previously performed by the Mechanical Service Section.
1) The followingjobs are the responsibility of the machine operators:
48
CROSSHEADS:	Change Ferris belts;
Change in-line cutter knives.
VERTICAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes (all); Tension changes; Camer
changes; (broken and changeover).
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS: Gearchanges (all); Tension changes;
Camer changes, spring changes (broken).
KNITTERS:	Needle changes; Gear changes.
WIRE WINDERS:	Beaks; Tension checks; Speed changes.
PRINTER & CUTTERS:	Ferris belts; Change blades if necessary.
CURVE RAD:	Team Leader and Utility to change saw
blades; Mandrels on and off.
TEXTILE SPIRAL:	Ferris -belts; Change cutter blades.
2)	The following jobs are the responsibility of the Mechanical Service
Section employees:
TUBERS:	Change or adjust scraper plates and feed
rollers.
CROSSHEADS:	Change or adjust scraper plates and feed
rollers.
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS: Complete changeovers.
Yours very truly,
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman, industrial Relations Manager.
49
LETTER #4
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America.
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following is an understanding reached between the Union and the Company at recent negotiations concerning operations previously done by Mechanical Service Section employees which are now being performed by Hose Manufacturing employees.
If during the term of this agreement the number of employees in the Mechanical Service Section drops to
50
seventeen (17), the following operations will be returned to the Mechanical Service Section. For this provision only, electricians shall not be included.
VERTICAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes, if puller required;
complete changeovers.
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS:	Gear changes, if puller required.
WIRE WINDERS:	Tension checks.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industria] Relations Manager.
LETTER #5
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following will confirm the Company policy with respect to the scheduling of vacations:
51
While it remains that the scheduling of vacations is subject to approval by the Employer, the opportunity to schedule vacation will first be given to the employee with the most factory seniority, in the department concerned, and will cam, on from there in declining order of seniority.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman, industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #6
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America. Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
52
During recent negotiations the Company has undertaken the following pertaining to a plant vacation shutdown:
If the Company decision is to schedule a two week plant vacation shutdown, it will be scheduled during the months of July or August and such decision would be communicated to the employees prior to February 14 of the year whenever possible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman, ndustrial Relations Manager.
LETTER#7
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26,1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
53
This will confirm the Company policy with respect to employees who are absent from work by reason of illness and are accumulating seniority under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement.
The Company will establish a system wherein it will notify such employees and the secretary of the Local Union 834L at least thirty days in advance of the date on which the accumulation of seniority expires. This does not relieve the employee of the responsibility of making application for any benefits to which he/she is entitled under the terms of the various Agreements between the Company and the Union and which benefits are dependent upon the employee accumulating seniority in order to qualify for a benefit.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER#8
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26,1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
54
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.05 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together vdth. his/her prior credited service and seniority as long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADAJNC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER#9
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
55
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning the status of students employed during the school vacation period. It will be understood that those students hired to perform and actually performing work normally carried out by members of the Bargaining Unit will be considered to be "employees" solely for the application of Article 9 of the present Collective Labour Agreement.
Should the student subsequently submit a successful application for permanent employment, it will also be understood he/she would be hired as a new employee and would have to successfully complete his/her probationary period, as outlined in Article 2.01 (d) of the C.L.A. and eligibility for benefits as outlined in Section 3, paragraph 2 of Health and Life insurance Agreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #10
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
56
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union in the course of recent negotiations concerning amendments to Company policy on Safety Shoes.
Effective April 26,1998 employees will be entitled to reimbursement of the purchase cost of safety shoes, limited to a maximum yearly allowance of S90.
Allowance will be paid only upon presentation of proof of purchase.
Allowance will not be paid to employees to whom safety footwear is provided by the Company.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger.
LETTER #11
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President.
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
57
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the purchase and usage of coveralls.
The Company agrees to supply and launder coveralls for employees in the Engineering Division, Stores and Cement House.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADAJNC.
David P. Allman, industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #12
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario. Dear Sir:
58
During the course of these recent negotiations, it was brought to the Company's attention that, in spite of assurance to the contrary given by various Company officials, several employees continue to believe that they are being taxed at a greater rate whenever they happen to have a vacation pay included with their regular weekly pay on the same pay cheque. As we promised, we have verified with our people in the Computer Systems department, and they have assured us that the payroll system is set up in a such a way that any vacation card going through will automatically trigger an adjustment, to ensure that the employee is not taxed based on a higher tax bracket simply because his/her vacation pay has been added to his/her regular pay. We certainly hope this explanation is satisfactory.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager
LETTER #13
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L.
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
As discussed during recent negotiations, the following Memorandum of Understanding concerning transfers to the Mechanical Service Section will be applicable in the event that an employee is transferred to the Mechanical Service Section when he/she is not fully qualified.
In accordance with Section6.21 ofthe Collective labour Agreement an employee may transfer to the Mechanical Service Section only if he/she is qualified for ajob on which vacancy exists in that section.
The following is the outline of transfer procedures that will be followed when it is deemed feasible by the company to consider transfer requests to an operation in the Mechanical Service Section by employees who are not qualified at that time. This procedure does not alter the existing intent and understanding outlined in Section 6,21 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman.
Industrial Relations Manager.
1.	fin employee who wishes to be considered for transfer tojob vacancy in the Mechanical Service Section and who is not qualified at that time may file a written request with the Industrial Relations Department in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.21.
2.	If the decision is made by the Company to fill a vacancy in the Mechanical Service Section from within and no fully qualified employee has requested such a transfer, then selection will be made from transfers on file in accordance vafh.paragraph (1) of Section 6,21 based on ability and previous experience as the prime criteria. If these factors are equal among the applicants, then the employee who has the greatest factory seniority will be given the first consideration.
3.	The applicant must agree to participate and complete a skilled trades Apprenticeship Program established
ty the company with the Ministry of	Colleges and Universities before the transfer will be
honoured.
4.	If the employee should fail to qualify or it is indicated that he/she will be unable to qualify during the
60
apprenticeship program period, he/she will displace the employee with the least seniority in the unclassified group in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 6.21.
5.	Should a lav-off occur in the Mechanical Service Section at a time when unqualified employees are assignedto the operation affected, the unqualified employee will be laid off from the section before any fully qualified employee is affected.
6.	When an employee who has transferred in accordance with this memorandum has successfully completed
the Apprenticeship Program period, for seniority purposes with Mechanical Service Section, his/her section seniority will be counted as from the date of transfer to the	Apprenticeship Program and
in the event of lay-off from the Mechanical Service Section, Section seniority as determined above will apply.
7.	For all other purposes the employee who has transferred in accordance with this memorandum will retain his/her factory seniority.
8.	The maximum transfer rate will be the base rate of the operation from which the employee has transferred. The apprentice's rate will be reviewed every six months until the apprentice has successfully
completed the Apprenticeship Program, at which time he/she will receive the skilled trades rate.
This Memorandum of Understanding does not negate any of the provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement
but is a supplement to the Collective Labour Agreement when applicable.
LETTER #14
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 26. 1998,
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
61
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations outlining the policy on how
to handle overtime hours missed by an employee.
1.	The employee will notify their Supervisor they had been over looked in error when overtime was being distributed.
2.	If the Supervisor agrees, then the missed employee will advise the Supervisor of the days he/she is available to work overtime over the next five days to make up for the hours missed.
3.	If the employee advises his/her Supervisor he/she is unavailable to work overtime during the next five days, then the overtime hours will be deducted at this time from the employee's refused hours.
4.	-phg Company will not offer missed overtime hours more than three times over this five day period.
5.	If overtime hours missed are not made up within the five day period then the missed overtime hours will be reduced from the employee's refused hours.
6.	An employee who has been missed two times in any 8 month period will receive payment for overtime missed.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #15
GOODYEAR CANADA fNC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
62
President,
Local U nion 834L,
The U nited Steelw orkers of A m erica,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning the recording of overtime.
AH overtime hours either refused or accepted will be recorded for each employee. However, if an employee is requested to work overtime in less than a four hour period prior to the overtime being worked, these hours will not be recorded against the employee if they refuse.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #16
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1999
63
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations concerning the clarification of the term “qualification”,Article 2, Subsection 2.01 (e). An employee shall become qualified through filling in for vacation, sickness, relief or temporary assignments, provided the employee can perform all the functions of the operation in a capable manner. In the event of a lay off, these qualifications may only be used to prevent lay offffom the plant. To clarity the intent of this letter, qualified and “held’ are interchangeable for purposes of lay-offs.
No employee can gain qualification on ajob while employees are on lay off or on lay off notice fern thatjob.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #17
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L.
The United Steelworkers of America. Collingwood, Ontario.
64
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during the recent negotiations concerning Article
6.22.
The classified and unclassified jobs listed below may be changed from time to time, provided there is mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
DEPARTMENT	CLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED	
STORES	Storeman/woman	
SHIPPING	Shipping & Warehouse Pool Receiving &/or Shipping Clerk	
CEMENT HOUSE	Cement House	
SLITTER	Friction Slitter	
PLASTIC EXTRUDER	Operator	
TUBER	Operator 2nd man/woman	
CROSSHEADS	Operator 2nd man/woman Crosshead Relief Operator Stockman/woman Service	Reclaim Uncured Hose
TEXTILE SPIRAL/ TEXTILE BARRIER LINE	Operator	Cord rewind
DIV. "A" WRAPPER	Operator	
CURVED RAD	Cure Operator Cure Service Inspect & Pack Trim& Cure Relief Utility Wink Cutter Operator Synchronous Manufacturing	Pack Service Sub Assembly Trim Saws non-relief
BLOW-OUTS	Mandrel Blow Out	
65
FINAL, END	Foster Allen Cutter	Clean & Print
	Reel-o-matic Operator	Coil, Cut & Couple
	Service	Mandrel Prep
OPEN STEAM CURE/REEL	Cure & Reel	
BLOW/REEL	Operator	
VERTICALAVARDWELL BRAIDERS	Operator	
KNITTERS	Operator	
HORIZONTAL BRAIDERS/	Operator	
WIRE WINDERS	Wire Winders	
LABOUR POOL		Labour Pool
The Employer will decide the classification category for any newjobs that are added to the above list.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC
David P. Allman, industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #18
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
66
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America.
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the Company policy with respect to employees who are involved in a work runout prior to Section 6.24 coming into affect.
When a work runout occurs in the plant for one day only in a one week period the senior employee on the job and shift where the work runout occurred will remain onthejob and the least seniority employees will be sent home.
If a work runout occurs more then once in a one week period then the hours of work will be distributed amongst all the employees involved in the work runout as closely as is feasible.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #19
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
67
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations that:
An employee who is in receipt of Weekly Indemnity payments or an employee who is absent because of an occupational injury and is in receipt of Workers' Compensation payments will be credited with accumulated seniority up to the date of a lay-off solely for the purpose of determining his/her position in the order of lay-off or in the order of recall. For any and all other purposes, seniority accumulated during absence from work will only be credited upon return to active employment.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P, Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #20
April 26, 1998.
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
68
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The following is an understanding reached between the Company and the Union at recent negotiations regarding
Team Leaders:	.
1.	Effective May 2nd, 1991 Team Leaders will be appointed by the Company.
2.	Team Leaders will be appointed from within the Team unless mutually agreed.
3.	Rate of pay shall be as per Appendix "A"
4.	An employee who has been appointed as a Team Leader and is no longer required as, or is disqualified as a Team Leader will return to the previous job position they held prior to appointment as a Team Leader.
5.	If cutbacks occur resulting in layoff the employee will return to the job which he/she previously performed and will find his/her rightful position as outlined in Article 6, Section 6.12.
6.	If a Team Leader should leave a Team and the Team Leader's position needs to be filled, then the position will be filled in accordance with item'T'.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #21
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood. Ontario
L9Y3Z9
69
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding floating holidays as referred to in Section 7.02.
1.	Floating holidays will be scheduled to fall between Christmas and New Year's Day for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement.
2.	The floaters are fixed as agreed unless legislation during the duration of this Collective Agreement provides for additional designated holidays at which time we would mutually review any remaining floater.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #22
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario L9Y 3Z9
70
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding the possibility of a future plant closing as it relates to bargaining unit employees.
The Company agrees to notify the Local and International Union at least six months prior to the cessation of production operations.
Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of averting the closure.
If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, the Company and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman, industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #23
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
71
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer's intent to post the line-up by noon Thursday prior to the week to which the schedule pertains. It is understood however that from time to time revisions may be necessary.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager.
LETTER #24
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
72
April 26,'1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,	.
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm that the Company and Union mutually agreed to form a committee with representation from the Union, Management and medical advisors to formulate a policy and procedure for a modified work program. Said program to comply v\ith Worker's Compensation and employment equity requirements.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager
LETTER #25
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y3Z9
73
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America.
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer's intent to handle requests for evaluation in a timely fashion so as to provide a response to the Union within a 3-month period. It is understood however that in some instances it may not be possible to complete the evaluation in a 3-month period in which case the Employer will provide a status update on a regular basis.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manager
LETTER #26
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road. Collingwood, Ontario L9Y3Z9
74
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America,
Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
It is the Employer's intent to computerize the overtime distribution procedures to ensure consistent and equitable distribution of overtime as per Section 4.01 (2) of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Accessibility to these records will be limited to production management and the Industrial Relations Manager to ensure the integrity of these files.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger
LETTER #27
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
75
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local Union834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
The Employer agrees to provide payroll deductions to enable employees the possibility of participating in a Group R.R.S.P.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P. Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger
LETTER #28
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
101 Mountain Road, Collingwood, Ontario
L9Y 3Z9
76
April 26, 1998.
President,
Local 834L,
The United Steelworkers of America, Collingwood, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
RE: Miscellaneous Items - 1998 Agreement
During the course of our recent negotiations, the parties agreed to the following items.
1.	Retroactive payment will be made in a lump sum by separate cheque, upon employee(s) return to work. For employees hired before December 31,1997 the amount will be $600.00 per employee. For employees hired after January 1, 1998, the amount will be $300.00 per employee.
2.	Any employee(s) that was on the April 1998 seniority list, who may be laid off (or in the case of probationary employees, terminated) will hot be subject to the new hire-in rate provisions if recalled (or rehired) within one year.
j. Employees will be entitled to an annual clothing allowance of$40.00. Options eligible for reimbursement will be decided by ajoint committee before July 1, 1998.
4.	Thejob of Textile SpiraL/Barrier Line will become a classified job: however, employees who
previously held the Textile spiral job will be grand fathered for bumping purposes into the Barrier Linejob. They will be given up to seven (7) months to train and qualify, provided the employee meets the standards.	-
5.	In reference to Letter #24, a Committee will be formed to formulate a policy and procedure for a modified work program. The Committee will have representation from the Union, the Company and Medical Advisors.
6.	The Company will consider installation of a sound system for music in the cafeteria and locker rooms.
7.	The existing mutually agreed upon " Operating Philosophies" will be deleted from the Agreement. The parties will jointly create new plant operating philosophies.
8.	A copy of the following forms will be contained in the C.L.A.:
77
Shift Change Request -Forml-A-98 Attachment B Temporary Assignment - Form l-T-98 Attachment C
9.	The Company has the right to implement a full 7-day, 12 hour shift schedule for the entire plant.
Yours very truly, GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
David P: Allman,
Industrial Relations Manger
Form l-A-98
ATTACHMENT B
SHIFT CHANGE REQUEST