BETWEEN
QOODYE AR CANADA INC. BOWMANVILLE FACTORY
AND
LOCAL UNION 189 OF THE
UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AN&
PLASTIC WORKERSO F AMERICA
February20, i960 - February 19,1992
ARTICLE INDEX
PAGE
ARTICLE 1
Purpose .............................. 1
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation ....................... 1
ARTICLE 3
Scope Of Agreement .................... 4
ARTICLE 4
Hours 0 f Work ........................ 5
ARTICLE 5
Wage Rates ............................10
ARTICLE 6
Seniority .............................15
ARTICLE 7
Holidays And Vacations.................28
ARTICLE 8
Union Security ........................34
ARTICLE 9
Grievance And Arbitration Procedure .. 37 ARTICLE 10
Miscellaneous .....................    42
ARTICLE 11
Duration Of Collective Agreement ......44
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the 20 day of February 1989, between Goodyear Canada Inc., with respect to certain employees at its Bowmanville Factory, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and Local Union 189 of THE UNITED RUBBER, CORK, LINOLEUM AND PLASTIC \ACRKBRS OF AMERICA hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It i s the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	Both parties agree as to their desire to work in harmonious relationship and undertake that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restriction, coercion, harassment, intimidation, or stranger disciplinary action exercised or practiced with respect to an employee by reason of age, race, creed, colour, national origin, political or religious affiliation, sex, sexual orientation, or membership or activity in the Union.
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this Collective Labour Agreement and in its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and expressions will have	the meaning hereinafter given
to them:
(a)	"Employer" means Goodyear Canada Inc., Bowmanville Factory, Bowmanville, Ontario.
"employee" mean every unionized hourly worker.
(c)	"credited service" means the service of an employee with the Employer as it appears on his record maintained by the Employer i n conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement. The terms "credited service" and "continuous service" as used throughout this Collective Labour Agreement shall be synonymous.
- 1 -
The records of the employee shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an employee, a former employee, pensioner or application for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect:
(d)	factory seniority" means the status an employee acquires after he has worked for the Employer for an accumulated total of three months in a twenty-four month period, and shall be measured by the length of such service;
(e)	"seniority" means and includes factory seniority as defined m paragraph 2.01 (d);
(f)	"probationer" means an employee without seniority;
(g)	"probationary period" means the period of three cumulative months during which the probationer	actually
works for the Employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
(h)	"holidays" means and includes the following days
only:	New Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada
Day, Civic Holiday (except that in any year in which Civic Holiday falls during a plant vacation shutdown period the Monday following the vacation	shutdown
period will be observed as civic Holiday for all employees who are on vacation during that period), Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24, Christmas Day, December 26, December 31, one "Floating:	holiday
(date to be mutually agreed upon by April 1st of each year).
If an additional Statutory Holiday is proclaimed, such as Heritage Day, the Floating Holiday will be observed on the day of the Statutory Holiday.
The observation date of any of these holidays may be changed by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
(i)
"qualification" means the ability to perform his own job in a safe competent manner, and to produce
2
the normal standard of quantity and quality with acceptable attendance. To qualify, or qualified, shall have a like meaning.
‘^disqualification" shall have the opposite meaning of qualification".
Qualifications maybe reinstated by mutual consent after a one year period subject to review with appropriate training where necessary.
(j) "layoff" means the termination of work of one or more employees by the Employer for an indefinite period of time, caused by the decision of the Employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee
was engaged; "laid have a like meaning;	off" or "to	be laid off" shall
(k) "department" means	and includes	employees working
in the department a$	defined below:	
Millroom		2432, 2433, 2437
Conveyor & Special Products		2711, 2720, 2721
Lab		2102
Shipping & Receiving		2390, 2321
Engineering		2211
Porter Service		2026
Boiler Roam		2216
(l)	the term "average hourly earnings” shall be the average hourly earnings as computed weekly by the data processing equipment exclusive of all work runout situations, bonuses and premiums;
If no earnings are available for that week the employee's previous computed average hourly earnings shall be used.
(m)	the term "work week":
1) Five Day Schedule -
starts Sunday 11:00 P.M. finishes 11:00 P.M. the following Friday.
Continuous Weak Schedule -starts Saturday 7:00 P.M. finishes 7:00 P.M. the following Saturday.
- 3 -
2) the term "Pay Period" and Vacation Week"
Five Day Schedule -
■starts Sunday 11:0Q P.M., finishes
11:00 P.M. the following Sunday.
Continuous Work Schedule -starts Saturday 7!00 P,M.> finishes 7:00 P.M. the following Saturday.
All time sheets should be dated as to the actual date when the shift is complete, with the exception of the continuous work schedule sheets which should be dated as at the start of the shift.
5) the term "Statutory/Oasignatsd Floater Holiday"
Five Day Schedule
starts 11:00 P.M. the day prior to the holiday and finishes 11:.0Q P.M. the day of the holiday.
Continuous Schedule
starts 7:00 A.M. on the morning of the holiday and finishes 7:00 A.M. the day immediately following the holiday.
(n)	"certified" means that an employee knows all of the
tasks required to perform a job.
In the event an employee does not know all of the job tasks, training will be provided so that the employee will not lose their qualification.
Certification will not be used for bumping privileges.
2.02	In this Collective Labour Agreement, wherever the pronoun nhe«i appears it shall be construed as meaning any employee, male or female.
ARTICLE 3
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The term of the Collective Labour Agreement shall apply to all employees and the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for said employees for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement.
4
3.02	Nothing in this Collective Labour Agreement shall conflict with the Employer’s functions and responsibility to manage the factory and direct the working forces insofar as it is not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
3.03	The Employer agrees to meet with and bargain with representatives of the Union on matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions, as outlined in Article
9.
3.04	There shall he no lock-outs, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work unless and until ail methods of disposing of the grievances as outlined in Article 9 have been applied.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(1) The hou rs of work for employees will be scheduled
according to the following shift hours:
GENERAL FACTORY AND MAINTENANCE
(a)	Eight hour rotating shifts
Sunday 11:00 P.M. • Friday 11:00 P.M.
1st	Shift	-	11:00	P.M.	- 7:00	A.M.
2nd	Shift	-	7:00	A.M.	• 3:00	P.M.
3rd	Shift	-	3:00	P.M.	-11:00	P.M,
Twenty minutes for lunch with two - ten minute breaks (Paid).
(b)	Eight hour steady day shift Monday to Friday
Shift Hours
(1)	7:00 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.
Twenty minute lunch (paid)
(2)	7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M.
One hour for lunch (unpaid)
Ordinarily from 12:00 Noon to 1:00 P.M. except in cases of emergency.
(3)	7:45 A.M. - 4:30 P.M.
Covers Electronic Technicians
5
1,2,3, receives two - ten minute paid break periods.
FIRST. SECOND & THIRD CLASS STATIONERY ENGINEERS
Eight hour rotating continuous operation.
SHIFTS:	1st	11:00	P.M.	-	7:00	AM.
2nd	7:00	A.M.	-	3:00	P.M.
3rd	3:00	P.M.	-	11:00	P.M.
Twenty minutes for lunch with two - ten minute breaks (paid).
Average standard weekly working hour of forty-two necessitating days off changing from week to week.
Vacation week begins Saturday 11:00 P.M. and ends the following Saturday at 11:00 P.M. CONTINUOUS EIGHT HOUR WEEK SCHEDULE PREMIUMS
Time and one-half paid from Friday 11:00 P.M. to Saturday 11:00 P.M.
Double time paid from Saturday 11:00 P.M. to Sunday 11:00 P.M.
No 900 Premium.
OVERTIME PAYMENT
Time and one-half paid from 11:00 P.M. Sunday to Saturday 11:00 P.M.
Double tine - paid from 11:00P.M. Saturday to Sunday 11:00 P.M.
No premium payment will be paid for any work peformed by an engineer on a scheduled halfday or full day off when such work is performed between 7:00 AJUI. Saturday, but in other respects the overtime regulations will apply for those days.
(d) Shifts will normally rotate each week.
Above shift hours may temporarily be changed
6
by the Employer with the consent of the Chief Steward and employees involved.
4,02	"Overtime Work" means all time worked in excess of an employee's regular shift hours in any consecutive twenty-four hour period in a day or a regular number of shifts in a week as outlined in Section 4.01, but overtime work does not include:
(a)	time worked by employees exchanging shifts with one another at their own request;
(b)	the time spent on employee committee work or similar activity; however, such time will be considered part of an employee's regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular department work.
(c)	the changes of	shifts in	the middle	of the	week	which
might result	in more	than the	regular	daily	hours
being worked when such change i s caused by the application of the provisions of Article 6 affecting employees retained in preference to layoff;
(d)	the change of	shifts in the middle	of the	week	which
might result	in more	than the	regular	daily	hours
being worked when such change is caused by the application of the provisions of Subsections 5.05	(2) and
5.05	(3);
(e)	Wren an employee is asked to work between 12 Noon and 1:00 P.M. he will be given two options, I'ffie works, he will receive time and one half for the hour plus a meal ticket or the opportunity to take his lunch hour at a later time. This only applies to an employee who works the 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. shift and has been asked to work his lunch hour due t o an emergency.
4.0? An employee shall not have his regular working time reduced because he has done overtime work.
4.04	(A)	Whei overtime work becomes necessary, it shall be
distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the employees of the plant as follows:
- 7 -
(1)	Among	those	emplnyses on the	Job requiring
the overtime who are willing to work.
(2)	Aflinng those qualified errployaee on the same shift requiring the overtime. Where there s ace only one or two shifts working - the lowest overtime houred qualified employes in the department will be asked,
(3)	Among those qualified employees in the department v<ha are willing to work.
(4)	Among	those	qualified	employees	in the	factory
who are willing to work the required overtime,
(5)	Among	those	competent	employee's	in the depart-
ment who are willing to wor|<>
(6)	Airag	those	competent	employees	in the	factory
who are willing to work.
It is expected that all employees will co-operate when and nhere overtime work becomes necessary.
(8) For purposes of overtime only, qualified or competent shall have a like manning. If an employee who is not qualified but is competent enough to perforn the Job on his own and is presently working on the Jab will have the same rights.
(C)	The department shall maintain a list of qualifications of each, employee in his department. Overtime to be recorded and posted each week.
(D)	The "offered11 overtime hours, whether worked or not, will be recorded against employee. All hours over and above offered to an employee already working will not be charged whether worked or not.
(E)	Overtime shell be distributed squally on the basis of each calendar year. If overtime is necessary at the beginning of the year, the senior qualified employes will be considered the lowest overtime employee first, provide shifts allow.
8
1(F)	No employees will be offered overtime work which
would result in his working more than twelve consecutive hours.
(G)	The "offered"	overtime hours recorded
will follow an employee from one department to another. fa new employee i s hired, he will inherit the overtime hours (if he meets the overtime requirements) of the employee who owns the job (to which he was assigned) with the least amount of hours in that department.
(H)	Where two or more employees have the identical total
of "offered" overtime hours, the employee on rotating shifts (if any) will be offered overtime on the shift he has been working that week except as explained i n 4.04 (E).
(I)	I f an employee is asked to work back to back shifts whether worked or not can only be charged with eight hours of overtime.
(J)	For overtime purposes, the first shift filled will
be 11:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M., the second shift will be7:A.M. t o 3:P.M. and the third shift will be 3:P.M. to 11:A.M.
(K)	Whei an employee i s scheduled on a specific Job but has been rescheduled without his prior knowledge and/or approval, he will have the option of refusing the overtime except in cases of absenteeism, machine breakdown or unforeseen product problems.
(L)	Whan overtime requirements are low, and any one
job is working a lot of hours after two consecutive weekends of overtime requirements, other qualified employees will be asked to work besides the man on the job.
4.03	An employee required to work two hours past his regular finishing time, or called in to work four hours early, or called in without sufficient previous notice to have a meal or prepare a lunch, shall be given a meal ticket to the value of $4.00, this provision does not apply however to weekend work when an employee is working the Same length of shift as on weekdays and he has been notified the day previous to such work.
9
4.06	No time sheets will be changed until the employee concerned has been informed of changes to be made.
4.07	The Employer will provide adequate relief when and where necessary.
ARTICLE 5 WAGE RATES
5.01	The rates of	pay shall	be the ones in effect at the date
hereof. They shall remain in effect until February 20, 1990, and February 21,1991 at which times they shall be further revised. All of the foregoing in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the OmpLoyer and the Union on the 19th day of February, 1989. The rates as so revised shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of this Collective Labour- Agreement provided that either party	during the	term of this Collective Labour
Agreement may request a consideration of the rates of pay and hours of work, -if warranted by the general economic situation. Such request shall be in writing and the parties shall meet within thirty days of the date of delivery of such request.
5.02	An individual	wage rate	requiring an adjustment because
of a change in	the working	conditions may be given consider-
ation.
5.03	(1)	The minimum hiring rate of pay is $12.67 per hour
effective February 20,1989.
(2)	The minimun hiring	in rates shall be increased by
sixty cents an	hour when	they are used as minimum wage
rates in cases of transfer, as provided in Article 6, or when applied to an employee recalled from laid-off status if he has been laid off for a period of less than six calendar months, unless the employee’s experience warrants a higher rate. However, an employee who is qualified on the job to which he is recalled or transferred will be paid the rate of the job.
5.04	(1)	When an employee is taken off his regular inb and
is assigned to other work or when	employee's ir is
10
run out and employment is found for him; he shall be paid his average hourly earnings or rate of job (whichever is higher) provided a satisfactory effort is given. However, in cases where a satisfactory effort is not being made, payment will be changed only after the employee has been so advised.
5.05	(')) When an employee's work is run out and there is no other work to which he is assigned and continues beyond one shift and there are probationers in the factory, the employee(s) involved shall displace a probationer(s) the following day so that the employee(s) involved in this situation may only lose up to a maximum of four hours.
(2) When a employee’s work is run out and there is no other work to which he is assigned and there is no probationer in the factory, after two working days, seniority provisions will be applied in the department only, within five working days, factory seniority provisions will be applied in accordance with Article 6.
5.06	All overtime on a regular eight hour work schedule shall be paid as follows:
Double Time - 11:00 P.M. Saturday to 11:00 P.M. Sunday
Time And One Half - paid for all other overtime hours.
5.07	An employee not previously scheduled to work, who is called to work by the employer and consenquently reports to work on Sunday or on a holiday or at.any time after he has completed his regular shift and one hour before his next scheduled shift, shall receive either four hours at his regular rate of pay or the applicable rate for actual time worked, whichever is the greater, and in addition, one-half hour travelling time at his regular rate of pay provided he has left the building; this provision does not apply, however to an employee called m early on his scheduled shift.
5.08	When an employee has not been notified of a change in his
starting time and reports for work prior to his new starting time he will work	that shift and report the following
day on his proper shift. If this move necessitates more
11
than eight hours work in a twenty-fourhour period, eight hours will be paid at premium pay.
If an employee reports for work the following shift from his new starting time he will receive eight hours pay at A.H.E. for the shift he missed. If he is offered work it will be considered as overtime provided that the conditions were within the Employer's control and that the employee has advised the Employer of his last and correct address.
5.09	An employee who is injured in the factory and treated in the First Aid Department and/or in a physician's office ar.d/or hospital, shall be paid his average hourly earnings for the time so spent during the shift in which the injury occurs. If by reason of the injury the empLoyee is sent home by the .Employer, he shall be paid his average hourly earnings for the balance of his Shift.
5.10	An employee shall be paid for time lost on his Job if he is called away from same by the Employer.
5.11	(1) Each member of the Bargaining Committee who is present
at special meetings called by the Employer:	at the
regular monthly meeting with the Employer or at 3rd and 4th stage grievance meetings with the Employer shall be paid at his average hourly earnings for the period commencing one-half hour prior to the designated starting time of the meeting until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. He shall also be paid at his average hourly earnings for time spent during negotiations for renewal of Agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
(2) All time spent by employees in special meetings called by the Employer will be considered as "hours worked” in the calculation of overtime.
5.12	(1) The establishment of standards shall be derived from
time and motion studies of the job. The department Steward and one member of the Time Study Committee concerned will be notified of new standards and, if they so reguest , they will be allowed a maximum of two working days on the operation to check the facts before the proposed standards become effective.
- 12 -
5.12(2) It is agreed that no change in permanent standards will be made unless changes are made in job content, such as method, construction, compound, group arrangement, breakdown, layout, equipment, materials • or specifications, which either increase or decrease the time necessary to produce a unit of production. Any changes in such standards will be made commensurate with the degree of change i n the job content.
(3)	Inaccuracies	relating	to job content	made at the time
the standard was computed will be corrected, unless more than ninety days have elasped since the standard was effective, in which event corrections may be made only by mutual agreement.
(4)	Changes in established standards will be made as soon
as possible	following	a change in job content, unless
otherwise mutually agreed. It is understood that where a employee complies with the job specifications and increases his efficiency through his own skill and effort it shall not be interpreted as being a change in job content under the provision of this section.
(5)	It is agreed	that the	Employer shall	base standards on
the full use of an	employee's time,	which consists of
full productive time on the Job with reasonable allowances.
(6)	I n the event a grievance arises out of a standard, the Department Steward and one member of the Time Study Committee shall have the right to observe the operation and to attend at the Time Study Department to inspect records which show its timing; m such a dispute, upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union, the Union may engage an engineer competent to conduct time and motion studies to work with the Employer's Time Study Department.
(7)	Ifs ettlement	of the grievance results	in an adjustment
i n the contested standards, it shall be corrected.
5.13	No salaried employee of the Employer, or temporary hourly rated Manager shall perform any work which should normally be done by employees except i n cases of emergency or training of employees.
Where there is a qualified bargaining unit employee available he will perform the an-job-training.
13 -
5.14	The employees working on rotating shifts will receive a bonus of thirty-five cents per hour on the afternoon shift and forty cents per hour on the night shift. This bonus shall not be inculded in the calculation of the overtime work pay.
5.15	An employee who is required to serve on a jury or is subpoenaed as a Crown Witness shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his average hourly earnings for the time lost from his regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(A)	employees must notify their Area Manager or Department Head within twenty-four hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown Witness;
(B)	an employee called for jury duty or subpoenaed
as a Crown Witness and who i s temporarily excused from	attendance at court must report for work
if reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his shift;
(C)	an employee selected for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown Witness will be scheduled onto the (7-3) Monday to Friday Day Shift.
(D)	in order to be eligible for such payments, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received;
(E)	should an employee's scheduled vacation be affected due to his selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown Witness, his Manager shall reschedule said employee's vacation if he so requests in the current year.
5.16	An employee on the active payroll of the Employer who
is excused by the Employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, son, daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,	son-in-law,	daughter-in-
law, spouse's brother-in-law, spnu 'n sister-in-la:..
- 14 -
6.D1
6.02
spouse’s grandparent or a dependant who lives in the household of the employee will be compensated at his average hourly earnings for the time so lost by him upon his regular working schedule by reason of such absence, for up to three days for each such death and funeral; this provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or fosterparent shall be considered as a parent and a step-son or step-daughter or foster-son or foster-daughter shall be considered as a son or daughter only when the stepparent or foster-parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for the support for such child.
Common-law relationships according to Government law will be so recognized.
ARTICLE 6 SENIORITY
Seniority for the purpose of this Article 6 and as distinct from service shall	be	calculated	as	from	the date of
the employee’s first working day for the Employer, but shall not include the time an employee is protected from layoff and continues to work under Subsection 6.13 (1) or as a member of the Executive Board of the Union or as a Steward under Subsection 6.07	(1) after an employee
with more	seniority	has	been laid	off	and	until he is
recalled to work.
Notwithstanding any provision (except Section 6.17) that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no employee shall be	assigned	or	transferred to	any	job for which
he is not then qualified, provided that, should there be a vacancy for which no qualified employee is available, then subject to the provisions of Section 6.17, the Employer may assign or transfer any employee to the job for a period in which to qualify; it is furthermore provided that it	will not	be	necessary	for	an employee to have
- 15 -
previously worked on an unclassified job in order to be a qualified employee at such unclassified job.
6.03	(1) The employees of the Engineering Division of the
factory shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other.
Although the General Service employees belong to the Engineering Department, they are not subject to these provisions.
Other employees shall not have the right to displace employees of the Engineering Division, nor, in turn, shall the latter have the right to displace other employees.
In all other respects the provisions of this Article shall apply to employees of the Engineering Division in the same manner as they apply to other employees.
(2)	When a vacancy exists either in the Engineering Division or in the rest of the factory and no laid-off employee can be recalled, then the Employer may re-employ a laid-off employee having no seniority in the division to which he is recalled under the following conditions:
a)	he shall be eligible for recall to the division where he has seniority status during his probationary period in the new division;
b)	he shall be deemed to be a probationer during three months in his new division;
c)	on the completion of three months, his sernior-ity shall be restored to him in his new division.
6.04	(1) An employee shall lose his seniority when he resigns
or is discharged.
(2) A laid-off employee shall lose his seniority whenever he fails to:
a.) inform the Employer of the address at which he can be reached when required to report to work. Changes of such address may be forwarded
16
by mail, addressed to the Employment Department and will be acknowledged in writing;
b)	notify the Employer of his intention to return to work within one’ working day after having been notified to do so by direct telephone conversation or messenger, or within three working days after a notice to do so have been received by telegram or registered mail, sent to his l ast address on the records of the Employer;
c)	report for work within seven days after he has stated his intention to return to work.
In each such cases, his employment and his seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the Employer; provided that the provisions of Paragraph 6.04	(2)	(b) or (c)
do not apply if the employee furnishes a satisfactory reason to the Employer within thirty days of his failure; this discretion may be used only once in favour of any employee.
(3)	An employee who is laid-off with less than five • years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following two year period shall thereupon lose his seniority, An employee who is laid-off with five years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the Employer during the following five year period shall thereupon lose his seniority.
6.05	In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service equivalent to the seniority held at time of layoff but in no event shall accumulation exceed twelve months.
6.06	(1) An employee absent from work because of bodily
injuries caused by accident or sickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the Employer ’and the Union shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his absence an the following basis:
17
a)	An employee	who has	less	than	five years	of
continuous service with the Employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one year, but his accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his service with the Employer	as of the	day
on which he last worked prior to his illness.
b)	An employee who has	five	or	more ’ *ars	of
continuous	service	with	the	Employer, will
be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two years.
(2)	The	provisions	of	Subsection 6.06	(1)	shall not
apply to a female employee who is granted leave of absence due to pregnancy in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.09.
(3)	The	provisions	of	Subsection 6.06	(1)	shall in
no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an employee who is receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits.
6.07	(1)	(a) No Steward or Chief Steward shall be laid off
or transferred from his department while there is work to be performed in his department.
(b) No member -of the Executive Board shall be laid off while there is work to be performed in the factory.
The Union officials to which the privilege extends (Paragraph A & B shall be	limited
to eleven Executive Board Members). Plus Stewards as listed:
Belt Department • 3 Millroom - 3
Power House/Engineering - 1 Porter Service/Lab/Shipping - 1
If Building #33 is utilized for some other product necessitating transferring or hiring of new employees the Union (Local 189) reserves the right to add Stewards to this department.
18
(2)	An employee who is elected or selected for duty as an officer for, or representative of, the United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastics Workers of America or to the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Ontario Federation of Labour, which assignment will take away from his employment with the Employer, may apply in writing for a leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Labour Agreement. For three years following the date the leave of absence is granted, the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his leave of absence continues m farce. Following the termination of his leave of absence and his immediate return to work for the Employer, he shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he shall be offered the same work in the department which he had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For Pension purposes only, such employees will be credited with the seniority and service which he has accumulated pursuant to the preceding paragraph and will not have to return to active employment with the Employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible far the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the employee's application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him.
(3)	Al employee who is selected as a delegate to the convention of The United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum and Plastic Workers of America, the Ontario Federation of ’Labour or the Canadian Labour Congress, or who requires leave of absence to perform specific union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his Manager for time off to attend to such duties and will be granted such time as may be necessary for this purpose.
(4)	Under the provisions mentioned above in this Section, the Union shall give consideration to the need of theassignment or appointment and the possible handicap to the other employees.
19
6.08
6.09
6.10
An employee who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Industrial Relations Department, setting out the reaon for his request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing apd a copy will be given to the Union Secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for self-employment or for employment elsewhere. The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he will be placed on his previous job provided that he is able to peform the work. The employee will be credited with service or seniority during the period while he is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of two months.
(1)	When a female employee has been pregnant for a period of four months, she shall present a certificate from her physician to such effect and shall be granted leave of absence until four months after birth or other delivery. Her seniority shall be retained during the said leave of absence, provided that within the last mentioned four month period, she presents the written opinion of her physician that she is able to perform her normal work to the Personnel Department of her Employer.
(2)	She shall be returned to her last previous job
or in case she has not enough seniority to return to her’ last previous job,	she shall follow the
provisions as outlined in Section 6.13.
(3)	If she does not apply as in Subsection 6.09 (1) her employment will terminate without notice.
As in hiring, it shall be the function of the Employer, in his judgement to determine the qualification of each employee; such judgement will be carefully applied when reviewing the individual qualifications of employees.
Regular assessment of employee progress to be reviewed within a reasonable time limit.
The probationer shall be temporary employee for all the time of his probationary period; his employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority
20
and, subject to the previsions of Section 9.12, the Employer shall not have an obligation to rehire him or offer him work. The length of time worked by a probationer before his layoff shall, on rehiring, be credited to him after he has acquired seniority, if he has not been laid off more than one year.
6.12 No employee with seniority shell be laid off in the factory before all probationers are laid off.
6-13	(1) When it becomes necessary to lay off an employee,
the employee with the least seniority on the classified or unclassified jobs affected will be considered the surplus employee and will displace other employees with less seniority, provided than an	employee
displacing on a classified job must be qualified on that job except in Paragraph 6.13	(1)	(d) or
an employee has the option to take a direct layoff.
However, the employee must return to his own recallable Job when so notified.
If and when the layoff period reaches a one month duration, the employee will then have the option to exercise his rights under Article 6 or may continue his optional layoff.
The employee is responsible to report his intentions with respect to the optional layoff to the Personnel Office five	working	days	prior	to the end of the
one month optional period.
An employee	electing	the	direct	optional layoff
must return to full	work	once	his unemployment
insurance benefit claim expires.
The optional layoff is voided when the Company is m a new hire position. At this time, the optional layoff employee will be recalled subject to Article 6 in order of reverse seniority.
a)	the employee with the least seniority on any classified job of the department, failing which he will	displace	the	employee with the least
seniority on the unclassified jobs of the department.
21
b)	the employee with the least seniority on any classified job in any department of the factory, failing which he will displace the employee with the least seniority on the unclassified jobs in any department of the factory.
c)	the employee finally displaced, who has insufficient seniority to displace others will be laid off;
d)	an	employee with one year or	more	of seniority
who	was unable to displace	any	employee in
the plant by means of the regular seniority provisions as outlined in Paragraph 6.13 (la) or (b) or (c) will have the right to displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the following classified jobs:
2nd Building Tables	Banbury Laydown
2nd Presses	Calendar Helpers
2nd Inspeetion Tables
or failing the above any lower seniority employees in the unclassified labour pool group.
e)	the	list of classified jobs	are	referred to
in Paragraph 6.13	(1)	(d) may change after
discussion with the bargaining Committee.
Any displaced employee has the displacing privileges as listed in Subsection 6.13 (1).
(2)	(a) An employee who was placed on the other work
in the factory from a classified job shall be reinstated to the classified job on which he worked immediately prior to the date of layoff, provided he is entitled to do so by virtue of his seniority and qualifications for the job; except that, ifthe said employee has worked for three consecutive months on h i s new job, he may in this case, retain his new job; and
b) an employee who was placed on other work i n the factory from an unclassified job shall not be reinstated to his farmer unclassified job unless ne prefers such reinstatement, such preference being offered on the first occasion only; and
22
c)	after all employees have been reinstated according to the provisions of Paragraph 6*13	(2)
(a)	and (b) a laid off employee with recall rights will be recalled in order of seniority to classified jobs that may be vacant provided the	employee is qualified on such job, or
will be recalled in order of seniority	to
unclassified jobs;
d)	finally, the balance of the employees shall
be recalled i n order of	factory	seniority
to fill classified or unclassified jobs that may be vacant.
6.14	An employee who refuses to accept a transfer occasioned by reason of a layoff in accordance with Section 6.13 shall not be discharged but shall be laid off and shall be entitled to all privileges granted to an employee who is laid off in usual course according to the provisions of Section 6.13.
6.15	An employee to be laid off for an indefinite period shall be given not less than seven calendar days notice of the effective date of such layoff and such employee will be granted pay at his average hourly earnings for such time during the seven day calendar period that work is not available.
This does not apply to employees electing direct layoff according to 6.13 (1).
An employee shall give one week’s notice of the effective date of his resignation, if possible.
6.16	Employees who transferred to positions outside the bargain-
ing unit and who had at least one year of seniority in the bargaining unit pm:	to transfer, shall be granted
factory seniority equivalent to their continuous employment with the Employer upon being transferred back, into the bargaining unit, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the plant covered by this agreement.
Such former employee shall take his place in the factory in the Following manner;
23
(1)	He shall displace the employee with the least factory seniority on an unclassified Job in the factory
provided his seniority so entitled him.
(2)	Failing this, he shall find his rightful job in accordance with Article 6.
This Section will not be applicable tp the Engineering
Division,
6.17	(1) V\hen a vacancy occurs, a notice of such vacancy
wil be posted i n the factory entrance for at least three full working days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, and holidays.
A list of the employees bidding for the posted vacancy will then be posted fer one wprking day, after which the position will be filled.
Once the employee signs his name te the job posting sheet, it cannot be withdrawn* This also applies to job progression sheets. A I I sheets tp be dated and witnessed by Manager,
After further vacancies which occur pn the posted job within sixty days of the posting will be filled from the list qf applicants from sueh posting in accordance with factory seniority.
Employees will be permitted to job post plant wide with a one year interval to apply between honoured Job	postings, exclusive of classified day shift
Jobs and newly created Jobs. Emplpypes will not be permitted to job post down within a crew.
Ail subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the vacancy will be filled frem the transfers on file in the Personnel Office and wet pe renewed i n April of each calendar year.
Employees will be permitted te tiansfe? plant wide with a six month interval te apply between hgneured
transfers,
This provision will sever §11 vacancies except crews? as outlined m ie§U@n #»I0 lead men and Engineering Bivieien excluding general sefvice,
* 24 -
(2)	An employee who wishes to transfer from one job to another due to a vacancy created by a job posting shall lodge a written request in duplicate with his Manager. Such request will be delivered to the Personnel Office, who will file all such requests and ensure a signed copy of his request be sent to the employee for his file.
A transfer is applicable only to fill a vacancy which resulted from job posting.
(3)	All classified and unclassified day shift jobs to be posted.
6.18	An employee shall have the right to examine his seniority records at any time at the Personnel Department Office; a factory seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names of all employees of said department; this list will be corrected by the Employer at the end of each calendar month; a complete seniority list by departments will be supplied to the Union, each year, when the seniority lists are revised.
6.19	For the purpose of this Article, a list of the classified and unclassified jobs of the factory shall be given by the Employer to the Union from time to time.
The combined total of unclassified and the "special list” of classified positions will represent at least 45?£ of the total job positions.
Any change m the present classified or unclassified job classification or the introduction of new jobs to the classified or unclassified classifications will be discussed with the Bargaining Committee before becoming effective.
6.20	Crew Progression
(1)	All crew operations shall be shown on the classified and unclassified list.
(2)	Subject to Subsections 6.13 (2) (a) and (b) crew progression shall be as follows:
- 25 -
(a)	Employees on the job immediately below the
vacancy who are qualified on the job where the vacancy exists shall be given the first opportunity to fill the	vacancy,	in order
of factory seniority.
(b)	I f the vacancy is not filled as in Paragraph
(a), the employees who are qualified on the Job immediately	below the	vacancy	shall be
given the next opportunity to fill the vacancy,
i n order of factory seniority.
(c)	I f the vacancy i s	not filled	as i n	paragraphs
(a) or (b), the employees who are not qualified on the job immediately below the vacancy shall be given the next opportunity to fill the vacancy, in order of factory seniority.
(d)	If the vacancy is	not filled	as in	Paragraphs
(a),	(b) or (c), the same procedure as outlined
in Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) shall be followed progressively on the lower Jobs in the crew.
(e)	If a vacancy is not filled as i n Paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), job posting, as outlined m Section 6.17 shall be applicable.
(3)	Crew Regression
Employees on crew operations shall regress due to a	reduction	in the number of crews	or	the	number of
employees in a crew as follows:
(a)	The first employees to regress shall be the unqualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, i n the highest Job i n the crew.
(b)	The next employees to regress shall be the qualified employees in reverse order of factory seniority, in the highest job in the crew.
NOTE:	In	moving down, the employee	shall	displace
the	unqualified	employees,	if	any,	m reverse
order of factory	seniority	and	then	qualified
employees in reverse order of factory seniority i n the next lower Job in the crew.
26 -
6.21
6.22
(1)	Gi a classified job where there are twenty or more hours of work per week the employee on the job will retain his classification and will be given other work which will provide him with sufficient hours to constitute a normal work week.
(2)	If it becomes necessary to combine classified jobs, the employees having the qualifications on one of these jobs will be recognized as having qualifications on the others. In this case the qualified employees having the longest seniority will be retained in the new grouping.
(3)	In the combining of classified and unclassified jobs for the purpose of picking up labour balance the employees with the longest factory seniority on the jobs being combined will be retained in the new grouping if they so desire. If the employee with the longest factory seniority does not wish to remain on the job he will then find his rightful place according to Section 6.13 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
(4)	It is understood that the Open, Banbury, Calendar Extruder and Cement House Mills will each be considered a separate classification.
Employees who presently hold qualifications on either the Open, Banbury or Calendar Mill classification will automatically hold qualifications on the Extruder and Cement House Mill classifications.
A unclassified plant Labour Balance Pool employee may be used on any shift for fill-in purposes, however, if no fill-in is required, they may be assigned work elsewhere or'Article 6 will apply.
The manning of the Labour Balance Pool will be adjusted as required.
Experience gained as a Labour Balancer shall not be used for the purpose of bumping privileges or enhance the employee 's qualification period in relation to other employees attempting to qualify on the same job at the same time.
27
ARTICLE 7
HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
7.01	A holiday shall begin at the start as pet1 Article 2.01
<m> (3).
7.02	Subject to the other provisions of this Article, an employee shall be paid an amount equal to one standard shift for each holiday.
7.03	Such payment for a holiday will be included with the regular pay for the week in which it occurs and will be calculated as follows:
Daywork employees will be paid their standard shift hours multiplied by their daywqrk wage rates.
7.04	An employee who is required to work on a designated holiday shall be paid double time worked, in addition to his holiday pay.
7.03 Only the employee actually at work on the last regularly scheduled shift before and his first regularly scheduled shift following the holiday, shell receive Holiday Pay. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee's control and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be mad? upon recommendation of Management.
An employee who is laid off with a period of five. working days immediately preceding a holiday and who is actually at work on the day of lay-off shall be entitled to receive Holiday Yay for such holiday.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor’s ,certificate
and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, prior to or following such designated holiday, snail . receive Holiday .Pay. There shall be deducted from such, pay 'any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.06 An employee shall receive Holiday Pay for a holiday that occurs either during his regular vacation or the day before or the day after his regular vacation period provided that the .said employee actually works on his last regularly
- 28 -
scheduled shift before and his first regularly scheduled shift following his vacation period and such holiday. In a case where an employee is , absent on his last regularly scheduled shift before or his first regularly scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Section 7.Q5.
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor’s certificate and limited to a thirty day period exclusive of Saturday and Sunday, prior to or following such designated holiday, shall receive Holiday ?ay for a holiday that occurs either during his regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	(1) A employee shall be granted two week’s vacation
with pay after one year of continuous service; however, m order to bring everyone to a common vacation year and for the purpose of computing the vacation and the vacation pay, the vacation year shall be the calendar year, starting on January 1 and terminating on December 51. A vacation week shall begin as per Article 2.01 (m) (4).
(2)	An employee with less than one year of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year, shall be granted in the current year a vacation of one-half day for each complete month he has worked during the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring and will receive as vacation pay 4% of his earnings in the previous calendar year since the last date of hiring.
(3)	An employee who completes one year of continuous service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted m the same current year a second week of vacation on his completion of one year of continuous service in addition to the vacation he has already been granted for his previous service, and will receive as vacation pay for that second week of vacation 2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
- 29 -
An employee who completes one year of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(4)	An employee with one year or more but less than five years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year, shall be granted in the current year two weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 4% of his earnings in the previous calendar year since the last day of hiring.
(5)	An employee who completes five years of continuous service an or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a third week of vacation on his completion of five years of continuous service in addition to the two weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for this third week of vacation 2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes five years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(6)	An employee with five years or more but less than
twelve years of continuous	service	as	of	December
31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year three weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation	pay 6%	of	his	earnings
in the previous calendar	year, less	any	amount
which has previously been	paid to	the	same	employee
as vacation pay in respect of the same vacation year.
(?) An employee who completes twelve years of continuous Service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year, a fourth week of vacation on his completion of twelve years of continuous service in addition
30
to the regular weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for the fourth week of vacation 2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twelve years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(8)	An employee with twelve years or more but less
than twenty years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall b? granted in the current year four weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 83 of his earnings in the previous calendar year, less any amount which has previously been paid to the employee as	vacation pay	in	respect of the same	vacation
year.
(9)	An employee who completes twenty years of continuous
service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the current year a fifth week of vacation on completion of twenty years of continuous service in addition to the regular weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previouscalendar year of service and will receive as	vacation pay	for	that fifth week	of	vacation
2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty years of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(10)	An employee with twenty years or more but less
than twenty-five years of continuous service as of	December 31 of	the	previous calendar	year shall
be	granted in the	current year five weeks	of	vacation
and will receive as vacation pay 103 of his earnings in the previous calendar year, less any amount which has previously been paid to the employee as vacation pay in respect of the same vacation year.
- 31 -
(11)	An employee who completes twenty-five years of
continuous service on or before December 24 in the current year shall be granted in the same current year a sixth week of vacation on completion of thirty	years	of continuous service in addition
to the regular weeks of vacation he has already been granted for his previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation 2% of his earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty-five years or more of continuous service after December 24 in the current year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the year with pay for his regularly remaining scheduled gdays of work.
(12)	An employee with twenty-five years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous calendar year shall be granted in the current year six weeks of vacation and will receive as vacation pay 12°o of his earnings in the previous calendar year less any amount which has previously been paid to the employee as vacation pay in respect of the same vacation year.
(13)	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the proceding calendar year owing to sickness or injury not covered by the Worker's Compensation Act, and for this reason only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $325,00 per week; provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the proceding calendar year and has resumed his duties not less .than one month before vacation is granted.
(14)	An employee with seniority who leaves the	employ
of the Employer for any reason or who dies during his employment, if he has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year, shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his estate shall be entitled to receive 4% of his
32
earnings in the current year i n cash if he has completed one year or more but less than five years of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, or 6% of his earnings in the current year in. cash if he has completed five years or more but less than twelve years of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the	Employer	or dies,	or	8% of	his	earnings
m the	current	year	i n	cash	if he	has	completed
twelve years or	more	but	less	than	twenty years
of continuous Service at the datehe leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, or 10% of his earnings i n the	current	year	i n	cash	ifhe	has	completed
twenty years or more of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the Employer or dies, a 12% of his earnings m the current year in cash if he has completed twenty-five years or more of continuous service at the date he leaves the employ of the Employer or dies.
(15)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employ of the Employer for any reason or who dies during his employment,	ifh e has not had vacation or pay
in lieu of vacation m the current year, shall
be entitled to receive or in the case of death his estate shall be entitled to receive vacation pay in lieu of vacation calculated in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 7.07 (14) plus the same applicable percentage of his current year's earnings in cash calculated in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 7.07	(14) and based
on his length of continuous service with the Employer.
An employee with seniority who starts and ceases employment during the current year shall receive in form of cash an amount equal to 4% of his actual earnings since his last date of hiring in lieu of vacation pay.
(1)	An employee must take his vacation to receive vacation pay.
(2)	Vacation may be taken at any time during the calendar year, at such time as may be most convenient to the Employer, but every effort shall be made to
33
schedule vacations at times suitable to the employees.
(3)	Vacations are not cumulative and cannot be deferred until the following year.
(4)	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the following items shall be included:
actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the preceding year, Worker's Compensation payments for lost time, Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums which are paid by the Employer on behalf of the employee, Short Work Week Benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and Weekly Indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
(5)	When an employee is called to work while on vacation he shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all regular hours worked Monday to Saturday inclusive and double time for all hours worked on Sunday.
All lost vacation time involved in this arrangement will be rescheduled and taken by year end.
ARTICLE 8 UNION SECURITY
8,01	(a) Any employee who is a member of the Union in good
standing on the effective date of this Collective Labour Agreement, shall maintain his membership in the Union as a condition of his continued employment far the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement to the extend of paying union dues in accordance with the constitution of the UI.R.C.L. & P.W.A. as determined by the local union and uniformly reguired of all numbers of the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
(aa.) v Any employee in the bargaining Unit who is not a member of the Union shall become a member of the Union on the effective date of his hiring as a condition of his continued employment and shall maintain his membership on the same terms and to the sane extent provided in Subsection 8.01	(a).
34
(b)	Any person hired on or after the effective date of this Collective Labout Agreement or transferred therein after such effective date shall make application far union membership and shall as a condition of his continued employment maintain his union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided i n Subsection 8.01 (a).
(c)	All present and all new employees, including employees transferred into the Bargaining Unit shall have their membership dues deducted from their earnings, or from any benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, whichever i s applicable, by signing the Dues Authorization and Deduction Forms provided i n Section 8.02.
8.02	(a) The employer will deduct the authorized union dues
from the third pay received an each month of such employee from whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Collective Labour Agreement, a Dues Authorization and Deduction Form in the following form:
CATE:_______________________19_____
"Effective as of this date, I hereby	authorize
Goodyear Canada Inc. to deduct from my wages due rre and the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund to deduct from any benefits paid to me under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, current monthly union dues and any unpaid regular monthly dues, initiation fee, and rejoining fee (if any) which are established by Local Union 189, and to be deducted in accordance with the Collective Labour Agreement,	the amount
of which deductions shall have been notified by the Union to the Employer from time to time. Said dues to be remitted by the Employer to the Treasurer of Local 189, U.R.C.L. & P.W.A..
This assignment and authorization shall be inrrevoc-able in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Collective Labour Agreement between Union and the Employer, and I acknowledge that I understand the provisions of Article 8 thereof."
35 -
Signature Of Member_______________________________
Street Address____________________________________
Town______________Telephone_______________________
Clock Card No. _________Dept. No. ________________
(b)	If there are insufficient monies in the third pay i n any calendar month to enable the Employer to deduct all of the union dues for such month, the deduction shall be made from the next succeeding pay t o which the employee i s entitled.
(c)	All authorizations for union dues are to be executed in triplicate by the employee concerned. One copy is to be retained by .the employee who excuted the authorization; one copy is to be given to the Treasurer of Local 189; and the third copy is to be retained by the Employer.
8.03	The	Employer when remitting to the Treasurer of Local
189 the union dues deducted as herein provided will furnish the Union with a list of the names and clock numbers of employees classified as follows:
(1)	Employees from whose pay deductions have been made, and the amount of such deductions.
(2)	Employees from whose pay no deductions have been made and the reason therefor.
(3)	Employees who are no longer employees of the Employer..
(4)	A completed check-off certification form supplied by the Union.
8.04	The	assignments and authorizations once executed shall
be irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Labour Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Collective Labour Agreement or any renewal thereof i s followed by the execution of a new Collective Labour Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of such new Collective Labour Agreement.
8.05	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund harmless from any claims,
- 36 -
suits, judgements, attachments and from any other form of liability as a result of the Employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.8. Fund making any deductions in accordance with the forgoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all employees from who a wrongful deduction was made.
ARTICLE 9
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
9.01	The	parties hereto shall	meet through their authorized
representatives respectively to discuss and adjust any dispute and/or grievance which may arise between the parties; every effort shall be exerted mutually to adjust any and all grievances which may arise.
A time and date for meetings between authorized representatives will be established within two working days after a request has been made by either party.
9.02	The	Bargaining Committee,	consisting of five members,
all of whom shall be regular employees of the Employer, being nineteen years of age or over, and all of whom shall have had at least one year of continuous service with the Employer, shall be elected by the employees of the Employer, who are members of the Union, in a manner determined by the Union, the Employer shall be informed by the Union of the personnel of that Committee; a representative from any dapartirent may be called in when deemed necessary by either party and nay take part in negotiations until the completion of the particular grievance in question.
9.03	Any	dispute or grievance	between the employee and the
Employer shall be dealt with as follows:
All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean - working days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, or vacations and holidays as set out in 2.01 (h).
STEP ONE
It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible, and it is generally understood that an employee or the
- 37 -
Union has no grievance until the Area Manager involved has first been given an opportunity to adjust the complaint. If the employee or the Union does not receive a satisfactory answer, then the following steps of the grievance procedure must be followed immediately.
STEP TWO
If no satisfactory solution is reached at the discussion above mentioned, such employee may put his complaint in writing and present it to his Steward, and each such complaint shall be a "grievance" subject to the procedure hereinafter in this Article set forth; a grievance may be discussed by the Steward and/or the Chief Steward and/or the Union Representative with the Area Manager of the Department i n which the grievance occurred.
The Area Manager shall give the Grievor and Union a written reply not later than three days after-such discussion.
^EP THREE
I f no satisfactory solution i s reached at the discussion in Step Two, Such grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining Committee with the Manager Of Industrial Relations/Oper-ations Manager and the necessary Management personnel.
This meeting will occur within five days upon the Union presentation of the written grievance to the Manager Of Industrial Relations.
The Company shall give the Union written reply not later than seven days after this meeting has taken place.
STEP FOUR
I f no satisfactory solution is reached at the discussion i n Step Three, such grievance may be discussed by the Bargaining committee and a Representative of the Industrial Union with such representative of the Employer as the Employer may nominate for such purpose; provided that theaggrieved employee shall be at liberty, and may be required by either party, to appear in person at any stage of the negotiations above set forth.
This meeting will take place within five days upon Union - 38 -
presentation of the written grievance to the Manager Of Industrial Relations. The Company shall give the Union a written reply not later than seven days after this meeting.
STEP FIVE
(1)	Any dispute between the Employer and the Union as to interpretation of this Collective Labour Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any term of this Collective Labour Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance
. when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved to the other party and shall be subject to arbitration as hereinafter in this Article set forth.
(2)	Such grievance shall be discussed by the Bargaining Committee and at the option of the Union, a Representative of the International Union with such representatives of the Employer as deemed necessary.
(3)	If no satisfactory solution of any grievance in Step Five (1) and (2) is reached at the discussion in that Step, and in the case of any grievance in Section 9.03 which arises out of a difference as to the interpretation of this Collective Labour Agreement or an alleged violation of any term of this Collective Labour Agreement, if no satisfact-tory solution of such grievance is reached at the discussion mentioned in Section 9.03 Step Four either party may refer such grievance to a Single Arbitrator or Board Of Arbitration by delivering to the other party in writing, within a	thirty-five days after the cessation of such
discussion.
NOTE:
(Where Single Arbitrator appears it shall have the same meaning as Board of Arbitration).
(a)	A statement of intention to refer the grievance to a Single Arbitrator.
(b)	A fair and just statement of the subject matter
of the grievance.
39
	(c) "Company and Union recognize the arbitration	
	provision under Section 45 of the Ontario Labour Relations Act and that upon mutual agreement either party may reguest use of a G.S.O. (Government Settlement Officer). Also, either party may pesue the reguirements of that Legislation and comply with its provisions as set out in the said Act."	•
9.04	Both parties shall thereupon meet together through their representatives, as provided in 9.03 Step Five (2), and agree upon the statement of the subject matter of the grievance mentioned in Section 9.03 Step Five (3); and such statement shall be submitted to the Single Arbitrator hereinafter provided; provided that if the parties are unable to agree upon the said statement, the party to whom such statement was delivered, shall deliver in writing to the other party, within thirty-five days of the delivery	
	of such last mentioned statement a counter-statement of the subject matter of the grievance and in such event both the statement and the counter-statement shall be submitted to the Single Arbitrator hereinafter provided.	
9.05	Each party shall, not later than five days after they have agreed upon a statement of the subject matter of the grievance, or not later than five days after the delivery of a counter-statement, deliver to the other part in writing, a statement of the name of the person nominated to represent such party as the Single Arbitrator.	
9.06	No person may be nominated to be the Single Arbitrator who has either directly ot indirectly attempted to negotiate or settle the grievance in dispute.	
	If they are unable to agree upon a Single Arbitrator, they shall forthwith request the Ministry Of Labour Of The Province Of Ontario to appoint a Single Arbitrator.	•
9.07	The Single Arbitrator shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch, and the decision of the Single Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.	•
9.08	Each of the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the arbitrator nominated.	
	- 40 -	
9.09	The Single Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions ot this Collective Labour Agreement or to substitute 'any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
9.10	To facilitate the above procedure, it is agreed that all Employer's representatives up to the Manager Of Industrial Relations, shall make every effort to effect a settlement of the grievance by the'close of three working days following the day the grievance being presented and when they are unable to do so, shall notify the Steward in writing and keep him informed as to progress being made; the final answer shall be in writing.
9.11	Any member of the Local Executive Board shall be permitted to enter the factory for the purpose of negotiating or making investigation of e grievance, provided that he first requests and receives permission from the Area Manager for each visit; when necessary he may accompanied by the Steward from the Department concerned, provided the Steward can be temporarily relieved from his duties without impairing the efficiency and production of the factory; the International Representative may have the privilege or entering the factory for investigating grievances if each visit is approved and a pass signed by the Plant Manager.
9.12	If an employee is discharged or suspended as a penalty by the Employer and feels that he has been unjustly dealt with, he shall have the opportunity to talk with his Steward before he leaves the factory and he shall, within five working days, notify the Employer and the Union in writing; such discharge or suspension as a penalty may then constitute a grievance and shall be dealt with according to Section
9.03	, if subsequently, it is decided that this employee was unjustly discharged or suspended as a penalty, he shall be reinstated in his former position and shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the following provisions:
The Single Arbitrator will have the right to increase or .decrease the penalty if he feels the circumstances justify this action and will have authority to determine the amount of pay the employee is to receive for the period of his discharge or suspension, if he is subseguently
- 41 -
reinstated. In calculating the amount of pay the employee i s to receive ifreinstated the Single Arbitrator shall deduct there from any monies earned by the employee front other employment and any Unemployment Insurance Benefits received by the employee during the period of his suspension or discharge and retained by him.
Every effort shall be made to settle such grievance within thirty days. It is understood that the Area Manager will inform the Steward of discharge or suspension as a penalty as soon as possible.
It is mutually agreed that if either party is unable to meet the above dates that a reasonable extension period will be granted provided written notice i s given.
ARTICLE 10 MISCELLANEOUS
10.01	The Employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect the employees from injury and sickness; the Union agrees to co-operate with the Employer ifi the use of these devices and i n the elimination of a I I industrial accidents.
1G.02 The Employer agrees to permit the Union to post notices of meetings and other union business or affairs on bulletin boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed however that such bulletins shall be approved by the Manager Industrial Relations of the Employer and posted by members of the Employer's Personnel Department.
10.03	The employer will furnish a list of employee and probationers entering and exiting the plant at the end of each month.
10.04	The Employer agrees to maintain adequate Cafeterias/Rest/ Smoke Places for the employees use to the extent of ten minutes on each half of their shifts plus designated lunch periods on the main floor, third floor and m the Engineering section.
Employees are expected to co-operate i n maintaining the cleaniness and the proper Use of these facilities to avoid suspension of these privileges.
42
10.05	Employees	shall be	at their work places ready	to work
at scheduled starting times. Employees shall not quit work until their designated quitting time.
10.06	Employees	from the	Bowmanville Factory who work on out-
of-plant	operations,	in addition to being fully	covered
by this	Collective	Labour Agreement, shall be entitled
to the following benefits:
(a)	Transportation will be provided to and from the job location.
(b)	All hours when travelling from Monday through Friday will be paid at straight time.
(c)	Payment for travelling on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be premium pay up to when sleeping accommodations are provided.
(d)	When driving an Employer’s vehicle employees will be paid straight time if driving within regular daily shift hours, Monday to Friday inclusive. Driving beyond the regular shift hours, except on Sundays and holidays, will be paid at time and one-half. Qn Sundays, and on holidays, driving will be paid at double time. The recognized shift hours are 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M, except when additional crews are necessary.
(e)	Employees will be paid at premium	pay up to a maximum
of eight hours per day when	held over on a job
on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.
(f)	All meals in transit will be paid	for by the Employer.
(g)	Single accommodations for room	end board will be
provided by the Employer where practical.
(h)	Laundry service will be paid for by the Employer.
(i)	The Employer where practical will grant upon request
a short leave of absence to allow approximately forty-eight hours in the Bowmanville area approximately every six weeks of continuous	field work:	Trans-
portation will be provided by the Employer but no allowance for travelling time will be paid. However, Paragraph 10.06	(j) will be observed where
applicable.
43
(j)	A minimum pay of eight hours per day, Monday to
•	Friday inclusive will be guaranteed,
(k)	Company to supply same health coverages for employees when out of the country as they have in plant.
(l)	Employees are allowed at least eight hours off i n between shifts.
(m)	■'©lift hours necessitate more than twelve hour shifts, a second crew will be instituted when known i n advance.
(n)	Protective clothing supplied re weather and job conditions.
(o)	Field Splice Crews will be paid the applicable rate of pay as indicated in Department 2719.
(p)	Employees allowed to phone home within reasonable time. limits.
(q)	Reasonable accommodations will be provided for employees when work not required during shift.
(i)	Work will not be performed by Local 189’s employees
•	that normally i s performed by other Unions.
(s) Employees who return to the plant in mid-week will be scheduled on the dayshift for the remainder of the week.
10.07	Employees posting or transferring to Receiving/Shipping Ro.om must gain power truck license before being qualified on job.
10.08	When scheduled and actual working on Banbury, employees w i 11 work bell to bell and be allotted eighteen minutes after their shift has ended for wash-up purposes.
Time and one-half will be paid for these wash-up periods.
ARTICLE 11
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEHEN1
11.01	Save as to the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, the Health and Life Insurance Agreement, and the Supplemental
44
Unemployment Benefits Plan signed between the same parties, this Collective Labour Agreement constitutes the entire one between the Employer and. the Union; it shall remain in force from the 20th day of February, 1989 to the 19Ug day of Hebruary, W92~, and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months or more than three months prior to the anniversary date.
11.02	(a) If either party gives to the other a notice of
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section'll .01, this Collective Labour Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(b)	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 11,01, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revision within fifteen days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revision is reached by midnight, February 19,1992 or by midnight of any other subsequ-entannivereary date, as the case may be, this Collective Labour Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one year less one day until a new Collective Labour Agreement is reached or until procedure contemplated by Section 72	(2)
of the Labour Relations Act has been completed.
11,03	Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 11.01 and 11.02, either party may apply to the Ontario Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate this Collective Labour Agreement in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	Article 8 of the pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement executed between the same parties on the 20th day of February, 1989,
(b)	Part V of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement executed between the same parties on the 20th day of February, 1989.
which parts are hereby made part of this Collective Labour Agreement and in the event the other party shall join in such application to the Ontario Labour Relations Board.
45
INTERIM MAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index
published by Statistics Canada (1971=100) and hereinafter
referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year Of Agreeaent
(a) "The base for calculation" - the average C. P. I. for the months of December 1988, January 1989 and February 1989,
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing May 21, 1989. It will reflect one cent d0) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 19B9, March 1989 and April 1989, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing August 20,1989. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I, for the months of May 1989, June 1909 and and July 1989 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing November 19,1989. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 1989, September 1989 and October 19B9, exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing February 18, 1990. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 1989, December
1989	and January 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year 0 f Agreeaent
(a)	"The base for calculation" - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 1989, January 1990 and February 1990.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing May 20,	1990. It will reflect
one cent (1£) per hour for each full .26 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 1990, March
1990	and April 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid a-a of the pay period commencing August 19, 1990. It will reflect one cent (10) per hour for each full .26 points that the
- 46 -
average C. P. I. for the montns of May 1990, June 1990, July 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third	adjustment	will	be	calculated and paid as of	the
pay period	commencing	November	18,	1990, It will	reflect
one cent	(v) per	hour	for	each	full .26 points	that	the
average C.P. I, for the months of August 1990, September 1990 and October 1990, exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of
the pay period commencing February 17, 1991. It will reflect one cent	(10) per	hour	for	each	full ,26 points	that	the
average C.P, I. for the months of November 1990, December
1990	and January 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
4. Third Year Of Agreement
(a)	"The base for calculation" • the average C-P. I. for the months of December 1990, January 1991 and February 1991.
(b)	The first adjustment	will	be calculated and	paid	as of
the pay period commencing May 19,1991. It will reflect one cent	(10)	per	hour	for	each	full	.26	points	that	the
average	C.P,I. for	the	months of February	1991,	March
1991	and April 1991.
(c)	A second	adjustment	will	be calculated and	paid	as of
the pay period commencing August 18,1991. It will reflect one cent	(10)	per	hour	for	each	full	.26	points	that	the
average	C.P.I. for the	months of	MAy 1991, June 1991	and
July 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the
pay period commencing November 24,1991. It will reflect one cent	(10)	per	hour	for	each	full	.26	points	that	the
average	C.P.I, for	the	months of August 1991, September
1991	and October 1991, exceeds the base for calculation.
9, In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
6.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
47
7.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer’s Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the sane form of that published for February 1983.
8,	Each adjustment specified in the Interim Wage Increase Formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Collective Labour Agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third years of the Collective Labour Agreement and fourth adjustment in the second year of the Collective Labour Agreement will be carried over throughout the third year of the Collective Labour Aqceernsnb.
48
APPENDIX TO
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT 12 HOUR DAY, FOUR (4) CREW
WORK SCHEDULE
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Bowmanville Factory, the Employer may schedule any or all operations on a 12-hour continuous, 4 crew work schedule, as per Attachment A.
When it becomes necessary for the Employer to schedule one or more of the plant's operation on the 12-hour continuous work schedule a fourth crew will be instituted.
In order to attain equitable and effective practices for initial transition to scheduling of operations onto the 12-hour continuous work schedule, a joint committee made up of the Local Union and Company’s Bargaining Committees will be established. The function of this committee will be to review and recommend practices for the transfer of personnel to the operations affected in keeping with the principles established in Article 6 of the Collective Labour Agreement and to resolve problems as they arise. Agreed to practices will be followed as per main plant continuous operation write up.
The terms and Conditions of the Collective Labour Agreement will apply to all employees who are scheduled on the 12-hour continuous work schedule with the following excetions:
1.	In reference to Section 4.01 as per Attachment A for employees on the 12-hour continuous work schedule, the regular twenty-eight (28) day schedule will vary between thirty-six (36) hours and forty-eight (48) hours work per week. Over the twenty-eight (28) day cycle, the employee will work one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours (eight (8) hours at time and one half).
2.	The provision under Section 5.06 will not apply to employees an the 12-hour continuous work schedule.
3.	In reference to Section 7.03 for employees on the 12-hour continuous work schedule, holiday payment will be based on eight (8) hours pay multiplied by the applicable Average Hourly Earnings.
49
4.	I n reference to Section 2.01 (m) for employees on the 12-hour continuous work schedule, the vacation vveek for an employee will commence as per Article 2.01 (m) (4).
5.	I n reference to Section 5.18 of the Collective Labour Agreement bereavement will be compensated at his average hourly earnings for the time so lost by him upon his regular working schedule by reason of such absence, _to a maximum of three (3) days for each such death and funeral, provided that the employee was scheduled to work during that period. Such three (3) days shall be three (3) consecutive days, and m=y include scheduled days off for which the employee is not Compensated.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make arrangements and/or attend the funeral.
When an employee is working his regular scheduled shift and is notified of a death as outlined m Article 5.18 that shift absence will not be considered as the first day when calculating bereavement pay.
Common-law relationships according to Government law will be so recognized.
6.	I n reference to 2.01	(m)	(3)	a Statutory Holiday i s deemed
to be from 7:00 AM. on the morning of the holiday and finishes 7:00 A.M. the day immediately following the holiday.
7.	In reference to Section 5.16,	shift premium of thirty-five
cents per hour will be paid for	all hours worked from 3:00
P.M. to 11:00 P.M. end forty	cents per hour for all hours
worked from 11:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
8.	I n reference to Article 4 and	Article 10.04, the Employer
agrees to provide two (2) twenty (20) minute lunch periods and three (3) ten (10) minute smoke periods per shift for those employees on the 12-hour continuous work schedule.
9.	The 12-hour continuous work schedule crew premiums will not be included in the calculation of the employee's Average Hourly Earnings and will not be subject to the overtime provisions.
10.	The Company will notify the Union and post with a Thirty Day Notice before implementing the Continuous Work Week Schedule.
Implementation of the Continuous Schedule must be enacted within a fourteen day period following the Thirty Day Notice, or an additional Thirty Cay Notice will be required.
- 50 -
11. Any employee receiving overtime rate of pay will not receive the ninety cents (90<i) premium as well.
12.	Those employees working during the daylight saving time change vail be paid one hour from the S.IJ.B. Fund at straight time.
13.	Any employee involved when switching back in the fall standard time will receive one hour pay at the applicable overtime rate.
14. If an employee is called to work within an eight hour period his/her pay will be as per C.L.A.
15.	Any time less than employee's scheduled work hours will be paid From S.U.B. Fund as per C.L.A. accept as noted in 17 below.
16.	When an employee with less than one year service is not qualified for a short work week benefit, work will be provided so he does not lose time.
17.	Loss of shift due to any schedule change, the employee will be paid AHE for his/her regular scheduled shift hours which were lost (eight or twelve hours).
18.	When the Thirty Day Notice is given on the start up of the Continuous Work Week a list will be posted to see of any employee, whether high service or low service, so desire the job. The rest of the positions will be filled with junior employees. The higher service employee has the option to stay if so desired. When crews are added to five day schedule.
19. If there is a cut back on regular five day schedule the lowest service employee will bump into the continuous operation.
20.	When the regular five day schedule is adding crews, the highest service qualified employee on the Continuous Work Schedule will fill the vacancy first if so desires and that position will be filled by the next recallable person and if no one is recallable the Collective Labour Agreement will apply.
21.	When borrowed off the Continuous Work Schedule during that week, the employee will received the ninety cents (900) premium.
51
22.	When borrowed during your scheduled five day week, you will receive the ninety cents (90^) premium for all hours after you have worked the first eight hours, if worked on Continuous Work Schedule.
23.	When scheduling from five day schedule to Continuous or vise versa, the employee will be guaranteed his two day weekend at no less of eight hours per day. If he decides to work at this time he will receive premium pay.
24.	If an employee decides to work any of his two day optional weekend he will notify the Company by 7:00 A24. Friday morning.
23. If a shift change occurs in Continuous Schedule whereby employee only has one day off between .schedules, then the employee will receive premium pay for the first day of the new schedule.
Every effort will be made to minimize this occurrence.
26.	When an employee has not .been notified of a change in his
starting	time and	reports	to	work	prior to his new starting
time, he will be sent home and be paid four hours and report the following day on his proper shift.
If an employee reports for work the following shift from his new starting time he will receive twelve hours pay at A.H.E. for the	shift he	missed.	He	will	be directed to report on
his proper shift or if he is offered a full shift of work it will be considered as overtime provided that the conditions were within the employer’s control and that the employee has advised the employer of his last and correct address.
27.	When an employee is transferred from one schedule to another within the Continental operation he will not lose money.
28.	Statutory Holiday pay is based upon twelve holidays at eight hours or ninety-six hours of paid holiday in total.
29.	Refrigerators will be provided for those employees on twelve hour shifts.
30.	Shift premium (afternoons and nights) will be applied for all hours specified in the Collective Labour Agreement.
31.	For those employees on a twelve hour shift one additional lunch period and one additional smoke period will be provided.
- 52 -
32.	Employee is guaranteed forty hours pay when going in or out of Continuous Schedule.
33.	This appendix to become part of the Collective Labour Agreement.
53
ATTACHMENT A
12 HOUR CONTINUOUS, FOUR (4) CREW WORK SCHEDULE D - DAY SHIFT N - NIGHT SHIFT 28 DAY CYCLE
WORK SCHEDULE -	as per attached
CREW PREMIUMS -	$0.90 pe hour worked
OVERTIME PROVISIONS 1st Scheduled Day Off:	Time And One-Half
2nd Scheduled Day Off:	Double Time
3rd Scheduled Day Off:	Time And One-Half
54
A-CREW
B-CREW
C-CREW
D-CREW
12 HOUR CONTINUOUS SCHEDULE
#1
SMTWTFS
-NN--DD
#2	N--DD--
#3	-DD--NN
#4	D - - N N —
SMTWTFS
0 — N N - -
-N N- - DD N — D D - --D D- -NN
SMTWTFS
-DD--NN
D — NN--- NN--DD N- - DD--
SMTWTFS
N — D D —
- D D - - N N D--NN---NN--DD
D-Day Shift	7:00	A.M.	-	7:00 P.M.	*	Days	as	indicated 28 Days cycle
N-Night Shift	7:00	P.M.	-	7:00 A.M.
Week Starts	7:00	P.M.	-	Saturday
Week Ends	7:00	P.M.	-	The Following	Saturday
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
L E TT JR^NO^___ONE
This letter will confirm that the present practice of supplying coveralls to Engineering, Shipping, Receiving, Lab, Cement House and 8anbury employees will continue.
The Company will ensure that a sufficient supply of clean coveralls are available (clean pair for each working shift).
Employees are expected to co-operate with this program.
Should the Company stop this program a clothing allowance fee structure will be re-implemented.
The Company will meet with the Union Bargaining Committee to establish the employee allowances.
L E TT_ER_NO.__TWO
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations. Any changes in working conditions or earnings, caused by technological improvements will be discussed between the Company and the Union before becoming operative.
L E TT_ER_NO ._THREE
This letter is to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations that if a vacation plant shutdown is to be scheduled for the Bowmanville Plant, the Company will notify the 'Union by April 1 of that year as to when the shutdown will take place.
The Company will endeavour to maximize the number of employees on vacation during prime time in accordance with customer requirements and other Goodyear Plant shutdowns.
LETTER-NO._EQUR
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company that closed circuit television cameras will not
56
be used for the purpose of observing employees in the performance of their regular duties except for reasons of Security, Quality Control or Safety.
If any such installation is made in the future, the Union will be notified in advance.
This letter will confirm the Company's policy with respect to the contracting out of work, as follows:
The contracting out of work is the sole prerogative of the Company. However, where it is practical to do so and provided that additional cost will not be entailed by the Company, the Company will endeavour to use its own Maintenance and Engineering employees provided that they are qualified, available and willing to do the work.
The Company will notify the Union, in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to do work in the plant.
An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.06 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his prior credited service and seniority so long as he remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he should accept other employment during such absence he shall be deemed to have resigned.
L£ T T E R ——O. — — E———
This letter is to confirm the undertaking given by the Company at the recent negotiations.
Members of the Union Executive taken as a group will be reimbursed by the Company up t o a total of twenty-four hours per week, nonaccumulative, at the applicable average hourly earnings provided the member, or members, are engaged in local union business.
The Union President shall submit for approval to the Company's Manager Of Industrial relations a list of those members of the Union Executive to be reimbursed, together with the number of hours to which each is entitled.
57
LETTER NO. EIGHT
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations.
The Company will subsidize the purchase of safety shoes for all bargaining unit personnel at the rate of 50%.
LETTER NO. NIN-
In the case of a plant closure a committee composed of Local Union, International Union, Company Representatives will be set up through the Provincial Government to assist employees.
L—TTE-R- -NO. —T E —
All Banbury crew members to be paid applicable average hourly earnings for time spent on Banbury clean-out.
LETTER NO. ELEVEN
Employees Job postinq/transferrinq to the Clem/Phyaical Lab
Jobs must meet Entrance Requirements as determined by written testing.
!IIIIR_NO^_IWi_LVE
It is mutually agreed that the President of Local 189 will work an eight hour day shift Monday to Friday.
The President will form part of the Plant Labour Pool end work where required by the Company.
The method of payment will be the President's normal A. H.E.. Payment will be made for all hours worked.
!III£Jl_No^_IJ!!iI.EI_N
It is mutually agreed that if a piece work structure of payment is reintroduced into the plant, Clauses in the Collective Labour Agreement April 6,1986 - February 19,1989 will be reviewed and reinstated where necessary.
The red circle rates established at the time of the piece work removal will remain in effect with all wage increases included.
58
LETTER N __FOURTEEN
The Company will consider and review the feasibility of implementing an Apprenticeship Program For Certain Skill Trades.
If the Company so implements an In-House Apprenticeship
	Program,	Local	189 Bargaining	Unit will be i	n v i t e d
	to assist	with	the details	connected with	such
•	a program.				
	ALL ABOVE	LETTERS FORM PART OF		THE COLLECTIVE	LABOUR
	AGREEMENT.				
59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto signed the 24th day of April, 1989.
LOCAL UNION 189 OF THE UNITED RUBBER,
CORK, LINOLEUM AND RUSTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
J.R. COBURN L.L. WEAThERUP W.F. CROSSEY R.G. NASH
B.	B. ADAMS
ANNE E. AITCHESON
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
BOWMANVILLE FACTORY
C.	E. TRIM W.F. HICKS
E.F. NICKERSON	‘
D.	B. ANDERSON
60
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
	SECTION	PAGE
Addresses	6.04 (2) (a)	16
Agreement Cancellation	11.02-3	45
Agreement Duration Arbitration Board	11.01	
Nominees	9.05-6	40
Decision	9.07	40
Arbitration Expense	9.08	40
Arbitration * Notice Of	9.03 (3)	37
Arbitration - Subject Of Arbitration - Single Arbitrator	9.04	40
Bargaining Committee Meeting Bargaining Committee Meeting Payment For
Bargaining Committee Personnel Bargaining Unit - Recognition Bereavement Pay Breakdowns - Controllable Breakdowns - Minimum Pay
9.02
3.01
37
4
Crew Progression	6.20	(1)(2)	25
Crew Regression	6.20	(3)	26
Discharge Or Suspension			
As Penalty	9.12		41
Emergency Work - Wages	5.07		11
Engineering Division Seniority	6.03		6
Entrances & Exits • List OF Experimental Work Payment	10.03		42
First Aid Payment	5.11		1 2
Grievance Investigation - Union			
Officers	9.11		41
Grievance Procedure Grievance Settlement	9.03 9.10		37 41
61
Holidays
Holidays Starting Time Holiday During Vacation Holiday Pay Qualification Holiday Pay
Holiday Pay - lime Worked Holiday Pay - First Shift Following Hours - Standard
Interpretation Of Agreement Oipute
Interpretation Of Terms Jury Outy
Lay-off Probationer Lay-off Procedure Lay-off Union Officers Lay-off Notice Leave 0 f Absence - Female Leave 0 f Absence • Union Officers
Lunch Intermissions
Lunch - Provision On Overtime
Management Functions Minimum Hiring Wage Rates
New Employees - Payment Of Dues
Natation On Record Notation - Duration 0 f Record Notices - Union
Out-Of-Plant Operation Overtime Distribution Overtime Out-Of-Plant Operation Overtime Payment Overtime - Reduction 0 f Hours Overtime Work
SECTION	PAGE
2.01	<h)	2
7.01	28
7.06	28
7.05	28
7.02	28
7.04	28
4.01	5
9.01-	2	38
2.01-	2	4
6.12 21 6.13 (1)(2)	21
6.07	(1)	18
6.15	23
6.09	20
6.07	(2)(3)	8
4.01	5
4.05	9
3-02	5
5.03	(1 )(2)	10
8.01	(b)(c)	34
9.15	(1)
9.15	(2)(3)
10.02	42
10.06	43
4.04	7
10.06	(d)(e)	43
5.06	11
4.03	7
4.02
2
SECTION
Payment - Work Run Out	5.05	d)
Permission For Entry To Factory Union Officers	9.11	
Piecework Rate ■ Grievance Piecework Rates - Establishment Of Piecework Rates - Retroactive	5.14	(8)
Probationer	2.01	(f)
Protective Equipment	10.01	
Qualifications	2.01	(i)
Quitting Work Before Time	10.05	
Recall	6.13	(1)
Recognition 0 f Bargaining Unit	3.01	
Records - Seniority	6.18	
Relief Help	4.07	
Seniority Calculation	6.01	
Seniority - List 0 f Classified & Unclassified Jobs	6.19	
Seniority List - Posting	6.17	
Seniority - Engineering Division	6.03	
Seniority - Loss 0 f	6.04	
Seniority - Sickness	6.06	
Shift Premiums Smoking Areas	10.04	
Strikes, Lockouts, Shutdowns Etc.	3.04	
Supervision - Return To Employee Status	6.16	
Supervisors & Salaried
Employees -Worked Performed By
Temporary Work Payment	5.04	(1)
Time Lost - Company Request	5.12	
Time Last - Payment For	5.08-	•9
Time Changes	4.06	(2)
Transfers - Payment On	5.03	
Transfers - Refusal	6.14	
Transfers At Employee's Request	6.17	(2)
Transfer Provision	6.02	
63
PAGE 1 1
41
14
2
42
1
43
21
4
23
10
1 3
25
24 1 6 1 6 17
4?
5
24
1 0 1 2 11 7
10
23
2S
Union Dues - Deductions Union Officers - Lay-Offs 4 Leave 0 f Absence
Vacations - Eligibility 4 Pay Vacation - When Taken Violation 0 f Agreement
Wages Rates - General Adjustment
Wage Rates - Individual Adjustment Wage - Minimum Work Run Out Work - Temporary 4 Experimental
SECTION
PAGE
8.01-2-3-4	34
6.07
28
7.07
7.08 9.03
29
33
37
5.01
10
5.02
5.03 5.05
10 10 11
1990
JANUARY	| FEBRUARY |
I	2	0	4	6	8
7 8	9	10	1)	12	13
14 16	16	17	18	18	20
21 22	23	24	26	28	27
28 28 30 31
APRIL
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	S	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	26	26	27	28
29 30
JULY
S M T W T F 3
S M T W T F S
4	6	6	7	B	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	10	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
26	26	27	28
S	W	T W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5
8	7	8 9	10	11	12
13	14	16 10	1?	18	19
20	21	22 23	2 4	2 5	28
27	28	28 30	31
AUGUST
S W T W T F S
1	2	3	4	6	6	7
8	B	10	It	12	13	14
IS	18	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
OCTOBER
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 26 27
28	28 30 31
12 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11
12 13	14	16	18	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	26
28 27	22	29	30	31
NOVEMBER
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
MARCH
S W T W T F S
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
10 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 20 29 30 31
S M T W T F S 1 2
3 4	0	6	7	8	9
io 11	12	13	14	16	18
17 18	18	20	21	22	23
24 26	26	27	28	29	30
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 6 6 7 0 8 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23	24 26 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 18 20 2) 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30 31
1991		
JANUARY	FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F s	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23, 25 26 27 28 29 (m la 1
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 1 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 )9 20 21 22 23 24 25 28- 27 26 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 22 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S	$ M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 a 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 28 29 30	1 '2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 28 27 28 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 2S 26 27 26 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 24 25 26 27 28 29	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31