' <0URCS CaX _
COLLECTIVE LABOUR
BETWEEN
|!i0''\;rp ,/J #?
GOODYEAR CANADA INC, MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
The Employer
-AND-
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
For the Associates
<•.pi;* /* jl
March 24,2000 - February 29,2004
00748 (06)
ARTICLE 1
Propose--------------------------
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation------—------------
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement---------------
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work--------------------
ARTICLE 5
Rales of Pay---------------------
ARTICLES
Seniority------------------------
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays--------------
ARTICLES
Vacations------------------------
ARTICLE 9
Union Security-------------------
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Ptocedure--ARTICLE11
Miscellaneous--------------------
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement— APPENDIX A
kb Rates & Classifications-------
APPENDIX B
Inlerim Increase Formula---------
APPENDIX C
Ctetv Progression and Regression-
1
2
.1
5
7
II
20
22
25
27
30
32
33
36
J8
INDEX Continued APPENDIX D
JDay or 7 Day Crew Work Schedule*---------------------------- 39
LETTERS...................................—-....................... 40
ALPHABETICAL INDEX -
45
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into at of the 24“ day of March, 2000, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to certain associates at its Medicine Hal Plant, and G.E.L Warehouse. hereinafter refeibcd to as the ‘employer* and Local Union 628 of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the “union*.	V- .
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties lo promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree lo work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coerdon by or on behalf of lire
employer regarding any associate covered by this Agreement because of membership or nonmembership in the union;	•
(b)	that the union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said associates imo
1.03	The Company and the Union are committed to the principles of "equality in employment' for all persons regardlessof race, relgious belief, colour, gender, physical disability, menial disability, marital status, age, ancestry or place of origin, family status or source of income.
This principle embraces all matters pertaining to associate interaction, not solely employment practices designedto eliminate discriminatory barriers and to prowde in a meaningful way, equitable opportunities in employment.
Decisions regarding recruitment and selection of applicanta for employment will be based on the qualifications of the individual.
1.04	The Company and the Union are committed to provide a safe work environment dee from harassment and violence.
The parties agree to develop an explicit policy and procedures to deal with harassment and violence. The policy wl address the prevention of harassment and violence and the management of these situations. Written copies of the policy and procedures shal be provided to each associate.
Harassment shall bedehned as engaging in a course of olTensive comment or conduct that is knowi, or ought reusonablyto be known as offensive and unwelcome.
Violence shall be defined as any incident in which an associate is abused, threatened, harmed, injured or assaulted in circumstancesarising out of his/her employment with Goodyear. This includes the application offotce, threats, severe verbal abuse and persistent sexual and racial harassment.
1.04 Continued.
All incidents involving aggression, violence, or harassment shall lie brought to the attention of the plant Unman Resources Manager and a designated Union Executive who shall concern itself and investigate' all mailers pertaining to violence and harassment.
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this Collective Agreement and its application, unless the contest requires otherwise, the following words
and expressions will have the meaning hereafter given to them:
a)	"associate" means and includes all hourly ralcd employees of the Employer at its Medicine Hal Plant and its Medicine Hat Warehouse, below the level ofShifl Co-ordinator, with the exception of office employees, Security Guards, Production Squadron training group, and production schedulers.
b)	The terai "credited service" means the sendee of an associate with the employer as it appeals on his/her record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement. The terms “credited service" and "continuous sendee" as used throughout this agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an associate, a former associate, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
c)	"Crew seniority" means that the status that an associate acquires in respect to the lime accumulated by him/her while working on a specific operation within the same department regardless of the shill to which hc/she is assigned.
d)	“Department seniority” means the status that an associate (with factory seniority) in the Engineering Division acquires after hc/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months in the same department.
e)	"employer” means Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Plant, and Medicine Hat Warehouse, Medicine Hah Alberta.
I)	"Factory seniority" means the status lhal an associate acquires alter he/slie lias worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months.
g) "Job rate” shall mean the hourly rate per Appendix "A" lhal an associate shall be paid for al hours worked on (hat operation or another operation to which be/she is assigned unless the assigned operation watranls a higher job rate. In such case, the higher job rale will be paid for all hours worked on that operation provided a satisfactory effort is made
"Lay-off" means the termination of work of an associate by Ibe employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the associate was engaged; "laidolF shall have a like meaning
1
2.0! Continued
"probationary period" means a four (4) consecuftvemonlh period during which the probationer works for the employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
To ensure that proper evaluation can be made, the probationary period will be extended for associates who do nor complete four (4) consecutiveinonths due to ilness or injury resulting in an absence of seven (7) ormoreconsecutivecalendardays commencing from the first regularly scheduled shift of work missed. Extension of probation will equal lime lost due to said illness or injury,
No associate will serve his/her probationary period in the capacity of a "temporary vacation relief” person.
"probationer" means an associate without seniority.
k)	"Qualification" means the ability to perform the operalon to which an associate is assigned in a competent maimer aid to produce the same standard tf quantity and quality of work as it uspally obtained from such operation alter the usual learning period; "to qualify" and "qualify" shall have a like meaning
l)	"Temporary" or temporary penodshal mean a period oftime not to exceed three (3) consecutive months duration. At the end o f the three (3) month period the associate who has been assigned to the lemponry position will be returned to his/her original position. In the event no qualified volunteers are available llte most junior qualified associate will be reassigned.
m)	"Surplus associate' meins an associate on l^off status from his/her regular operation for in indefinite period.
n)	The term “vacancy" shall nol include a vacancy caused by any of lire following:
(1)	when an assoaateis absent by meson of sickness;
(2)	when an associate is on vacation;
(]) when an associate is on an authorized leave ofabsence;
(4)	when a qualified assodateis in lay-off status except as provided in Article 6.13, subsection 3 of this Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE]
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.01	The Icmisofihis Collective Agrccmeiil shall apply to all associates who arcdefincd m the certificate issued by the Board of Industrial Relations of the Province of Alberta, and the employer recognizesthe Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said associates for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
3.02	The Union acknowledges that it isilic exclusive function ofllie employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency:
(b)	to hire, discharge, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline associates and to increase and decreasetliework force, provided that if there is a claim by an associate who lias acquired seniority that hc/she lias been disdplined or discharged without reasonable cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement.
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each associate:
(d)	to operate and manage its business in cl respects and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine:
-	the number and location of plants
-	the products to be manufactured
■	the methods ofmanufaciuringand tlte production schedulesto be used
-	the type and location of machines and tools to be used
'	Iheengineeringanddesignofitsproducts
■	the control of material and palls to be incorporated into tlte product
(ej the Company will be solely responsible tithe (proper implementation of work rules and rates of pay.
Tlte Employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
3.03	There shall be no lock-out, strike, slow down or stoppageof work during the i«m of this Agreement
3.04	In the event that any of the provisions of litis Collective Agreement are found to be in conflict with any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supeisede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting Ihe reminder of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(I) With the exception of operations which are scheduled on a 5 day, 40 hour workweek Monday to
Friday inclusive, the regularweekly schedule for the factory is a 7-day operation, and each associate Is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work. However, this shall not be taken as a guarantee of hours ofwork per day or days of work per week
The regular weekly schedule is an averageof forty-two (42) hours (based on a thirty six (36) hour and forty eight (49) hour rotation) within a period from 8:00 ani'Sunday to 8:00 am Sunday. (In any week i n which a designatedholiday occurs, die weekly hours ntay vary).
(2)	The employer may schedule work in excess of regular plant hours in order to maintain the factory and equipment, or to keep the production processes in balance, or to avoid the temporary hiring and laying off of associates.
(3)	All overtime shall be voluntary. Overtime shall be distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the qualified associates of the department (who have volunteered) in which overtime becomes necessary. In the event there are insufficient volunteers from the department for the overtime work, the employer may offer the overtime work to qualified associates outside die department. In the event die overtime work cannot be filled the most junior qualified associate(s) from the department will be required to work.
(4)	(a)	7 daywork schedule is as follows:
D-Day Shill	12 hour shifts-various
N- Night Shift	starting times
CREW PREMIUMS #l-$0.90/HR WORKED #2 - S0.90/HR WORKED #3-S0.90/HR WORKED #4- S0.90/HR WORKED
OVERTIME PROVISION
Ist SCH. DAY OFF: TIME AND ONE HALF
I^SCH.DAYOEF: DOUBLETIME
3*° SCH. DAY OFF TIME AND ONE HALF
Assodateworks - off; 2-2,3-2,2-3 rotation
	s	M	T	TV		T	■§		s	M	T	W	T	P	T		T	M	T	w	f	P	S		£	hi	T	W	V	p	S
Crew 1	N			¥	b					N	¥			D	IT		¥			N						l>	D			N	N
Crew 2	T5			¥	N					D	¥			N	¥		¥			b	b					¥	u			D	b
CtewJ		b	D			N	fJ		IT			D	D					N	|J			¥	b		D			¥			
Crew4		¥	N			b	D		¥			N	¥					b	b			¥	N		N			D	b		
NOTE Shill schedule lo work Sunday will be paid 8.0 hours straight time and 4.0 hours lime and one half.
^ Eight (8) hour shifts - rotating or non-rotating - various starting times - either 8 hours with a 20 minute paid lunch, or 8.5 hours with a 30 minute unpaid lunch.
Current establishedshifls and start times may be changed by mutual agreement.
5
/Niucic 4 Continued
4 02 '’Overtime work" means all time worked in excess of an associate's regularly scheduled eight (8) ho»» or twelve (12) hour shin in a twenty-four (24) hour period from the time he/siic is regularly scheduled to stan work; and also means all lime worked form 8:00 am Saturday to 8:00 am Monday for those on an eight (8) hour shift, forty (40) hour work week.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by associates substituting lor one another at (heir own request.
(b)	A change ofan associate's working Jwurs a! his/her own request
(c)	Regular weekly shift change.
(d)	The time spent on associate committee work: orsimilar activity
4.03	An associate will be advised of any change that is made on his/her lime sheet before the end of the pay
period.
4.04	The employer will provide adequate relief when necessary.
4.05	The employer shall not reduce the regular working lime of an associate because he/sltc has done overtime work, unless the associate consents to such reduction.
An associate wil I not construe overtime worked as a reason to take a "regularly scheduled day" off.
4.06	It is the policy of the Company not to schedule an associate to work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours at one time. However, it is recognized (hat in emergency situations or when oilier qualified associates are not available, it may be necessaiy to request an associate or associates to work beyond twelve (12) consecutive hours- K is the Company's intention t> keep such occurrences loon absolute minimum.
4.07	When an associate has reason t> be absent on his/her regularly scheduled shill, advance notice must be given no later Ilian two (2) hours before the stall of that shin, except i n emergency situations.
4.08	An associate, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shill will remain on the job until alternate arrangements can be made, but limited to a 1.5 hour period.
4.09	Associates will be required to work the full shill, less approved breaks and lunch periods and it is understood that all associates wil) apply themselves to their work with a satisfactory effort for lift entire
shill.
There will be no late starts or early quits or company paid wash-up times.
It is then understood that all operations will function on a continuous basis, with associates woiking until the next shin lakes over.
(t
ARTICLE } RATES OF PAY
3.01	The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the <Uie haeof, u set out in Appendix A and Is attached liereto, and forms put of this Agreement.
These rates will be wised in accotriance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the employer and the union on March 24,2000.
The rates as so revised shal remain m effect for the balance of the term of the Collective Labour Agreement	:
Interim increaseswill be calculated and applied in accordance with the formula as set out m Appendix B and is attached hereto, and fonns part of the Agreement
3.02	In the event of a change to established methods, specifications, established working conditions and job content which would result in a change in production the operations affected will be re-evaluated for labour balance, manning levels, and any corresponding changes to iltejob rate.
3,00	(a) Effective April 1,2000, new associateswill receive the following percentagesofapplicable wage payments, including COLA for the job classification m which the associate is assigned.
Protiresslvehlre in rates:
Date of Hire to Six (6) months	70.0%
Seven(7) to Twelve (12) months	75.0%
Tliirteen(13)to Eighteen <B)montl»	80.0%
Nineteen (19) to Twenty-four (24) months 83.0% Twenty-live (25) lo Thirty (30) months	90.0%
Thirty-one (31) to Thiity-six (36) months 95.0% Alter Thirty-six (36) months	100.00%
These rates do not apply to Department 4211 and Department 4216. II is understood that the progressive hire in rate does not affect any wage payments for associatesltired prior to the dale of ratification.
b) Job transfer rates: An associate who Is transferred to another operabon. either through displacement or through a transfer request shall be paid he rate of thejob to which he/she has transferred provided lidshecan qualify or his/her job rale until such time as Ite/She can qualify on the new operabon, except where the rale of the new operation is less than his/her current rate, m such case he/she will be paid the rate of the new operabon.
7
/ o
Arnclc 5 Continued
5.04	(I) If Hie employer temporarily assigns an associate, lor the benefit of the employer, io another
operation, while there is work available oil the associate's regular operation, he/she will he paid their cxislmgjob rate, or the rate of the temporary job. whichever is greater, provided he/she has made a satisfactory effort
(2)	When an associate is assigned to inslnicl other associates or u assigned lo jierfomi experimental work under the guidance of the Development Department Ite/sltc shall be paid his/her job rate
5.05	Time lost on a shift by an associate, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the associate's but tviihin the employer's control, shall be paid for at the rale of the job. However, m the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both Hie employer and Ibe associate, the associate shall be paid ihejab rate only for ihe period Ite/she is required by ihe employer to remain on the job.
5.(16 Associates on 5 day, 40 hour schedule shall be paid lime and one half for all overtime work except during ihe period from Saturday midnight to Sunday midnight or from 11:00 pm Saturday to 11 ;00 pm Sunday for those associates whose regular shill starts at 11:00 pm., when double nine will be paid.
Associates on a 7-day schedule shall be paid time and one half for all overtime work except lor their second scheduled day off which shall be paid at double lime.
Overtime premium shall not be paid twice lor the same tours worked.
5.07 An associate not previously scheduled to work wfto is caled to work and consequently works m an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or ui any time between one (l)ionr alter Ite/she lias left work and two ( 2) tours before his/her next scheduled shift shall receive eillter the equivalent of one half shift (4 or 6 hours) at his/her regular rate of yay, or regular rateof pay plus premium pay applicable for aclual lime worked, whichever is ihe greater.
5.0$ When an associate has not been notified of a change in his/her starting lime and Ite/she conies io work a his/her customary lime, he/she shall be paid his/her job rale for lour (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that ihe associate lias advised ihe employer of his/her last and correct address. This shall apply only when conditions are within Ihe employer's control. Such associates may be offered other suitable work, and ifshe/slte refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.09	When ai associate reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid his/her job rate for lour (4) hours ofhis/lier regular shift, provided that Hie conditions which caused the breakdown were within Ihe employer's control. Such associate may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work lie/she shall forfeit such pay.
Article 5 Continued...
5.	1C In ilit case of an emergency where it is necessaryfortlte employer lo send ah associate home before ilie conclusion of his/her regular shill in order lo have him/her report for work on a later shin, tire associate will be given the privilege on completing up lo a maximum of four (4) horns of work on his/her regular shin before going home. Payment will be made for such work at lire regular straight lime rale for hours worked on his/her regular shin. All hours worked on his/her later shin will be paid at the rate of time and one half. I n all such cases the associate affected must accept and complete the work assignment given lo him/her by the employer in brderto qualify for a benefit under this subsection.
5.11	An associate wbo is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid at his/herjob rate for time lost on his/her shin.
5.12	An assodatewill be paid his/herjob rale for lime lost on his/her operalion ifhe/slte is called away front same by his/her employer. This does not apply, however, in cases where disciplinary action is warranted. If it is necessary to bring someone in on Iheir day off lo investigate live incident, they will be paid their job rate at straight time for the duration of (he meeting.
5.13	Each member o f an associate committee who is present at special meetings called by the employer, mid with the employer present at the regular monthly meeting with the employer, or at 3rd and 4* step grievance meetings with the employer shall be paid his/herjob rate for the period until the lime at which the meeting is adjourned. Each member of ihe Bargaining Committee shall also be paid at his/herjob role for lime spent, to a minimum of eight (8) Ivouis in any one (I Jay for days in which meetings are Scheduled with the employer during negotiations for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
The designated steward or local union official representative will be paid at his/her job rate for lime spent making time studies authorized by the employer or calculations therefrom or to a maximum of two
(2)	working days while examining new or revised disputed rales in the ume study department or while undergoing training conducted by the employer or authorized by the employer. For the purpose of this provision, consentfor time off does not necessarily conatituteauthorization for payment.
5.14	If settlement of die grievance results in an adjustment in the contested job rate, it shall be made retroactive to the effective date of the rate, but not lo exceed 180 days on ihe operation.
5.15	Associates shall be granted shill premium i n the amount of $0.55 per tour for al hours worked between 7:00 pm and 7:00 am.
5.16	Any associate who Is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the crown shal be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her job rale for the lime lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subjeetto ihe following provisions:
|a| Associates must notify their area manager within twenty-four (24) hours utter receipt o f notice of selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown wiutess.
(b)	Any associate called for jury duty or wbo is subpoenaed as a crown witness and wbo is temporarily excused from attendance al court must report for work If a reasonable period o f lime remains lo be worked in his/her shill.
o
5 D Continual
(c)	Associates selected Tor jury duty or who arc subpoenaed i s a crown witness who ate on other Ilian first shift shall be assignat io Ihe first shift for those days they are required io serve Anyone called for jury duly or subpoenaed as a crown witness on a Monday and is sebahiM to work the preceding Sunday, will ba given the Sunday off without pay and will be required to work the Monday in lieu of Sunday for eight (8) hours at straight time less the time spent at couit. (as per (b) above)
(d)	In order to be eligible Tor such paytnail, the associate must furnish a written sialentent from the appropriate public official showing the dale and nine seived and the amount of pay received.
fej Should an associate’s scheduled vacation be affected due io his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed is a crown witness, the area manager will reschedulesaid associate's vacation, if lie/she so requests in Ihe cuirenl year. Said rescheduled vacation will be taken al a lime mutually agreed upon.
$.17 An associate on the active payroll of the Company who is excused by Ihe employer solely because of the death and funeral o fa parent, parent-in-law, spouse, common-law spouse covered under die Goodyear benefit system, child, child-in-law, common law child covered under Ihe Goodyear benefit system, grandchild, grandparent, spouse's grandparent brother/sisler, brether/sisier-in-law, spouse's brathcr/sislcr-in-law or a dependent who fives in ihe household of Ihe associate, will be compensated a i his/her job rate upon presetitationof proof of death for lime lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reeson of such absence, up to a maximum of 24 working hous, commencing with the date of the death for each such death and funeral. Time off will net be paid beyond Use dale of ihe funeral unless prior arrangements are made with the department manager, which will not be unreasonably denied.
This provision lo apply when it. is necessary tor the associate io mske funeral arrangements, and/or allend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster parent shall be consideiedis a parent and a stepchild or foster-child shaH be consideredas a child only where the step-parent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation lo such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid tor support of such child.
Far the purpose of litis section an associate who is on vacation will be paid lo a maximum of 24 hours for those days hefshe would have normally been scheduled lo work had lie/she not been on vacation. Such associate may extend hisfiter vacation by the number of days lie/she Is eligible for payment under ibis provision provided he/sbe notified hisfiter Area Manager promptly of Ihe funeral and in sufficient time for the Area Managerto secures replacement.
$.18 No personon the payroll of live Companyoultide of the bargaining unit shall perform any pari of Ihe wait normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. However, Ibis provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new associates, the handling of emergency situations or training of the Production Squadrontraining group.
S.|9 Shin differential will be added separately.
FsAqreC01.A increaaeswill be fended in a^ a new rate schedule issues a* ihey occur.
10
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY	,
0.01 Seniority shall be calculated u from (lie dale of the associate’s first working day for the employer. Associates hired with identical service dates will use relative age as the factor for determining seniority. The older associate will be deemed lo have the most factory seniority
0.02 (I) An associate shall losehis/her seniority when lidshe resignsor is discharged.
(2)	A laid offassodateshal losehis/her seniority wheneverlidshe fate to:
(a)	Inform the employer of the address at which lidshe can be readied when required lo report to work. Address changes may be forwaided by mail, addressed to the Human ResourcesDepartmenl, and will be acknowledged in writing;
(b)	Notify the employer of his/her intention to return to work within three (3) working days after having been notified to do so by messenger or receiving a notice to do sq by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her address on the records of the employer;
(e)	Report for work within seven (7) days after lie/the has stated his/her intention to return to work.
In each of suds cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shal terminate a once without notice or other act on the part of the employer, provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the associate furnishes a saisfactory reason to the employer within thirty (30) days of his/her failure. This exception may be made only once i n favour of any one associate.
(3)	A n associatewhh seniority who is laid off with lessthan five (S) years of feretory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following two (2) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority, An associate who is laid off with five (S) years or more of factory seniority and is not recaled lo work by the employer during the following five (3) year period shal thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(4)	(a) In any cxie layoffperiod, a former associate with seniority in layoffslatus who hekt less
tar five (5) years of seniority at limeef layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority held at time of layoff but in no eventshal such accumulation of seniority exceed one (I) year.
(b)	In any one layoffperiod, a former associate with seniority in layoff status, who held five |5) years or more of seniority al time of layoff, shall be entitled lo accumulate seniority and services lo a maximum of two (2) years
it
f> 02 Continued
(c)	The accumulation of seniority and service as provided under this subsection writ be credited to an assodateupon his/her return to work.
6,0) III An associateabsentfrom work becauseof bodily injuries caused by accidcnl orsickness and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life insurance Agreement in effect from lime to time between the employer and the Union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(a)	An assodale tvlio has less lhan live (5) yearn of conlinuous service with the employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (l>ear, but his/her accumulated seniority and service shall ran exceed his/her service with the employer as of lire day on which lie/slie last worked prior to his/her illness.
(b)	An associate who lias five (5) or more yeais of continuous service with die employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) yeais.
(c)	An associate who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness, and under the advice of a doctor and al Ihe discretion of the employer, returns to work on an operation other than his/her own, shall be allowed to accumulate his/her regular crew seniority while on such operation for the length of time of such assignment, to a maximum period of three (3) monihs, or for a period equal to ihe number ofcalendar days lidshewas absent because of such accident or sickness whichever is greater. His/her accumulated crew seniority shall not esxed his/her factory seniority.
(2)	The provisions of subsection (I >hall in no way limit Ihe accumulation of seniority and service by an assodale who is receiving Workers' Compensation Benefits.
(3)	An assodatewho is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulatedsenioriiy and service in accordancewith ihe provisions of Article 6.03 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together will) his/her prior credited service and seniority so longas hc/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able lo return to work or to accept other employment. If lie/she should accept oilier employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
12
Article 6 Continued
0.04 (IJ An associate who is selected as a ddcgait lo a convemion of ihtUmiKl Steelworkers of
America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Alberta Federation of Labour, or specific union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as maybe necessary for this purpose provided lhat such leave will not interfere with the efficient operalionofihe factory Under this provision, not more than one (I Associate from each division may be absent at the same bme. The Company willnol limit the number of members of the Bargaining Committee who are entitled to attend grievance meetings beyond Step II.
(2)	After normal placement under Article 6.09 (lie President, Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer, in order of priority, and Executive Board timbers, in order of factory seniority, will not be laid off factory employment while there is work to be performed in the plant In such event he/she shall displace die assoriatewith the least seniority in the factory The displaced associate will be laid off.
(3)	An assodatewho is elected or selected for full lime duty as an officer for, or representative of, the United Steelworkers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or lo the Alberta Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yeady and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two fl} years following tire dale the leave of absence is granted the assodatewill accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force. Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had led or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For pension purposes only, such associates will be credited with the seniority and service which he/she had attained up to die lime his/her leave of absence had been granted and will also be entitled to accumulated seniority and service, but his/her accumulated seniority and service, shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which bste last worked prior to his/her leave of absence. Such assodatewill not have to return to active employment with Hie employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the associate's application for reh'rement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
Application of Article 6.04 (3) is conditional upon the Pension Plan receiving all necessary approvals from relevant government authorities.
6.0S The probationer shall be a temporary associate Or all the time of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be tenminaied a any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have an obligation to rehire him/her or offer him/her work. It is understood, however, that he/she has all other applicable nghts as contained under this Agreement. In the event of layoffs, positions held by probationers will be includedin the! ay offprocedure.
Article 6 Continued
0.06 No associate with seniority shall be laid olT in a department of the factory before all probationers in the factory are laid off.
6.07 Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no associate shall be assigned operation lor which he/she is not then qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Article 6.09 are applicable. The employer may assign or transfer any associate to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
SENIORITY PROVISIONS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
6.08 (I) The associates of the engineeringdivision am not included in thejob seniority system as outlined in Article 6.09 and 6.11 of this article. These associates shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division based on qualifications, and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in that division under a departmentseniority system.
(2)	LAYOFFS from a particular department shall be made according to department seniority, provided that if (he associate whose work has been teiminaled lias had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department, he/she may displace fie associate on that operarion with less department seniority than himself/herself; any associate so displaced and who lias had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation i n the same department shall have the same privilege as the associate above, whose work lias been laminated, until the layoff procedure reaches the associate with the least departmentseniority in the department; said associate with the least departmentseniority in the department shall be laid off ftom factory employment.
(3)	RECALLS to a department will be made in the revetseorder of layoff provided the associate recalled is qualified to fill the vacancy.
(4)	An associate o f the engineering division may request a transfer from the engineering division to a production department provided Ite/she is qualified, and tut associate of the production department may request a transfer to the engineering division provided he/she is qualified and is consideredbyfhe Company to be the best candidate for thejob.
(5)	Associates in the engineeringdivision who are about to be laid off shall be given the opportunity lo displace associates in production in accordance with Article 6.09 (I) using their factory seniority.
14
Article 6 Continued
LAYOFFS - I'RODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
G.l?" (t)	When it becomes necessary to layoff or surplus one or more associates, the associates) with the
least factory seniority on the operation(s) affected will be removed from the opcralion(s) in reverse order of factory sernorily. Associates so removed shall be referred to the Human Resources Depanmcnt to fill available vacancies. If there are none, or they cannot qualify for the vacancy, associates with factory seniority will be given the opportunity to bump the least senior associate^) on the last positions) they bold and on which they had completed the learning period, provided they have greater factory seniority than the least senior associate^) on that operation. Failing that the surplus associate(s) shall bump into the drat position for which they can qualify by starting with the least senior associate^) in the plant. If these provisions result in bumping inorc than 20% of the experienced associates on any operation of more than 10 associates during a period of lime equal to the learning period Ter that operation, bumping privileges by additional suiplus associates must be exercised on the next least senior associated another operation. Onoperalions of I to $ associates, one (I Jiump will be slowed rather lhan the 20% rule. On operabons of 6 -10 assodatesiwo (2) bumps will be allowed rather than the 20% rule. At any given time these constraints will be limited to a maximum of 120-day period for any operation. Alter all bumpings have been determined the low seniority associates) displaced per the aboveshall be laid off
(2) When it becomes necessarylo reduce the number of associates in a crew, the associates) with Die least crew seniority (have been on the specilic operations) the shortest lime) on the job(s) affected shall be considered the surplus associates) and shall dsplace others in the crew according t crew seniority (time on the specific operation) as follows and in accordance with Appendix C.
a)	A surplus associate from one group (specific operation) shall displace the associate with the least crew seniority (time on the specific operation) in the group (specilic operation) immediatey below the group (specific operalion) in which he/she was working, provided his/her crew seniority (lime on the specilic operaion) is sufficient to do so. Tha displaced associateshall have the same privilege in the group (specific operalion) below his/hers until those associates with the least crew seniority (time on the specific operation) have become surplus in the crew (specilic department per Appendix Q.
b)	No associate shall be surplused off a crew (specific depanmcnt per Appendix C) while there is an associate with less factory seniority remaining. In such event, the associate with the least factory seniority shall be sutplused from the crew (specilic department per Appendix C), regardless of his/her crew position (order ofoperalion as shown in Appendix C), and will lake his/her place m the factory m accordance with Article 6.00 (I), The crew (specific department per Appendix C) will then progress according to crew seniority (lime on a specilic operation) to fill said vacated position, and the associate with the greatest factory seniority, initially surplused, will fill the vacancy in the bottom position.
6.10	An associate to be laid off for an indefinite period shall be given nor less lhan live (6) working days nonce of Ihc effective dale of layoff and such associate will be granted pay at his/her job tale for such time during the five (5) day period that work is not available. The associateshall give one (I) week's notice of the effective date ofltis/her resignation, ifpossible.
IS
Article 6 Continued.
REINSTATEMENTAND RECALL-PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.11	(I) In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former associates, and an
associate who was placed on other work In the factory shall be reinstated on the former job on which he/she worked immediately prior to the date of placement; in order of factory seniority except that if the said associate lias worked for six (6) consecutive months an his/her new job he/she may retain his/her new job.
(2)	Aker all associates have been reinstated or transferred according to the provisions on Article
6.11	II I, the balance of the associates in a lay off status shall be recaled in older of factory seniority. In each case consideration will be given to the physical fitness o f the individual for the job, lo ensure the safely of himself/herself and others and a competent working force will be maintained at all times.
6.12	(a) Assodateswho have transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit prior totlie February 13, 1996, and who had least one (I >ear of seniority Inilie bargaining unit prior to transfer, shal be granted the factory seniority held at the lime of transfer out of the bargaining gait upon being Iransfbntd bad into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat Plant. After Ihe expiration of sixteen (16) months alter transpiring bad lo the bargaining unit, he/she shall be granled factory seniority equivalent lo their continuous service' with the employer.
(b)	Associates transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit after February 12, 1996 and who had at least one (I >ear of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the lime of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred bad into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit lias been accumulated in Hie Medicine Hal Plant.
(c)	Associates transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit on or after January 1,2000, shall be granled the factory seniority held at the lime of transfer out of the bargaining unit if he/she returns lo the bargaining unit within a six (6) month period and shall find their rightful place according to Article 6.12 (d).
An associate who returns after the six (6) month period will return with no bargaining unit seniority as though he/she were a new hire.
(d)	Such assoctate will lake hia/her place in the factory in lire following manster:
(|) He/she tnay displace the associate with (I* least factory seniority in his/her previous - department, provided his/her factory seniority at the time of his/her transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
(2) He/she may displace the assoaatewilh the least factory seniority in (he factory provided his/her factory seniority at the time of transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
6.12 Continued
(3) An assodatewho lias retumedlo the bargaining unit under this section will be permitted to exercise his/her bumping rights only in accordance with article 6.12 (d) (I )ir 6,12 (d) (2) until the expiration of.mne (9) months from the date lie/she first munis to the bargaining unit.
6.1} (I) Anassodatewhowishestotransferfromoneoperaliontoanolliershallodgeawritteniequest 'Transfer on File" with the Human Resources Department, which shall keep all such requestson
file.
(2)	"Transfer on File" requests will be submitted to the Company by the associate requesting a transfer. No associate shall be allowed to have In force more than one "transferon fSe" at one time. All "transfer on file" requests must slate the "department", "specific operation" and specific crew(s), (1,2,3,4)” to which the assodatewislKS to be transferred. Each 'Transferon File" will automatically cancel any previous 'Transfer on File" request made by the same associate. Refusing a transfer when offered automatically cancels the'Transferal File" request
(3)	When the first vacancy occurs, it will be posted ninety-six (96) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holiday^)) before being filled. Postings will stale "specific department", "specific operation", and "specific crew (1,2,3,4)". The assodatewKh the longest factory seniority, on the list of applicantsto transferwho can qualify, shal be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation lias more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. (See Article 6 0S (4) for transfers into the engineering division). The associate who is offered the opportunity to transferwill have 24 tours to accept the transfer. I f the transfer has not been accepted within said 24 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused the transfer and the opportunity to transferwill be offered to the next associate on the list of applicants. Tire second vacancy created will be posted and filled as outlined m this subsection.
(4)	The third vacancy aeated will be filled by a restricted worker, in order of factory seniority. If there is no restricted worker who can qualify for the position, the vacancy shal be filled using lire 'Transferon File"system as describedin Article 6.13 (l)and (2). The associate with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a "Transferon File" request for that department, specific operation and specific crew(s) (1,2,3,4) prior to the filling ofthe second vacancy, and who can qualify, shal be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid offstahis from that operation, has more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. The associate who is offered the opportunity to transferwill have 24 hours to accept the transfer. I f the transfer lias not been acceptedwithin said 24 hours, he/she will be deemed is having refused
the transfer and the opportunity lo transferwill be offered to tire next associate on the list of applicants.
6.13 Continued
(5)	Tlie fourth vacancy created will be filled using the "Transfer on Pile" system as described in Article 6.13 (l)and (2). Hie associate with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a 'Transfer on File" request for that department, specific operation and specific crew(s) (1,2,3,4), prior to the filling of the second vacancy, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an associate in a laid off status from that operation, lias more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. The associate who is offered the opportunity to transferwill have 24 hours to accept the transfer. I f the transfer has not been accepted within said 24 hours, lidshe will be deemed s having refused the transfer and the opportunity to transfer will be offered to the next associate on die list of applicants.
(6)	The fifth vacancy created will be filled with a new hire. Prior to filling the fifth vacancy the Company will consider cuirent associates on a factory seniority basis that are not eligible to transfer.
(7)	r the associate fails to qualify on the new operation after die usual learning period, he/slie may return b his/her previous department, providing a vacancy exists. If there is no vacancy in his/her previous departmentlie/she may displace the assodatewith the least factory seniority in the department provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient lo displace such associate. Failing that, he/she shall displace the assodatewith the least factory seniority in the factory provided his/her facloty seniority is sufficient b displace such associate.
(8)	IMien an associate is t/ansferred, lidshe shall be paid in accordance with the wage rate provided Tor in Article 5.03, and lidshe shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which lidshe has transferred The rate change will not be made until the associate has actually started training or working on the awarded job. An associate's experience and effort may warrant a higher rate as determined by the Company.
(9)	An associate who has been transferred underthe provisions of Article 6.13 will not be permitted to file another application for transfer until expiration o f twelve (12) months from the dale on which the assmiate is awarded the new j*.
All new associates will not be permitted to file for a transfer until the expiration ofsixteen (16) months from the date they are awarded their first permanent position However, prior to hiring from outside, the Companymay consider allowing these associates to transfer.
(10)	Whenever vacancies occur in a crew or when new crews are fonned the crew or crews shall progress as follows:
(a)	The associate with the longest crew seniority (has been on the specific operation the longest) in the group below that in which the vacancy occurs, will advance to the vacancy provided lidshe wishes to do so and can qualify. An associate who is offered the opportunity to progress shall be given 48 houis to accept If he/she does not accept within said 48 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused the progression and the opportunity to progress will be offered to the next associated! the fist ofcandidates from the specific operation.
18
6.0 Continued
(b)	The associate with the longest crew seniority (has been on the specific operation die longest) in the next lowest group wilt advance to the position vacated through else progression above, and so on until the bottom position on the crew becomes vacant.
(c)	This position shall be filed through the transfer system.
f 11) Exceptions to the transfer procedure outlined in this Article may be made for those jobs which require special qualifications and responsibilities. These exceptions include and are limited to Tire Room Set-Up Techs, Group Leaders, Quality Assurance Techs, Maintenance Lead Hands and Warehouse Lead Hand. In order to be eligible lor these positions applicants must meet qualifications which include the following:
(a)	applicants will be required to pass an aptitude test related to the position lor which they are applying;
(b)	applicants must have sufficient related experience pertinent to the positions for which they are applying;
(c)	in selecting eligible candidates consideration will be given to the candidates personnel fie.
The total number of associates in these positions shall not exceed sixteen (Id) associates and may be changed by mutual agreement.
6.14	An associate shall have the right to examine his/her seniority records at any time tn the Human Resources Department. A seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names o fall the associates in said department. This list will be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately six (6) months, and each revision will be posted in the department concerned as soon as possible thereafter. The Union shall be given a copy o f the seniority list after each such revision
6.15	For the purpose of this Article, a list of ail departments and jobs of the factory shall be given by the employer lothe Uniononceperyear.
6.16	Tlte Union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 it will be necessary for the employer to inaiuiain at all times a competent and trained working force.
6.17	For the purpose of Article 6.1) (4) a "restricted worker" is an assodalewho suffers serious injury or impairment froin Goodyear employment or an associate with live (S) or more years of continuous service who suffers from sehous injury or impairment, which results in permanent disability that prevents the associate from working on his/her own operation.
"Restricted worker" status shall be come effective once the permanent disability has been certified by a medical doctor and the list of jobs on which an associate can qualify lias been determined. The list of jobs on which an associate can qualify will be detennined by matching the associate's functional capacity to the physical demands of the jobs in the bargaining unit.
19
Anicle 0.IS Continued
6.18	A Canale associate who becomes pregnant shall present a certificate from her physician to such effect when she has been pregnantfor four (4) months.
As associate who had at least twelve (12) months continuous service prior to becoming pregnant shall, as of Iter fifth month of pregnancy, be granted upon request a leave of absence until four months after the binh or other delivery. Her seniority will be accumulated during said leave of absence.
If, at the expiration of the four month period she presents the written opinion of her physician to the Industrial Relations Department of the Employer to the effect that she is incapable of performing Iter nonnal work, she shall be placedon medical leave and accumulateseniority per Article 6.03,
An associate who had less than twelve months continuous service shal be granted a twenty-six (26) week leave of absence. Herseniorily will be accumulatedduring said leaveof absence.
If, at tlte expiration of tie twenty six (26)week period she presents the written opinion of Iterphysician lo the Industrial Relate Department of the Employer to die effect that site is incapable of perfonning her normal work, she shall be placedon medical leaveand accumulate seniority per Article 6.03.
6.19	An associate who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shal nuke wntten application to the Human ResourcesDepaitmem, selling out die reason for his/her request If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the union secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for selfemployment at far employment elsewhere. The associate must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and hefshe will be placed on his/her previousjob provided that he/she is able to perform the work. The associate will be credited with service and seniority during the period while he/she is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two (2) months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum o f two (2) months.
6.20	If any manufacturing or operating method is permtnendy eliminated or modernized, causing die layoff of associates, lie associatesso affected at the lime will be transferred according to Article 6.09.
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday will be observed for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 am on die day of die holiday to 8:00 am (he day following the holiday or other mutually agreed to starling times. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some assodatesto work after 8:00 am to complete work in progressor b dose down propedy for the holiday, la departments where a seven (7) day schedule Is required and/or in mamlenance departments, the minimum number of assodates necessary lo keep the factory in operating condition shall work os the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make# necessary for certain associates lo work on a holiday in order tljsl oilier assort lies will not suffer loss of lime.
20
Antcle 7 Continued i r:	v	.	'
Associates who quaiify will be paid an amount equal lo one (I) standard shift hue not exceeding twelve (12) hours for each of the following designated holidays:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day	...
Christmas Day	.	.	..	..
Civic Holiday Remembrance Day
and three (3) other holidays which will be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union before April l * of the year m which the holidays occur.
If an additional statutory holiday it proclaimed by either level of Government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
(b)	V a designatedholiday falls on a Satutdayor Sunday it shal be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	In any year in which the Civic Holiday falls during a plant vacation shutdown period, the Monday following the vacation shutdown period will be observed as Civic Holiday, or another day mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(d)	In die event a holiday fals during an associate’s regular vacation and provided the associate qualifies for holiday pay per Article 7.06 lie/she shall at his/her option (I )take an additional day of vacation at mutually agreed to rime during that year; or (2) be paid one additional day's pay in lleuofexlending his/hervacation period.
7.03	In order to qualify, an associate must be on the payroll for a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled holiday, and must have worked the last scheduled shin before the holiday and the first scheduled shill after the holiday. In a case where there am circumstances beyond the associate's control and the associate could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation o f the associate's Area Managerand approved by the Human Resources Manager and the Plant Manager. Subject to the above, an associate who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's cesiilicate and limited to a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday at! Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate received as the resultofsuch illness.
7.04	Payment for designatedholidays shall be calculated as follows:
All associates shall be paid eight (8) or twelve (12) hours, as per their tegular schedule, multiplied by theirjob rates.
21
Aniclc 7 Continued
7.05	An associate who is required lo work on a designated holiday, shall be paid double time for die tune worked in addition to his/her holiday pay.
In situations where associates are required to work one hour after he/she has left work or two hours before his/her next scheduled shift the associate shall receiventinimum call in pay per Article 5.07.
7.06	An associate shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said associate actually works an his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a easa where an associate is absent on his/her regular scheduled shin before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Article 7.03
Subject to the above, an associatewho is absent because o f sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor's certificate and limited b a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holidays, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the associate receives as the result o f such illness
7.07	An associate who is laid ofEwithin period offive (5) working days immediately preceding a holiday and who actually performed his/her assigned work on the day of layoff shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE ft VACATIONS
8.01	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation year will be the calendaryear. For vacation purposes,the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 7:00 am Sunday. For the purpose of scheduled vacation, the vacation yearwill be from May I in one year to April 30 o ftlte following year.
8.02	(I) An associate with less than one (I jyear o f continuous service as of December 31 ofthe previous
calendar year shall be granled one (I )day of vacation for each complete month worked during the previous vacation year.
(2)	An associate with one(l) year but less than five (5) years ofcontinuous serace as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted two (2) weeks of vacation.
(3)	An associate with five (5) years or more but less than ten (10) years ofcontinuous service as of December 31 ofthe previous yearshal! be granted three (3) weeks o f vacation
(4)	An associate with ten (10) years or more but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service as o f December} I of the previous year shall be granted four (4) weeks of vacation.
(5)	An associate with twenty (20) yearn or more but less than twenty-five (25) years of service as of December} I of the previous year shall be glinted five (5) weeks o f vacation.
22
8.(12 Conliiiuctl
(6)	An associate with iwcnry-tivc/25J years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of ihc previous year shall be granted sn (6) weeks of vacalion.
8.03	(I) An associate entitled lo a vacation as oullined in Article 8.02 (I) and (2) will receive
vacation pay equal lo four (4) percent of the actual earnings received by Imn/licr during ihc previous calendar year.
(2)	An associate entitled to a vacation as oullined in Article 8.02 (3) will receive vacalion pay equal ioaix (6) percent of the aclual earnings received by hiin/bea during the previouc calendar year.
(3)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (4) will receive vacation pay equal to eight (8) percento f the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(4)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (S) will receive pay equal lo ten (10) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(5)	An associate entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (6) will receive pay equal to twelve (12) percent o f the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(0) An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous sendee on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacalion year a third week o f vacation on his/her completion o f live (5) years of continuous service in addition to the two (2) weeks o f vacalion he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacalion two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An associate who completes five (5) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacalion year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days ofwork.
(7)	An associate who completes ten (10) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a fourth (4"1) week of vacalion on his/her completion often (10) years of continuous service in addition to the three (3) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacalion pay for iliat fourth (4") week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings inthe previous calendar year.
An associate who completes ten (10) years of continuous sendee sfter April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days ofwork.
2J
8.03 Continued
(g) An associate who completes twenty (20) yeas of continuous service on or beforeApril 28 in the ctumt vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a filth week of vacation on hidher completion of twenty (20) years of continuous service in addition to the four (4) weeks of vacation he/slte has already been granted for hidher previous calendaryear of service and will receives vacation pay for that filth week of vacation two (2) pereentof hidher earnings in the previouscalendaryear.
An associate who completestwrenty (20) years ofcontinuous service after April 24 in the current vacationyear shall be granted vacation for the remaining days o f the vacation year with pay for his/her remainingregularlyscheduleddays of work.
(9)	An associate who completestwrenty live (25) years ofcontinuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a sixth week of vacation an his/her completion of twenty five (25) years of continuous service in addition to the five (5) weeks of vacation he/slte has already beat granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive a vacation pay for that sixth week ofvscation two (2) pencentofhidher earnings inthe previouscalendaryear.
An associate who completes twenty live (25) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacationyear shall be granted vacation for the remaining days o f the vacation year with pay for his/her remainingregularty scheduleddays of work.
(10)	Incomputingtheactualeamingsforvacationpay, (he following items shall be included; actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the previous year, (/talkers' Compensation payments for lost time, Alberta Health Care premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the associate, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and weekly indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life InsuranceAgreemenl
(It) Wien an associate has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to maternity learre, sicknessor injury not covered by the Workers' Compensation Act, and for these reasons only the vacation pay is tea than the minimum mentionedbelow, the vacation pay shall be increasedto amiuimum of $225.00 per week, providedlhtl said associate must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendaryear and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than one 111 month beforevacation i s granted.
(12) An associate with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dtes during his/her employment, if he/she has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year shall be entitled lo receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive four (4) percent of hidher earnings in the current year if he/she has completed one (I )year or more but less than five (5) years ofcontinuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or six (6) pereentof his/her eamingsin the current year if he/she has completed five(5) years or morebut lea than ten (10) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves
24
8.04 Continued...
. the employ of the employer ar dies, or eight (8) percentof his/her eamingsin the current year if hc/sbelus completedten (10) yearsormore but less than twenty (20) years o f continuous service at the date he/ri» leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or ten (10) percent of hidher earnings in Ihe current year if hei/sfae has completed twenty (20) years or more but less than twenty five (2S) years ofcontinuous service at the dale he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or twelve (12) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twenty-five (2$) years ofcontinuous services! the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer of dies.
(13) An associate with seniority who leaves the employ ofthe employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, ifhe/shehas not had his/her vacation or pay in lieu o f vacation in ihe current vacation year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled lo receive such vacation pay in lieu o f vacation plus ihe same applicable percentage of his/her current year's eamingscalculaled in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.03 (II) and based on his/her length ofcontinuous servicewith die employer.
80S Vacations may be taken at anytime during the vacation year, at such lime as may be most convenient to the employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to Hie associate. However, the final right to allot vacadons is reserved by the employer ao that orderly operation of ihe plant is assured.
All associate will be given die opportunity, on a factory seniority basis ivilliin Ihe Business Centers, Engineering, Power House and Warehouse, to schedule their vacalion unlit the end of January each year. If vacation dales are not selected by that lime they will be taken on hist come hist serve basis until ihe end o f March. Alter March 31" ihe employer may schedulevacations.
The Company will notify associates of the shutdown plans for the upcoming year before ihe end of Decemberin each year. However, the Company reservesihe right to alter those plans due to changes in requirements, and/or emergency situations.
8.05 (I)	An associate is not entitled, under any conditions, to more than six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
(2)	Vacations are not cumulative, and they cannot be deferred until the following vacation year
ARTICLE 9 UNION SECURITY
9.01	Any associate, who is a memberof the Union in good standing on ihe elective dale ofthis Agreement, shall maintain his/her membership in the Union as a condition of his/her continued employment for the duration of this Collective Agreement to the extent of paying union dues, in accordance with the constitution ofthe U.S.W. A. as determined by the local union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership therein.
2S
Article 9 Continued
9.02	Any person hired on or after lire effective day of this Agreement or transferred therein after sucji effective date shall make application for union membership and shall as a condition of his/her continued employment maintain his/her union membership on the same terms and to the same extent as provided in Article 9.01.
9.0) All present associates and all new associates, including associates transferred into the bargaining unit shall have their membership dues deducted front llieir earnings, or fram any benefits paid under lire Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, whichever, is applicable, by signing llte dues authorization fonns supplied by the Union.
9.04	The employer will deduct the authorized union dues and assessments from the first pay received in each month for each associate fiom whom the Payroll Department has received, or may receive during the life of this Agreement, a dues authorization and deduction form supplied by the Union.
9.05	The deductions shall be made front the first pay due to the associate in each calendar month. The dues so deducted shall be remitted, alongwith a list of lire names of associates from whom such deductions have been made, within one (I >ieek after iheendof the month payable io:
Inlemalronal Secretary-Treasurer United Steelworkers of America Unit D, Box 34223 Vancouver, British Columbia V6J4NI
(a) A duplicate itemized statement shall be forwarded as follows to:
United Steelworkers of America Local (28 Bex 502
Medicine Hat, Alberta TIA7G2
cc, United Steelworkers of America 4200 - 3311 Fanlight Drive Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7M3Y5
(jjj The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a statement showing the names of each associate from whose pay deductions have been made, and the total amount deducted for the month. Such statements shall also list the names of the associates from whom no deductions have been made and the reasons why, along wilh any fonns required by the Internationa! Union.
(c)	The name and associate number of any associaie(s) who lias left the bargaining unit since the Iasi report.
(g) The employer aryees to print the amount of total deductions paid by each associate Ctr the previous calendar year on lire Income Tbot T4 form.
Article 9 Continued...
9.06' The assignments and authorizations once executed shall be Irrevocable for the duration of this Collective Agreement or any renewal thereof, provided that if the termination of this Agreement or any renewal thereof is followed by the execution o f a new Agreement, these assignments and authorizations shall be deemed to be automatically renewed for the duration of each new Agreement.
9.07	The Union shall indemnify and save the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund harmless from any daims, suits, judgments, attachments and from any other form o f liability as a result o f the employer and/or the Trustee of the S.U.B. Fund making deductions in accordance with the foregoing authorizations and assignments, and the Union will make refunds directly to all associates from whom a wrongful deduction has been made.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10,Ot It is the mutual desireofthe parties hereto that complaints of assodatesshall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the associate and Ihe employer shall be dealt wills as provided hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that any associatedoes not have a grievance until he/she or his/her steward lias discussed the complaint with his/her supervisor.
10.0} If such coinplaint isnotsettledtothesatisfaclionoftheassodateconcemedtheassodateshallstatethe complaint in writing, and when signed by him/her and presented to the steward of his/her department, such complaint shall be consideredto be a grievance and subject to the following steps of Ihe grievance procedure:
Step I:	The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or a union representative with the
Production Managerof the division in which the grievance occurred. A decision will be rendered in writing by the Production Manager within a period of three (3) days if possible.
Step 2.	Ifno satisfactory solution is readied at Step I of tins procedurelhe grievance may be
discussed by the Bargaining Committee of the union and represenlalivesof Ihe employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than live f5J working days following a decision at Step I of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Human Resources Manager to Ihe President of the union not later than five |5| workings days following the commencement of the discussion in Step 2 if possible.
27
Article 10 Continued
Step 3:	If no satisfactory soluiion isrcached al Stop 2 of this procedure lire grievance may be
discussed by ihe Bargaining Committee of the union and a representative of tire International Union and representatives of Ihe employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five {S) working days after the receipt by the union of the decision in Step 2 if possible.
The Company undertakes to reply, in writing to the local union within five (5) workings days following a Step 2 grievance meeting as outlined in Article 10.03 of Ihe Collective Labour Agreement
The dale of receipt of such letter will constitute Ihe completion of discussion at the Step 3 meeting-
Step 4:	If a grievance has not been settled at Step 3 and if the grievance is one which concerns
Ihe applicaiion, administration, interpretation of aleged violation of the Agreement, it may be referred to an arbitrator by either party. Notice in writing of such reference to an arbitrator must be given to ihe other party within thirty live (35) working days of ihe completion of discussion in Step 3. Failing such notice the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
10.04	Itisagreedthai:
Tlie aggrieved associates shall be at liberty, and may be required by cither party, to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	Whichever party requests arbitration as referred to in Stop 4, shat specify a list of names of persons it is willing to accept as Ihe single arbitrator. If ihe party receiving nonce accepts one of the persons suggested it shall within 7 days notify the other party accordingly and the grievance shall be submitted lo the arbitrator. If the party does nol accept any of Ihe names suggested it shall within 7 days notify the other party accordingly and send a list of names of peisons it is willing to accept as the single arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as the single arbitrator, either party may request the Director of Alberta Labour Relations in writing to appoint a single arbitrator. In an arbitration case involving rates, the arbitrator shall be a competent Industrial Engineer.
10.06	The arbitrator shall meet promplly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch The decision of the arbitrator made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the employer, Ihe union, and (lie associate or associates concerned.
10.07	Each of the parties will jointly bear the evpenseof the arbitrator.
10.08	The arbitrator shall, wherever possible, endeavor (o render his/her decision within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing of the dispute; provided that failure of Ihe arbitrator io render his/her decision within the tune limit specified shall not deprive him/her of jurisdiction or vitiate any award that may be made.
2!
Article 10 Continued..
10.00	The arbitrator shall not have any power lo alter or change any of Hie provisions of ihis Collective Agreement, or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions o f Ihis Collective Agreement.
10.10	Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mulual agreement and any such agieementwillbeptu inwriting.
10.11	Any dispute between the employer and the union as to the interpretation of this Collective Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any term of this Collective Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved, to the other party. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 2 of the grievance and arbitration proceduresas set forth in ihisAitide.
DISCHARGING CASES
10.12	(1) Anassociatewithsenioritywhoclcimstohavebeendischargedorsuspendadnnjuslly^nayfile
a claim in writing with the Human ResourcesManagerwithin five (5) working days of ceasing to work, slating that he/she has been unjustly dischargedor suspended.
(2) The employer will undertaken) advise in writing, a union official within Iwenty-four (24) hours, the name and department f an associate who is suspended or discharged.
1013 All such caseswillbehandledat Step2 of lire grievance procedure wilhin three (3) working days of Ihe receipt of Ihe claim from the associate who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a resultofthe application of Step 2 and 3 of the grievance procedure the dispute shal be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.
10.14 Ifil is decided that Ihe associate was unjustly discharged or suspended ho'she shall be reinstated, and Ire/she shall be compensated at his/her regular rale of pay for lime lost, subject to Ihe provisions hereinafter provided.
10.13	The arbitrator will have the right to increase or decrease the penalty if they feel the circumstances justify sudi action, and will haveaulhority lo determine the amount of pay, ifany, the associate is to receive for Ihe period of his/her discharges suspension iflic/she is subsequently reinstated.
10.16 In calculating Ihe amount of pay the associate is lo receive, if reinstated, the arbitrator shal deduct therefrom any monies earned by L e associate from other employment and any Employment Insurance Benefits received by fte associate dunng the period of his/her suspension or discharge and retlinedby
10.17 d r An associate will be given a copy of any notation concerning his/her misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed irt his/her personal record. A copy cf every notation will be forwarded to the Secretaryo f the union by the Human Resources Managerofthe employer.
(2) Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation of Ihe no-slrike provisions in Ihe Agreement,not repeatedwithinaoneili year period will bedisregardedintheadminitintionof discipline.
29
10.17 Continued..
Notations reporting offenses involving violation of tiro no-slrike provisions in the Agreement not repealed within a throe (3) year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline. -
(4| An assodatewhen sailed into the office for reprimands will, upon request, have the right to have a union steward with him/her at any time during the meeting.
ARTICLE II MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect associates front injury and sickness. The union agrees to co-operate with the employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health and Safely Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than sin (6) members reprcseniing the employer and not more than six (6) members representing the local union. The function oftlie committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work pracuccsand accident prevention in the plant
The commtilee shall meet not less Ilian once per month m order B discuss safety problems. The commiuce's function will include a periodic lour of a section of the factory lo observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory wilh the suuu 0 f any recommendation made lo bo reviewed at each meeting. The commiltce should periodically verify llui adopted recommendations are being compiled wilh.
11.02	Gad) associate shall use reasonable care for ihe cleanliness of his/her machine and ihe imntediale working area.
11.01	The employer agees to pcnnii the union to post nonces o f meetings and other union business or affaire on bulletin boards throughout Ihe factory provided for such purposes; it is ageed, however, that such notices shall be approved by fie Human Resources Manager and posted by members of Ihe employer's Human Resources Department.
11.04 A BargaiitingCommiUee consisting of four (4) members, all of whom shall be regular assodatesof the employer, shall be selected by the assodsteswho are members of the union, in a manner determined by the union. Tlie employer shal be informed by the union, in writing, of the personnel of thecomnuliee and of any changes which may occur from time to time
I	i ,0$ The Union recognizes the need for improved methods and agees to cooperate with ihe employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating us members in the need of such changes and improvements; the employer and Ihe union agee that, conststenl with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable lo maintain the best productivity possible.
11.06 The union pledges that ii will co-operale with ihe employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
10
Article 11 Continue!..
11.07 (I)	The membenhip of the Production Squadron Training Group shall not exceed (wo (2) percent of
ilw assodatesin the bargaining unit. Bargaining auocuteiihill noi be wml home »4 replaced by Production SquadronTrainees.
The training program for any member will not exceed beyond a three (3) year period unless mutually agreed upon by both the Company and the Union.
(2)	Associates recruited from the bargaining unit for the Production Squadron Training Program and
who fail to meet accepted training standards A any time during the course, will be transferred back to the bargaining unit per Article 6.12 (c).
11.08	The Uniofl sliaJI bavetfie right to select not more then one 111 steward for every fifleen (15) associates
on the seniority list. A list of stewaids shall be furnished to the employer before the employer is required to recognize them.
11.09	The following shall be covered by separate Agreements but fomt part of this Collective Labour Agreement:
(a)	Health and Life Agreementfand attached letters)
(b)	Separation Paymeal Plan (and attached letters)
(ct Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Agreement land attached leuers)
(d)	TheApprenticeTrainingAgteemenl
(e)	PensionPlan and SeveranceAward Agreementfand attached letters)
ll.	10 The letters o f understanding, the letters of intent, and the interim wage increase provisions are attached hereto, and form part cf this Agreement.
11.11	The Company agrees lo provide an annual tool allowance in the amount of $130.00 to assodatesin departments 4211 and 4210. The purpose of ihis tool alowance Is to compensate maintenance and powerhouse associates for any of their own personal loola which gel broken, lost or stolen. Said payment will be made (he first weekofFebruaryofeadt year.
11.12	The Company agrees id allow the Union President or his designaleup to a maximum of 8 hours per week off his/her regularjob, company paid, m order to work on union, management problems as they occur, Said hours may be accumulated b a maximum of % hours however, no mom titan 24 banked hours may be taken in any one uvo week period. The little required must be requested in advance in Older to provide proper coverage and must be approved by his/her Manager. In the event of special circumstances the maximum accumulation of hours and/or the banked lioura taken in any one two (2) week period may be increased upon mutual agreement.
11.13	During the period fram January 1,2000toDecember3l,200l the Company agrees to pay a maximum of 3140.00 fcr the purchase of safety shoes upon proof of purchase. During the period from January I, 2002 lo February 29,2004 (lie Company agrees lo pay a maximum of $130.00 for the purchase of safety shoes upon proof of purchase.
11.14	The Company agrees to review all rclum to work plans with the associate and a designated union representative.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
12.01	This agreement shall be elTeclive the 24* day of March, 2000 and shall remain in effect until the 29* day of Eebmary, 2004, and there after from year to year unless either party gives the other party notice in writing of proposals lor revision within a period of not less than sixty (60) days and not more than 120 days preceding the expiry of the term of the Collective Labour Agreement
12.02	If either party gives io the other a notice of proposals lor revision in accordance with rhe provision of article 12.01 the parties shall meet to considerlhe proposed revisions within lifteen (B) days o f the date o f delivery ofsuch notice. This Collective Agreement shall continue io apply until a new agreement is reached, or until the procedure contemplated in accordance with Division |) of the Alberta Labour Relations Code, has been completed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOFthe parties hereto have executed this Agreementthis_30^_day of
MovOm^a)_______________2000
LOCAL UNION 628
OFTHE UNITEDSTEELWORKERS
OF AMERICA
GOODYEAR CANADA INC
APPENDIX A
Job rales effective Febmaiy 27,2000. Rates shown below include all increases (including COLA) effective Febwary27,2000.
JOB RATES
DEPARTMENTNAME	POSITION	RATE
AND NUMBER	TITLE	02/27/00
4026 -Janitorial	Janitor/Security	$17.45
4102-Technical Service	Physical Lab	
	Q.A. Lab	$18.24
	Q.A.Tech	$20.16
4211 - Maintenance	Apprentice rear 1 a4	517.31
	Apprentice Year 2 cf 4	SI8.59
	Apprentice Vear3 cd 4	$19.67 .
	Apprentice Year 4 cf 4	S20.76
	Mairrtenancewiih Ticket	$21.62
	Oiler with Ticket	$21.62
	PM. Coordinator	$2217
	Lead Hand	$22.54
4216-Poweitiouso	Shill Engineer	S2Tli2
	Chief Engineer	$22.54
4321 - Receiving and (Stores	Receiving and shipping	SIT59
	Stores	$17.89
4jvo- warehouse	Keceiving ana snipping		5TT59	
	ShippecfTraclor Driver	$18.03
	Lead Hand	$18.85 .
4432-Banbury	Operator	5TO4
	Compounder	$18.99
	Mill Operalor	$18.99
	Laydown	$18.90
4433-Calender	Operator	SHT7T*
	Mill Operalor	$19.23 *
	Helper	$19.14*
		ddtlSQ tt for fabric oorration taltSOOlO
4437- Cement House	CcmeriTTecli	$17.69
4341 - Bias Duller	Operalor	STO4
	Roll Changer	$18.90
4)42 - bead Unit	Insulate, Build 4UWap	5TOJ7
4)4j- luoer	I'uOer/Caiendsr Operalor	ST97J5
	Operalor	$19.54
	Mill Operalor	$18.99
	Tank Pusher/Skiver	$18.90
	Helper	$18.90
M
Appendix A/Job Rain Continued
DEPARTMENT NAME	POSITION	RATE
AND NUMBER	TITLE	02/27/00
4550-Tire Room	Set Up Tech	$20.10
	Builder Level 1	$19.75*
	Builder Level 2	$18.91 ’
	Builder Level 3	$18.39*
	*Tmmng rnttt olio* progretsiM to inti J	
	Service	$17.69
	Repair Green Tires	$17.38
4500- Cures	Paint & Line	TTT35
	Cure Operator	$18.49
	MoldChanger/Cleaner	$19.47
4570- Final Inspection	Inspect and Trim	$18.39
	Classifter/Repair Tires	$18.39
	Group Leader	$2016
WAGES
Effective Febmary27,2000
General Wage increase to all bargaining associates.....................$0.15 per hour
Inequity increase to all associates in departments 4211 and 4216.......$0.50 per hour
INEQUITY INCREASES AS FOLLOWS:
DEPT.
421 ■ 50.05 per hour to all trades except electricians and powerhouse to bring all fades in line
4216 $0.42 per hour to the PowethouseChief to bring in line with maintenance lead bands
4102 $0.20 per hour to Physical Lab
4321 S0.09 per hour 10 Receiving and Shipping $0.25 per hour lo Stores
4300 $0.00 per hour to Receiving and Shipping 4432 S0.0S per hour to Banbury Laydown 4437 $0.04 per hour to Cement Tech.
4541 S0.09 per hour to Bias Culler Operator
34
Vtoges Continued., .
4542 $0.10 per hour to Tuber Operator
10.03	per hour to Tuber Millman
S0.09	per hourto Tuber Tank Pusher JO. 19 per hour to Tuber Helper
4550 $0.09 per hour to Tire Room Service
4500 $0.10 per hour to Paint and Line
$0.10 per hour to MoldChange/Cleanei $0.20 per hour to Cure Operator
4570 $0.10 per hour to Inspect and Trim
$0.78 per hourto classifiers in Depaitment4570 to bring in line with inspectors
Effective January 1,2001
General Wage increases all bargaining associates...................... $0.15 perhour
Inequity increase to aii associatesin departments 42i I & 4216........ $0.50 per hour
Effective January 1,2002
General Wage increaseto all bargaining associates..................... $0.15 perhour
Inequity increased all associates in departments 4211 & 4216.......... $0.50 per hour
Effective Jaumyl, 200}
General Wages increaseto all bargaining associates.................... S0.I5 perhour
APPENDIX B
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of Interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated is provided below on the basis of the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation" - the averageC.P.I. for Ihe months of December 1999, January 2000, and February 2000.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of M ay 28, 2000. It will reflect one cent (S.0I) per hour for each full .083 points that the averageC.P.I. for the months of February 2000, March 2000, and April 2000 exceeds Ihe base of calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of Ihe pay period commencing on August 27,
2000.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour lor each full .083 points that Ihe average C.P.I. for ihe tnoathsof May 2000, June 2000, and July 2000 exceeds die base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculating and paid as of the pay period commencing on November
26.2000.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01)per hour each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for Ihe months o f August 2000, September 2000, and October 2000 exceeds Ihe base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February
23.2001.	I will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 2000, December 2000 and January 2001 exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	"The Base for Calculation"- the averageC.P.I. lor the months of December 2000, January 2001, and February 2001.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 27,
2001.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour lor cadi full .083 potnls that the average C.P.I for the months of February 2001, March 2001, and April 2001 exceedslhe base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of ilte pay period commencing on August 26,
• 2001. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that Ihe average CP.I. for
the months of May 2001, June 2001, and July 2001 exceedsthe base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November
23.2001.	It will reflect one cent ($001) per hour for each full .083 pointsthat the averageC.P.I. for the months of August 2001, September 2001, and October 2001 exceeds Use base for calculation.
30
Appendix B Continued...
(j) A fourtii adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February
24.2002.	It will reflect one certt(SO.OI) per liour for each full .083 pomis that the average C.P.I. for live months of November 2001, December 2001, and January 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
4.	Third Year of Agreement
(a)	‘The Base of Calculation’’ - the average C.t.l. for (fie months of December 2001, January 2002, and February 2002.
(b)	Tlie first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 26,
2002.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour lor each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2002, March 2002, and April 2002 exceedsttiebase lor calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 25,
2002.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I for the months of May 2002, June 2002, and July 2002 exceeds the base for calculation
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November
24.2002.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour lor each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 2002, September 2002, and October 2002 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on Fcbiuary
23.2003.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour I or each full .083 points that the average C.P.I Tor the months of November 2002, December 2002, and January 2003 exceeds the base for calculation
5.	Fourth Year of Agreement
(a)	"The Base Tor Calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2002, January 2003, and Febmary 2003.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 25,
2003.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2003, March 2003, and April 2003 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 31, 2003. It wilt reflect one cent ($O.OI) per hour for each full 083 points that the average CP I. for the months of May 2003, June 2003, and July 2003 exceeds the base for calculation
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of Ihe pay period commencing on November
30.2003.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full 083 points that the average C.P.I for the months of August 2003, September 2003, and October 2003 exceeds the base for calculations.
17
Appendix B Continued...
(e)	A found adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February
29,2004.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) perhour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 2003, December 2003, and January 2004 exceeds the base for calculation.
6.	In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriateConsumerPrice Index on or before the dale on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
7.	No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published ConsumerPrice Index by Statistics Canada.
8.	Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada ConsumerPrice Index calculated on the same basis and in the same fomi as that published for Febmary2000.
9.	Each adjustment specified in the interim wage increase formula will replace lire previous adjustment if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout tire second, third and fourth years ofthe Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the third and fourth year of the Agreement and the fourth adjustment in the third year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the fourth year of the Agreement.
APPENDIX C
CREW PROGRESSIONS AND REGRESSIONS
Crew progressions and regressions will be applied to the following crews and order of progression of each unit will be as follows:
BANBURY	TUBER
1.	Operator	I.	Operator
2.	Compounder	2.	Mill Operator
3.	Mill Operalor	3.	Tank Pusher/Ski ver
4.	Laydown	4.	Helper
CALENDER
1.	Operator
2.	Mill Operator
3.	Helper-SpliUer/Gum Operalor
4.	Helper-LetofT
3.	Helper- VUndup
js
Appendix C Coininued..
BIAS CUTTER
HEAP UNIT
1.	Operator
2.	Rot! Changer
1.	Operator
2.	wrapper
The two compounders on the banbury will progress or regress based on crew seniority as both associates do the same job.
When a condition occurs where more than 50% ol the total job positions in any single status are filled by associates who cannot qualify far advancement or who wish not to advance, the Company reserves the right in al cases to make the final decision on whether to remove the associate with the least crew seniority of the nonprogressive associate from (heir slates. The associate so affected will revert to the next lower position within the crew to enable other associates who are willing to progress to do so.
In order that (raining needs may be filled, associates will be rotated al the discretion of the Area Manager. This Iraming program will not change the associate's priority to any vacancy which may occur while he/she is involved in the training rotation.
Crew semonly does not apply however lo make up crews which may be requred lo operate equipment outside oflheir regular department In llteae instances crows shall accumulate seniority on their regular equipment only.
Crew semonly will not apply in temporary emergency situations. However, normal crew progression and regression will be folowed, if possible, and providing a competent working force can be maintained al all limes. For normal vacation purposes, when an associate is on his/her regular scheduled vacation, progressions will bo followed wilhin the absent associate's crew only.
An associate sliall not attain crew seniority uniil Ite/she has worked in rhe same crew or crew far three (3) cumulative months in any iwcmy-four (24)monlh period.
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 24lh day of March, 2000, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect lo its associates at its Medicine Hat Riant and Warehouse located al 1271 12'1' Street N.W., hereinafter referred to as the "employer" and Local Union 628 of the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the "union".
It isundersiood and agreed that in order lo make full use of the Medicine Hal Plain, the employer may schedule any operations including warehouse operations, as required, on a 5 day, or 7 day, work schedule.
When it becomes necessary far the employer lo schedule one or more of llie plant's operations on she 7 day work schedule, a fourth crew will be instituted and a shill schedule will be adopted which would schedule each associate lo work a regular schedule averaging forts two (42) hours per week based on a thirty six (36) hour and a forty eight (48) hour rotation.
APPENDIX D
SPAY. OR 7 DAY W 0 R K SCHEDULE
Appendix D Continued
The employer undertakes to provide die local union with a minimum notification of one (I) month prior to implementation of any new schedule. The employer further undertakes that upon implementation of any new schedule, reasonableeffoits will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
LetterofUnderstnndlntffl
t is the policy of the Company to perform maintenance and engineering work with its own associates, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitively and within prescribedtime limits.
TheCompany will placeprimaiy importance on maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trade associates.
The Company will continue to notify the Union in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to work m the plant.
Letter of Undemanding HZ
This will confimt the Company's commitments with respect lo the closure of Medicine Hat Plant covered by this Agreement. In the event a full plant closure occurs during the life o f the Agreement:
I The Company agrees to notify the Local and International Union at least four (4) months prior to die cessation of production operations.
2. Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means ofadverting thedosure.
i.	Iftlempts to avert the plant dosure are not successful, Company and Union representativeswill meet to
negotiate the manner in which the dosure is earned oul
Letter of Understanding #3
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding time lost on n shill where it pertains to Article d.04 (I).
An associate who is granted leave in accordance with Artide 0.04 (I >hall have his/her time considered part o f his/her regular shift hours i n determining overtime hours on regular departmentalwork.
Letter o (Understanding #4
This letterwill serveto confirm the understanding readiedwith respedIO vacation pay.
An associate may, upon his/her request, receive vacation pay in lieu of time off for eligible vacation weeks in excess oftwo (2) weeks.
so
Letterof UndenlamHw #5
It is understood and agreed that piece work lias been removed from the Medicine Hat Plain. All reference lo piecework baa been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement.
Should a piecework wage payment system be reinstated at any lime m (lie hiture, the piecework dauses from the February 13, 1987 - February 12, 1990, Collective Labour Agreement will be used as Ihe basis of negotiations between the two parties.
Letteroflliidenlanding H6
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the hiring of summer vacation relief,
The Company will hire summer vacation relief, as required, during the period of May through August These associates will be paid SI 1.50 per hour for the term of their employment as summer vacation relief.
Associates hired as summer vacation reliefwill not be offered overtime until all eligible associate^) have been
No summer vacation relief will be hired when there are associates that are in layoffstatus outside the plant.
The total number of summer vacation relief shall not exceed the greater of sixteen (16) or 5.0% of Ihe total number of permanent bargaining unit associates ai die Medicine Hat Plant.
Letter of Understanding 87
II is understood and atpeed that the 6 2/3 day work schedule has been removed from the Medicine Hal Plant All references to this schedule have been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement. Should a 6 2/3 day work schedule be reinstated al any time in die future, ihe 6 2/3 day work schedule language front the June 3, 1996 - December 31,1999 Collective Labour Agreement will be used as the basis of negotiations between the two parties. .
Letter of Undemanding
This letter will serve lo confirm Ihe understanding reached on contracting out miscellaneous painting and dean up work.
The Company reserves the right to use contract labour {outside the bargaining unit) to perform general plant clean up and painting as warranted.
The use of contract labourwill not interfere with tire current janitor's work schedule and will only be used when the unusual situation occuis that requires additional cleaning and painting.
Lcilor of Understanding 89
Tins letter will serve to confiim the understanding reached on the voluntary ovemme list This list will be used for emergency overtime and nol for scheduled overtime.
Letter of Understaadlne OH
Thie letter will seive to confirm the understanding readied with respect to designatedholidays.
A)	Remembrance Day will be observedon either Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve whichever corresponds to the crews scheduled to work November II* of the current year.
B)	One of the floating holidays will be observedon either Christmas Eve or New Year's Evewhichever correspondsto the opposltecrews indicated in paragraph A above.
C)	During the fust year of the agreement one floating holiday will be observedon Boxing Day and one floating holiday will be mutually agreed upon by the Company and lire associate.
Dl) During lire second, third and fourth year of Hie agreement two of (he floating holidays will be mutually agreed apoa by the Company and the associate.
D2) During the second, third and fourth year of the agreement the Company will make every effort to schedule the plant shutdown the week of Civic Holiday and said holiday will be observed on Boxing Day.
D3) In the event that the Company cannot schedule the plant shutdown as stated i n D2 above, two of the floating holidays will be observedusing C above.
E)	A minimum of Iwo (2) weeks notice is required to schedule a floating holiday mutually agreed upon by lire Company and the associate unless the associate arranges his/her own coverage and submits a duly signed holiday coverage fonn.
F)	All associates will be given the opportunity, on a factory seniority basis within the Business Centeis, Engineering, Powerhouse and Warehouse, to schedule these floating holidays until the end of January each year. If these floating holidays are not selected by that time they will be taken on a first come fust serve basis. At associate can eleetto work his/her floaters and be paid accordingly.
Letter of Understanding HI I
This letter will serve to confirm the undeistandingreadied with respect to overtime premium pay.
Hie Union acknowledges that overtime premium will not be paid at both ends of the shift in any circumstance.
42
Letter of Underslnnilliig Bll
This Idler will service to confirm llieundersunling reached with respect to Ihc Steelworker Humanity Fund.
The Company agrees to deduct 42 cents ($0.42) per week from the wages of all associates in the bargaining unit. Deductions will be included on the associate's T4 slips under our Charitable Donation registration number The deductions will commence the first pay period in May 2000.
Funds collected will be forwarded to the Steelworkers following the annual meeting of the Charity Trust Committee lo the following address:
United Steelworkers of Ainenca
#200-0311 Fairliehl Drive	'
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7M3Y5
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: Agreement of Cooperation
1.	MISSION STATEMENT
Gooilyear Canada Inc. and ihe United Steelworkers of America on behalf of ns Local 628 are committed to creating a facility that will exceed all Use requirements of Hie market.
We will be a world-class perfomrer in profitability, customer service and quality. We will establish a work environment based on trust and respect between a strong company and a strong union, such that we are willing b contribute to our mutual success and long term goals.
2.	GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
To create better jobs by increasing worker responsibility and involvement in Ihe work place.
Continue to provide a healthy work environment accompanied by proper attitudes and responsibilities associated with safety.
To create a work environment that is free of discrimination, and provide opportunities for all workers equitably.
Develop productivity and general operating improvements to offset increasing costs and thereby cnhancejob seenniy.
To enhance cnsiomci satisfaction, process improvcmcnl, financial development and associate development.
To enhance our competitive position in Ihc market.
4J
3.	EMPLOYMENT SECURITY
To assist in enhanced employment security, the parties agree that Ihe Joint Labour/Management Commiuee shall be consulted, i n advance, of all layoffs,
If layolT situations occur as a result of economic conditions or reorganized work programs, the Committee will review and recommend alternatives to layoffs, while considering (lie needs of the Company and needs of Ihe associate. In all circumstances the Committee will comply with the lemis of the Collective Agreement.
In addition, the Committee will have input into the communication and implementation of jots restructuring and training that may occur from time to lime. However, nothing herein shall be considered a limitation on the rights provided to the parties under Ihe Collective Agreement.
4.	JOINT LABOWMANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Joint Labonr/Managemem Committee shall consist of the members of the Employer bargaining committee, as selected by the employer and members of the Union bargaining committee as selected by Ihe Union, the Plant Manager and one (I) oilier union member selected by the Union, will also be members of the committee.
The Committee meetings shall be cochaired by a Union representative and a Company representative on an alternating basis.
The Committee shall meet once a month unless otherwise mutually agreed
Time spend m Use Committee meetings will be compensated under the terms of (lie Collective Agreement.
Union Staff Representatives will be aBowed to participate in any meenngs of Use Committee.
Management will share informalion about lire operations, its business and capital plans and new technology with Ihe Commiuee and Ihe Union.
The parties agree that the Joint Labour/Management Committee shall not be responsible for dealing with issues, which are Ihe responsibility of other recognized committees
5.	Through the desire by the Joint Labour/Management Committee to operate in good faith and mutual respect at all times, and to enhance the well-being of both (he assodateand die Company, negotiation of labour language changes may be recommended by cither party through the course of die current Collective Agreement Mutual agreementand associate acceptance would enact these changes.
(j, Whenever Ihe Joint Labour/Management Commhtee is unable to reach an agreement on any issue before Ihe committee, the parlies will revert to their riglrls under Ihe terms o f the Collective Agreement.
7. Tltis lettershall form and be part of Ihe Collective Agreement.
44
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
ARTICLE
Agreement Cancellation.................................................... {2.02
Agreeing Duration.................................................-....... 12.01
Atlriifaiicn
Single Arbitrator..........-............................—....... 1005
Nominee......................................................... 10.05
Decision---------------------------........—.............-...... 10.08
Arbitration Excuse—..................—.................................... 10 07
Arbitration - Notice of-.-...........-............................-....... 10.03
Bargaining Committee Meetings Payment.......................-—*----------- 5.13
Bargaining Committee Personnel.........-.................-............—•	11.04
Bargaining Unit Recognition—---------*............................-....... 3.01
Bereavement - Time CfT-———..................—*-------*...-............—	5.17
Breakdowns - Seni Home— ....................................-............. 5.09
Call In Pay.................................................................... 5.07
Changes In Starting Time - Minimum Pay-— ................................. 5.08
Cleanliness - Work Area—..............................................——	11.02
Deduction ofUnion Dues--------------------------------...-............—.... Article 9
Definitions——*----------------------------------------.................... 2.01
Department Lists for Seniority Purposes.....................—............. 6.14
Discharge or Suspension as Penally...................-.................... 10.12
Duration of Collective Agreement-——.........-............................. Article 12
first Aid Payment——.............................-........-................5.11
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure-........................................ Article 10
Grievance - Rate-—..........*----------------............................. 5.14
Handicapped Associates-Semonty—........................................... 6.17
Holidays-.............................—..............—.................... 7.01
Holiday During Vacation—------------------------—........-...-........—	7.06
Holiday Pay - Qualification-—------------------------——................... 7.03
Holiday Pay - Payment----------------—----------------------------—.......—	7.04
Holiday Pay - Time ..................................-...-............—■	7.05
Homs of Work................-...............................-............. Article 4
Honrs - Standard............—............................................. 4.01
Improved Methods-.....................................................*.... 11.05
Interim Increase Pomuiii....—........................-............—....... Appendix B
Interpretation of Agreement Dispute-........-............................. 10.11
liueiprctatton ofTerms--•———.............................................. Article 2
45
ARTICLE
Job Rales............................................................... Appends A
Jury Duly-General Provisions-........................................... 5.16
Law-Confliction with.................................................... 3.04
Layoffs................................................................. 6.08-6.09
Layoffs - Elimination/ModemialionofMelhodsetc,............................. 6.20
Layoffs Prior to Holiday-............................................... 7.07
Layoffs-Privileges........................................................... 6.06-6.07
Layoffs - Union Officers................................................ 6.04 (2)
Leave of Absence-Union Officers................................................... 6.04
Leaveof Absence-Personal Reasons.................................................. ojp
Management Functions.............................................................. 3,02
Minimum Wages - Hiring-........................................................... 5.03
Miscellaneous........................................................... Article 11
Night Shi# Premium...................................................... 5.15
Notation on Record...................................................... 10.17
Noliee-LayofforLeaving............................................................ 6.10
Nolices-Union.................................................................... 11.03
Overtime Distribution........................................................... 4.01(3)
Overtime Payment.................................................................. 5.06
Overtime Work-----------------------------------------------------------—-	4.02
Principle* ofEqualily———.......................................................... L03
Probationer-............................................................ 6.05-6.06
Progression/Regression.................................................. Appendix C
Protective Equipment............................................................. 11.01
Purpose of Agreement.................................................... Article I
Quality of Product........................................—............. 11.06
RatesofPay-............................................................. .Article 5
RalesofPay-Bereivement............................................................ 5.17
Ratesof Pay-General Adjustment.................................................... 5.01
Rales of Pay-Hire On Rale...................................................... 5.03(a)
Rates of Pay - Individual Adjustment.............................................. 5.02
Rales of Pay - July Duly------------------------------------------------—	5.16
Rales of Pay-Temporary Work....................................................... 5.04
Recalls - Engineering Division.......................................... 6.08 (3)
•Production................................................................. 6.11
Recognition of Bargaining Unit.................................................... 3.01
Record of Notation............................................................... 10.17
Records-Seniority-................................................................ 6.14
Relief Help....................................................................... 4.04
44
ARTICLE
Safe Workplace............................................................ 1.04
Safety Committee-*---——................................................... 11.01
Safely Shoe Allowance.....-........................................................ 11.13
Scope of Agreement..................................-..................... Article]
Seniority...........-............*........................................ Article 6
Seniority - Accumulation During Sickness............................................ 6,03
Seniority-Calculation-....-............................................... 6.01
Seniority - Crews-........................................................ Appendix C
Sentoi ity - Factory......-.................................-.......-..... Article 6
Seniority - Engineering Division....................................-..... 6.08
Seniority - Handicapped Associates-.........................-............. 6.17
Seniority - Loss of——————...........................................-...... 6.02
Seniority - Revision of Lists*............................................ 6.14
Seniority Records-——......*............................................... 6.14
Squadron Membership-...................................................... 11 07
Standard Hours—..................-........................................ 4,01
Stewards - Numbers of—..............................................—	11.08
Strikes Lockouts Slowdowns etc*...........-.........-..................... 3.03
Supervisor-Return to Associate Status..................................... 6.12
•Prohibited bargaining work........................*............. 5.18
Temporary Work Payment——.................................................. 5.04
Time Lost - Injury-.........................................-------------- 5.11
Time Sheet Changes-.............................*...................—	4,03
Fool Allowance-..................-........................................ till
Transfers—Associate Request............................................... 6.13
Tiansfcrs - Engineering Division*......................................... 6.08 (4) (S)
Union Noiices...............................................-............. 11.03
Union Officers - Layoff & Leave of Absence................................ 6 04
Union President-Time Off-................................................. 11.12
Vacancies-Fitting of-..................................................... 6.13
Vacation - Eligibility-----------—........................................ 8.02
Vacation-Pay.............................................................. 8,03
Vacation - Minimum-....................................................... 8.03 (11)
Vacation Pay - Computation................................................ 8.03
Vacation-Year.......*—....................—*................-............. 801
Violaliouof Agreement------------——--------------......................... 10.11
•17
50
HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
-AND-
Tlie Employer
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
For the Associates
March 24,2000 - February 29,2004
INDEX
Fnuc P
PART I
DEFINITIONS....................................................... 3
part ii	'
BENEFITS
Article A - Life and Accidental Dealh and
Dismemberment Insurance and Survivor Income Benefils.- j
Ankle B ■ Welfare Benefils (llospilalizalion, Surgical, Medical
Ambulance and Drags)—-------------------------------- 12
Article C - Weekly Indemnity Benefits—..-......................... 16
PART III
ELIGIBILITY...........-..............-............................ 18
PART IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS-............-.................................. 20
PAR7V
TERM OF AGREEMENT-................................................ 22
HEALTH ANI) LIFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and cmered into us of March 24, 2000, by and between Goodyear Canada Inc., hereinafter referred to as Hie "Company" and Local 628 o f the United Steelworkers of America, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”, representing the associates in the bargaining unit at tile Company’s Medicine Hal Plant, Medicine Hal, Alberta and G.E.L. Warehouse, Medicine Hat.
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to the approval of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Company agrees with the Union lhat it will continue the establishment, maintenance, and administration of a life and disability insurance, sickness and accident, hospital and surgical benefit plan hereinafter describedas trie “Plan", in such manner as Ihe Company shall determine consistent with the terms of this Agreement N o action taken in performance of the terms of this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or iiUerpreted to be a violation o f arty of the terms of any collective bargaining agreement betweenthe Company and the Union.
PARTI
SECTION I DEFINITIONS
I.	In this Agreement
(a)	the tom "credited service” means the service of air associate with the employer as Itappearson his/her record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement The terms "credited service" and "continuous service" are used throughout this Agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employmenl, or disability, retirement of an associate, a former associate, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect;
(bj	“depeudeut” means and includes a person not employed by the Company who is
Ihespouseof*nassociateandlheunmamedchildundertheageof2l years of an associate who is supported by such associate. In the definition, spouse shall mean: (l)tbe husband or wife of an associate who Is legally manied to the assodate, or (2) a person who has for a continuous period of not less than one year... resided with Ihe assodate and dunng such period has been publicly represented as the spouse of Ihe associate', wherever ihe word “depemlenl" shall
|*8ii~l 1, .Section > (h) • Ddliiilimis (Continued...}
bcur a wider meaning in the plans or contracts entered into by ilie Company m satisfaction of its obligations hereunder, such wider meaning shall be used if. and to (lie extent, applicable;
^ “associate" means and includes each and every hourly-rated associate working at the Medicine Hat Plant, G.E.L Warehouse, Medicine Hal, Alberta of (he Company below the rank of supervisor, with the exception of office associates, security guards, facloiy squadron training groups and production schedulers;
(j) “insurer" means any duly qualified insurance company licensed to undertake a contract of life insurance and/or group life insurance and/or sickness and accident insurance in the Province of Alberta and includes any association registered under the Prepaid Hospital and Medical Service Act of Alberta;
(e)	“lay off* means the termination of work of an associate by (lie employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate ihe work upon which the associate was engaged; 'laid off or "to be laid ofT shall have a like meaning;
(f)	“pensioner" means an associate who retires on or after the effective date of this Agreement and who becomes and continues to be eligible for a pension (oilier than a Deferred Vested Pension) pursuant to the terms of a Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement cmcred into the parties hereto on the 24lh Jay of March, 2000;
(g)	“physician" means a medical practitioner who is registered under the Medical Profession Ad of Alberta or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine m the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical or obstetrical services are rendered to an associate or his/her dependent.
PART I -Section l
2.	In (his Agreement, wherever the pronouns “he" or “she" appears, it shall be construed as
meaning any associate, unless the context requires otherwise.
PART 1 - Section 3
3.	Bach associate shall be deemed to be single and without dependents until lie/she has satisfied the Company with such proof as it shall reasonably require, of the existence of his/her dependent or dependents. Completion and delivery to the Company of a statement m a form satisfactory to (he Company, fully and correctly completed mid signed by the associate, will be accepted by the Company as satisfactory evidence of Hie status o fan associate's dependent o r any change thereof.
4
I'ART 11
BENEFITS
A LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE AND SERVITOR INCOME BENEFITS
I. Effective March 1,2000:
The Company will euler into a contract o f group life insurance with an insurer or insurers insuring each associate and pensioner as follows:
CLASSIFICATION	AMOUNT
All Associates	$45,000.00
Effective January 1,2003	550,000.00
Pensioners (other than for a total & permanent disability)
0)	All assodateshired prior to Match 24,2000 who will be 05 years of age prior to attaining 30 years ofservice.	$8,000.00
(ii)	Retireeswilh 30 or more yearn ofservice.	$8,000.00
(iii)	Retirees with 20 years ofservice but less than 30 years ofservice.	$6,000.00
(iv)	Retirees with 10 years of service bill less than 20 years ofservice.	54,000.00
M	Retireeswilh less than 10 years ofservice.	Life Insurance Benefits Discontinued
This insurance will take effect upon the day the associate or pensioner first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. The insurance in respect of an associate shall automatically temiinate on the date of termination of the Plan or on the date of termination of active employment of such associate, whatever date is the earlier. The insurance in respect of a pensioner shall automatically terminate upon the date lie/she becomes ineligible for the payment ofa pension pursuantto the terms ofthe Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into by the parties hereto on lire 24>h day of March, 2000.
IMKTIiA - Section 2 (Coiithmcd.. )
2	(a) If any associate, before attaining the age of sixty-live (65) years ami while msuted
hereunder, becomes totally disabled and presumably will I hereafter during Ins/iici life be unable to engage m any occupalion or employment lor wage oi profit, and is not eligible for a Total and Permanent Disability Pension pursuant lo the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement dated the 24* day of March 2000, tlte Company will cause the insurer upon |>roof thereof to ilte satisfaction of the insurer, to pay lo such associate (he amount of life insurance nr force upon such life at the time such disability commenced, cither m one lump siun or installments as tbe Company may direct. Such payment nt hill shall be accepted m lieu of all other life insurance benefits provided for on (he life of such person under the Plan. Without restricting the meaning on the phrase totally disabled", the enure and irrevocable loss of (he sight of both eyes, or of (lie use of both hands, or both feet or of one hand and one fool, shall be deemed lo be total and permanent disability.
(b)	(f an associate for whom life insurance coverage is provided in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement is eligible to receive a Total and Permanent Disability Pension prior to his/her Nonnal Retirement Dale under the terms of lire Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into between the panics hereto on the 24* day of Match, 2000, the Company wilt cause the insurer or insurers insuring such associate, in lieu of paying the proceeds thereof lo the associate m accordance with die procedure set forth in Article A. Section 2 (a) hereof, to continue his/iter life insurance coverage (but not Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance} until his/her Normal Retirement Date as defined m the said Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, m the amount of $45,000.00 mid on reaching Normal Retirement Dale the amount of life insurance coverage shall then be reduced based chi service at time of retirement. See Parr II (A)(1).
3	The Company will enter into a contract of group insurance with aq insurer or insurers insuring each associate for Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount of $45,000.00. ft is understood and acknowledged that Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will not be provided for pensioners (including pensioners in receipt of a Total and Permanent Disability Pension). Such insurance shall be payable in a lump sum in Use event tlte death of an associate Follows within twelve (12) montiis as a result of bodily injury caused, directly and independently of all oilier causes, by external violent and accidental meant
Such insurance shall likewise be payable in ihe event an associate sutlers the entire and irrevocable loss or loss of use of (the total and irrevocable loss of use provided the loss is continuous for 12 consecutive months and such loss of use is determined lo be permanent) two hands or feel or sight of eyes or any two of them, caused by accident and one-half of such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event an associate suffers (he entire and irrevocable loss or loss of use of one hand or one fool cr sight of one eye, caused by accident.
6
I*nrl IIA - Scciion 3 (Continued...)
To qualify for this disnienibemieni insurance the bodily injury must occur within twelve (12) months of the occurrence of the accident. The amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurancepayable tinder this plan m respect of an associate shall in no event exceed the principal sum specified in this paragraph. The contract may contain such limitations and conditions as are normally found in contracts issued in Alberta for insuranceof this type.
4.	Survivor Income Benefit Insurance
(a)	Transition Survivor Income Benefit
Subject lo the provisions of Section 4 (e) hereof, the Company agrees to provide Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurances a maximum amount of S300.00 per month for a period up b a maximum of twenty-four (24) months. Such Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurance shall be in force only after an associate litsltad one (I year of continuous service with the employer and while hefshe is insured for Accidental Death and Dismemberment ruder Article A. Section 3, and only while he/she has at least one (I >ligible dependent.
(b)	Payment of Transition Survivor Income Benefit
(n the event of death of an insured associate on or after March 24,2000, from any cause, benefits shall be payable monthly commencing on the hist (I" (lay of the calendar month following the death of the associate, and on the first (I") day of each month thereafter until twenty-four (24) such payments have been made or until there are no eligible survivois in any class ofeligible survivors, if earlier. In no event will the maximum amount payable on account of the death of any associate exceed JSOO.OO per month or J12.000.00 in total. Payments shall be made to the eligible survivor or in equslshares to the eligible survivois in the first of the Classes of survivors set forth in subsection (c) herein which there is ai eligible survivor or survivors.
(e)	Classes of Eligible Survivois
The Classes of eligible survivors (also referred to herein as eligible dependents) and the order of qualifying for benefit are as follows:
ClasiA:	A person who has been the spouse {as defined in Part l(b) of this
agreement) of a deceased associate for at least one (I) year immediately prior to the associate's death.
ClassB:	Any child of the deceased assoriate, who at the lime a Transition Survivor
Income Benefit fust becomes payable to him/her is both unmarried and undertwenty-one (21) years of age, but such child shall cease io be a
PAltTIIA-Sectioiidfc) (Continued...)
Class B eligible survivor upon marrying or /caching his/her iwcmy-lirsi (21"} birthday.
Class C A parent of the deceased associate T<r whom the associate had, during the calendar year preceding the associate's death, provided at least 50% of the parent's support.
(d)	Sequence of Payments
Payments shall be made io the eligible survivors as set forth in subsection (c) above in I he following order.
(i)	Class A Eligible Survivors
If a Class A eligible survivor dies or becomes ineligible prior lo die payment of the maximum number of twenty-four (24) benefit jwymeuls, the l ight b any remaining payments shall pass in equal shares for the balance of the maximum number of payments to any surviving children who then qualify tinder Class B or, i f there are none, then in equal shares for the balance of the maximum number of payments io any surviving parents who then qualify under Class C.
(ii)	Pass P Eligible Survivors
I f, after having qualified under Class B, a child marnes, or dies, or attains age twenty-one (21), any remaining payments shall be divided equally among any surviving children who continue to qualify under Class B Afler the last child marnes, dies, or attains age twenty-one (21), any remaining payments shall be divided equally among any surviving parents who then qualify under Class C.
(iii)	Class C Eligible Survivors
If more than one (1) parent qualifies under Class C and either parent dies, any remaining payments shall be payable t the surviving parent.
(iv)	Ho Eligible Survivor*
If no eligible survivor of the associate qualifies m any Class on the first (lu) of the month following the death of the associate, no payments will be made hereunder. Once begun, payments will cease when (here is no eligible survivor many Class.
8
PAftTIJA-.Scclio«4 (ConliimeiJ...)
(e)	For Ihc eligible Class A survivor of mi associate who was actively at work on or after March 24, 2000, anil who hail died since that date, the amount of the Transition Survivor Benefit shall be $500,00 per month reduced by Hie amount of any survivor's disability or retirement benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan or by any Old Age Security benefits payable under the Old Age Security Act in accordance with the terms of such Plan and Acts as may be now m elTect or hereafter amended, provided dial m no event shall the monthly Transition Survivor Benefit be reduced below Ihc sum of $350.00
For the eligible Class B or Class C survivor or survivors of an associate who was actively at work on or alter March 24,2000, and who had died since that date, the amount of the Transition Survivor Benefit shall be $500.00 for any month for which no eligible survivor or survivors of the deceased associate is or are entitled to a survivor's disability or retirement benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan or an Old Age Security benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act tit accordance with the temts of such Plan and Acts as may be now in effect or Iteteafier amended, and shall be reduced to S350.00 Tor any month Tor which an eligible survivor or survivors is or are entitled to such a statutory benefit, except that lor months which two (2) or more survivors share a Transition Survivor Income Benefit immediately following the death of the associate, each survivor's share is computed as a fraction of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit that would be pard to him/her as e solo survivor according lo his/her own eligibility for a statutory benefit.
(I) Survivor Income Benefits lor Class A Eligible Survivor Ate 47 or Over at the
Time of Dentil of Associate
There shall also be payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of this subsection to a Class A eligible survivor, as defined i n subsection (c) above, who was forty-seven (47) years cf age or more on the dale of the associate's death and who has received twenty-four (24) monthly payments of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit provided in subsections (a), (b) and (e) above, an additional sutvivor income benefit o f $500.00 per month (hereinafter referred to as a Bridge Survivorlncome Benefit) as folows:
(,) Tire Bridge Survivor Income Benefit will become payable commencing with the first (l“) month following the month for which the iwemy-forth (24th) monthly payment of Hie Transition Survivor Income Benefit is paid.
(ii) The Bridge Survivor Income Benefit will cease to be paid immediately upon Ihe occurrence of:
|a| Hie death or mamage of ihe Class A eligible survivor or;
I*ART IIA - Section 4 (1) (Coiilinucil...)
p atiammcM by (lie Class A eligible survivor of sucli age ai which Old Age Security Benefits become payable, other than on a "needs" basis under any Federal or Provincial legislation, as now in effect or hereafter enacted or amended.
p) The amount of the Bridge Survivor Income Benefit shall be reduced by any Survivor's or Disability Benefit payable under rise Canada Pension Plan, in effect as of March 24,2000.
> Continuance of life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance During
Dave of Absence. Illnesi and Layoff
|i| Leave of Absence
If an associate Is granted leave of absence by the Company with or without pay and for any reason, his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance shall continue until he/she returns to active work or until the Hist (l")day of the third (3*) calendar month following the date of cessation of work whichever shall first occur. An eligible associate who is granted leave ef absence for personal reasons shall have the right alter his/her insurance has terminated, in addition to the foregoing, to conlinue his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismembennenl insurance m effect at the date he/she was granted such leave of absence at his/her own expense at the prevailing group rates for the duration of his/her leave of absence.
(b)	Illness
If an associate is absent Tram work by reason of bodily injury or sickness, his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance shall continue for a period which is equivalent lo the period he/she is entitled 10 accumulate seniority and service during his/her absence for this reason under (lie terms of the Collective Labour Agreement commencing with the first (l“)lay of the month next following the date upon which ihe disability begins as defined in Pari II, Article C, Section 3. However, an associate who is continuously absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness in excess of the period for which coverage is paid for by the Company may, at his/her own expense, continue his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment msuniKC at the current group rates until Hell time as his/her case is decided but in any event no longer than a further ttvelve(12) month penod.
to
PART IIA-Scclion Sfc) (CuMinued...)
(i)	If an associate is laid off and is eligible for a supplemental unemployment benefit under Ihe Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan in effect will) Ihe Company, the life insurance and accidental death and dismembcnnenl insurance in respect of the associate shall continue until die last day of die weekly supplemental unemployment benefits with respect to such layoff is paid or until the expiration of six (6) months from the date of the I ayoff whichever is Hie sliorter period.
(ii)	if an associate is laid off and is not eligible for a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan in effect with Ihe Company, the life insurance and accidenlal deelt and dismemberment insurance in respect of the associate shall continue until the end of the calendar month lit which his/her layoff occurred.
fiii) If an associate is laid off and is already in receipt of weekly indemnity benefits under libs Agreement, the life insurance and accidental death amt ditmembennent insurance in respect of such associate shall conimue for the period to which he/she is enlilled under Section S (b) hereof but he/slie shall not be enlilled to any additional extension of his/her coverage during the period of layoff.
fiv) An associate whose life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance have lerminaicd at die expiry of the period referred to in Section 5 (c) (i) and (ii) hereof shall have Hie right to continue at his/her own expense the life insurance and accidental death and dismembeiment insurance in effect at the date of his/her layoff at the current group rates for a period of twelve (12) months from the dale of such termination. 6
6.	The policy of group life insurance shall provide that a person within thirty-one (31) days after (he later of.1
(a)	the date o f tenninaiion of his/her employment while insured, or
(b)	die date of lamination of his/her insurance if such insurance lias been continued under Section S of this Article shall have the privilege (herein called die conversion privilege) of obtaining, without medical examination, an individual policy of life insurance upon written application made to die insurer and payment of the M premium therefore, within said thiity-onc(3l) day period. The amount of such policy may not exceed the amount of life insurance in force under the group policy will) respect to Ihe life of such person upon Ihe first date Ihe privilege can be exercised, the policy may be on any of die regular life and cndowmenl plans; premiums shall be based upon the age of Ihe person at the lime
ii
I’AUT I [Assertion (i (b) {Continued.. -)
of conversion for [lie class of risk to which he/shc belongs. During the thirty-one (31) day conversion period, notwithstanding the lemiinanon of life insurance under the Plan, the insurer will maintain group life insurance in force with respect of the said person and if the conversion privilege is exercised the individual policy will take effect upon the expiration of the said thirty-one (3 l)day period
B. WELFARE BENEFITS (HOSPITALIZATION. SURGICAL. MEDICAL
AMBULANCE AND DRUGS)
I.	(a) The Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium to the Alberta Health Insurance Plan, in respect to each associate eligible to receive this benefit from the Company so as to qualify the associate and his/her dependents, i f any, for entitlement to receive the insured services on and after the effective date of this Agreement provided by the Alberta Hospitals Act S.A. 1961 C.36. The amount ofthe monthly premium, the due date of payment and the benefit period provided by such payment shall be such as are prescribed by the Regulations pertaining thereto.
(b) In addition by way of supplementary hospital ben eft, the Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium due on or after March 24,2000, in respect to each associate eligible to receive this benefit from the Company as a result of the enrollment of himselftherself and his/her dependents, if any, on or after the effective dale of this Agreement, in an insured plan which will provide such assodateand his/her dependents, if any, with reimbursement or indemnity for the excess of the cost incurred by him/her and/or hidher dependents on or after the above date, for hospital accommodation provided at the semhprivate rate level (up to a maximum of $100.00) over the cost of hospital accommodation at the standard or public ward level provided and included in the in-patient insured services supplied under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan.
(C) For the purposeof determining whether an associate or other personis eligible io have the premium or premiums referred to in (a) and (b) of the above of this Section paid by the Company with respect of any particular month, such associate or person shall be deemed to be so eligible with respect to the first (l")andeach succeeding month in which he/she is described in Part HI hereof as being eligible for die benefits of the plan ansmg out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred in such month and each succeeding month so that the Company’s obligation to provide benefits will be fully discharged by the making of the payment ofthe monthly premium as aforesaid on such dates, notwithstanding (hat die said associate or other peison may not be entitled under the Plans described in
(a)	and (b) above of this Section to receive the benefit of the services therein provided in concurrent months or succeeding months.
12
PART MB-Section! (Continued...)
(<j) An associate wlio i< hired on 01 alia the effective date of this Agreement, ot a person who is re-employed with credit fot prior service on or after such date, being ineligible to have (he aforesaid premiums paid by the Company immediately upon his/her employment or re-employment, if subsequent to (he first ()"} day of the month ofhis/her re-employment, ns the case may be, shall have deducted from his/her wages fix (he first (l’')month or any portion thereof m which Jie/she commenced his/her employment or re-empioymeni with the Company aud tliereafler for each succeeding month that he/she remains ineligible, a sufficient amount to pay (he monthly premium due and payable by him/her for himself/herself and his/her dependents b the Alberta Health insurance Plan for insured services under die Alberta Health insurance Plan and to pay die monthly premium due and payable by him/her Tor himsclf/herself and his/her dependents to (he insurer, ifhe/she is duly enrolled therein, for the suppiememary hospital benefit described m Section I (b) above until such time as he/she becomes eligible lo have the payments of such premiums made by the Company as benefits. The Company is hereby authorized and empowered b deduct from die wages of such associate as an insured person and to pay the monthly premium due and payable by him/her for himselPherself and his/her dependents io the Alberta Health Insurance Plan for insured services under the Alberta Health insurance Plan and any arrears of premiums due and owing to (he insurer in respect to enrollment in such a Plan prior to his/her employment or rc-cmploymcnt with the Company. Each such associate shall sign a wages deduction authorization in a form satisfactory (o the Company authorizing the Company to deduct from his/her wages for each month, (he requisite amount to pay the monthly premium or premiums including any anears of premium to enable him/her and/or his/her dependents to qualify at the earliest possible dale for the insured services and supplementary hospital benefits refencd to above.
(e)	An associate wlio docs not qualify as a member of the Company's mandatory group and on whose behalf the Company is not required to remit to the Alberta Health insurance Plan a monthly report or monthly premium payment under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan shall not be entitled (o any benefits from the Company undo-(his Section I of this Pari.
(f)	In the event that an associate fails to record with the Company a change in his/her marital status or in the number ofdependems, he/she shall not be entitled to have payments of premiums made or remitted on his/her behalf with respect io any dependent acquired but not reported and recorded by name. 2 *
2,	(a) As set forth in Section I (a) above, should theierms and conditions of enrollment
in die Alberta Health Insurance Plan be varied, or should the services to be rendered and benefits to be provided under such Plan be varied, extended or restricted in more than a nominal manner, (he Company may at any time thereafter at its option, and shall upon request in writing ofthe Union, if permitted by law, negotiate with other insurers to procure a contract or contracts to
I’AUTlm-SiaioiiZln) (Continued...)
provide benefits or services or any part thereof that lus been discontinued as a result of a variation or restriction in the Plans having a marked resemblance or likeness m the aggregate to Hie benefits provided in Section I (a) above. If the Company n not permitted by law to negotiate with an insurer for substituted benefits either in whole or in part, then the services to be rendered under such Plans as modified, shall be substituted for the services described under Section I (a) above, but the Company may at its option and is in that event authorized to deduct from the wages of each associate a sufficient amount each month thereafterto defray the cost of any increase in premium resulting from any change in the terms and conditions of enrollment and/or any variation in the setvices and benefits at aforesaid.
(b)	Should the Alberta Hospital Association at any lime Increase its rale or subscription payment and/or vary the terms of enrollment in the supplemental benefits program provided in Section I (b) above, or should (he services to be rendered be extended, vaned or restricted in more than a nominal manner, the Company may at any time thcrealtct, at its option, and shall upon the request in writing of the Union negotiate with other insurers to procure a contract to provide hospitalization benefits for associates and their dependents having a marked resemblance or likeness fo the benefits provided i n Section I (b) of this Part, The Company shall discontinue the payments pursuant to Section I (b) hereof contract with another insurer becomes effective, and m lieu thereof wilt pay the whole of the charges made by such other insurer for such substituted benefits.
). The Company will pay the whole of the monthly subscription rates due on or after March 24, 2000 charged to an associate by the insurer as a result of the enrollment of himself/heisclf and his/her dependents for the benefits provided by the Extended Health Care Plan including eyeglassesfmaximum $223.00/24 months; $250.00/24 months on or aker January 1,2003) hearing aids (maximum $500.00 every 3 calendar years) and private room hospital accommodation (maximum $100.00) (not a suite), as in effect March 24, 2000. In the event that an associate fails to deliver to die Company the enrollment record provided by the Extended Health Care Plan he/she shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Plan. In Hie event that an associate fails to record with the Company any change in his/her marital status or in the number of his/her dependents, he/she shall not be entitled to any benefits under the plan with respect to any dependent acquired but not reported and recorded by name. 4
4.	(]) Associates who were eligible for a tnonlbly pension (but not a deferred vested
pension) and who were retired by the Company prior to March 24, 2000, will continue to be provided with life insurance, hospital expense benefits, surgical expense benefits, medical expense benefits and ambulance expense benefits, which were applicable at the date o f being retired by the Company in accordance with the (etms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect at lire dale of such retirement.
14
PARTI1B-Section4 (Continued...)
Associates eligible for a pension (but not a deferred vested pension) who are in receipt o f a pension or become entitled 1o the receipt of a pension pursuant to the provision contained in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, above referred to, or any predecessor Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement between the panics and who are residents o f cither Canada or the United Slates of America will be provided with the following benefits, based on their service, in respect to illness or injuries sustained by them or their dependents after the effective dale o f this Agreement providing they have been or arc retired by the Company after March 24,2000.
(jj Hospital, Surgical, Anesthetic, Medical and Diagnostic Expenses:
Hospital, surgical, anesthetic, medical and diagnostic expense benefits for themselves and their dependents similar to those benefits which they received as associates immediately prior to their retirement under Section I (a) and I (b) of Pan II, Article B.
fjj) Extended Health Care Plan including Eyeglasses, Hearing Aids and Private Room Hospital Accommodation as ineffect March 24,2000.
Aftar March 24, 2000, benefits tor themselves and their dependents similar to those described in Section 3 of Part II, Article B.
{jj,} Effective January 1,1997, retirement benefits will be based on years of service with associates who were hired prior to March 24,2000, and will be 65 years of age prior to attaining 30 years of service receiving retirement benefits as if they tied 30 years of service.
Retirees with 30 or more years of service will receive the full benefits they had at the time of retirement.
For retirements with 20 years of service, but less than 30 years o f service, the drug and dental coverage will liave co-insurance of 10% while all other benefits will remain in effect as at the time o f retirement
For retirements with 10 years of service, but less than 20 years of service, (he drug and dental coverage will have a co-insurance of 20% while all other benefits will remain i n effect as at (he time o f retirement.
For retirees with less than 10 years of service all benefits covered under (he Health and Life Agreement will be discontinued at retirement.
Only those eligible dependents on record with the Company at retirement will be covered in respect of the benefits provided in this Section 4 of Part II, Article B,
I'AHT IIC- WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFITS
Effective with respect to claims originating on or after March 24,2000.
1.	Ifbodily injury caused by accident or sickness, shalldireedty and independently of alt Ollier causes, totally and continuously disable an associate and prevent him/her from performing any and every duty pertaining to his/her regular occupation with the Company, the Company wilt pay or cause to be paid b the associate weekly indemnity ar the rale of66 2/3% of the associate's average insurable earnings over the last twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment (as used by the Unemployment Insurance Commission) or at the rate of 66 2/3% of the associate’s job rale limes forty (40) hours whichever is higher. However, in either case the amount of weekly indemnity will not exceed the Unemployment Insurancemaximum weekly benefit or be less titan S475.0O a week and will be payable for a period of such conlinuous total disability but not exceeding fifty-two (52) weeks of any such disability of all associates.
2.	There will be no limit to the number of different periods of disability for which benefits will be paid. Periods of disability due to the same cause will be considered the same period of disability, unless separated by return to full-time work for at least two (2) weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes will be considered different periods of disability ifseparated by return to full timework. An associate in receipt ofweekly indemnity at the lime of layoff shall continue lo receive his/her weekly indemnity payments for the maximum period for which he/she would have been entitled ifhe/she had not been laid off.
3.	If Use disability is the result of an accident the benefits will be paid as, from and including the rml(l"j)ayof disability. If the disability is lire resuk ofeickness the benefits will be paid as, from and including the eighth (8*) day ofconfinttous disability except that when the disability results in the confinement to hospital of the associate or such associate has surgery by a registered physician in the physician's office or hospital as an out-patient, the benefits will be paid as, from and including the first (l")iay of such hospitalization. A day shall be deemed lo stall at midnight; part days shall be treated as whole days' and pari weeks shall be indemnified at the rate of one-fifth for each working day o f disability.
4.	Weekly indemnity shall not be payable for disablity resulting from bodily injury or sickness for which the associate is not under the care of a physician. Subject to the foregoing, the date upon which the disability begins shall be deemed lo be (he first (I") day upon which the associate fails lo report lo the Company for work or is required to cease work before hisffier regular quilting time and the date upon which the disability terminates shall be deemed to be the day before the first (I”) day upon which the associate is capable of performing the duties pertaining lo his/her occupation with the Company.
1 Weekly indemnity benefits shal not be payablefor my disability:
Id
PARTIIC-Section5 (Continued...)
(i)	resulting from injury or sickness for which lire associate is entitled to receive indemnity in accordancewith any Workers' Compensation or similar law,
(b)	resulting from injury sustained or sickness contracted as a direct or indirect result of war or engaging in a riot;
(c)	resulting Tram the use o f drugs, or alcohol, unless the associate Is certified as being actively supervised by aid receiving continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre, a provincially designated institution or a licensedphysician;
(d)	resulting from any cause for the period
(i)	of formal maternity leave taken pursuant to Provincial or Federal law or pursuantto mutual agreement between the associate and the Company or,
(ii)	for which Unemployment Insurancemateniity benefits are paid, or
(iii)	commencing with the tenth (10*) week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth (6"1) week alter the week of confinement,
whichever is the longest period.
6.	Part-time associates wluse regularly scheduled work shift or normal work week is less than the standard work shill, or the normal work week, shall receive reduced weekly indemnity benefits based upon the proportion which their work shill or work week bears to the regular work shift or the normal work week.
7.	Where an associate receives weekly indemnity beliefits by reason of a bodily injury or sickness in respect of which some third (3"1) party is tinder legal liability, the Company shall be subrogated to the associate's right to compensation for the cost of beliefits provided in respectofsuch bodily injury or sickness to the extent of the amount paid by the Company either directly or indirectly in respect thereof, and the associate by acceptance of the beliefits will undertake that he/she shall prosecute such claim against the third (3") party at the expensed and to the extent directed by the Company, and pay over to the Company what it is entitled to receive s aforesaid, together with any expenses it may have paid or incurred from any monies recovered from such third (3"f) party, and he/she will do all acts and execute all documents necessaty to permit the Company to obtain the benefits of this clause.
8.	Should the eanungs index under the Unemployment Insurance Act change the criteria for maximum benefits, the Company may elect to adjust the maximum weekly benefit of $475.00 to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the Weekly Indemnity Plan for premium reductions under the Unemployment I nsuranceAct,
]?
PART IIC • Section 8 (Continued...)
In consideration of the improved weekly indemnity benefits, ihe Union and the associates agree (hat rive entire amount of rebate due to any reduced unemployment premium, if the plan is approved, shall be retained by Ihe Company
Effective Match 1,2000, increase maximum coverage front $447.00 per Week to $475.00 per week or E.l. max if greater and to $500.00 per week or E.i. max if greater effective January I, 2003
PART III
ELIGIBILITY
1.	All associates eligible for benefits under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement dated Ihe 24* day of March, 2000, as amended by the terms of this Agreement, shall be eligible lor the benefits of this amended Plan covenng death, bodily mjuty or sickness sustained or incutred alter the effective dale of this Agreement.
2.	An associate lured after the effective date of tire Plan as amended will become eligible for the benefits of the Plan arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred on or alter the Hist (l")day of the month following the month til which herslie completes his/her probationary period, provided that he/she is actively employed on the working day coincident with or next following that dale.
3.	Except as provided in Section I, an associate who is absent from work on the first [I") working day coincident with or next following the date upon which lie/she would otherwise be eligible for benefils of Ihe Plan shall be eligible upon return to active employment.
4.	Benefils in respect or any dependent or an associate shall become effective as of Ihe dale he/slie is property recorded with the Company, provided that the associate is eligible upon that date.
5 Notwithstanding Ihe limitations contained in Part II, Article C, Section 6 (d); an associate who is eligible for benefits on the effective dale of the Plan shall forthwith be entitled io weekly indemnity benefits for disability arising out of pregnancy.
6.	[a) An eligible associate who is laid off wuli one (l)or ntoreyears of senionty and
entitled to Ihe receipt of a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with die Company shall be entitled t the benefits described m Part II, Amcle B, arising out of any bodily injuiy or sickness suffered or incurred by himsell/hcrself or his/her dependents during ihe period from the dale of his/her layoff that he/she receives weekly supplemental unemployment benefil under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company or during ihe period ending six (6) months from tire date of his/her layoff, whichever is the shorter period, but he/she shall not be entitled to the
PART[II-Seclion6la) (Continued...)
benefits described 111 Pan II, Article C, arising nut of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the dale upon which the layoff occurred.
(b) An eligible assodatewho is laid off with one (I >)r more years of seniority and not entitled lo the receipt of a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company, or an eligible associate who is laid off with less than one (I year's seniority shall, m either case be entitled lo the benefits described i n Part II, Article B, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himselffherself or his/her dependents during the period ending upon the last day of the calendarmonth following the month during which the layoff occurs, but shall not be entitled lo benefits describedinPart It, Article C, arising out of any bodily injury or sicknesssuffered or incurred alter Ihe date upon which the layoffoccuired.
7.	An eligible person who is re-employed with credit for prior service shall be reinstated:
(a)	automatically with respedlo the benefits described in Pan II, Articles A and C in that his/her eligibility shall not be subject lo the provisions of Section 2 of this Part, and
(b)	with respect to the benefits described m Part II, Article B, as of the date of reemployment if such re-employment occurs on ihe fust (l‘‘)lay of a month, and in other cases on the first (l'')lay of Ihe month next following.
8.	An eligible assodatewho is on leave of absence with the consent jn writing of (he
Company shall be entitled to Ihe benefits described in Part II, Article B, for bodily injury or sicknesssuffered or incurred by himself/herself and/or his/her dependents	to but not
including the first (|“) day o f (he third (314) month following the leave of absence.
9.	An eligible assodatewho is absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness shall continue to be eligible for the benefits described in Part II, Article B, for a period commendng with (he first (l") day of the month next following the date upon which disability begins, which dale shall be deemed to be the first (I”pay upon which the assodate fails lo report to Ihe Company for work or is required to cease work before his/her regular quilting lime, and equal to twelve (12) months with respedto an assodate who has less than ten (10) years of continuous service with live Company upon that dale and equal lo twenty-four (24) months with resped lo air assodate who has ten (10) years or more of continuous service with the Company upon dial date.
10 An eligible associate
ja) who is granted a leave of absence for personal reasons, or fb) who is absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness, or
19
PART III - Section 10 (Continued...)
(c)	who is laidoffbyihe Company
and whose benefits described in the Pan II, Article D, have ceased, shall be entitled lo purchase at his/her own expense such benefits directly or through the Company, from the Insurer or insurers providing them at prevailing grtxip rales for the period the leave of absence with respeetto the eligible associateon leaveof absence for personal reasons and for an additional period of twelve (12) months with respect to the other eligible associates referred to in this Section, if such benefits are available on this basis.
11 The surviving spouse of a deceased assodate or of a deceased pensioner shall be given lire right io purchase at his/her own expense directly from the insurer or insurers providing them, ihe benefits described in Pari II, Article B, on a pay-direct basis if the Company is able lo arrange such coverage with an insurer on ibis basis.
12.	Suiigect to ihe provisions of Prut II. Article A, eligibility for an associate for any bcnelirs under the Plan will terminate automatically upon lenmnanon of active employment and active employment of a disabled associate shall be deemed to terminate upon termination of eligibility for benefits pursuant lo (he provisions of this Agreement.
13.	An unmarried child iwenty-one (21) years or more of age, who Is dependent on ihe associate for support and maintenance, and who is either a full lime smdcni or menially or physically incapable of self-support, will be entitled to the benefits provided under Part IIS, Section 1(a), 1(b) and 3. An unmarried child of iwenty-one (21) years of age, but under twenty-live (23) years of age, who is dependent on the associate for support and maintenance, and who u either a full lime student or mentally and physically Htcaipahle of self-support, will be entitled, in addition to the benefits outlined above, to the benefits provided under the dental plan.
PART IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
I The Company shall have Ihe sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of dus Agreement lor the operation and adminisiralkm of the Plan.
2.	The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an insurer or insurers lo provide all or any of Ihe benefils described herein, and, upon so doing ihe Company shall be relieved of any liability lo any associate, pensioner, or dependent wiili respect to performance of die obligations conlraclcd for by lire insurer; and ihe Company may from nine lo lime wtihoul the consent of any associate or pensioner amend, terminate, remsiale, and/or subsiiiure any such contact or conlracls. I
I The associate shall complete any application or questionnaire relating lo Ihe number, sir. and age of hlmself/herself and his/her dependents or Ihe facts pertaining to a claim for benefii presented to him/her by an insurer, cither through the Company or otherwise.
20
PART IV (Continued...)
4.	The insurer shall Issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each associate eligible for benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided hereunder by said insurer. The associate shall be deemed lo accept att the benefits and privileges thus described and all the liabilities and obligations except the liability and obligation io pay the premium, fee or other regular charge of the insurer.
5.	Ifthe benefits described in Part II, Article C, together with weekly indemnities payable under contracts o f insurance upon the associate make np an aggregate weekly value in excess of the average weekly earnings of the associate during the year preceding and ending with the disability, the Company shall be liable only for such proportion of the benefits so described as suds average weekly earnings bear to the aggregate of the benefits payable under all such contractson the personoflhe associate.
6.	The Company shall have the right, and an associate or pensionerclaiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity, lo examination of the person of the associate or his/her dependent, by a physician appointed by a, when and as ofien as it may reasonably require while a claim for benefits is pending.
7.	If a dispute shall arise between the Company, or its insurer as Ihe case may be, and an associate s to whether such associate is, or continues lo be, suffering from bodily injury or sickness of a degree, extent, and type Hut gives rise to a claim for benefits under the Plan, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The associate or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appoinled for that purpose by the Company or the insurer and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability the question shall be submitted to a third (3“) physician selected by Ihe said Iwo (1) physicians. The opinion of ihe third [l1*) physician, after examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two (!) physicians, shall be accepted by the Company or the insurer, Ihe Union, and the associate as irrefutable evidence of Ihe facts therein disclosed, and Ihe degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled peison. The fees and expenses of the third (3' * physician shall be shared equally by the Company or Ihe insurerand the Union
8.	If a dispute shall arise betweemhe Company and an assodatewith referenced eligibility for benefits nr payment of claims under the Plan, or if a dispute shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether Ihe Company has provided and continues io provide benefits as hereinbefore desenhed, such dispute may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of ihe grievance to Use Manager of IndustrialReUsions ofthc employer. If any such grievance shall betakento arbitration in accordance with such procedure, Hie arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to lire determination of such grievance, shal have authority only io interpret and apply Ihe provisions of Ibis Agreement and of the Collective Labour Agreement. He/shc or it shall have no authority lo add to or subtract from any provision of this
PART IV-Section 8 (Continued...)
Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit under the Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and (he associate.
9.	The establishment of the Plan shall not give any associate any additional right to be retained in the employment of the Company; and each associate shall remain subject lo discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if such Plan had not been put into effect
10	The Plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations, and the relevant provisions of the Insurance Act of Alberta shall be deemed to apply except to ihc extent that such provisions may be waived or are supersededby the express provisions of (his Agreement.
11	Payment of claims shall be made with due regard to lire time and manner m which payments of claims of tire types provided in this Agreement are customarily paid m Alberta. Any notice or payment directed to an associate shall be deemed to be properly delivered or tendered when mailed, postage prepaid, to ihe most recent address of the associate shown upon Ihe records of (he Company.
PART V
TERM OF AGREEMENT
1. The Company has entered into this Agreement on condition that the whole of the premiums, costs and expenses it incuts in fulfillment hereof shall be and shall continue to be allowed by government tax authorities as a proper deduction in computing income taxable under the provisions of the Income Tax Act or any oilier applicable tax laws now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted. In the event the relevant government tax authorities refuse to allow such deduction or withdraw their approval of such deduction, this Agreement shall terminate on ihc effective dale of such refusal or withdrawal or upon ihe expiration of thirty (30) days after ihc Company shall first itave been advised by such tax autltorities of such refusal or withdrawal of approval, whichever is later. During the such thirty (30) day period, ihe parties will meet lor ihe purpose of negotiating any modification or changes required in order to obtain such approval of such tax authorities, provided, however, (he Company during such thirty (30) day period shall not be required to |»y any premiums, costs, or expenses arising out of this Agreement which it is not entitled to deduct as an expense before taxes under the provisions of The Income lax Act and any other applicable tax laws now m effect or hereafter amended or adopted, and payment of benefits shall be discontinued to a like extent.
22
PARTC {Continued...)
2.	If at any time ar Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation whtdt directly or indirectly l»s the effect of providing benefits similar to one(l) or more of the benefits described in the Plan for which the associates as a class shall be eligible, this Agreement shall automatically be revised for the purpose of integrating such Federal or Provincial Government Plan with this Plan on the expiration of thirty (30) days after the proclamation of such statute or on the date such statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty (30) day period or such longer period as may reasonably be required to carry out such integration, the Company will take such steps as may be necessary or desirable to terminate any duplication of benefits and to assure that trie aggregate of die statutory benefits so provided and die benefits provided under this plan shall approximate in kind and money value the benefits provided under the Plan before said statutory enactment, providing this can be done without additional cost to the Company.
3.	list any time it shall be necessaryor appropriate lo make any revision of this Agreement pursuantto Section 1 of this Pad,the Companymay make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revision shall be (he subject of immediate negotiations between the Company and the Union. In such negotiations the Company and (he Union shall recognize that the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect was executed in the expectation that the Plan, or one with substantially equivalent benefits, would be and remain in effect during the temi of this Agreement and ofany renewal thereof theretofore made.
4.	In die event of the refusal of the Board of Directors of the Company to approve this Agreement on or before the 24th day of March, 2000, or in the event that this Health and Life Insurance Agreement is terminated pursuant lo Section I of this Part, either die Union or the Companymay apply to the Alberta Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any Collective Labour Agreement this in effect and the other parly shall join in such application. If, subsequent to notice of femiinalion of such Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated dr a successor Agreement is made then such Collective Labour Agreement, ir terminated, shall be reinstated lo continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
5.	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all demands of the Union for life insurance, accidental death and dismembemienl insurance and accident and sickness benefits, including Weekly Indemnity Benefits for the duration of the Agreement and during the term Hereof ofany renewal hereof. Subject to the provisions of Section 2, Article B, Part II, neither the Union nor us representative shall:
(a) make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or lemiinated or that a new life insurance, accidental death and dismembemtent insurance, or sickness and accident benefit plan be established for the associates, or dial the
2}
PART V-Section 5 fa) Continued,.,
Company contributes or pays any greater amount for such benefits Tor ihe associates than n is required to pay under die provisions hereof;
(b) engage in or continue to engage in, or any manner encourage or sanction any strike o r other action winch wit I interfere with work or production at the plants o f the Company lor the purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination;
and except during the last seventy-five (75} days of the lemi of this Agreement, or of any renewal thereof, ihe Company shalt not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union wisli respect to any of the mailers refeired to in clause (a) of this Section.
Any and all benefits simitar m kind to those described in clause (a) hereof heretofore supplied, granted or sponsored by the Company for the associates shall be discontinued as of the effective dale of this Plan, insofar as lies within the powers of ihe Company, and the Union wilt snppoit the Company i n its efforts to accomplish such discontinuance.
b. (a) Subject lo Ihe foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective as of March 24, 2000, and shall continue in Tull force and effect thereafter m respect to all benefits until the 29* day of February, 2004, and thereafter from year lo year unless either party gives b the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revisions within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior b Hie termination date, ihe Iasi day of Ihe original period or of any extended period being referred to lierein as ihe lenmnalioii date.
(b)	If either party gives lo ihe other a notice of cancellation in accordance with die provisions of Section 6 (a) of this Pan, this Agreement Shalt terminate in accordance with such nonce.
(c)	If either party gives b the other a notice of proposals lor revision m accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (a) of this. Pan, die parties shall meet b consider the proposed revision within fillcen (IS)ilays of the date of delivery of such nonce. If no agreement on ihe proposed revisions is reached by midnight February 29,2004 or by midnight of any subsequent anniversary dale, as Ihe case may be. ibis Agreement shalt be continued in operation lor a period not exceeding one (1) year or until a nmv agreement is reached or unlit the procedures contemplated by Section 74 of the Alberta Labour Act has been completed. Notwithstanding the lemwmion of this Agreement, die benefits described therein shall be provided for ninety (90) days following tettmnation. The tctmmalion of this Agreement shalt not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the payment of benefits insofar as it effects the benefits payable with respect io disabilities which were suffered or incurred prior to tire dale of termination.
it
UNDERSTANDING OF DENTAL PLAN
ll is undersiood that, effective March 24,2000, arrangements will be made to provide all eligible associates and their dependents, with a dental plan which contains extended service coverage io that authorized in the Blue Cross Preventalrve Denial Care Plan No. 7 with Riders No. 1,2 and 4, which ft based on the 1995 Alberta Denial Association fee guide.
New associates, hired alter the effective date of this coverage will receive such coverage as outlined in Part III, paragraph2 o f the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
Only associates! work will be eligible lor coverage. One year lag ADA or applicable Clarice (Mutual) lee schedule.
It is further understood that, effective January 1,1907, the benefits describedabove will be based on die 1996 Alberta Dental Association Fee Guide.
Effective January 1,1998,the benefits will be based on the 1997 Alberta Dental Associate Fee Guide.
Effective January 1,1909, the benefits will be based on Ihe 1098 Alberta Denial Association Fee Guide.
Effective March 1,2000, tire benefits will be based on the 1099 Alberta Dental Association or 1099 Clarica (Mutual) fee guide as applicable.
Effective January 1,2001, die benefits will be based on Ihc 2000 guide.
Effective January 1,2002, die benefits will be based on Ihe 2001 guide.
Effective January 1,2003, the benefits will be based on the 2002 guide.
Effective January 1,2004, the benefits will be based on the 2003 guide.
Denial Sealants
Tire Company will allow the provision of denial sealants to eligible dependent children under the age of sixteen (Id). These sealants are applied lo permanent molars and intended to protect the child's teeth from cavities. Tire usual and customary limitations would uppiy.
Electronic tiling of denialclaims will be implemented.
a
ADDITIONAL COVERAGE
Electronic Drue Card
Effective in year 1 in the Agreement, the Company agrees lo arrange through Assured Health Inc., a pay direct drug card which allows for the purchase of eligible prescription drugs, without the exchange of cash. This card can be used in ail pharmacies in Alberta (and other provinces) with the implementation cf the pay direct drug card, the current drug plan will remain in effect, however, the Company reserves the right lo review and approve any new drags before they are added to the Medicine Hat drug plan. The pian will not cover lifestyle drags such as but not limited to, fertility drags (for the purposes of infertility matters), anti-obesity drugs, erectile dysfunction drugs, (eg Viagara), hair loss medication and alcohol and drug abuse medication.
Dispensing Fees
Allhough dispensing fees (professional fees) vary from pharmacy la phannacy;
•	5188	Real Canadian Superstore
-	57.22	Canada Safeway
-	5458	Wal-Mart
-	57.02	Zellers
-	50.94	Shoppers Drug Marl
Effective March 1.2000, the Company will set the maximum dispensing fee for all prescriptions at 57.50 per prescription to be reviewed annually and adjusted for inflation.
Orthotics
Effective March I, 2000, the Company agrees t> provide orthotics lo all associates and their eligible dependents up to a maximum ofS200.00 per calendar year for each elgible person.
Orthotics must be prescribed by an appropnale medical professional.
Massage Therapy
Effective March 1,2000, the Company agrees to provide massage therapy with a registered massagetherapisl lo all active associates and their eligible dependents up lo 520.00 per visit to a maximum of $200.00 per year.	l
Vision
Effective March 1,2000, increase to $225 every twenty-four (24) months and increase lo 5250 every twenty-four (24) months effective January 1,2003. The Company will pay for one eye examination every twenty-four (24) months and every twelve (12) months for children underage 18.
2d
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT MEDICINE HAT. ALBERTA. THIS_DAY OF
MovfaitJ_________, 2000.
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY. G.B.L. WAREHOUSE, MEDICINE HAT
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE UNITED RUBBER. CORK. LINOLEUM. AND FUSTIC WORKERS OF AMERICA
27
Letter #1
This will confirm our understanding concerning Nursing Services reached during the recent negotiations.
Services rendered in a patient's home by a registered nurse (R.N.) will be subject to a maximum eligible expense in a year of$25,000 less the amount paid lor registered nurses services during the two (2) preceding years plus SI 00.00 per day thereafter.
Letter #2
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations.
It is the intention o f the Company to pay the present rate or subscription payment as well as any subsequent increase that might be implemented during the lemi of this Agreement, for the Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan.
No supplementary benefit plans that may be tn existence will be considered included in the above references to the Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan.
Letter#]
This will confirm the Company policy with respect to claims for weekly indemnity. Upon receipt of satisfactory medical proof, the lime during which an associate is ill while on vacation or on an approved leave ofabsence will be counted as waiting days in determining as associate's eligibility for weekly indemnity benefits under the provisions of Pari 1! C, Section 4 of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement In no event will benefits be paid prior to the date on which the associate is schedtded to return to active employment.
Letter##
This will confirm the undertaking reached during the recent negotiations io the effect that all present pensioners presently covered under the Mutual Denial Plan No. 7 with either Riders No. I and 2 (1977 A.D.A.) or Riders No. 1,2 and4 (1960 A.D.A.) will continue to receive the same coverage. All future eligible pensioners will receive coverage under the plan as negotiated in this Agreement.
ts
Letter #5
This mil confirm lire Company policy concerning the eligibility for weekly indemnity benefits for associates working on the seven (7) day work schedule.
The waiting period for weekly indemnity benefits as a result ofsickness will be forty (40) regular scheduled working hours on continuous disability.
Letter H6
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reachedwith respect to Alberta Health Care
In order to control escalating medical costs, if the Alberta Health Care Association decides to cui back its coverage on certain items, the Company will not automatically pick tgi the coverage on those items through Mutual, but will review each of those items and detennine the feasibility of doing so.
Letter K7
Tins letter will serve to confirm (lie understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to coordination of benefits.
In order to control benefit costs, i]w Company will ask its associates whose spouses are employed elsewhere and have company-provided benefit coverage to submit their own claims through (heir own respective employers first. Any portion of the claim not paid by the other employer can then be submitted to Goodyear for reimbursement. The claims Ter children will be paid through the spouse wlwse birthday is earlier in (he c&ieudar year.
29
PENSION l’LAN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
AND -
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS OK AMERICA
For (ho Associates
March 24,2001) - February 29,2004
The Employer
pension i*i .an aurkkmknt
THIS AGREEMENT is marie and enteicd mlo as of (lie JA"‘ day of March, l»y and between GOODYEAR CANADA INC., itciwiwJlei rcleml to as ii-c "Employer", and she UNITED STKKI,WORKERS OF AMERICA ON HKIIAI.F OF ITS I.OCAl. A2K. repiiscming the employees in the jJargaming Unit at (lie Employer's .Medicine ila! I actoty and GJU.. Warcltousc located <d Medicine II,il, Alkita, heiciiialki rdenul in as (Ik; "Umon".
WHEREAS the panics hereto established a Pension Plan eli'cetivo on die tluitcciilh day of Femwuy 1962, which Pension Plan h«v; llicicaiha ban amended fioin time to tone;
AND WIIKUKAS the patties desire to fwovittc lb catain m<idi;ic;itw::s ami nmeniiinaii.s thereto;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS MUTtJALI .Y A( iUCIil > AS K )i .LOWS:
1.	Tb Employer agrees with the Union dial il will maintain tb Pension l-'mitl dm int* live term of this Agreement and of any subsequent renewal (hereof, subject to:
{a} lite approval ol this Agreement by the ilo.tmrd'Ditcelms ofihc Empioym.
(b)	die receipt and icteiiiinn by the Employer of such uppiuval of the Pension Man try ihc Alberta Muustiy of Labour as the Employer may deem necessary to establish dial Ihc Pension Plan coufoims with (he rcriwiemeins of the Employment Pension Plans Act, ami
(c)	die icceipt mid reunion by tlic Ismpjoycr of such approval of the i’cusion Plan by the relevant tax atiilwn'.ies as the KmjiloyCi may deem naessaiy to establish that (he limployer is entitled to deduel tb amoum ol its paymenis of coitirilnilimis to (he Pension l-uml as an expense before luxes umlci the provisions of the Income Tax Act or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as breaker amendctl or adopted.
2.	No action taken in pertbunanro of this Ag; cement and UHMsia;; bmwitii tmairbe construed or intcijireuxl to b >r violation of any of the terms of any (Tlleciivv Uiow Agreement between the limployer and tb t iviioa. 1
1 This Agreement shall apply only to those eligible, Employees who ictiie, die, become Totally and Permanently Disabled or otherwise terminate limployment on in idler March 24,2000 ami riming the leim of this Agiecmunl, except as cxpicssly staid to the conuaiy.
TAItl.K ()K l.'ON'l KNTS
Aj til'll;	•>“S«
DEHNITIONS I I Actuated liqmvalcnl 1.2	Aciiiiiiy 1.3	bargaining Unit •	1
14 llasic Pension	1
15 Bcrvcliciaiy 1 o Collective J .alxmr Agreement 1.7 Commuted Value -	j
1.8 Continuous Seivicc	?
19 CrctliledScjvicc 1 10 Elective Date	3
1 II Employee	3
1 1! Employment	3
1 l.'i Hmploymein Pension Plans Ael	3
1.14 Pouncr Employee	i
1.15 FundManager	4
1.16 Income Tax Ael	4
117 Noimal Kctiremcnl Dale	4
118 Pension Commencement Date	4
119 Pension Fund	4
1 H) Pension Plan	4
121 Pensioner	4
1.22 Spume	5
1,23 Statutoiy Benefit	5
1.7.4 Statutory Benefit Date	5
l 25 Suppleincntniy Pension	5
1 26 Totally and Pcimancntly Disabled	6
2.	lajtiTBIIJTY FUR IOTREMKOTAND AMOUNTOF UliNlil'ITS
2.1	Noinial Retirement	7
2.2	Special Early Kcliicmeul	8
23	Regular Parly Rctircmcut	8
2.4	Plant Closure	10
2.5	RetiicmciU Diu mg Absence liom Woik	II
2.6	Disability Reiircmcnl	II
2.7	Maeiimnu basic Pension	12
2.8	Maximum basic and Supplemental y Pension	13
}.})	Maximum Supplemental y Pension	H
(Hlyi)itli3i;2GOO
AIWI..2W0
fable of tuiHfim
TAHI.KOr(:<)NTKN;iS
(Ciml'itJ
Article	1*,!^
3.	iwnucnoNs
.11	Slatuioiy iknelil Daiiiclion	15
3.2	Imci-l’laiiTraiJsfeis	15
COMMfiNCliMHNT DATIi I'OR it ASIC imSjON
4.1	Net Amount Payable	1/
4.2	Commencement Dale for Hvisic Pension	17
4.3	Nanial form of Payment for Basic Pension	! b
4.4	Automatic Spouse Option forNasic Pension	!£
4.5	Wmver of Spouse Option	19
4.6	OjKioual forms of Payment for Basin Pension	!9
4.7	Payment of Supplemental y Pension	.30
4.8	Small Payments	20
4.9	Pensioner Unable To Care for I lis Affaiis	> I
4	10	NoH'AlicnaikjiiofBcnc.jiis	>\
4,11	Credit Splitimu	31
5	BHNI-PITS ON DliATIl Bl:l OKI- RI:llUliMKNr
5.1	Spousal Pension	12
5.2	Alternative Death Benulit	27
6.	H'HUMINaVlION
6.1	Dclcircd Vested Pension After 10 Years	24
6.2	Defeirctl Vestal Pension Ikfoic 10 Years	24
6.3	Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension	35
6.4	Alternative.Settlements	35
6.5	Re-employment	26
6.6	1'cimuwlioti Before Hlfectivc Date	36
7.	|»M:inARY
7.1	Designatiimoflkncliaaiy	37
GdymihafiTOOO
Al'Rlt.,2000	rablsofl'wCMi
TABI .!■/ OK CONTENTS
(('(Mil'll)
Article
Page
$. ^)MiNjs;rKA;noN
X.l Administrator
8.2	I’rooldf Age
8.3	Wnllcn Explanation
8.4	infoinialiou lo Union
8.5	Records of Employer
28
.78
28
28
2K
9. FINANCING
9.1	Pension Fund	29
9.2	Employer Contributions	29
9.3	Employee Contnbutions	29
9.4	Dishmsemcm from the Pension Fund	30
9.5	Pensions Payable Solely from tlic Pension Fund	30
9.6	Overpayments and Refunds	30
9.7	Surplus Assets	30
9.8	Excess Assets	31
10.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.1	Contributory Pension Plan	32
10.2	Effect of Retirement	32
10.3	No Unai amcc of Employment	I’
10.4	Giicvance Procedure	32
10.5	Dispute as to Disability	33
II.	TljRMWAGRIijiMljNT
11.1	Submission for Approval	34
11.2	Negotiations on Refusal of Approval	34:
11.3	Application lo Liboiir Relations Hoard	34
11.4	Amendment Detitii; Term	35
it.5	Requirement lor Modified Pension Plan	35
11 .{i	Duration of Agreement	36
117	Amendment Not to Reduce Accmcd Benefits	36
It.8	l'ii)i .Settlement	36
ll.l)	Termination of Plan	37
(iilynnJiagiUOO Al'Rtl., 2000
table ol roiucmi
AiniCl.K I MMISmONS
Unless Ihc context clearly iiniicatcs cilia wise:
(1)	The following woids and {ditascs shall have tlic fullowii:j* meanings!«; all puipuses ofliie Pension Plan unless (lie context deaily liuhates acontuuy maimig.
(2)	All references in the Pension Plan to "Aiticlc" or "Section" shall refer to the aitides mid sccijous of (his Pension Plan. 'flic headings in (his Pension Plan arc insetted lor convenience only and shall not lave any effect upon titc meaning of tin: provisions thereof.
(3)	Words in the singular shall lie coustnicd as includim'. wools in the pjntal ami words in the plural as including words in tlic singular ;uul words importing the masculine gender shall he cuiisliucd as including Ihc feminine gender.
1.1	“Actitarial Equivalent" means a benefit having an equal value «> ihc normal loi n ;d benefit from which it is dclcimincd when computed on (he basis nf imaesi, moilahly ami other safes and tables adopted by the Employer for such purpose on die advice of the Aettmiy and in accordance with the Employment Pension Plans Act ami the Income Tax Act aiul accepted actuarial principles.
1.2	"Aiimiry" means the aciti.uy oi linn oi acuiuiics -i|>poi»;c;l tor the pmposc urprepaiiin; the necessity actuarial valuations and calculations under tin: Pension Plan. The actum y tu firm of actuaries shall be, or shall include, a Fellow of lire (:«i sadiati histitnie :>l Actual ics.
.3 "Raiijiiiiiiiig Unit" means Ihc unit of employees defineii in (lie (.‘ollcctivc Labour Agrmncnl.
1.4	"Baste Pension" means the lifetime pension calculated in aecouiance wnir Secnon 2 1.
1.5	"Bencfldnry" means the irerson or persons designated by an Employee in accordance with Aiticic 7 to receive any benefits which may he payable, as a result of the death of (lie Employee,
Ckl*mi)»R2G00
APRiUGOO
iXTaiiitcns
! u "(’ojlrdivi! f.nhmjr Ajpvctueiit'h cxecp whcic olheiwisc pmvnicti hcmm, means the Culieuivo L.iIhui! Agreement between ilic hnployu anil the Union in ill'cci .il liic lime
I .7 "(.unlimited Value'1 means the aggregate actum ial pi went value of a txaieliias of a fixed dale .?s c/rtiWiMHsl by ,'»jc Aciuiu-y in acioniruKC wih die icqimemems of lire liniploymunt i‘cusK«t Plans Att ami (lie Income Tax Act.
I S "(‘onliinioiis Service" means liicamiiiuiuus .seiviu: »l an limphiycc with lite liinployer as il appeals on Ills icecmls mam/aiiicd by the h'mpJuyer, wIiciIicmm or mil ‘	^
Unit.
(*;>ftltmiiius SciVicc shall include any layoff or peiiod •>}' absence authotiwd by die hmpioycrof ?o or less consecutive week immediately after which die lim|i‘oyec fehtms io Ins limpkrymcut.
I 'J "Crrdilcd Service" me,mis the limpioyce'sjHtnsionnUlc sctvicc under another pension plan maintained by the I'mployw itccrnal piior lo die hmcolTransfer ofmembciship from that plan to tins Pension Plan, il applicable, plus the limpioyce's {'oalimions Set vice wime in die Bariyniwig Uml (computed to years ;mJ completed months tr.i a fractional year) up to die dale when die Employee ceases to be .m limpioyce.
Credited Seweu in i«pect of an limpioyce in liill-iime limpkiyiiienl for any calendai year is limited to one year of Credited Service, (j edited Service m :csi)cct of ;ai iiimiicycc in leiS than inil-ltmc limpiovrixis; shall tie lu«;<co to a wclton of the year tSeieimmtil by dividing the employee's tegular bouts of limpioymcnl in the year (excluding overtime) by the scheduled legiilar horns of limploymem lot a fulltime limpioyce in a comparable nositiou.
Credited Scivice shall include:
(a)	pregnancy and paicntai leaves to the extent dial relevant employment standards legislation icquiies sticli leaves to lie credited under (he Pension Plan, and
M<iy«mL‘g20GC At'KII.. :OGO
Dciiiunoui
03667437
(I)) periods of absence while m iccctjn of disability iKindife umlci leljvnnl wm Iters' toiHjWnsalwu IcgisSahou to the exlenl lhai such h-isialnm requires such periods n| absence lo be cicdiu.il under the Peibimt Plan.
Notwithstanding the above oi .my other provision <d !iit; Pension Plan, (Vediled .Sc-vae befotc and after iantiary I, 1992 shall be (Jetennmed m acvoidaikc with she apphciibh eligible saviie inovtsions of ftw Income lax Ad. In pauidtlar, except fen pciiods of disability credited under the Pension Plan, CiediU.il Service lor eligible pejiods of icdwi'cd pay or temporary absence (as defined under tire Income Tax Act) alter December 31, 1990 shall be limited in accordance with the prescribed compensation rules under (lie Income Tax Act.
in no event will an limployce accrue Credited Service while he is in receipt of pension payments under the Pension Plan or under any other .clustered pension plan in which the Kmployci or another employer with whom the lunpiuycr rloes uoidcui at aim's length has patlicijMtcd for :i;c bcnclii of the Hmploycc. These will l>c no duplication of Credited Savice in lespcci of any period of service with the limpieycr.
1.10	"Kffective Oate" means, subject to ihc pcovisioits of Socriou II.I, the 7,4* day of Match, 2000.
MI "ICmpluyec" means any male or female wlto is in fimjdoyment, excluding any person who is a connected (Jerson as defined under the hico/we Tax Acl.
\.Y). "TmptoyniciU" means the slams of a iwison who is employed by lire fimptoye* in the bargaining Unit, as helmed in this Article, disiitu; all limes he is enrolled on its active factory or warehouse jrayroll
1.13 11 employment Pension Plans Act” means the employment Pension Plans Act -»f Album, ami any future legislation amending, supplementing, sutrciscdir.g <n ntaupmalmg it, including any regulations issued pursuant lo it, and also includim1., where applicable, any similar pension benefits legislation of Canada ur another piovnice having jurisdiction ovet ihc Pension Plan.
AmtUOOO	3-
itelwitinm
I I 'I " I'Vn im-r Kmployce" means ,i poison who previously had been m liinployrncul .mil who .s mil in iccctpl of a ]K'iisiuii under this Pension I’lan.
I I) "I'limi Mannijcr" means (lie individual minces, u>i|mialc tmstee and/or insmaiu-c company, as selected liy die i-uiployei Inmi lime i<> lime ui accordance iviili die Hmploymcnl Pension Plans Act and :he Income Tax Ad, liir ihc junposc «(’ exlablisiiim1, ami maintaining a pail or all id ihc Pension I'nin!
1.16	"Income Tax Ad" means the relevant i ules under die Income fax Act (Canada), mclmlnii’ .ill icgulations and administrative rules issued pursuant lo ii, which arc applicable 10 ict'isicicd pension plans. In yenewl, ihc mlcs umici Inlbimalion Circular /2-IM8 as amended ajijtly lo service poor lo January 1,1992 and die rules umlcr Nut I.XXXV o! ihc leiprlalions apply lo sciviec from Jamiaiy 1,1992.
1.17	"Normal JtclircmeniJhlc1' means ihc firs! day of (he munlli .ncxl following an Kmployce's 65th hinlnlay, or ihc limployee's 65tli hiithday if n should lull on ihc lirsl day ol die monili.
l ib "Pension (aiimiicnmiicnt hate" means Ihc dale on which payment of a pension commences, determined in accordance with Nceiron 4 2.
1.19	"Pension	f^lc 1,1,0 which (he {Imployci's contr<hiti«ms arc hcing
deposited as well as lire invcsimcni income of tins hind, aiui from which any pension, oilier benefits, admmislialioti expenses ami other paymcnls under the Pension Plan arc |>aid.
1.20	"Pension Plan1' means ihc nniKuniiibuioiy Pension Plan as sel froth m Articles I in 11
1.21	"Pensioner11 means a person who has idired, laminated Hmployment or become 1'uially
and Pennancndy Disabled am! is commencing or has commenced lo icccivc pension jMymenis liom the Pension Plan.	.
xt’Jdi <o0(i
IkliiiiliiiiK
121 "Spouse" menus ii person of Ihc opposite sex ivlm is.
(;i) lawfully mauied to the Employee and is nol living .scpaiaio and apait from the Employee (as that Ictni may he defined under ilic l{niploymcn( f’enstou I'lruis Act),
or
(b)	if tltcre is no qualifying spouse under (a), the Employee's common-law s|mse. A common-law spouse shall be Hie peisou who, allhougli not legally manied to the Employee by formal ceremony, has been living with (he Employee in a conjugal relationship for at least three years immediately preceding the date of detcuninaliou ami who, during such period, has been held out in the community in which they live asdic Employee's consoit.
1.23	"Statutory Benefit" means lire amounl of any old age or disability benefit payable under any feder al and/or provincial legislation to which a Pensioner .shall he or upon application would be entitled; provided that such teim does not include:
(a)	a beuefil payable under workcis' compensation legislation, or
(b)	a benefit payable jHiryiaut lo occupational disease legislation, or
(c)	a benefit payable on a "menus lest" basis or solely on account of blindness or set vice in lire ai med forces or other national set vice, or
(d)	a benefit payable to or in respect of dependants, 01
(c)	a benefit payable tmder lire Old Age Security Act (Canaria).
1.24	"Statutory Henctit Bate" shall mean the dale, as determined by Hie -age of an Employee or Pensioner, at which any benefit becomes payable under the provisions of the Old Age Security Act (Canada) in effect as of March 24,2000.
1.25	"Supplementary Pension" means the bridging henelit calculated m accordance with Section 2.1.
Ciilyrmlm^OOO
APRIL, 2000	- 5-	IJeihmuuK
I J(t "Tnlally mid Pormaneiidy Itaalilcir means ilic condition of an Kinploycc who is disabled 1>y Ixxlily mjmy m disease, which disability will inestimably be [icrnianciit and fonlimiously and wholly picvent him, during the i cmaiiuici oi' Ins Iilc, from meeting [lie job rcqmicmcnls of any job in the Dargainim; Unit, other Ihnn a disabilily which
(a)	was contmelal, sulfercd or inquired while the limplnyco was cn^m>c*d in, or icsnllcd Irom his having engaged in, a amiimil eittciprise, or
(b)	icsnllcd fiuiiu wilfully selfmllicicd injmy.oi
ciin be csiahlishcd ns due lllscivice lit (lie aimed Ibices of any country
Gilyimhag2000
APRIL, WOO	-6-
Deiiuiliom
lU.HilKIU IY FOU RKTIHKMKN I' AND AMOUNT OF liKNICM l S
; i Normal Retirement i i Normal Retirement Pare
livery limployce wiil he rcliml automatically on ins Nonna! Retirement i),iic, which is the first tiny of (he month coincident will) or next lollowmg Ins frith biitlxlay.
11 Normal Retirement Pension
t he monthly benefti paid to an limployce who retires on ins No.nicd Retirement Date m os niter the Inflective Date shall be cqu»l to:
(a) a monthly Basic Pension, p-uyaiifc icr Me, emu) i:> ii;c Basic Pension rate .vet mu in tire following table for each year of f.‘united St; vice; plus
(l>) a monthly Siqipicmcmaty Pension, payable wiih ci«;h monthly Basic Pension up to awl iiiclinJjm; lire payment lor the month m which the Statutory Benefit Date occurs, equal to the Supplementaly Pension rate set out in the following table li>r each year of Credited Serv ice, up to 10 years.
Dale of Retirement nr Tcrmitifttims
Maixrh 24,2000 to Mich 3i\
April 1,2000to ikccmbcriU./.COO Jiimuuy !,20fii lo December31.2001 ja:uiaiy 1,200?. to December 21,2002 On oi alkrJamiaiy 1,2003
Basic Pwtsiuu	Supplementary
rate	Pension rate
VH).00	516.50
SU.Xi	517.5(1
S35 50	SI7.50
516. XI	SI7.50
S38 00	SIS.OO
(IilvnnlitijiiflOO	hin«iiH|:ty for IttUieuintl
APKft., 2u00	7	imdAnumrJoifkacib
Spinal Kailv IRdimmirl
2.2.1 Special Karly Ueriivineiil lime
An Employee ij<;alHics lor special cai iy ictncment il In.:
(a)	has attained age hi ami completed!() or mon- yeas? <d ('(mtiiHhws Scivicr. m
(h)	lias aiiamed age 55 ami completed lt>or more yaitiso- C mitimiotLs Service, in
(«) has oompicJetl 30 w more years of ( untimioiis Sa vttc, but has ituJ attained age 55, provided thirl lie leaves live ialmnr Joure ur reams u:-iy limited comings.
117 Special Karly Retirement Pension
I'he sjK’Ctnl early tditement pension is calculated in the same maimw .is lor a normal retirement.
13 Kevlar Piii'lyjietireiiicni
.(.3.1 Regular Kai lyjktiiymeiif Date - Type I
An Employee i|iia!ilies for regular cr-ily icitietnciil if tic is not eligible Iik o;r.\,mI e^ily retirement hut he:
(a) has attained age ftOand completed 10 or mute yearn nil amtimions Service, m
(ii) has .dliimcd age 55, hot not age 00. and Ins <‘orni>iued age ,nu- \ *onUmmii\ Set vice (in completed months m cadi case) toiai X5 <n mme.
13 ?. Rvj;nlaiJCarly Retirement Pension • Type i
The regular caily remanent pension is calculated in the same inanuci as lor a normal letiivmcnl, but may he reduced, depending on when payment starts II the Employee's Pension CmniiteiK'imsud Date is on or .rllcr the lirst day »t the month coincident with or
IhI)iiiiI.j[j/(HVI	i li^ilulily lui Kdiicmeitf
Al’KII, 2000	X	.mil Anioiir.i ol Hvcdite
next followim; Ins Mill bulhday, his pension will Ik: unreduced. II it is pnoi in that (late, his pension will he i educed by d/IOilts oi 1% lui rach complcic month between Ins Pension Commencement Date and the fust day ol the month coincident with or next inllowuu; Ins 6?.nd biillulay.
2.13 Regular Marly Retirement Dale - Type 2
An Employee qualities toi regular early ictucmenl if lie »s not eligible lor.vpmal c.trly retirement but he:
(a)	has attained aj>c	but not age 60, and
(b)	has completed lOoi nioie years of Continuous Set vice, ami
(c)	retires al the 0|>tiou ollhc I Employer or under mimiaily salislnctoiy conditions.
2.3.4 Regular Marly Retirement Pension • Type 2
The regular early icliicmcnl pension is calculated in the same maimer as lor a normal retirement, but it may lie reduced. The pension will he reduced by 1/4 of 1% lor each complete month between Ids Pension Commencement Date and the lirst day ol the month coincident with or next following the cai host of the three Inllowinj' dates:
(a)	his both bhihday,
(b)	the date when lie would have completed 30 years of Credited Service, and
(c)	(he date when his combined ;i|;u and Credited Set vice would total HO.
This reduction will he. applied hcloic the Statutoiy Menclit ilcdnelion is subliacted from the .Supplemental y Pension jHiisuanl to Aiticle 1.
(nlyimtu^OOO
Al'IUI., 2000
'J
Hliijtbilily Iiu l<u|Hi-iiK-iil
jiht Amount uflkiKiih
\ '>	K.it ly UHiivmciit Date - Type .i
An bmpkiyce qualities lor -egtilar caily icfticmcii! i! he t$ nut eii^yhlc !m MHxiai early ic-i-cmtiii bm In;
•;*.) li.is attained at’e 55 ami completed two r.r more yc.its oi'amtmmms membcistup in Ik I'ensioa Plan, or live nr muse yesis of C'unltmimis So vice, .tntl
(b) iloei not retire under ic^ular early icliiciueni Type I ut
?J.b Regular Knrlv Uctiremciil Reusion -JVjje.l
Jin' jegislai e.nly idiiemcnl pension is calculated in the saute manner as lor a norma! .diriment, Iwt H will be reduced as follows. The toic Pension will be (he Actuarial itqiiivakm ol the pension otherwise payable a! Somtal RctiicmuH Dale No Supplementary Pension wit! be payable.
2.-I I'hnt Ciosun;
If lire Medicine Hal factory or G.j-.L Warehouse arc completely ami permanently closed down;
(a)	an l!ni|iloyec who is nul offered like employment by (lie limploycr in ihc I’rovmcc of Allnila will be deemed In have Ihc bmployei’s consent lor any pension under the Pension Plan icijuiimg consent;
(b)	an Employee with 25 or more years oiT.'onlumous Sci vice who is no! eligible lor an if/ncduta) pension will be ewlifloj to <mi uumedsali; Basic J'Kisioniaknlalfil as lor a uoimal idiicmeni. No Supplemcmnty Pension will be payable. In such case, lire Kmplayec musi waive she pension lo which lie is odicrwi.sc entitled Such | tension dial! k reduced by 1/4 of |% fot e.iclt completed month by whicls his I'cnsion (.'ommcncenteiii Date picccdes ihc ihst day of tin: mimtli coincident with or next following the month in which (i) lie will ahum age 60, (ii) be would have completed 10 yeans of 0edited Service, or (iii) his combined yeats ol aye ami Credited Setvice {computed to completed months for a fiactional year in each ease) would total SO, whichever istheearliest.
liligtbiliiy for Rfiutinni! Jivi AlitfCtllof UciH'l'ilS
(iily'ii!i!iai>?.0D0
AiJRtl,.2000
• in •
15 Itdircimml l)nriii|' Absence l;n»n Work
An Hmployce who is alisoil luuii .iclivc Miiiploymeut, l*y iciimhi of disability, -.ickm^s, liiyolf oi oilier Hmptoycr appioved leave of absence, may ^.ijj] .(iialily lor a ooim.il reliiemciU, special eaily icliiuncnl tu iei;idai eaily lelneiiieiu pension. In ni<!a io qualify, (he. limployec must have kepi his seinoiily tinder a ( ollcciive l.abour Aijrcemcni .since lie was 1.151 III Imiploymcnl When In iclnes, lie wil. slop namim; Credited Seivice. under die Pension Clan.
16	Disability Kclircnicnt
16.1	Disnbilijy Kclirimcnt Date
An Employee who:
(a)	becomes Totally mid I’cmiancnily Disabled while in Pmploymcnl m while accuimilminr, seniority with ihc limployci since he was Iasi in limployinetii, and
(b)	has completed 10 or more years of (.'onlimioiis Service, hut Iras not notched lus Normal Retirement Dale, al (lie Imre Ik becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled,
may relire on disability retirement.
Application for a disability irension must he made within oik year lollowmi; die end of V. weeks of weekly indemnity bcncfils.
The pension will Ire payable while iIk Employee remains Totally and Permanently Disabled, as described in Amclc 4.
16.2	l>is»bilily UctirentciiC Pension
Upon disability retirement, lire pension will be calculated in the same manner as lot a nounal retirement, except lhal any Slaluloiy Iknelii tin which lire Tunployce qualities will Ire subtracted litun Ihc .Supplementaly Pension. This calculalion will (re ma<fe in accordance wiili die Pension Plan's piovisions at llic date of the Hmploycc's application loi disabiliiyrctircmcnt.
(i<lymtlin}'2000	Tdniliilily for Ucliu-incni
APRIL. 2000	-II	amt AiiK>imtn|'ltcm:liK
• 0 Medical K.\;HniiiaUofi
An limployec applying for disability rctiicnvciU or a Pensioner on disability tcltrcttieiu is
ioqimcd lo undergo a physical examination whenever sticn examination ;s icpucsid by die hmpiuyci. in die ease of a Pensioner, the iimployei will mn icipiest muic limit nvo examinations in any aletKiar year.
A disability pension will not be payable Without certification by a medical doctor licensed lo piacUcc muter ptovincini law that I he Lmipiuyec is Totally and i^mancnlly Ifisabled.
if an Kmploycc or ilensioner leftists to submit to such physical examination, die application for. oj payment of, (lie disability retirement pension will lie suspended until be does st bunt to such examination
2.64 Itccovcry
If a Pensioner ceases to be Totally and Pcmwncntly Disabled or engages in any work similar lo the work covered by die Dargaming Unit before lie readies his Noimal Retirement Date, the limpioycr may terminate his disability idiicmom and rciiirc him m u iiositiuit icflcctiug bis scmcii’y mid physical and mental ability.	,
Upon lus return lo work, bis seniority amt sei vice will be reinstated
.17 Maximum Hitvic Pension
in accordance with the income fax Act, notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, the benefits jiayablc on behalf of an Pmploycc, m an iumual basis excluding ;iuy Snpplemcnlitry Pension payable under die Pension Plan, but mdutiwi* any payments io a Spouse m cx-Spousc us a result of a mania! lueakilown, upon retiicnicnt, tcnitimilion of !iiu|iloymcid or termination of the Pension Plan, shall not, in the year of pension commencement, cxcccri the lesser oft
(a) the defined benefit limit fur the year ol commencement, ami
(■<ty<mtag2000
APRIL, 2000
• 12 •
Migibihly fui Redicnvciu amt Amount ui Benefits
(1))	2% nl' llic fimplnyccs hiylicM .ivera^c roinpeiisahon. indexed u> llic /car ul
commencement,
multiplied by ihc number of ycnrsoftlic limployee’s pensionable set vice.
l;or (lie pmjwses of ibis .Salimr l.'J, an Hmplnyce sJwJJ noi Ijc credited with moic ihan years of pensionable service lor limploymenl prior lo January I, 199?. and Ihc terms '’defined Irenelit limit". "highest average compciisaiion" and "pensionable service" shall have (lie meanings ascribed lo ihcm niHlcr die Income Tax Act.
Maximum Basic and Supplementary Pension
In accordance with die Income fax Act, notwithstanding any oilier provision of the Pension Plan, in icspect of pensionable service from Jaimaiy 1,199?, llic sum of die annual Haste Pension ami any Supplementary Pension payable lo an Employee under the terms of this Pension Plan or any other registered pension plan in which the limployei pailicipatcs (including any registered jiciwion plan in which any other employer will) whom ihe limploycr docs not deal at arm’s length participates) shall not, in Ihc year of commencement, exceed llic sum of:
(a)	the defined benefit limit loi the ycai of commencement multiplied by Hie iimploycc’s pensionable service, and
(b)	25% of lire average of the Year's Maximum Pensionable liamings under Hie (.‘anada Pension Plan for tire year of commencement and (lie two immediately jucccdmg years multiplied by a fraction llic numerator of which is the iimploycc's pensionable service (not exceeding 35 years) accined after December 31, 1991 and the denominator of which is J5.
horllte puiposesol this Section 2 8, the icims "defined Imnelit limit", "pensionable sci vice" ami "ami's length" shall have Ihe meanings ascribed to them under the Income fax Am ami "pensionable service" shall refer to Credited Service under this Pension Plan and pensionable service under any other registered pension plan in which the limployei' participates (including any oilier registered pension plan in which any other employer with whom the limploycr docs not deal at aim's length pailicipatcs) which is not already included in Oedited Service.
mh.iyiOOO	U.liKiliility lor Kclircmcm
.. 2000	13	aiulAntfliiiiiuflkncliK
Maximum %ipkw«iary IViwfon
The Sii|ip]cmcntmy 1‘ensitm sluill conlonn wilh Ihc Income Tax Acl‘s rctpnremctns cuncciiiiii); ilia auiumit ol biulgiuy bcnolils |>ruvi<lc<i tiiuloi a ictpslciod pension plan am! Die payment ul‘ itriilfpiti; Ixmclils under iwo or more registered pension plans in u-spcci <d tabled employers.
‘'Myrndrsi-MaO AMW, 2000
for ;(clif<li!Cl! -ml Anwvfifor'IieucfiK
• M •
Akiicm
DKDUQ'IONS
U Stahiloryjkiidit Deduction
A deduction will he made Iron) any Supplementary Pension payable m a Pensioner on (lisahiliiy iclncmenl or on Type 2 regular early retirement. This deduction will he made alter the Snpplemcnlaiy Pension has been reduced on account or early retirement.
The amount of this deduction is the Statutory Dcuelit which (lie person is receiving or could receive upon application. This includes all amounts lie would have qualified for, whether Ire is receiving them or not.
If appropriate infoimalion is not given in the Employer, lire Imipluycr may make an estimate of the Statutory Hcnclil which it considers rensonahlc.
If the Stnintoiy Ifcncfil is payable in n lump sum, no Haste or .Supplcmctdaty Pension will he payable until the total payments that the Pensioner would have received fmm the Pension Phil arc equal to the lump sum.
1.2	lutcr-Plnn Transfers
.1.2.1 Mflibilily
This Section applies to an Employee who ceases to l>c an Employee and transfer mcmbcrsltip to another pension plan maintained by the limploycr (referred to as a "successor plan").
1.2.2	Calculation of Pension
If the successor plan recognizes Credited Scivicc under Ibis Pension Plan for hcnclil calculation puqjoscs, a deduction will be made from (lie pension puyahlc under this Pension Plan.
(iilynnlin^OOO APRIL 2000
li
UwlUClUHIS
ii ih*. Hmpioyve icnwnales ins ilmpbyinrii!, iC!j:s.*b o» dies muln die suia-ssui iiie deduction will lie the amount ol .my imiKnnlnluiloiy Basic I'ctismn .mil Supplemental)' iViismn |trovida! by live successor plan in m:sj>ccI ol < icJihd Sci vice under iln* Pension plan Oiks ailior.nl will be delcrmtwtd as a| Ihcdatco! tciimoalinit. icliJvimT.hu death.
3.13 Subsequent Transfer
il lIk* hniucr Hmpinyee tf.msleis again :o anitihvr successor plan instead, the deduction will t*e c'nk'titatcfl in a manner consistent with Salimt).?.1, 'akiiiij niemmt of the impact of any consolidation ofpensiunabie set vice aiisini'liom all previous tiansfers.
.12.3 Gmddimiijor Cnlculaimii
l or the pm poses of this Section 3.2, the bendiis payable under the ililiciem pension plans will he measured on a compatible, consistent basis.
(iilyni4Uk;2000 Ai'ittf.. >boo
- la -
MolikUuus
AKTKXIM
COMMIuNCKMKNTDATK I'Ok BASIC I'KNSION
II Net Amount J'ayalilc
No limploycc, I'oimcr limploycc or Pensioner shall ire entitled 10 a pension under ilio Pension Plan, except as expressly provided in this Amcle 'I. Only the net amount (d aily pension, after making all the deductions which arc provided for in Article 1, shall he payable.
'1.2 (.onnuciicemciit Dale for Basic Pension
1.2.1 Nmniiil KclircineiK Commencement Hale
if an limploycc retires on his Nonnal Relirement Date, the Basie Pension will commence on the Pensioner's Noimal llclircmcnl Date.
4,2.2	Regular or Special Karly Rctircmcnl Commencement Date
(fait limploycc retires under the regular or special early retirement niles, the Basic Pension will commence on the lirst day of the mouth coincident with or next following his lamination of employment. The retiring limploycc may choose to have the Basic Pension commence on the first day of any subsequent month. The Basic Pension may not commence later than the end of the calendar year in which Ik attains age 69 or siieh later date as may be permitted under the Income Tax Act.
T2.1 Disability Retirement Commencement Date
If an limploycc retires tindci Hie disability retirement rules, the Basic Pension will commence on the first day of the month next following the latest of
(a) (lie dtuc when lire Pensioner files ptoper application with tlic limploycr,
(h)	(lie dale when the disability retirement commenced,
(iriymiliagJftOO Al’IUl., 2000
(.'iNnmciKcmcnil),iL’ Inr Basic I’cnvon
• 17 •
(tj ttjc ilnic wiien Sns pay stopped,
(d)	die dale when weekly indemnity siopjrcd nmlu the Health ami Life Insurance Agreement
•1.2.1 Commencement Dale lor Deferred Vnted Pensions
A dclencd vested pension will commence on the hornier Hmployee's Noimnl KcuiuncM Dale. The Former Employee may choose to have the deferred vested pension commence ou die first day of any earlier month coincident with oj following his attainment of age 55. If lie does, it wril Itc reduced as described in Section U y ‘the pension may not commence later Hum (he end of tin; calendar year in winch ire attains age 69 or such later (bite ns may he permitted under the income Tax Act.
l itis Section applies unless ibc Pensioner has elected the optional lo:m m Section 4.6 m the automatic s.jKmse option ;u Section 4.4 applies.
'Ilk! Basic Pension is payable for the Pensioner's lifetime. If a Pensioner dies before 60 monthly payments have been made, the balance of these Basic Pension monthly iwyments will he paid to his Bcneficiaiy or, if he does not have a Beueliciaiy, to his estate.
! iowevcf, tor ;i Pensioner ou disability idirement wiw had less than 30 years of Continuous Service at retirement, die Basic Pension will be payable without t'oaraniee until the earlier ol* Cite Pensioner's death and attainment of age 55. If the disability Pensioner survives until his 55th buihday, payment of the Basic Pension will be guaranteed for the following 60 months.
•U .■VntftiuaticSjiotHC Option for Basic Pension
It a Pensioner has a Sjtousc at his Pension Commencement Date, die automatic form of jiension payable shall lie the joint and survivor type of annuity. The Baste Pension payable under this automatic sjioiise option will be icduccd to tire Actuarial H<|«;val<'rU of die
<.iiiyn>ita$2UOO APRIL. 7000
- It! -
ComiKnu'iixuiUaif loi Paste tamon
amount payable in die noiin.il loim. Under this pen.stnn, nO% uf !hc pera-mn payable in die Pensioner will continue to the siiivivint' Spouse if the Pensioner dies before his S|hjiisc.
•I 5 Waiver ol'.SiKni.se Option
An Employee or Former iimployce and his Spouse may waive (Ik-, entitlement to the aiik>mstic spouse pension by tiling an nppropunlc waiver as required tnulei the limploymcia Pension Flans Act.
In the case of a waiver, die nomi.il form of payment will apply unless another foim is elected.
flic waiver must he jHOvidai to 'he iimployci Mure die Pension t .oinincimcmcnt Dale.
4.6	OptiouaJJ-'orms ol PaymciU for Basic I’cnsimi 4.0.J Fliglhiiiiy
Subject to any waiver rcrjiiircd, an Hinpioycc may elect In wiituiy, an optional form of {tension payable on his nm mal rctitemi'til.
Tlic election must l>c submitted to the limploycr before the limpfoyee'1; 65th Imtiuluy .uul must iicaccoiiipanial hy evidence of good health saiislacioiy to (he liiiiployer
4.6.2 Options
l ive Iimployce may elect dial Ins Basic Pension tic paid hu ins lifetime*, wall a guaiaiUee liiot it will be paid for at least 10 or 15 years tegnmicss of when hu das.
Ilm Basic Pension {More deductions) will he reduced to the Acluann! I'quivalenl of the •taste PcikiKin in the noimal form
< iilyimJwj»2000 AI'RI!, 2000
('oiumeJiceitveiK I rue till (I.UIC IVlISHH)
. 19 -
5 6 \ Kcynmlion «l Option
An Mmpioycv may revoke his election u! ,m o|>ticnal loan in wntim; <n any time ixdoic his ntiicmcnl. Imt may not thereafter make another elcciion.
17 Payment of Supplementary Pension
A Supplcmcnlusy Pension is paid idi die .sanu; mouths as lire Haste Pension, except that the Supplemental? Pension stops aftci the month in winch the Pcnsiono (Iks of the Staimoiy Hcnclil Date, whicltevu occurs first.
•Us Small I'livrncnti
An !-jii|iloyec or the smvivimt S|kxjsc ol an I'mployec may at the earliest of lamination oi Pension Plan paiticipation, tammalion of the Pension Plan, deitlli m jtension commencement. elect to receive an iimmmt equal to the ronnmtlcd Value oi the | tension to which the Kmploycc is entitled. if ihe ■iiiim.il periston, that would he. payable to the l-rnplriyce at Ntmiiul Kcti.cmce.i Date .s los than -ll-v or i-’ihe CUmmalrd Value of Midi pension is less than 20%, of th.e Yearly Maximum Pensionable Haimm's under the Canada Pension Plan for the calendar yeai in winch that earliest event nccuis or such other amount ns may be prescribed iindei the limploymcnl Pension Plans Act.
flu: Employer may iccpirrc liiat ;m limployce *n die Mimving Spouse of an Kmployec, upon the cm lies! to <hcui of teimniamm of Pension Plan paiticipation. lumtmrlion oi die Pension Plan, death ot pension commencement, tt.iusfer the fmummed Value of the pension to which the Kmployec is entitled to .1 lettered icttrenicm savmt's plan or receive such amount in the form of a lump sum cash payment less applicable wttliholdmy lax, if the (’ominuied Value of the |tensiun is less than 20% of the Ycaily Maximum Pensionable Maruiuj’S under (he Cmium Pension Plan for die calendar year in which that car licst even! occurs or such other .tmcunl as may he prescribed uttder lire Hmploymcnt Prnsjn-: Plans Act.
5i (Himieiicc'idirJ I tile Ar'kll .^tXKj	-hi •	lm basic Pension
4.9	Pensioner Uiiabic j‘o Care l^orlfis Affairs
If Hie Employer linds shai any Pensioner is tumble m erne for his affairs because nf illness <n accident, .my payment due (unless a pitor claim iforcfnr shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee 01 oilier legal tCjaescitotM-), may be jwid Ic the s}>oitse, a child, a parent or a hi other or sister, or lo any petsim deemed by the Pmplovi.T to have iiicuircd expense ior such Pensioner. I iowever, Hie bmployi* shall endeavour in give elhtu lo the wishes of the Pensioner in (ins rirspcct when such wishes shall have been exptessed in wiiiing by him before he dull have Income unable in care Ini his alfsiis. Any such payments shall be a payment lor (be account of Hie Pensioner, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Pension Plan m ics|»cct of Hie Pensioner.
4.10	Non-Alienation of llencfits
The pensions payable mnlcr tire Peiwon Plan shall !«: deemed aiioienliuy and liw Hie jicrsonal use of the Pensioners and, to tire fullest exlcnt |amuiUi<l by me applicable iaw.v shall not lie subject in any maimer to aitthpalio;:, alienation, stile, hanster. assignment, pledge ns security, encumbrance, snuender <* charge, or to attachment or legal niocess lot dews oliimpioyccs, Former llmployecs or I'ensiuwas.
4.11	< Vedit Splitting
When an order from acomt of law having jiiiisdictioii or <i valid wiittcn domestic comiaci Iras been received by the limploycr rcqiiicinj' division of an limployoc’s benefits iiikIci iltc Plan due to breakdown of mainagc or dissolution of a common-law relationship, such division shall lie made in atxoular.ee with such order tw contract, as ncdetmiuid by die limploycr, .uul subject to any mpiircments prc.saihed nmba applicable law. Any luxessmy adjusimuits shall be made lo the Kinpluycc; benefit entitlement under the Plan
Tiiiyuiiug20(l0 Al’IUh /OOO
I.VtmniciKruicul ibtc fui liiiiic I'rthKin
• 21 -
AKTJIW5
WICI’IKKMKN'I*
5.1	Sprmutl Pension
5.1.1
H im limployeo lias attained aye 55 ur lias 30 or more years of Continuous Service and dies while accumulatim; scnioiily, while eligible lo iclire and piior to retirement, Ills .Spouse will iccetve a spouse pension for life.
5 l.?. Amount
I he amount of the spouse pension is 60% of the monlhly Basic Pension which would have been payable if Ihc Hmploycc had retired immediately poor to death anil (he automatic s|Hmse option had allied.
5.2 Alternative DeallUleiiclit
5 21 Kligibilily
flw surviving S|»usc of a ipmlifyint' Eimpioyee or I'oimcr Employee who dies will lie entitled lo an alternative death benefit, if it is gi cater Ilian the death bcuelit under Section
5.1	or if that Sccliait docs nut apply.
A quulityiiiv’ iiinployec or Former limployee is one who:
(a)	completed two or more yeans of eunimwws membership in the Pension Plan, or completed live or more years of Continuous Scivicc or reached his Nomuil Retirement Date, aixl
(b)	dies before commencing to tcccivc a pension under tins Pension Plan and before a lunsfcrofbcnclils mulcr Article 6.
(HlyntihagTOOO APRIL. 2000
llciklilioii I'i'jlli (klillC IklliCIIK'lll
• 22
5.2.?. Amount ;hmI Payment
I Inder the allcnttlivc dentil bcnclit, liie Spouse is entitled lo cither:
(a)	a jjcnsioti based on:
(i)	iftlic qualifying limpioycc or l;ormcr [Employee lid completed two years of continuous membership in Ihe Pension Plan or icached his Nonnal Retirement Date, lOOVe of the Commuted Value of die pension aer.mul from January 1,7000, as determined under Section 6.2, plus
(ii)	if the qualifying Hinplnycc or former I Employee had compieicd live yeais of Continuous Service or reached Ins Normal Retirement Date, 60% of lire Gonunulcd Value of the pension acciucd from January ], 1987 to December 31,1999, as determined under Section 6.2, or
(l>) a transfer of tile value of the death benefit under (a) in accordance with Section 6.4.
5.2.3	Other Cqitdiliqiu
flic election of a death Ircnctit under (a) or (!>) must he made within lilt required time period under the (Employment Pension Plans Act. If the election is not made a pension will Ire }>ayahlo to tire Spouse.
(iilynnhag2000 AURIb 2000
benefits mi I Iwih IIuI'qh; krlimneiU
• 2} -
AHTiaK 6
TKUftllNATlON liKNKl'ITS
6	i Deterred Vested Pension After Ten Yc:*rs
6 1. i Kli^ibilitv
A (leleued pension wtii he payable under this Section 6.1 where .m iimploycc;
Ui] has Ins services wni: the Hmployer laminated on or alter lire liffeciivc Dale Ibi ic.iion olitci than (tenth, disability or rein email, ami
(b)	tins completed 10 or more yews nl fontimtuiis Set vice 6 t 2 Amnmit
lite ilclencil jxmsion is calculated in the same manner as lor a mumal retirement, excq>t
shat m Siippli-mcnltuy Pension is jwynhle.
o.2 Deterred Vested Pension Melon.' Ten Years 62 1 Ptiiphiiitv
A iliTciicti pension is payable under Hits Section 6.2 wltcre an iimploya*'
(a)	has Ins scivtccs with the Employer lennmatd on or tiller t)« Effective Dam Im icrtson other than death. {Inability or retirement, ami
(b)	has complclcti two or nunc years of continuous nienibaship in the Pension Plan or has completed live m more ycais sTComimiotis Service, bnl has completed kss ih«m ID years idCmtitmioits Set vice.
tJdyimliifciOOtl Ai'KIL 2000
• ■
fcwimaiioii jlriirliK
6.2.2 Amouul
The dcfeired |>cirsio» is calculated in the same manner ns for a nonn.il retirement, except (hat it is based on;
(a)	if (lie Employee has completed two years' oleoiili/woos membmhip in tlie Pension Plan, his iKulioipation in the Pension Plan since January 1,2000, plus
(b)	if (lie Employee hus completed five yems of Continuous Service, his paiticipalion in the Pension flan from January 1,1987 (o December .11,1999,
and no Supplementary Pension is payable.
6.1	Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension
lire deferred pension will commence on the Fourier Employee's Nottmil Retirement Date m tire Former liinployee may elect to have the deferred ircnsion commence on the first day of any month on or after his 55lh birthday.
A pension commencing before the Nonna I Retirement Date will tic reduced to lire Actumial Equivalent of the pension payable at Nomral Retirement I Jaie.
6.4 Alternative Settlements
An thnploycc whose services willi the Employer are terminated and who is entitled lo a deferred pension but who has not readied age 55 may, instead of receiving pension payments from the Pension Plan, request (he limploycr lo transfer lire Commuted Value of the pension to:
(a)	another registered pension plan if the administrator of that pension plan agrees lo accept the payment,
(b)	a company authorized lo cany on a life insurance husincss in Canada lor the purchase of n life annuity to commence mi earlier tluin age 55, or
G<iyniiha|'2000
APRIL, 2000	-25
TciinuiaiKiii Haictirs
(c)	.1 lacked-m iciircmenl account, leiiiemcni income liimi or oliicr idmimcnl income
aiMf^cmetil ;is (icjiniiual under the Iteiploynicn; Periston Wans Ac! and Income I'iix Ad
.Votive i!| the dcciioa must he given «« iin: ms-ployc: within il»c lime imiii muter (he bupluynicni Pension Plans Act. Ihc lrauslei must he dined mil in actoidancc with 'he laiunamms of the !;mploynicnt Pension Plans Act amt (tie Income Tax Act.
Noiwiilblaiitiiiii; the loioi-oiiii;, the limployci may, in its disclaim) ami .subject to the lams imposed by the 1'inployci, permit a Forma Imiploycc who is emitted to a ileldied vested pension and who has not readied tile age ol 55 yeais to iei|tie$( a li.utsler of llie Commuted Value alter the expiration of the time period provided under the Hmpioymeni Pension Plans Ad. Such limpinyer liisciciioft may also he exercised lm those hiutier Imijiloyces whose employment laminated prior to the Hffeelivc Date, who have n«1 icached the age ol 55 yv.tis, and who leinaiu entitled tc a deterred vested pension muter Hie Pension i'lati which lias not commented to Ik. pan! Any such ir.ms'a must he earned out in acumipnee wuli ll-e taiuiicmaits of the Employment Pension Plans Act mui die income Tax Act.
(»5 Heeiiijiloyitifiu
If a pensioner is it-cmploycd hy the Itiuployei, pyiucnl of (lie |iaistun shall he subtended dming such penod ulTe-cmploymctil and ii)ioj) subsequent ictiicnicnt, the (tension will he tesumed in an Acltiiinul Equivalent timounl to .tccount lor I lie pound of suspension and paymenis received puoi to le-cmpkiyniciit.
liiniier, die Pensioner will receive an additional amount of pension liasetl oi: Ins (.Tallied .Savior limn his dale of reemployment. However, the foamed .Service maximum !m calculation of a tmiumi retiremetK pension will he based m dm I'ensiima's total ( Vctiticti .Service ikitli hetorc ami alter ic-emplcymciH.
6.(; Tcrmimitioii Itchirc Effective Date
All dclctrcd vested (xmsions are calculated in aceoidancc with the Pension Plan's provisions .i! the Him: of an Employee's icimiii.ituni ofcmploymcni.
UUvmii^vAiOO
AKTKXK7
UENKKl(:lAUy
Dcsjgmition ofHeitclIciaiy
Subject to die provisions of this Section, «ui ]{i»[iluycc oi t'diinu Employee who is oi may become eligible (o receive a monthly Haste Pension undo this Pension Plait may designate a Ucncficiaiyora new Dcncliciaiy to receive flic payments, if smy, to be marie nndci this Pension Plan after himleadr. An Jimploycc <n Foimcr I imploycc who lias designated a Bcneficiaiy oi a new Bcneliciaiypmsuanl to this Section /1 may revoke any such designation but such revocation shall not revoke any election of an optional form of pension.
(h) 'Hie light to designate or to revoke a designation of Beneficiary pursuant to (a) above is to he exercised hy the execution hy the limployco or I'onnci limploycc, and dchvciy to the limploycr, of an insliumcnl in writing provided by die limploycr.
(c)	Where an Employee or Former Employee has not made a designation under the provisions of this Section 7.1, any payments to he made to a Beneficial y with respect to him after his death will lie marie to his estate. No jirovision of die Pension Plan is to lie construed as taking away any rights of such an limployco or Former Employee to direct how monies received hy his estate arc to be distributed or otherwise dealt with hy his personal rqiroseutalivcs.
il«g2000
2000
• 27 •
Reneticiaiv
auihi.kx a DMiNj.s'i ration
AiimiihsUalur
I i;t •-.*.< haw lise -mle	a|>t! allllioiiiy	'Vi?h ;he j!M:Vislum
,»i das AvK-cmdU loi ilwt.pcjlion and admmisliatioiinl she Pcmum plan.
IVmil <i|Aj;c
A?’: .ijti'ki.m lot jX-iiMtm ix iVti-'.’iiitc: <hail pixvg las an.e by ••viilr.nc; >jtis|i;Cio;y So the
hii-jin-yci.
V i	W'nKcd Myiiatta/KW
Ihi: hmpioye} >V;|j jxoviiic .t wnllen wpinMiton lu each Pmp!i>y<:e of Hie inais .aid ioi'aliliiiiis <>i the Persinr, Plan and .miuMwer.!* fhcicio UiVjhiCuliif hi him, Uajcfhci oatli an expliinainii ?>i llic and dims oi llu i.mpuiycc witjj rekreme u> >Mc ixmelils available tii iinu tmdei the lends dioml, and siuh adua •itlbiinahnii as may hv u.H|n)ied mulcr applicable Ici'.isialnm in .nkiilmn, siu.li iiilonnalmii as may he picscnbeil by applicable leiiislatnm shall be pmvided in any nilici pci urn (’nulled iliciefn.
a i	Itilm nuhiHi *i> Ibtmii
iiu- Umms ihalibe imuished wait Midi pethneni mlnimalimi as it jnay leqiicsf hum lime »<> lime .ainceinins; die ojKi.ilion .nul .idiuinisli.ilicii nl' die Pension Plan .uui k-nclils ilim-iiuler, mvof.ir .h K aifit'ft p.mplujx'cs. app/ieanls /hr pcusimi ivlw arc mpu'.sewed by
die imam ami i'eii'-lniios.
:• kaunls ni Kmpiimi
l In- ii'uiuls »ii ’.':;e hnph'Vci snail be pivsumol li be conclusive oTtlic laris' imu'imm; (lie m'jvko, niipiiiViiirnl. non rniploYinuii, m disability iditemnil nl ,m hniployee. a hniiiK-r i-'iimluvcc. SVnsliiia-i nr applicant In; a pensii.f!. nibcss shown beyond a seasonable dunii! lo In: mcrmcct
. = Jl	..............

AUTICLK 9
unancinc
9. I	Pension Fund
The limploycr shall establish and maintain, witii the assistance of the Turn! Manager, a Pension Fund sufficient to provide the pension benefits tinder this Pension Plan. All monies in the Pension l‘mul sliall lie invested in accordance wiili the requirements of (lie lanploynictit tension Plans Act and Income Tax Act.
9.2	Employer Contributions
The limploycr sliall make such contributions to the Pension Fund, as sliall !x> recommended by lire Actuary after taking into account, among other tilings, the assets in the Pension Fund, to provide Tor
(3) thenomialcostofbcnclitsitcaumgundei tltc Plan, and
(b)	die proper amortization of any unlumled liability or solvency deficiency,
all in accordance with ilic requirements of the Jimploymcm Pension Plans Act amt Income Tax Act. Such Imiploycr contributions shall be made within Hie time limits required by the limploymcul Pension Plans Act.
9.3	Kniploycc Contributions
No Rmploycc shall Ire required or penniued, dining the tcim of this Ayiecmcnt or any renewal thereof, to make any contribution to or under (he Pension PI,in.
9.4	Disbursement from the Peusjon Fund
The Pension Fund shall be used on proper anthoii/alion of the Employer (o the I-Tuul Manager in accordance wit)} the (xovisious of the Pension Pliin to pay reasonable expenses of administration of the Pension Plan and Pension ITind and in pay such |tensions as arc
< jc(yniitiat> 2000
APRIL, 2000
• 29 -
I'hiancitip,
payable umler the Pension Plan. Nn Employee or Pomier Employee shall have any right lo a pennon, piior to his retirement, or any interest in any insurance company contract or trust fund which may be entered into or established for tire puipose of providing pensions under die Pension Plan.
‘15 Pensions Payable Solely from ll^cj'ensiqii Fund
flic pensions which shall he payable in accordance with the provisions of Hie Pension Plan dial! lx: paid solely liom die Pensirm f untl. and each Employee, Eomici Employee 01 Pensioner or oilier |>cr$on who shall claim the right to any payment under the i’cnsion Plan shall lie entitled to look only to the Pension fund for such payment. No liability for die payment of pensions under lire Pension Plait shall be m»|>osc(l upon the Employer 01 the oiiiccis, directors, or stockholder «>l die Employer, save and (o the extent to which the Employer shall lad to make die contributions due under Section 9.2.
9.6	Overpayments mid Ucliiuds
(a) Subject to the Employment Pension Plans Act and die Income lax Act, .my ovcipaymeni of a cmimbmion by Ik Hmploycr or .my amount paid by die limployer that should have lieen paid from the Pension Pund, may he refunded or paid to Ihe limployer.
(h) Subject to the limjiloymenl Pension Plans Ac! ami the Income Tax Act. and notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, contrilmtums made umler ihe Pension Plan may he iciiimlcd ami knclil entitlements under the terms of Ihe Pension Plan may be icdnced, as njipropriulc, in order lo comply with the Employment Pension Plans Act. income fax Act and Icons of lire Pension Plan or lo avoid revocation of die regulation of the Pension Plan.
9.7	Surplus Assets
Suiplus assets repiesenl the excess of (he assets over die liabilities of Ihe Pension Plan, as dctcnnincd by (he Aciuaiy upon the lemiiiiaiiou of lire Pension Plan the Employ^ shall uveivc, upon die icimmaliun ol die Pension Plan, any remaining smplus asseis alter the provision lor all liabilities under the Pension Plan Any payment of suiplus assets lo Ihe
<idyimhaj;2000
APRIL 2000	}»•
hnauuiiy
Hmpluyci sliaii l>c siihjccl ;o mty prior appiovul leqmied aiulcr (lie i-.uiploymcm poisicm
1‘lais Act
v-S Kvcess Assefs
Hxccss iisstis icprescnt die excess ol Ilic assets ovd die li;ti»iii;ms of (lie Person Pbi, ;■> determined by (ho Acluaty on an ongoing basis. The hmpluyer may clu-iisc id;
(a) use any portion of such excess assets to rc<ince Ik coniiiimimn ic(|Wiemenu ofilie Ignployci with unreel to Ik Pension Plan or lor any other pm pose not prohibited by legislation or government rules as the Hmployei may hired; oi
(h) icccive upon application by the Hmployor any portion of such excess assets that may he refunded under applicable legislation and government tides
Any payment of excels assets to the limpioyci shall he sobja! to any pnos approval ici|(iimi under (he hiiipioymciil I'enwm Plans Act.
Ai’kll.AKO	• }!	liiUiKcis
AUTICI.K !U
giwkjiai. provisions
10.1	Contributory Pension Plan
Any vested interests vvliich the limployees have ;ic<|uitcd m (lie henctits |>urehascd by coiiiiibulium made by or fur them poor lo the Infective Dale, under (lie lituployer's picseiil (.'onliibutoiy Pension Plan, shall be preset vat but, subject lo the foiegoint;, the limploycr .shall have the right lo amend or modify litc said Contributory Pension i'hui at any time and lu discontinue it ai any lime.
10.2	Ktfi'cl of Retirement
Tito sciviec of any limployce who shall iclirc or (animate 1‘inploynicnt shall cense lor the lHii|iose of applying the provisions of any Collective f.about Agreement which now is, or hcieaficr sliall be m effect between the limployer and the Union, except that if a person is ichiicdon cessation ofliis disability idircmctii, he shall he credited with (lie .service which lie had at Ihc time ofliis disability retirement ami shall accumulate further set vice bum the time that he stmts to work alter his reliire.
10.3	No (Inaninlecoi' Kmployniriit
I he establishment of Ihc Pension Plan shall not give any (imployce any additional m*lu to lie ictained in the Kmploymcnt of (he limployet; anil all limployees shall temam subject to discipline, ilischarge or layoff to the same extent as if such Pension Plan had not been put into effect.
10.4	Urievanee Procedure
If any dispute shall misc between the Kitiploycr ami an Employee, an applicant for a pension who is repieseuled by the Union or a Pensioner with icfcrcncc to eligibility, age, Credited Service or amount of pension, or as to his letiicinenl by the timploycr, such dispute may be taken up as a giicvancc undci the giicvnme piovisions of'the Collective Imlioiir Agreement then in ctfcct, omitting, Iwwcver, all steps pieccding piescnlation of (lie
CtJyj mlia^?U0U APRIL, 2000
• .« •
(iuiicul I’mvoioiis
grievance lo the Manager Indnsnial Relations. If any such grievance shall he taken to arbitration in accordance with such (Kocaltirc, (he arbitrator nr Hoard <i[ Arbitration, iimtai ,is it shall he ncccssaiy lo Ihc dclcmnnalion of such ipu-vaiuc, shall have juithonty only to interpret and apply llic provisions ofiliis Agreement and die Collective Labour Agreement, lie or it shall have no authority to add to, 01 subtract liom any provision in this Agreement, or to waive or fail lo apply any dcdticlion or any requirement ofeligibility for bcnelii under this Agreement. Hie decision of the mbinalor or Hoard of Arbiliaiion on any grievance proj>cily referred shall be binding upon lire Kmployei, the Union, the Hmployee, applicant for pension, Pensioner or person concci nod therein.
10.5	Dispute as lo IHstthilily
if any dispute si tall arise iiciwecn the Kmployer and any Imiploycc, applicant lor a disability pension who is represented by Ihc Union, or person on disability retirement as to whether
such pci son is, or continues to Ire, Totally ami I'rimauenily Disabled as Kclttied in this Agreement, such dispute shall he resolved as follows:
Hie Hmployee, applicant, or person on disability retirement shall Ire examined by a medical doctor appointed for dial purpose by the Kmployer and by a medical doctor appointed lor that ptiiposc by the Union. If (hey shall disagree conmnmj; total ami ptmwcni disability, llic qucslion shall l>c submitted lo a third medical docior selected by die said two medical doctois. The opinion of the Hurd medical docior, after examination of the Kmplnyec, applicant or person on disability retirement, and consnltmion will) die other two medical doctors, shall decide such question ami such decision shall be binding upon the Kmployei, the Union ami the Kmpioycc, applicant or poison on disability retirement or person concerned (herein Any medical docior appointed or selected as provided for herein must be legally licensed to practice medicine and the fees ami expenses »f the third medical doctor shall be shared equally by llic lmi|doycr ami the Union. If the dispute is as to whether or wltejt the Kmpioycc lias become Totally and I'eimimcntly Disabled and the decision made pursuant to (Ins Section is that (Ire Hmployee is Toinlly and IVimanenily Disabled, lie sjiall he deemed to have been Totally ami I'cimancmly Disabled as <>l the commencement of continuous total and peumment disability.
(klyimliacJOCO APRIL, 2000
• 33 -
(kurtal )'(■! visions
;u Suiwijsswttfwi-
Aima.Kii
TKHM OF AtjUKKMIiNT
Hi<: Hmploytr shall submit the faukm Plan 10 the relevant govciiinienl autirotitlts fur t(tc puipose tiFolilaiiiing (heir approval of it. If, by tiic 1st day of Apni, ?tKJl the I Employer ha* not a!) innovate imdci the Hmploymciit Pension Han* Act ami lax appiovnls winch u may deem mxrssaiy to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount o!' its contributions to the Pension Plan as an expense before luxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Ad, or any other applicable (ax laws as now in cited 01 us liercalier amended 01 adopted, the Agieemeul shall not become elTcctive. If the u-ipiiiemtiiis of .my .such auiltohtics siiall necessitate any modifications or changes herein, tlic Imijiloyti will promptly notify the Union and die patties will med within ten days ihereatler for the pm pose of negotiation* n'jjatditii; such iiKxItiicaiJous or changes.
11.2	Negotiations mi Refusal of Approval
In Ik uveiii til' tdiis.il or wiilnlmwal of the approval icfcncd to m .Section 11,1 by titc iclcv.uit govetiHUCiil .utlltorilics idler the 1st day of Apnl, 2001, this Agreement shall laminate on the etl'edive date of such refusal or witlulrawid, or upon the expiration oflliiity days iillet the Employer shall first have been advised by Midi authorities of such refusal or wiiluiiiiwal of approval, whichever is taler. Duung such Unity day pcnod, (lie panics will meet tor the puipose of negotiating any niodiiimuions oi changes mjuim) in order te obtain Ik approval of such authorities, provider!, however, that the IimpJoycr during such thirty day pciios! dull not be required to make any cimlnbutious to lire Pension hind, *vliidi it is net entitled to deduct .is m expense befrce taxes mulct the provisions of the Income l ax Act, ami any other applicable tax laws ns now in effect or iicicaiitr amended or adored.
1 l.j Ajjjdkatimi to I .abotu; Hchifiotts Board
In the event of icfusal by the Hoard of Dirrciois of the Employer m by the iclcvaiil auihoiiticsln approve this Agicemcnt on or before the 1st day of Aptii, 2001 or in (lie event of the aiitlionlies refusing to approve this Agreement or of (lieu withdrawal after such dale
i ftryi*)0iO};20uO
AJ'WUOOU	U
iVniKil Ajpcciticitf
i>f llieir approval of ihis Agreement previously given, cilhei the l Immi or ihc limployer may apply lo Ihc Alberta Labour KehiUons Itomd for permission 10 laminate any Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, and the mhci patty shall join in such application. If sulisctjucitl lo notice of termination of such Collective I .aliom Agreement, or subsequent to (enninaiion of Ihis Agreement, die parties settle any difl'eieiKC between diem, anil this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made, then such Collective I .iiIkuii Agreement, if terminated, .shall Ihj reinstated id cnttiimic in llil) lorce until suhsct|ucntly teiminalcd according lo its provisions as contained therein.
11A	Amendment Din ing Term
If at any lime during the term of this Agreement it shall he nctessaiy or appiopnatc lo make any revisions of this Agreemetn in order to obtain or retain liie approval referred to in Section 11.1 by the relevant authorities, the bmployer may make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of tire Union. The making of.such revisions shall tic the subject of immediate negotiations between the limployer and the Ifnion, and in such ncgolialioiis the Employer and Ihc Unton shall recognize that (he Collective I,mom Agreement, then in effect, was executed in the expectation that this Pension Plan ci one with substantially equivalent Ixmefils, would he turd icmain in died (lining the term of this Agreement and of any renewal of Ihis Agreement made prior lo the negotiations.
11.5	Requirement for Modified Pension Plan
If the Hmployer is required hy law lo institute a contributory pension scheme or to modify or revise the Pension Plan to make it contemn to future Icdeial or provincial enactments dealing with minimum requirements of pension plans, the l-.mployer may make such modi/icalions or revisions retroactively or oilier wise so as to ensure that the aggregate oldie benefits provided by Ihis Pension Plan, as revised, together witii any other pension plan it may be compelled to institute shall approximate in value and nature the pension ami other Ixmc/ils provided under (his Periston Plan providing such revisions arc made wilJioitl additional cost to the Hmployci.
(iilyimha^OOt)
Al'IUl., 2000	• 15
I’enn otAgrccsiKiK
1.6 Ihniliuil nf A^nifiit
(<i) Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall continue in &R force atid effect m respeci of all benelils at least until the 29th day nf Fcbmaiy, 2iK)4 and thereafter trout year to year unless either party gives to tint other party notice in willing oi cimecllaiioa or of projxwals lor revision withm a period of not less than two months nor jihhc titan three months prior to llic termination date, the last day of the original period or of any extended period being referred 10 herein us the lamination date.
(ti) if either party gives to lire other a notice of cancellation in accordance with (he provisions of (a) above, tiiis Agreement shall icmmiulc in accordance with such notice.
(c)	If either patty gives to the other a notice ofpmjwsals for revision in accordance wills
the provisions of (a) above, the parties si rail meet to consider (he proposed revisions within iiftcen days alter the date of delivery of such imhcu. If no agreement on die imposed revisions is reacted by muJmghl HvUiun y 29,2004 or by midnight of any subsequent iuiimul tcmiiitalion date, tins Agreement slwii eontimte in lull force and cited thereafter, subject to tenuinatron upon at least sixty days' written notice by otter party to the oilier given un or after the lemiinaiitm date.
11.7	Amendment fVof to Reduce Accrued ifcneiils
in no event shall .my revision to this I'eimun Plan ieduce any benefits accrued to limpioyees, homier liniployees or Pensioners prior to the effective date of levision, except ■is may he permitted or required under the iimploymeut Pension I’hurs Act or Income Tax
Act
l! 8 Kriil Sdtjcmuiit
This Agreement constitutes a fuii settlement oi ail retirement pension demands of the Union
for its duration, and during the term hereof nr any renewal kreof, neither Die Union nor its representatives shall:
(jJynetij}i2UXi
Al'kiU2000	• j6
itmiul AistcencW
W
itiiikc any (tcimuui that (his Aijicemtn; he ch.iiit-cd m aey lespeet « Icuuimted, •:« li'.iii ii now Pension Plan he eslablislied lor Hie 1‘nmloyecs, m that Uic Kmployoj ciMiiubiiic or pay any ^renter amount I’m pensions lot (he i^npiovees Il)iu> u is retpiired M pay under the juomeuis fU'.S’eet/o;: W <n
(h) euyape in, ci continue to ermajjt: u, nr in imy maimc. <ivouut;e or sr>iK:iloti any sinke or other action winch will mlerlhic <vit>i work ui piodtiaion at (ho pfanh -M iliC Employer for die impose oIms tumy any such chmu'c, mcrwisc or leimmalioii,
mid except <liu ni}' (lie Iasi 75 days of the leitn of this Aj'iccmotu or of any renewal thereof, Ihc Employer shall not have any iiblip,niton lo noi'ottaii: or liaiyam with (he Union with icspect to any of the matteis iclencd lo in (a) of ilti.s .Section.
t i .9 Tcrmiiiaiinn of Platt
feiimitation of this Ayrecir.cn* sliali not have the ctfect of teiminatnifi Hie Pension Plan -a icspcct of.teemed benefits, unless the iimpioya rud the Union aince n-al die Pension Plan is to he so tetiiiinatd.
If this Pension Plan is lei minuted, :iic bench!:, auuned to Pension Plan leimmaliun date;mnl payable lo Jimptoyccs, Ponncr fimpinyew am) Pensioners or their Miiviviny Spouses or Itenclidaiics who have entitlements imdci the Pension Plan shall lie provided tin in an et|uitobje and suitable maimer in accordance with the provisions of the limployment Pension Plans Act, Income Tax Act and Ute Pension Plan, and mb/ecl to any aipeemeni in force between the limployct and the Union If any assets iemain alter the pinvisum lor;>;! accrued liabilities under tlic Pension Plan, surJt assets shall he dealt with m accotdaiia with Section v\7.
(jtlyimfm>;2000
Ar-Kih. jooo
■ )t •
Tooidl Ayw.rtiit
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT MEDICINE HAT, AI.IIHRTA
,2000.
HIE UNITED SimWGUKKltS (IE AMERICA ON IIKIIALEOE TI'N I.OCAI.628
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE IIATXACTOUY C.E.I,. WAUEIKIIISK MEDICINE HAT
J&J.
Cm | t a, MJ J OiXIYk*. ttfU
TWEI,El'll AMENDED ACRKEMKNTON
SU1MM.EMENTAU UNEMPLOYMENT IIENKEITS
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT EACTORY C.E.I.. WAREHOUSE
The. Employer
AND -
LOCAL UNION 02H OETIIE
UNITED STICEI.WORKERS OE AMERICA
Kor Hie Assorialcs
March 24,20011 - Eebniary 20, 2004
AKTtri.K INDKX
MM H'i.K I
I'.li^ibilny ’in a Kef'tilat Hcnclil	•	...I
AHTK'UUI
ol Haul:''	.......... 11
Mfnrmii
('mill Unite & t)iitit(jonol Htiii:lils	 I-*
AitllCI.KtV
Appbtalioii X IVUimiiKHioiiol'liliiiibilily	 18
AilTK I,!: V
Ailimmsiiaiion ul'lln; Plan ;mi| Appeal Pioccilmcs-	 .W
Aitrimvi
..................................	-}(,
Aiaia v. vii
i \.iuiiU;u<\ i<> Hla tsvt'tichs .mil OiuUumitioti ol Plan •• •	s>l
ARTK I.I'. VIII
MjMdlauciius ..................................................... I**
AltlKl.KIX
Iklmitimis........................................................ -IV
Ainin.i: x
and	fniiim.iln:ii	 '*1
U'TIKM	 M
TWKMTfJ AMKNDKI) AOKKKMKNTON
«SinM1XVIKiYIAl.UiNKAII'l.<)VMKiVr JMsNKI'HN
I I IIS AURHb.MliN I us made and enleicd into this 2-ltli, day of March, /OfMI, by and between (lOOI)YHAR CANADA INC., with icspcct to retlam associates at tin; Medium: Hat htciuiy. C.j'.J.. WAUIdlOI ISI'. Mubcinc Hat, Albcita, (hcrcinallu icfouctl !o as the ”( nmpany") and l OCAi, UNION m of the (JN!TI:I) Sniiii.WORKPKS 01' AMKKICA, (hciciiiaifci .de-mi to a\ tbo.uiotoin
WltlsKI'AS the paiiics Imrcio csialdislred .1 Supplemental Unemployment Ihtnclils I'Ian by an Ai’iceiiicnl on Supplemental Unemployment Hcndils dalcd tlie Id11’ day ol August 196 2 ns amended
AND WIII'RKAS the parties desire in pumice In: certain inmlilkitmiis anil nmoiliuciils thiuelo.
HOW TllliKWORK, If IS MUTUAl.I.Y AURI-.tlD AS IOUOWN
ARTICI.K I
KUUimi.lTY mi HKNKMTS
SiTiion i	Mobility fm ;i Uejpiiar Hem-lit
An associate sliali hr diipble lor a Rcipilai Bcndil bn any week liei'innim*, on 01 111 lea the elfrdivc dale ol this Av.ieemeul tlWilli rc.S|>ccl tn such week lie/she:
(a) was on qualilVim; layoff, as dcsci ilicd in Section d ol tins Article, lor all 01 pail of the week;
(h) has made a iicudit application m accmdamo with pioevdiiK ; cMabWiuai by the Company hereunder and received an Unemployment liisuimue System Hendit not utueutly under piotrsl by the Company or did not kccivo an I Incmpbiynient Insuiamc Jknetit (or any one ol the Ihllnwmi1, reason:,:
(1)	be/,she did nut have, prior to l.iyolt a udlicicnt (Mined ol i'mpioynni’i 01 c.unmvs covered by the l hiunploymcm Insmancc System;
(2)	cxlwiislionol bus/luT Unemployment iiistiinnoc System ihmdiU tie,his;
Section I (I)} (continued...)
{1) he/slic was wiving an Unemployment Insurance System "wailing period" while tempmarily laid off nut of line of seniority lor a maximum |>ciioil up m six (6) weeks iK'iiiliii); placement nmlci (lie ictins oi (lie Collective l.alxmr Agreement provided Hut (lie pmmions of (iiis Item (1) shall mil tie applicable i,y ()) plant icauamfcmcnl, (2) mvculoiy layoff;
(4)	the week was a second "w.iilim; week” vvilhm his/her licnclil yoai under the Dncmploymeiit Insuiance System, or was an Unemployment Insurance System "wailing week" immediately following a week for vvlnelt he/shc iceeived an Unemployment Insuiance System llcnelil. or ocuiirnif, within less than liliy two (S2) weeks since his/her last Unemployment Insurance System "waiting week";
(5)	hc/slic refused a Company woik offer which he/slie has an oplton to iclitsc nmlci (he (Collective Labour Agreement or which Ite/slie could inliise witlmm disiptalilication;
((j) hc/shc was on laynlf liecansc he/slie was uiiahlc to ilo woik offered by the Company while able to do othei woik m the plant to which lie/slu: would liave lieen entitled if hc/slic had sullicient seniority.
(7)	lie/she was denied an Unemployment Insurance Ucnclil solely because ol the li.l. alloi'aliou to such week of earnings liom a 'wailing pci tod",
(8)	it is deleiniined with the roocmieiicc of Canada employment am) Immigiation (jiimutssion, dial, under (he ciir.iimsfaiias, d would he contiaiy to (he iiitem of the I’l.iu and Commission policy to deny him/her a licnclil,
('/) lic/she was leipiired to take woik nmlci the Unemployment Insurance law paying less than <80% of liis/hci "weekly straight time pay”, while temporarily latdnlf ami waiting nvall
(1(1) llr/sho voluntarily look wmk paying less than 80% of his/her "weekly shaight lime pay", while tempmarily laid olf and wailing recall
(c) was .uaiedy seeking ivork or had aice/rtcd woik oilier Ilian that covered l>y the Baii’ainmg Unit which (laid less Ilian 80% of his/her "weekly stiaighl time pay" while irmporauly laidoff and waiting u'call. and not failed or infused lo accept woik deemed suitable* under (lie applicable Unemployment Insurance System and lias met any icgisUalinn and rcpoiting tci|mremetiis of an unempioyiueni office of such applicalde I Jncmploymew jiwii.imre .System.
Sectraii I (continued...)
(d)	lias; 1' "	‘ \iGidil Unit or fiaclion thereof;
(c)	did mil receive an unemployment benefit nuclei any contract ui piogram of annlhci
employe! or under any other ‘\SUIi" plan of llict.'nmpany (and was not eiiiphlc. lor such a benefit under a contract or progtam of another employer will) whom hc/slic has a tpealn scmniily Ilian with the Company not under any ollter “SUli” plan of the Company in which hc/sltc has credit units which were credited earlier than his/her oldest credit time, under this I’hnr),
(0 was not eligible tor an automatic Shod Week llenelil;
Section ?.	for a Special Short Week Keitel it
Any associate shall he eligible for a Special Short Week llenelit loi any week beginning on 01
alia the cHcclivc dale ol litis Agreement if;
(a) duriw; such week lie/she pcrfuimed some work tin the Company or pcifoiined compensated woik loi lire Union or was oiheiwtsn compensated hy lire Company lor a day or pail thereof hul his/her coiii|>cnsatcd or available limits were less than lire number of hours in his/licr standard work week. Oniing a week of scheduled simulown, emupensaltou lor a holiday or holidays (bin only with respect to an associate laid oil m a reduction of force in accmdancc with the applicable Collective l .about' Agreement), (01 vacation or for work for (lie Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itsell ((tiality him/her (or a benefit hereunder;
(h) with ieS|H.T.i to Midi week liis/hei Company pay ami any Company pay which lie/slic would have received for hams scheduled lot or made available to him/iici Iml not worked did not tfjiiul or exceed his/her allowable eaimniy;.
(e)	with respect to such week he/slte salislied all of tlie dit'ibthly conditions for a rcipilai benefit.
Section .1	Kligibilily for an Automatic Short Week Henelit
(a) An associate shall Ire eligible for an Automatic Shod Week Hctto/tl for any week begmium; on or after tire effective date of this Agiecmonl il.
^
StTliini I (continued...)
(1) tiiiriiu* such week Iu7shc pcitmmcd some woik foi (lie Company, or perlonnei! roHi|X’mnlc(l woik loi (In: Union nr was othctwise umipcittatcd l»y the Company Ini a day nr pan thereof, Inti liis/liei compensated or available hours wen; less Ilian (lie number ofhoius in his/her slandaid woik week. Onimi; a week ol scheduled shutdown, coni|iciis»linn foi a holiday 01 holidays (hut only wilh icspect in an associate laid oil'in a induction ot lime m an nul,mcc with tin: applicable Collective l.alxmi Aviecmenl), lor vacation 01 lot woik fin the Union oi a combination tlkicof, shall not of itself qualify him/her lor a lu-nclil lii'teundci;
(/) lic/she had at least mtc{l) yearol sciuoitty asol'tlie Iasi day of such week;
(.1) he/slic was tin i|iiajifyiiis' laynlf, as described in fiction 'I of this Article, lor some pail of such week;
(4) wilh inspect to such week lus/lici Company pay ami any Company pay which Itc/shc would have ureived loi honis scheduled for (n made available lo liim/licr (ml nni walked, equaled or exceeded his/her allowable eniniiii;s; and
(*>} lic/she did not have a period or pcimds ot layolfs in the week and in the prcmlim; or lollmvinn week occunim; in such sequence as to constitute a "week of rniemployincm" (as defined uinler llm applicable Uncmployineni lusmaiice Sysleni) wind) uiduded some part of the week, provided, Itowevci, that when an associate lias a jk'ihkI of layoff with respect to which hc/shc has established such an Unemployment liismanw System "week of unemployment". which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, Ix7shc will Ire entitled (if'otherwise chjphle) to icceive a partial Automatic Slmtl Week Hcndtl wilh icspcct to any lioms of layoff on days within a woik week which are mil included ut such (oi any other) established Unemployment Insuiance System "week of unemployment"
(li) No application foi an Autoniatic Short Week Beiielit, olhei than a partial Automatic Short Week Hciidil, will Ire mpiiied of an associate llowevei, if an associate bdteves huusdf/hersclf entitled to an Automatic Short Week licndit tin a week which lic/she docs not im:ivc on (lie date when such hendits foi such week an: paid, ht’/shc may Hie wiittcu application llierdbic in accordance wilh ptocedmes established by the ( ompaity.
(i ) An Automatic. Sltotl Week Henclil payable for a week shall be in lien of any olhei bendit tinder this I'lau for (hat week, except (hat (his ptovisiou does not apply to a partial AiilomalieShorl Week Mcndit
Srelimi -I	Condition:. Willi Respect (o l.aynll
(a) A layoff fbillic piiiposcs of this Hun shall wise from:
any Icmporaiy layoif resulting from a reduction in force, (lie disconlimiance nl a plant 01 an Ojteiatimi or a temporal y layoif ctccunint; or continuing Ireanso (he associate was tillable U> do the work offered by (lie Company although able to pcrloim odici wink in die plant to which hc/shc would have been entillcd if lie/she hail suilieiciil scmoiily. Medically icsbielcij associates awaiting .suitable pJarnnenl will lie considered on layoff ouanrmg in a reduction in force,
(h) an associate’s layoff, as defined in paragraph (a) of lilts section, for all 01 pail ol any week will be deemed giiali lying for 1‘lan ptitjHises only if the following conditions arc met, as applicable thereto:
(1)	such layoif'was from the Itargniiiiug unit;
(?) such layoif was not for di.scipiiuaty reasons, and was not a consequence of:
(i)	any sluice, slowdown, woik stoppage, picketing (whether or not by associates), or conceited action, .it a Company plant m plants, 01 any disptilc of any kind involving associates or other prisons employed by Hie Company and icprcscnlcd by the Union whether at a Company plant 01 plants or elsewhere;
(ii)	any war or hostile act of a foreign puwoi (but not government regulation or controls connected therewith),
(iii)	salmtagc or iiisuircction, or
(iv)	any act nf (iod; piovided, however, this subsection (jv) shall not apply to the fiist two (?) weeks of layoif resulting from such cause;
At the end of any legal strike by associates, the Company and the Union shall mutually agate as to the period of time mxcssaiy for uoimal slail-up which shall he iticoipointed as pax of any siukc settlement memorandum. After such period of time an assoc.tale will not Ire disqualified tor S.U.Ii. solely became ol such sliike.
Section 4 <l>) (cimlinncd ...)
(!) with icspccl to stK.li week the associate dul nut icl'use to accept woik when iccallcd pursuant lo the Collective Ulxiur Ai*icciitcnl ami did not refuse an olfi* by (he ('uinpnny id olliei available woik, which he/sltc had no option to refuse under the Collective I.thorn Agreement; provided, Iwwcvcr, that whctc maintenance associates teliise production woik it will not disqualify them under ihis:nibpaiar,raph(.!);
{'!) with icsptvt to such week the associate was not eligible tor and was not clanmni',;
(i)	any auadmit 01 sickness or any ollici disability hcnclit, 01
(ii)	any company jrcusmu or ictnemeiit k-ncfil, ami
(c) II, with ns|iect to some hut not all of his/her icjjiilar woik days in a week, an associate is mdiiphlc lor a hcnclit, hefsltc will he entitled to a reduced hcnclit payment as provided in Secmin ! Id ill Allude. II.
Section S	Nispuled (.'laims ftir Uiiciii|rlnym<*iil lir\iiivmce System Ucnclils
(a) with respect to any week lor which an associate has applied for a hcnclit and for which he/shi-:
(I) has been denied an Unemployment lusutunec System Henelil, ami the denial is bemt' protested hy the associate through dm pioecdiue provided ihcielor niidei the I tikinploymetil Insmaiice System, 01
(■') has u'ccived an Unemployment Insurance System Henelil, payment ol which is heini; piotcsicd by die i.ompany ihrouidi the pioceduiv provided iheicloi under the Unemployment Insurance System,
,uui the associate is chi'.ihle to receive a henelil under die I’lan except lor such denial, or piotcsl, the payment of such hcnclit shall lie sns|ieiKled imlil sueli dispute shall have been ileleiminnl.
(oj li the dispute shall he finally detcinnnrd in favour of the associate, the benefit shall he. paid to him/hci if and lo the extent liial hc/she had nol exhausted Ciedit l lulls subsequent to the week to wlndi Unemployment Insutance System Hcnclit in dispute is uppbcublo.
Si'i'limi 6	Vacution Shutdowns
ll is understood llial an associate who is eliiyblc Ini weeks n| piiiil vacation in an amount not less Ilian (lie peiiod ol scheduled plant vacation shutdown, will not lie eligible in receive a benclit iiikIci die Plan for the paiod of plant shutdown, rep.udlcss ol whether luVsIii; has taken his/lici vacation prior to or is delta i ini; his/her vacation until alia (In: shutdown and nujardless of lus/jin dii'iliilily for unemployment compensation under llir.se rneimisiancrs.
AUTICI.KII
AMOUNT OK HKNIsKITS
Section I	Uvular llondils and Special Shot t Week Iknrtits
(a) Hie Kej’iilai Iknclil payable to an eligible associate lot any week liei'mimu; on or alter the cllective dale of (Ins Agreement shall he an amniuii, which, when added In liis/lier Unemployment Insurance Henofit and othet compensation, will equal X0% ol his/hei Weekly Nlraii’lit Time Pay lor each week for which la'/she is eligible l<» a Rci'tihii Iknclil.
(h) The Special Midi I Week iknclil payable to an rlit'ililr. associate lor any week licv.mnim; on ni after the dkelivc date of litis Ai’iecmeiil shall he an amount which, when added lo the associate's Unemployment Insuianec Iknclil ami other compensation, (exclmliiii’ (he amount ol any pay received or receivable Ikiiii (lie Company) will equal the pioduct ol llli: number which his/lier slaildanl woik week exceeds lus/lni eninprnsated or available
hmiis, coimli’d lo Ihc nenrest tcnlli ol any lioni. multiplied liy K0%, olTiis/her Shod Woik Week Aveuti’.e llmiily liainmi's; piovided, however, that a Regular Man-lit sluill he payable for tire week iJ'Ihe amouni of such Rci’.ulai Ikur-fil is ci|itul to or i;reator than die aniounl of lire Special Shod Week Iknclil
(e)	An idhciwise clii’ibie associate entitled lo a hcncld reduced, as piovided m subsection 4 {(•) of Ailicle I, In-cause ol inelit'.ibihly with ies|iert in pail of lhe week, will receive the. v,realm of: (I)
(I) l/S computed Hiulei siiliM.xtion (a) of this section for each woik day of'tin: week lor which he/siic is clh’jhlc under this Plan, piovided, howevci, that then: shall lie excluded from such compulation any pay winch could have Ih'-cii earned, computed, as if payable, loi hours made available by the Comp,my hut mil worked (liiriiiy, (lie days lot winch hr/shc is not eligible fen a lieneld imdei subsection 4 (c) of Ai tide I; <u
Sn tiitii 1 (c) (( ■MilitSl|i:il. .}
{.') .my Special Slum Week Bructil computed under sulv.ccimn (i») oj this section Hu which hc/shc may hi* eltj’tliit
Nivtimi l	Automatic Short Week Beindil
(a) I he Automatic SJk»;i Week llcnclil payable to any rliiplrlt: associate for .my week i)C^iniiiii*; im 01 afire (he effective date ol this Amncmeiil shall he an r.mmmi inpi.il In she jiioilin t id the number by winch (he nnmbei ol lmms in his/her stondaul work week *:xm*dx Im/iict c<»it|kms:i!vd of available hours, emmlird lo ihr nearest lenth of ;m Iwiri, nitdliphvd hy Sl)7«ol his/her Slum Woik Week Avciav.e i miniy l amiiijib.
(h) An filicide axsinnale ciUillcd to a pnitial Automatic Strutt Week Henelit wtili respect to cntain horns of laynlf ihh included m an llncnijikiyiiieiii hiMiumce System "week of unempinymenf', as provided til Sctlmii i (a) (5) >il Aiticlc I. will ii'enve an amount computed as pumded in subsection') (aj above, based on ihe mmdmj hy which the hours ioi which the associate would tcgtilarly have luxn compensated exceeds his/hci i *:»i|«.ijsakd or available I fonts, with respect to tin: days wtthm lire work week out included in such Unemployment Iiisuuukc System "week t>( nncmploynn'tit"
Sutton .1	Imcmploymetrt liism mice llenelit ami Ollier l lompeusatimi
[.u As assoc bite's Unemployment lnsm.’a’.ce Btisclil and Other rnmpensalion ii;j week means:
{[} tlu* amount of Unemployment iin-.in.mc System Ihmelils received >» receivable by the associate lor (he week oi the estimated amount which the associate would have KYc-ived. plus
|2) all pay icecived or receivable hy the associate (mm the Company and except m deicrmmim: the amount of.! Special Slim I Week Heoelif, any amoum oi unearned pay niiiipniui. as il [rayahli:, Ioi hums made available hv the Company but mil .staked iHei notice esuiMstuit with poiesurs undo die Collective I nhom Ai'.ecnirm has been I’lVen lur Midi week, ami provided, iit.il it wary's 01 remuneration aio leceivcd or icccivable l>v die associate limn employer- other than me Company ami an: applicable lo the same pounds as Isoms nude available hy tlu: Company, uniy the ipeater <■! (a)such way.es m innune».ui(jn in excess ol his/her allowable cumin1,s hoii; tiic otliei employers, 01 (lr) any amount of pay winch could have been ciiirwd, computed, as il payable, (or hours math- available by the Company shall he included; ami luilliei piovulcd, dial any pay icmved <u jcmvabl': Ioi a ’.l«!l which iV’ iidr. thmiieii midim-ht shall he alio; jtul
.Scctimi \ (a) (2) (Conliniicd...)		
ID	to the day on which the shill stalled if lic/slic was the cnircxpoiidiiig shift on the following day.	on layoff wilh respect to
in)	to the day on which (lie shill ended il lie/she was on laynlf with irsprrt to Ik eoircsponding shift on die picccding day, and	
ini)	ucconlmg to the pay for the horns winked each day, if lie/she was on layoff vvilii tespecl lo llte cot responding shills on both llic preceding and the following days;	
ami, in auy such event, the maximum Regular llcndil amount shall lie modified tu any extent ucccssmy so that the associate’s knetit will lie increased to offset any reduction in his/her Unemployment Insurance System llcndil wiiiclt may have icsullnl solely liom the Unemployment liisntancu System's alloration of his/her cantinas for such a shill othciwise than as spccilicd in this subsection; plus
(.1) all wages or icmuncialion, as delmcd uiulei the law of the applicable Unemployment Insuiancc System, in excess of his/her Allowable luimtnj’s rcectml or rccovahle liom other cmploycis tor such week (excluding such wages m lumiuciatimi which wm* considered in the calculation mulci subsection (a) (?) ol this Seciion); plus
(4) the amount of all other hcuclils in the nature ol compensation or hcncliis tin unemployment received or icccivahlc uiulei any Province m Canadian Unvcinmnit System.
(h)	I nr pm poses of subparagraph (a) (l) above, the cslimatcd amount of the l lucmploymetU
Insuiaitee System lknrlil which would have been received by the assoeialc. shall lie r<|un| to whichever ol the following amounts is applicable;
(I) if lie/she lias an established and cuuculty applicable weekly brnclil rale uiulei the Unemployment Insurance System, sudi henelit rale phis any dependents’ allowances, or
(?) ill all other eases, die Unemployment losiiianee System Buielit which would apply to an individual having the same miiiikr iifde|Hauletits as (lie associate and having weekly earnings equal to (he associate’s Weekly Sh.tight Time Pay
(e)	If die Unemployment Insurance System Hcnclil aclually iacivr.il by an assoeiiile lor a week shall he lor less, or more, than a lull week (lor reasons other than the associate's receipt of wages oi remmiejalum for such week), localise
It
Section 3 (Cmiliiiticd ..,)
(1)	he/shc lias Ikicii disqualtlied or otherwise deteunmed ineligible Tor a portion ot ■ his/her Unemployment Insmancc System Benefit toi iciisons other than set loith
in Section l (h) of Aitide l.oi
(2)	tiic applicable Unemployment Insurance week includes one or mote “waihm* pa iod dlective days", m
(<) ol an undcipayment or overpayment of a picvious Uiicmploynicnt In.-aiiancr. System Henefif, (lie amount uflhcU/icmploymeul btsm.ince Uendil wind) would olhmvisehave been paid lo (lie associate lor such Unemployment Insmancc week shall l;e used in ihc calcnlalinn oi 'Unemployment Insmancc Benefit and other (lompcnsatimi" for such Unemployment Insurance week
(d) If the Unemployment Insurance .System Benefit applies lo a jwtioil of less than seven (7) ilays due to the commencement ot teimiiiadon of unemployment oilier than on (lie fust (I*1) oi last day ol the not malty applicable week, the seven (7) day pci iod of the nmmally applicable Unemployment Insurance week will lie used in calculalim; Unemployment hisuiancc Benefit and Other Compensation lor such Unemployment hbnr.m'O week.
Section -I	Definition uJ'.Scljodtiled and Unscheduled .Short Work Week
I a) i-'orpmposirsol the Plan, a .Scheduled Slum Woik Week with icspecl to an associate is a slant work week which management schedules m older t;i reduce the production of Ihc plant. DcpaiUucnl, or other unit in which the associate woiks, Ion level below Ihc level ul which die production of such plant, depaitmcnt, or unit would lie tor the week went it noi a shot! woik week, hut only wlicic such reduction ol pioduelum is loi dte pm pose ol' adjusting prodiiclmn (o customer demand.
(Id for purposes of the Plan, an Unscheduled Slmil Wmk Week with u-spcci lo an associate is tiny Slum Woik Week.
(1)	winch is not a Scheduled Slunt Woik Week as dclincd m subsection <t (a) almve;
(?)	in which an associate rcimns lo work fitnn layolf to icplacc a sepatated or absent
associate (including an associate tailing to respond or lardy m responding to iccail), or lelmns to wmk, alter a lull week of layoff, m cikur'cIkmi with an mueasc in production, hut only to (he extent dial the Shod Wmk Week is attributable to such cause.
(c) The Company will advise a designated Union Representative oi Representatives, of the l ocal Union at die time ullayolTol the reason oi n asons causmi', ,my Slum Work Week involving a suhsunlial ntimbcr oi associates.
1>
Section 5	Insufficient Credit Units for Full lienrlit
If iin associate has In his/her tiedil less Ilian die full number of Ciulii I (nils ioqiiiie.il to In: canceled for llie payment of a Iienclil for which hc/slte. is odieiwisc cin-.iblr:, incite shall he pan! (he lull ammml of such hcnclil and all rcmainim; I'icilil Units ot Itac.iions dincof in lns/ln:i c.iedit shall he canceled.
Section It	F.fjcct of! aiw Trust I'liiiti Po.silitm
Noiwidislandim' any of (he oilier piovisiotis of lint Plan, il, and as lonv as the applicable I him Fund I'dsilinn for any week shall he less limn <1%, no hcnclil lor such week shall he paid
Scelinn 7	llondil Overpayment
fa) If die Company or (Itc- Hoard determines dial any Ixmcfitfs) paid under (he Flan should not have Ireen paid or should have Itccn paid in a lesser aniounl, wiitlcn iioiicc ilie.ieol .shall he mailed (o Ihc associate veccivinj* die bcnclil(.s) and h<'/shc shall Minn die aimmnt of nvcipaymenl (n Ihc Tmslce, providing, Imwnw, dial no repayment shall lie required il Ihc rnimilalivc ovet payment is SI or less or if notice has mil been i;ivcn wilhin one hundred and twenty (fid) days Imin die. day (lie nvripuyuiait was esiahlishcd m ensiled, except dial no such time lintilalinn siiall he apphcahle in eases of hand or wilful misrepresentation.
(It) If die associate shall lad In return such amminl piomplly, die Tmslcc shall airani'.c in icimlHir.se die Fund foi die amount ol ovcipaymeni by imikim; a deduction limn any futurebenefits (not lo exceed $15 from any one henciii cxcepl muses of fraud nr willul nnsrcpiesenlalion), or hy icipicslinj', (he Company m make a ilednciion limn eoiH|)ensalion payable hy the Company lo Ihc assooalc (nol lo exceed VIS limn any one pay (Jiei|ijc except in cases ol fiaud or wilful misrcpii senlalion), or hoilt. i hc l.'unipany is authorized lo make such deduciiou from tlie associate's compensation and to pay die amount deducted lo the Tmslcc.
Section 8	WitlilioldingTai
llie Ti ustec slutll dcdiK:l limn the amount of any IrcmTil any ammml required lo he withheld by the Tmslcc or (lie Company hy reason of any law or ici'.idalmn for payment of (axes or ulheiwisc to any Perietal, Provincial, or Municipal Government of Canada.
Si'dimi 9	Minimum Uefpil.ii Hrnelil
Wlx'iievcr an associate itcrloims no woik for die Company or any oilier employer, in a week and his/her Ket'iilat Hcnclil computed under Section I (a) nf Ibis Ailicle piovides no hcnelii m hcnelils of less than SID for (he week, hc/sltc siiall he paid an umounl sulficieul lo bum; lus/lin benefit Im die week up to SlO
it
Section II)	Dciliiclion of Union Dues
(he Tinsfce shad (bind fromfrcnefils [wid under llie Plan, lo those associates who have .signed ;i wiiiicii auihorizalion, Union nicnibcrslap dues in such amount as may he fixed by (lie l.ocai Union.
AHTIU.KIH
crkdirjiNijs and duration ok mcNKi-n s
Section I	(fCiieral
I'ledti lInns shall have not fixed value in terms ol cilhn limeoi money, hm shall he a means ol deicnntmny eligibility for the dinatioii ofbenefits.
Section 2	Accrual of Credit Units
[a)	l;of work weeks commcncim*. on or idler llie clfcclivc dale of (his Agreement, Cmlit Units shall lie ciediled at lire rale of '/* ol a Credit Unit for each work week tin which an associate receives any pay from llie Company and Idi woik weeks for which hc/slic tines noi iccave pay from the Company hill for winch lie/she receives a leveling week henelil.
(I>) l*nr tltc |Hii|M>sc of neentin^ (!icdif Units undci this section:
(1} pay m lien of vacation shall (teconsnfcied ns pay lor (he wotk week m which n is paid; ami
(>) hack pay shall he considered as pay fni each woik week in which n may lie allocable,
( t) non-tvcnpatiomd .uxulcnt and sickness payments, ami Worker's Compensation payments shall beconsidcicd as pay for the woik week lor which they me paid,
(4) lime Inst when excused for l.ocai 1 Inion business ami a leave of ahsenee lot Local Union lutsincss shall he inclndcvl in ddemimmi; a woik week under this section
(i) No associate may have lo his/her credit in (he .iiy'regatc at any one lime under (Iris Plan ami undei any oilier "S.U.lt ’* Plan ol iltc Company more Credit Units than sped lied Mow:
u
Sil'tidH ?.((•) (CitllUilllf'll ,..)
Vws iif AwKimc’s Scurorilv
(M.iximuiit (H-dK Units
l.i-ss than S
s l«ii less than HI 10bill lessllinn i!i I*> b**i less Ilian and Ovei
im
■m
However, any associate who lias at any time to his/hn ricdil in (he sii»i*i(tv,;Ur; a total nl die applicable inaxuniini munlicr of Credit I Imts (as sjiecilnal above) under tins IMtiti and any oilier "S.l J.H." I’lan of the Company ami who would nlhiawise accumulate additional (.Vdil Units in the bantainiui' unit in which hr/siie is rummlly employed, may duccl dial 'inch iukltliotud Ciedil Units shall Ik' u edited to him/hci .mil acouespmidim; ntinilici ol (ji-ilii IJmls accumulated umlei this I’laii m any olhei linii'.iiimin* unit in tmdn any other "S.ll.n." I’law id llie (Company, sit,ill Ik; canceled, as lc»ui> as (tie ai'^i«-j’,ali: ol his/hn (jttht Units :»l any one time does not rxcoed die applicable maximum.
(tl) No associate shrill Ik; credited with any Ciedil Unit |:n<« to the lust (l“) day ol which ft) has at least one (i) year ol''seniority; and
(n) is on the active paymll in die b;ui«,aimm; unit (or was on Mich iiJn’t; payroll within loily five (4!>) days piim m such ln-,i (T') day) hm as o| Midi day Itc/slic shall he dallied with Cicdil Units Im weeks siiltM-c|uenr io Ins/her Company sci vice date at the rale specified in paraipapli (a) of Ibis section
I'm die pm poses of tins sulipaiat'.iapli "Illy, an .ismh ulc i-.uii the art tw. payroll in any pay petioil Im winch hc/she draws pay while in a banpiunm' .mil or is <m andu;ir/eil leave oi absence which es limited, when issued lo nincly (90) days m less; dtiiini* du: lirs! ninety (90) days of lominnnns absence due to illness or utjiiiy, im ilisrii-lwury layoil, absent witlvmi lew. up to lumiwn (14) annula; days limn liis/lie last day wmked
(-■} An associate, who lias Ciedd i huts as ol the MM day of the. week -Jiall In: divined to have diem lor all el the week.
15
Nrrliiiii 1 (< MiUiunrd ...)
(I ) Al such lime as the amount of any Ircnefil nvet payment is iqwul Id the Fund, except as oilimvisc provided in the I’i.iu, the nimibci of (Vedil Units, if any, ihcrefolme canceled witli icS|K'd to such ovei payment of benefits shall he irstnred to the associate, except to liie extent that such icstoiation would laise the number ui'his/her Credit Units at the. time thereof above the applicable maximum, ami except as mhenvise provided with inspect to fieiht Unit foileiiiuc nmler Section I of this Aitielr
Section 1	Forfeiture »f Credit Units
A pa son shall loileii peimanenlly all Ciedit Units with winch !ie/slie shall have been credited i!
al any lime:
(a)	hc/slrc shall he temoved bom the mil:; of the Company tin any leasnns oilier than layotl ui enici ini'. Military Sci vice,
(b)	Invshc shall lose his/lict lii'hls In robin: with credit lor hack sinvicc,
(>.}	he/shc shall lie on layoff from the ban>amiro’ mill lot a continuous pcnml ol iwniiy-loiii
(74) monllis (m tin associates with fifteen (i5f Inn less than twenty-live (75) years of semnuly, llinly (30) months, or tin associates with twenty live (75) or more yeais ot semouly, loily-ett<lit (4K) months), <n
(it) IWslii: shall wilfully misroprosent any malenal fact in connection with an application by him/her liu benefits uniter liie I’ian.
.Section -i	Credit Unit Cancfllaliou mi I’ayiiients id benefits
lb-: ntimhci ol Credit Units to he canceled Ini any benefit shall ho drtcimincd in aecoidanci:
with the followmt' table on llu: basis of:
(f)	fhcMiiidtnyol i hr associate to whoro.stirli henelil is paid;
(7) I he frost hind I'osttion applicable to the week tin winch Mich lienclil is paid.
It.
Scetinn 4 (2) (Continued ...)
II (lie Scnnirily ol (hi- I'crsoii in WIhmii Sndi llciielit is Paid is:
1-5	5-H)	III 15	15 20 20 Ycais
Ycais Ycais Years Ycais	& Over
If (lx: ! nisi bund Position Applicable
To (he Week lor which	The (aeilil I /nits canceled lm such
Such Benefit is Paid is:	llcnelil shall lm:
X0% or over		1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00	1 (10
70	79.99%	1.15	1.00	1.0(1	1.00	1 00
60	69.99%	UG	1.15	1.00	1.00	100
50	- 59.99%	1..50	1.30	1.15	}.(]()	1.00
40	-49.99%	2.00	1.50	1.30	1.15	100
:io	39.99%	7.50	7.00	1.50	1.10	1.15
70	■ 7.9.9904	3.31	7.50	7.00	1.50	13(1
10-	- IM9%	5.00	3.33	2.50	2.00	1.50
04	09.99%	7.50	xt)0	.3.13	2.50	2.01)
Under 4%			-No Ik	udits Payable -		
I'xccplions to the Credit Unil Cancellalinn tales in I he above table are as follows:
(1)	'A of tk number of Crcdil Unils will lie canceled lor an unscheduled Automatic Slioii Week Rcncfil payable for three (3) or more hours when with respect io such week flu: associate has earned from the Company an ammiui cc|iial lu or in excess of X0°/i ul his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay; and
(2)	No Credit I Imls shall he canceled when an associate receives:
(i) an Automatic Slmil Week or Special Ski I Week Beiiclil (or a Scheduled Shod Woik Week,
(li) a levelling Week Bcnefils; or
(iii) an Autoinalic Slmil Week Bencfil Ini an Unscheduled Slmil Work Week payable for less than ilircc (A) horns.
Ncclimi S
Armed Services
An .iv.iH-i.ilr wlut oilus lint Aimed Net vices ol Oitad.-i liinvdy h<»m dm employ »l iho Company shall, while tti such suvne, lie deemed, lor jHiiposcs ol ihe. I'liin, to lie on have ol absence awl shall not he entitled lo any hcnr.ln.*,. All (.Valil Units rtcdiled in the associate at the. time <il his/her eitliy min such seivioe. shall lie. eiedileil to Inni/ltei upon his/hci icmxlatemeM as an associate.
.Section h	Transtci Out o| llarpnitiiiij; I Init
II ,in associate is iiaiislencd out ol the hiuy,aimnj' anil lo :i }oli which is not eoveieil hy a similar Supplemental lJnemploynutnl Hcoelil I'lan ol the. Company, Ins/liei Ctcdii Units shall lie. canceled. Ihey shall Ik: icmstated. howevei, if he/she is imuslinicd hack lo llie banpthiim', nmi with, or aim lieAlie. acqiuies, at least oiic(l) yt-ais scinonly therein
Section 7	Kxhauslimt id'Credit Units
On exhaustion ol an associate's Credit Units he/she shall not lie entitled to hit liter henelils. Seiiiuii H	Cancellation otCredd Units
When an associate's ('lulit t huts arc canceled nmlci the |iiovisions ol Section I ol this Aitldc, he/:,he shall he. cnlitled lo no luittu i henelils tmlil he/slu; shall have been ucdtlcd witli adililional ( liilll lliuis
(al I'iliiij; ol Applications
An applicaliou loi a henelil may he tiled either m prison oi hy mall in nccaidniii'e. with pioectlmes esialilishctl by die Company Such proredmes shall leqmn: the applicant in apply loi a henelil within sixty ((><)) days altci cadi week ini which he/she e; clanmin; hcnefifs; picwded, hmvcm, that it die payment ol Die hem-lit is delayed Ijecaiisr i>l an Unemployment Insm.ime System lUnelil hcmi; piotested, an applicaliou may he made wnhm (wo (?) weeks alter the piotcst has Ih’cii sealed IJndci such pion-dmrs an associate .ippiyme loi a henelil shall he ie(|iiued lo appeal pmoiially at a location designated loi this pm pose lo iei;ist<:t as an applicant anil to supply net-tied mtoimalmn at Hie icnc ol. 01 diihi to. maktiii' iiis/liei tnst U'1)	follmvnm l.mdl.
AUllCIlslV
AIMM.ICAI IUN AND DKTKUMlNAllON Ol- I.I.UJIlllU l Y
Sedion I
Appliealtmix
Srrtiou 1 ((mnliniicd...)
(1>) Application Informaliuii
Applications filed fora hcnr.fi! tinder flic Plan will include.
(I) m wi itiiu; any infmmafioii deemed relevant liy Ik (*oni|>any with respect to mhci benefits received, eanmujx and I lie source llinenf, dependents, and such oilici inlmmation as Ik Company may lapiirc in order lo dcicmimc whether Ik associate is eligible lo he paid a licncfil ami Ik amount thereof; ami
{?.) wilh respect lo a Rcj’iil.'u or Special .Shod Week Itendil llu: exhibition of (lie associate's IJitcmployiiieuI Insurance System Henelit elicipie or oilier evidence salislaeloi y (o die Onnpany of either
(i) his/her rccei|d of or enlilleinciil lo an Unemployment [nsuiaiiec System licncfil, or
(ii) his/her ineligibility for an Unemployment Insniiinee Syslem Heiiefil cnily for one (1) or more of the reasons specified in Section I (h) of Adicie I; IHovidcd, however, Ilia! in the cum: of Unemployment Insimmec System Iteuclil mclm.ibihly by mason of die pay men ml from lire (.'ompany or otlieiwisc (Item 3 of Section I (h) of Adicie i), Ihiciiiploymcnl Insinaiicr. System evidence for sucli reason of iiiclii’ihihly shall nol he required.
Seclinn 2	Dclcriuinalion nf Klijjiliility
(a) Application Pi(icc.«tn£byj(!<inipany
Wltcn an appliealion is filed for a hcuclil umlci (lie Plan and Hie ('ompany is furnished with the evidence ami infot matiun required, llu* ('nnipauy shall iletcimiiic die associate's c'lilitlcmi'.nl lo a liendil. The Company shall advise the associate ol the number ol (aedil Units canceled foi each benefit payment and the number of'Ciedil Units mniamim* lo ius/lici credit alter such payment.
(Ii) Notification to Trustee to Pay
If (lie (‘ompany determines that a hcuclil is payable, >1 sitall deliver piompi written notice, lo die Trustee to pay die kuefil. The payment of kuciits under the Plan may be marir hy, and llicmlum of amounts of ova payments may be made to, die tepre.seiitalives ot the Trustee apiminlcd by it for xticli put pose. Such icpmsciuatives may be associates ol (Ik; Company.
19
Section 2 (('iiithiimd...)
(c)	Notice ol Denial of Henetils
ll lire Company dctciniitics that an associate is no! entitled to ,\ benefit, it shall notify Jimi/bcj |)iiiin|)lly, in wriliiu!, of the icasonfs) tm Ike detniiimalimi.
(d)	lliiiim ( ,o|m><i (if Application ami tK-tcimimitimh
/lie (btti|!iHty shall tiumslt pnmtpllyto tin: l ocal Union S.l J.Jl. Kepicst-iiiativc a copy ol •skli application and a copy of all Company detei initiations ol lieuetil payment melmjliihty nr oveipaynient.
AUTICl.l, V
administhaiionoi-rut: i*i,an and aitkai, i'kockdijuks
.Section |	I'mvtTS and Anllim itY of Ike (.‘mitpnnv
(a/ Cmiipii)’I’mvm
kite Company shall have sink |X>weix and aullmniy as arc iicccssaiy mid appiopiiale m oidei to cany out its duties mulci this Allude, mekuliiU’,, witluml luuil.ilion, the lollownig:
(I) to obtain such inloimalnni as the I’ompany shall deem iicccssaiy in oidei to cany out its duties mulct tltc I'l.in;
(.’} In mvislic.aie the lonectncss ami vatulity nl mlnuiutum tiiinished with ies|>n:l to an application Iota benclit;
( !) to make initial deln mutations with icsjKtct uiIh'ik Iiis,
(•I) to establish leasinvalile titles, (ce,illations and piocedmcs eoneumm1,
(i) the mamici in which and the limes and places at which applications shall lie tiled lot benefits; and
(iij (he tinni, content and substantiation of applications lot liene/us.
(S) to ik--.ii>itaic an olliec <11 di:|uiiincnl at the plant, m in ihc illein.ilivc a l.vatni.
die crucial aiea ol the plant, when: associates Ian! oil may appeal lor the pmposc ol cumplyini; will) (lie 1‘lan ic(|uiiemciits.
>0
.Section I (CViotiHiied.
(6)	In dctcimiuc the Maximum hmdiiig of the limd ;iihI the Trust hind Position,
(V)	to establish appropriate proccdtmy fin giving notices	‘ ‘	. »*ivcn midei
the Plan;
(8)	(n establish and immlaiu necessary nmrik; and
(9)	to prepare and distribute information explaining die Plan.
(I>)	C<mipaMy_Aullmn(y
Nothmg conl.mted in Ibis Plan shall ire deemed to rfoaJiTy, limit or alter in any manner Ihe Comp<my’.s sale and complete aulliotily and discretion to establisli, legulalo, determine or modify a! any time levels of employment, horns of work, the extent of hiring and layoffs, pioducUun sclicdulcs, inanufactiinm; methods, the products and pails llicieof to be inamiliicliircd, where and when work si tall he dune., marketing of its piuducts, ot any other matter related to die conduct ol ds Ixisinuss m llu: manner in which its business is lo lie managed oi earned on, m die same manner and to the same extent as if this Plan wen: not in existence; nor shall it lie deemed to cnnlci either ii|khi the Union or the Noaid ol Appeals any voice ill such matters.
Section 2	Appeals Procedure
(a)	First Step Apjicah
flic Company shall designate one (I) pmo/i in serve as its re|Hescnt.iiive lor the consideration ol appeals hy applicants and the Union shall designate a lepresentative fur the. same pui|uisc. The associate designated as the icpiescuialive ol' the Union shall he paid for tune lost fiom woric in atlcnding meetings with llu: Company lepiesenlaltve loi the consideration of such appeals. .Such payments shall he made directly hy the Company.
Any person who shall have been dcteimmed hy the Company not to lie entitled to a hcnelil, who shall have been dclcimined to lie entitled to he paid a Imtidii that is lesser m amount than llu: amount to which such person believes lic/slte is entitled, who (|iicstions the uuiuhei of Ciulit Units credited lo him/hei at the. lime of layoll, wlto has harl more ol his/ltet Credit units cancelled Ilian hc/shc Iwliuvcs eonceJ ot who is dr.leimmcd !n lx: ineligihh: for a licnclit which detniminatjon is disputed by him/her, may apjieal such (lelcniiinalK)ii by prcscnling, an Appeal (otlici than dcleiminalmns made in connection with .Section I (l>) (I I) of Aifidc(J), 0I> •* f»»»i tube piovnlcrl Ji«ihis purpose, eilhei lo IhcCompauy representative oi to the Union representative, hi ?(l
10673631
Serlnm 1 (a) {('oiilinnnl...)
situations wlicii; a minihci ol associates had lilul applications lot hnicliUi uiulei Milisiantially identical comlilions, an appeal may lie hied wiili icsped to i>ne (I) of sndt assi»cites and the decision lliueon shall apply in all such associates If (here Is no Local Union in plant S.li.ll. leptcsenlalivc ai any plant Iweansc ol a discontinuance of such plant, tin- appeal may he Irletldjiitflly with the "	, .ills.
Appeals cunccmmitdelciinmatinu:; made in connection will) Section I (h)(ll)o| At Hole I (tommy In intent ol l’l.m) .shall In: made directly to the Hoaid. Such wmien Appeal must he lili'il within thnty (.1(1) days loHowinj', (lie date of notice ot such ileteimmatmn or denial oi i eduction ofsuch hcnclil lo Mich pci son, or within Ihiily (1(1) days alter the date ol mailing of a dietpic ol such smaller amoniil hy the Trustee lo such poison. The icpieteiiutivc who receives said will Ini Appeal will promptly furnish one (I) copy to lire icpiesciilativc of the oilier parly. If cither the Company lepicscnlaiivc or the Union icpn'scntative shall linil dial such Appeal is justified, lic/shc sluill so notify the oihei lepiesciilative ami lire (annpany repiesculalive and Union leprcscnlalive shall uicci wiitiin tcn(IU) days from ihc dale ol the Appeal (or such extended (nne as may he ayjml iijKin) lo ddeimme the dis|Hisilion ol such Appeal.
In event the iwu (7.) panics cannot ay,ice upon the disposition of ihc Appeal, oilier lepicseiitative may rdet the mallei to the Mo.ml ol Ap|H'als lor disposition, mt a Imm to hcinovided loi that pmposo.
(li) {1} Within twenty (70) days alter disposition of an Appeal hy the Company ami Union representatives, (he Union icpicscuf.ilivc may rapiest a uilmi' hy the Hoaid ol Appeals. Such a ia|uesl shall Ik; in wtiime, shall s}K-i.ily the icspccts hi winch the (Man is claimed lo have been violated and shall sd loilh (he fuels iclied upon as inslifyut!; a teveisal or modilicalion ol the ddcmiinaliim appealed liom A copy ol said ie(|ui'.st will in- liunished lo the (.‘ompany lepicscntutive I he Hoard o| Appeals shall have no jaiisdictum lo act iipnii an Appeal made alle.i die time .cpmlicd above oi upon on Appeal which does not olhciwisc comply with this siihpaiavinplv Subject to the limitations of Mihpaiaipaph (7) set linih below, die limullim* and disposition ol Mich iripicsl In the Itoaid of Appeals shall he m aceoidamie with the lei’idalions and procedures cslablisbcd hy ihe Hoaid lire Union icprcseiUahve or tire Union memheis of the Ikiaid of Appeals may tvillNlmw any Appeal lo lire Bonn) at any lime lieldic it is decided hy the Hoard.
hi mlitijt upon Appeals, Ihc Hoaid shall have no aullwuily to waive, v.ny, ipialify, oi alter id any manner, (lie rlnplnlily ici)inn'iiicnls set loilli in the I'lan, the pioiedmc lot applyiiii* loi beiidjts .scl loilh lieicm, or any olliei provision of the I'lan, and shall have no juiisdiclion ntliri ihan lo deleinime. on ihc hash of tin: lads picsented and in aeeoid.ince with ihc piovismns ol the I’l.m
»
m
16167763
Ncrtion 1 (h) (Continued...)
(i)	\vhclln:t (he liist step Appeal and (lie Appeal to lilt: Hoard weir made
within the time and in the manner S|Hxilid in this Section;
(ii)	whether the associate is an clii’ilile person wilti lesprcl to the lieneln involved and, if so;
(tii) tile amount of any knefit payable;
(iv)	whether Ilic acciua) nr cancellation of Credit Units was piopeily detci mined;
(v)	any question hy cither the Company or the Union cnncetiiini' the inlci|MCl;dion nr application nl this Man unless' !i|xci tie,ally included limn the Ap(ieals hocedure.
(.1) There shad he tin Ajipcal horn the decision of the Huaul of Appeals, it shall he final ami Idiidim1, upon (he llninu, its mnniins, the associate involved, die Trustee, and the Com|wny. The Union will disrmu.urn any attempt of its incnilm (o appeal ami will not nicomai'e 01 uiopeiale with any of its incmkis in any Appeal in any romt or lalioui hoard limn any decision of the Hoard, nor will (lie Union nr its ineiuhcis hy any other means attempt to hum? akin a settlement of any claim <» issue on which the hoard is empowered to rule Ircicundcr.
(e)	Applicability of Appeals Procedures
The Appeals pima'ihuc set loilli in this scclion may lie employed only fin the pm post s specified in tire Plan. Such pioccduic shall nut lie used to pmlixl a denial of an l liicmploymcnt (nsmaiKC System uncmploymcni licnelil or to dciamitio whedici nr mu a Ixmcfil sltoid'l have liccu paid under an Unemployment Insurance System. (Appeal Procedure,v under unemployment Imniancc law lnum; the exclusive mnedy llieielor). The hoard of Appeals sliall have no power to deleimme iptestinns otisim* mulct any Collective Ldimir Ai/jccmcnt, even llioufji mlevant In die issues tictore (lie limnd. All such (picslions shall he tlclcimined duout'li the reiydar pmeeduics piovided thcreloi hy the Collective Cabow Agreement, and all dctu imitations made pntsiumt to such Af'ieerncm .shall Ire accreted hy Ik hoard.
(d)	(miiiposjliun ami Procedure - Hoard of Appeals
(I) Tluirc shall he establiskd a Itaaid of Appeals cousislmf', ot lour (4) memluas, two (2) of wtiom sliall tic appointed hy lire Company (luuc.iiialint id'cwed to as die Company manlier*), ami two (2) of whom shall lie	as follows: one (I)
21
Section 2 (if) H Hfifmu. tf.,.)
hy the Inlciiialiuna! Uimm, United .Slcdwmkeis of Amum.i, ami one (I) by Local fi2X, lu-icmalicr iclcned to as the Union members. 1’icli im-mher ol (he Hoar1 .'dial! have an alternate. In die event a member is absent liom a nurling of the llnaul, liis/lua alternate may attend. anil when in aNcmlanr.e. shall i-xtacisc the jUHvns ami ncitfiim the duties (it Midi niembcr Htthci the (.'<>iuji.my in the Union ai any time may irmnve a iminkr appointed by it raid way apjannt a member to
till any vacancy among tin- nicmhds Jimmied l>y it. the ..................pany ami ihe
Union c<#:h stud! uotily tin- otliei m wilting ol (In uicmkrs u-sjWiUvciy appointed hy it before any such apjiomtiiiciil sliafi i>e clfeelivr.
(2) I he mcmbeis of ibe Hoaid shall appoint an Inijiailinl ( lliainn.m, wlm shall seivice mini io|nesled in writing to icMgn hy two (2) mcuihus of the Homd. If die inemlnas of the Hoard air tumble m agree noon a I’lianman, hi'esti!- .shall he selected in aaimiaiKc with dm applicable pinvMous ol thr Collective l.niiom 'byct-mem. Hie hnpaitw! f haiimati shall In; consider'd a mrmhei ol die Boat.I, lint shall attend meetings and shall vote only m umHeis within die lloatd’s authuidy lo detenmne, ami only when (tie other members nl the Itoaid shall have ken unable lo dispose of ;i mallei by a inajonly vole, except dial llu- linpailial Chaiiman shall have m> vote comeinmg dotei munition made in nmmviinn with Sect ion I (h| {I l)»f Aitich' I (CiHilrai v lt» mleni nUManf
(l) At liast one (I) Union niemki and one (!) i ‘omjiaijy ntemhet shall he icipincd in he picutil at anv meeting of ific iinaid in oidei to lOiisiitnie a quoinm tin Ik b.iiisai lm» o! business. At all meetings .»! the Hoaid, Ik Company mvmhcis shall have a total of two (2) Votes, imd die I Imon memlieis shall have a lolai ol two (2) voles, the vole ol any absent mcmlx-i being given lo the memlK'i piesent, appointed by the same parly Divisions ol die Hoard shall be hy a m.ipnily of (he votes east
; lj j h" Ho,nd .shall not maintain any srpaiam office oi stall, hut Urn i'<>ni|>;tity and tin* Union siiail be tcsponsihlc loi fmmshmp, each <lnual .aid other assistance as its uspit live miiiitias of the Hoard shall lequtic (opus of ail Appeals, icpnits, uvl documents to Ik: filed with dir Itoaid pnisiianl to Ihe Han shall In* filed m diiplieale, one (1) copy to In; soul lo die Company members at die aildiess designated hy (hem, and the olhei to lie sent to tin-1 Imon meinbeis at die address designated by them
Seciimi t	Determination of Dependciits
(a) Uegnlar llciirtib
In dclnnimmg an assof.iales dependents Ini pni|im.es ol Krgnlni itenelils delf’iiim.ilioii',, tin: Company shall k e-ildli ii burly iijHm (hcnllinai Imin tiled |jy the
Seclimi .1 (ii) (Cmiliiuiuii...)
associate with llic Company lor income lax wilhholdiiii; pm poses, anil (lie associate shall , have the burden of c^lahlislmii’ llia( lic/slic is entitled to a i>i eater iminlicr of withlinldiiit', exemptions lhal hc/shc shall have claimed on such toini.
(h) Allowable Kmuiii|;s
111 calculating an associate’s Allowable	the Company shall lie entitled to n;ly
upon Midi iufoimation as may lie available lisliiij', dependents. flu: associate shall lave I he burden uloslablisliup; tied he/she is ciililled to a different number ol dependents than lhal heuu; used by llic Company.
.Section 'I	To Whiun Ueitrlilsi ore Buyable in (>t tain <Imidiijoiis
Benefits shall lie |wyal»lc only to lire eligible associate, except lhal if die (mmpaiiy shall imil thal the associate is deceased or is unable to manaj’C his/her alfaus foi any icasoii, any bcuctil payable to him/licr shall he paid (n his/hei duly appointed Icjjpl icpreseutalive, if ihere lie our, ami, if mil, to the spouse, parents, children, or oilier iclalivcs 01 depeiulrnis of tin: associate as the lioanl in its discielioit may determine.
Any lieiielil so,..! ' "1 a complete discliaii'.c of any liability with icsped to siich hnieht. In
the case of death, no liendil shall he payable wnlnrspccl to any [h i khI fullownu* (lie las! day ol layoff immediately precedim; lire associate’s death.
Section 5	Non-Alienation ot Urnetits
Hxi epl lor a dednetion specifically provided loi under tins Idau, no kudil shall lie sub|ivt 10 any way to alienation, sale, lianslci, assignment, plrdu.c, attachment, j'lumshmcnl, execution, or rnr.niiibi mice ofany kind ami any allempl to accomplish llic. same shall lie void In the r.vcnl lhal such attempt has hecu made with icspcct to any lieiielil due 01 In become due to any associalr, the ( ompany m its sole disunion may tcinmiulc llic mteicsi ol the associate in (he hrm-til .aid apply the amount ol the hcnclit to or tin the heudit of die associate, Ins/licr spouse, paicuts, childu'Ji, or other iiilaiive or dependents as the (’nmpnny may dctnnime and any such application shad boa complete dischmi'.e nfafl liability with icsjKrt to tin; benefit.
Section (»	Applicable Law
The Pbm mul all in’,Ills mid duties thcicumlei shall he I’ovcnicd, constiucd mid admimstetul m accordance with tlic laws o( I he I’rovincc of Allicila, except lhal tile elij'tluhly of an associate for, ami the amount ami duration of, Unemployment Insutance System Benefits shall he dricimmiil in accotd.ince with die. Unemployment Insniamr. laws of the tJnemploymcui Insurance System.
01038216
Section 6 (Continued.,.}
Payments iii KS|»ci.l to I'.iijrantml aiimml uTmmcialioir nr m respect to tlelcirul icmimci.itiim 01 severance pay btnclils aicnot reduced or increased Uy payments received tmrfcr (he I'liiii.
Srrtimr 7	(Jt'icvancr Procedure
N’o (iiicsium oivoivtiif, the inter prctatimi or application of the Plan, except to the extent otiienvisc spmfied in Section ) ofthrs Abide, shall he subject to the ^nevaice piocrdnre provided m the {Vilcetive labour Aj’ivenicoi.
Aklin.KVI
HNANCIAI, 1‘ltOViSIONS Section i	Kstahlisiinkiit ofTund
the Company shall m.untam a bund in accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Hcridil Plan, with a chartered b;uik or banks ora i|unlilied dust rompany 01 companies sclented by the Company as Tmxiec. lire Company's contributions shall be made into lh>: 1'imd, the assets ni which shall l>o held, invested ,md applied by the liitsteo, all in aertiKliurce with ibe Plm Hrueitls shall Ik* payable only hum vir'i b'tmd. Hie Company shall provide in ihr rimi-mt wah the inr.stec that the litnh shall lw held in r.ifii or invested only m c.crieiai nhlntattons ot tin iiovcinmeot of itomimon o| Canada .mrl/'oi flit* yovemment o] a i'amuli.m province.
Section .1	Maximum l‘'rmdinj' and Trust bund Position
(.ti Maximum limilitij',
Un it shall Ik* a Maximum hindim', ot tin: land lot each calendar month (and l;n each pay period when lequuni by the provisions nl Mihscoiitm (h) of litis section}. Connnnirmi', with the month t'oilownn; the month m winch ilie plan bo nines effective .md Ini any month therealtci the Maximum hindim* of the. bund shall he determined by miilltplyiiit; (he sum of (i) the nnmbci ol associates on the active payioll and (it) the number of poisons laid off from work wlm are not on the active payroll lint wlm have etcdi! (nuts; ‘lie above numhci of iis-ionales .uni persons strati be as <!ctnmmed by die tontiwity as of the latest pound loi which tiro fry,tries ate available pnor to the first Monday m the month for winch tin* Maximum l;»mhm; is licrm- detcnumed (m prim to the pay jUritod T sire Maximum bunding i.s heme, deiriMMc:! for a pay ptMiv.l) by lire appln able amount as shown m titc Iniiowme table
Srrlton 1 (a) (CoiilimtMl...)
(1)	For ifu: months ofMatdi 1 ‘)N 1 and succealini', months	MM)
m	For ilic month in which llie Tms( Fund amount liist midics $1S0 and suececdim1, months	\m
(i)	l'i>t die month tu whidi (lie Tutsi Fund amount liist icadnc, it IS ami stHx:mlinr, moiillis	Him
(4)	For tlx: month in which llie Tmsl Fund amount fiist toadies S4(K) ami Mtccecriini’ months	vr/s
(')	For the mouth m which the Trust Fund amount liist reaches $'123 and sitccmlint* months	SHMI
(<•>	l ot dm mouth in which the. Ftust Fund amount Inst rrache. $450 and sncccaliiu' months	$4/'-
(V)	For the mouth in which (lie Tmsl Fund amount liist icaches $473 and sucmuhiiK, mood is	s:>t)ii
<*)	For the. month m ivhidi the Tmsl Fund amount liist icachcs $300 and Mtcrccdiiti’ months	.$5/5
m	Fm the nioiill) in which (lie Tmsl Fund amount liist j coolies $$7S and raiccmline, monllis	SSMI
(10)	Fin die month in which llu l msl Filial amount lust i caches XS^iO and wicemliiit; months	$575
(in	Fortin: month in which the Tutsi Fund amount liist reaclic:; $573 and siircmlmi' mouths	$61)11
(i:>)	i-oi the month in whidi the 11 ust Fund amount Inst teaches S60II and Micceedin!', months	$675
(ll)	Fm the month in which tlic Tmsl Fond amount liist toadies and siu i-.ci'ihii}’, monllis	$1>M)
O'l)	For the mouth in winch the Tuts! hind mitounl liist readies $650 anil sitcemlini', months	w
(IS)	For the month in which the Tmsl Fund amount lust leadies $675 and sucoecdnu; months	S/uu
Section ? (a) (Continued . •.)
(|<>) Tor llu: month in which (lie Tmsl liiml amount first rcarltcj-
ihUd and siieeredim; minillb	5 )5
(17) l or llu.1 month in which (lie Tmsl liiml iiiiioniil liist i(mi:Iii:s
S725 ami snecmliiij', numllr.	i/HI
(h) Trust I'd ml Amount
I lino '.lull In1 a I'mst Fund vXinonnf lm (lie liiml loi c;« /i monlli riiiiwteucnii', ivi/h /lie month nl September l%.i. The Imsl liind Amomil lot any |>aiticnlar month shall be ddci mined by divdini; (lie cui rod maiket value ol llie total assrls m Midi I'm id as of (lie dusenl business on (lie l;mlay piecedim; the liisl Monday nl such nimiih, ;ts ccititiol by llie Trustee, by llu: sum of (i) (he number of associates on (he active payroll ami (ii) llie niimln'1 of pi'isons laid oil bom wruik wlio are not on the active paymll, but who have Cn'ilil Untis, such loial number to be (bat used m detenmnim' (In: Maximum Tuinlmji loi Midi month m auordam:i: ivUb paiatpapli (a) of ibis section. I lie liusl hind Amount fin llie hind fin any guitn'olar monlli roimnciinin; '.villi September 1%.I, sliatl he applied ill tnnmrliaii ivilli Midi him! hi all puipoMis under (be Plan lo c.idi ol (be pay prm/d.s lx 1'iiimiir. iviibin Miib monlli.
Id liusl I'iiml I'nsitimi
I lu'ii: shall Ik* .i Tmsl hind Position (staled as a peicenlaqe) lor the liiml lot cadi i ,duid.ii monlli uiiiuiiencmi', with die monlli ol Sepicinliei I%1 I he liusl Tumi I’osilion Ini die l iiml lot arty pailiculacmonlli shall lie dcicimmalbydiviihin'.thec.iiiiviU in.ukel value ot die loud .issels m Mieli Tuud as of llu* dose ol business on llie Today jiireedini' llie (list Monday of'such monlli, as t ci(tired by llie* Tnistce, by (In; Maximum Tumltoi'. of Midi I'iiml Ini Midi nmiiih llie 1 msl Tiunl Tositmn Ini llie liiml loi .my paibttdar month shall be appho| m mnneriioii with such Fund Ini all puijKises imdei die Plan in cadi of ihe pay pconds bn'tiinuii' willmi such month; piovided, liowrm, dial .iliet September l%.l, whenever lb'* liusl tiunl I'osilioii l<u llu: fund loi any paiiutilai monih is less Ilian Hr/*, such liusl Tiunl I'osiimu shall he applied in connection with Midi liiml liu all pm poses umlei I he (Man only lo die liisl pay period bei*itmiut; within :,udi monlb. and duacadet iluie. shall be dciennim'd a I'mst (imd Position (slak'd as a peneiilat'e) lm such liiml Im each pay piuod mild (lie liusl liiiKl Posibon loi a paituiilai pay penod equals m exceeds 10% Wlieu (lie Trust Jimd Posibon lin a paiiiculat pay pniod equals m exceeds Midi pi'iccManc Midi liusl l imit Position shall be applied in cmmcrlmi) ivilli such Fund Ini sndi pmpuse:. lo Ik: earn pay peuod until a liusl liiml Position lor die liillowim'. ealcndai monlli shall be applicable puisuani lo ibis seelion. (lie liusl hind Position lor die Tumi loi a pailiculai pay peuod shall be deiei minnl by dividim; the euuem uuikii value ol llie lulal assets in smit l iind as of llie
ScHinu2(c) (('n«li»nn]...)
dost’, of business on the h iday pii'ccdim* s«H» pay pci iod. a-; cnliiied by Use fnistie, by (lie Maximum Funding of such Fund fot such pay ;wi »d.
(o) Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the Maximum I;iiiiiIk'i:i liest l imit Amount m the Tumi Fund Position of the Find sliall be made on account of any stilwijncmly discovewl ctior in the computations 01 (he figures used in making (in: compulations. except (i) in the rase of an cum in had lailli, 01 (ii) m llw: case where alter disrovety of ,in wot ad|ttstmcii1 is liiadiable, and lltcu (lie adjustment :Juill only In- prospective m elfetf, unless such adjustment would he laihslanlial m llic opinion ol Hr: Company. Nothing in llic lixn>Oim» slwll hr consliiicd to excuse the Company lumi making up any shortage in its lontiiluilHins to the Fund.
Section l	Cimltihulfons hy Company
(a) Cooipaiiy CanllihutioMS
||) (jmimciumn- with the Pay I'enod {wgummg hme \ I‘>%, ami with icspect to each Pay Period ihc.taftcr, lor which the appiuabk i uiM Find Amount is kss Hum the injure. shown in column A; the Company shall make a < omrihulion to ilsc I'nnd ol an amount to he dctci mined hy multiplying dm applicable lir.inr. in I'dlintm It hy the total mudicr of inmis fix which associates slwll have received pay fiom the Company Rm 5aic.lt Pay Pciud (or lessei amount as will bum1, die total maikei value of the Fund 10 the then applicable limit hind Amount m column A. in which case the i<‘manidei of .-.aid total mmihci of hours shall be mulliplied by llic next lower tiijuu: in the applicable column It).
(/) In aililiiion lit the coitliilniliotis nllu’.rwisc tnpwnl by litis Ailidc, 1I10 Company shall conttihulr to the Fund the ammiut ol any Automatic. Slim! Week and Sjrccwl Slimt Week llcnclils paid fiom Hie Fund as Scheduled Shod Woik Week Mcnclilx foi any pay (Winds tor whicii (he Titisl I'iiml Amount is less than SiKO
Cnlitmu A
Cnliitim H
sm
$550 SMO $7 SO
so. Vi SO. is MU* Sflil
so 00
Scrfimi \ (('iiiiliiuii'ti...)
{i) Notwithstanding any oilii'i piovisions of this Aipmneni the Company shall not lie nblivated lo make any roninlmiion to the fund with inspect to any pay peiii .1 tm which the applicable Tmsl fund Anuiimt is more Ilian V/SI), ami no crnmihmioii to ihc fund Ioi any pay peiiod shall lie in excess of the amoim! mressaty to In me Ihc total maikol value ol the assets in such fund op to SVSt).
(hi When ('mitiilmtiiius arc Payable
(I) Coiitfihiilioiis by iJiff 'imipiKiy shall In*ih.kIc t«im Ik'J/iic flic clo.se »j bmmess nit (he liisl ter.ulaily scheduled woik day in (lie third (.1“*) calendar week lollmvint; the pay pet mil with icsikcI to which the cnnlnliiilioii is lu'ini; made.
In periods in winch the imst hind Position ujuals or exceeds 10% weekly conti demons may iic acciminlak’d ami made on oi lictdie the close o( liusiucss on the Ins! (l”) lec.iilaily scheduled wmk day ol Ihc calcmlai week m winch (In: l-ml.ty used he deleiniimm; the Tnist fund I’omIioii lolls
(?) Ihc Inst conliihnlion by the Company i» die fund .shall lw made on ihc. Monday lolliiwini; the Iasi l iiday ol the calendar iimnili next hillowim; the calcmlai montli m which Inllillim iii o| all ol die applicable conditions to etfeclivc.ncssnf the Plan with inspect to Mich P'nml set tbilh m Ailicle VIII shall have linen completed.
I lie lum amlnlniiKtti l>y flic ( omp.m)' lo die hind .slndl coin all amoiuiis iei|tmvd loin: paiduinlci tins Ailicle to siuli fund with inspect to each pay peuod hc.!ilmiiim,> wiilnn ilie pnim! ol time coinincncim; altci Maieli I. |‘J,S7 and nnlme, with die last day ot die last pay pi'nod immediately piccednn1, the dale on which Ihc lie.! conifihnlion twdei Mihsccimn (a) (I )ol this .section shall laconic payable.
(<:) Reductions limn Cimliilnitions
(’iiiitiibniions i:-i|tiiied by the pnsviMoits ol Section 1 (a) «•( this Atliclc shall he induced
by the lollowin.’:
(I) I lie cost id pioviduii' Hospital-Medical Henclits Idi latd oil associates as spvcilied in the Pension Plan ami Scvetance Avv.ml Aiprement aiul the lleallli and laic liisuiauce Aeicemcul less die penmi iollowini; layoif ioi which the < 'outpany pays ollimmv;
(?) I lie amount of money aililai to each vacation chcipic at the time writtnt dm: lo Slioii Week Henelit payments, consistent with the trims nt the Collective I ahom Aipccmenl,
ScetioH.i ((milimicd...)
(3)	It c.ontubutions to I he Fund nit; not napiiivd for any pm uni, 01 if die. < onminuim):; rc/|uunl me less than Ik amumits to k ollsct under Ilk p.iui;iaph (e), ilim any snbsci|ucntly required coadiluiftons shall k i educed liy (he amount not picviotiiily offset against coiiliilmlioits;
any such mnotud not previously offset agamst conliiliiilioiis shall Ik*, deducted fiii’n tlt«: Mmkcl Value of Ik assets m the i'lmd to bcU’iminmv, I'mst Iimd I'osrtkm .iihI Ik relationship ol Ik I tmiE to Maximum i umluij',
(4)	If tk Company at any uhh: sit,ill lie lapincd to withhold .my rnnmint Itoin nny rniilnbiiikni to tk Fluid by mason of any government, or provincial law m icijulation, the Company shall have the light to deduct siuji amount from the roiilnlmtioit and pay only the balance to the Fund.
.Swtimt I	Uahilliy
(a) Ha: Company ski! not k obligated to make tip, or to provide for oi.vkmt1. up. any depreciation, or loss amini' liotu depiceialinii, in tk value of the scniuiies held m tlir Fund (oilier than as ronhilHiltom by the Company may be icrpmed under tin: provisions ol this Article when tk Maikct Value ol Ik. assets tdTklTtinl is less than die Maximum Fuiuhtti'J, and tk i liiion shall not r«il! on die Company to make up, or to provide tin making an, any siidi (fcprcciulion ot k<v.<.
fh) Tk Comp-my, llu* liustec and tk. Union, and each el them, shall not in: liable because ol any act or lailtne to net on the pail ofany of the olkis, and imli is nmiiou/rd to nly on the cm redness ol any mfoimatton Inimslwd to it by an authorized icpiesrnuiivr ol any offkmkts.
(e) Notwithstanding ik above piovisions, lioliune m this suction sh.-itl k. deemed to lekvr any prison bom liability for wilful miscnwltirt m hand
jd) fin: Tilisle: shall not be liable for the making or leiamum, of any investment m tm leahxcd ot <iuiealt/cd loss thewm wlietki animal 01 alnunmal economic conditions or olbnwisc.
Si'cliur* S	No Vested Interest
Mo associate shall have ;my to'ltf, title, 01 mleiest m or to any of ik assets of tk Fund, or m n,
to any (dmpuny omtnlwlHm thereto.
Stcliuii <i	Kcpmls
(a) Hrpnrfs Ity Hie <Niiii|isiny
(I) The (lompfluy shall riolily (he Local Onion and liilcinalional Onion monllily of thi: Maximum l iiinlmi’, Tmsi I iiikI Ainoiml :tml the Tutsi I'inul I'nsilmn Ini (In', fowl av tldcfmiwd by il iiinln tin: Plan, ami shall finoisli a ^laloncjil showim; llu: mmibci of associates on llm active payiol! and I lie ninnhci of laid off associates liavmi* Cicdit I ImK upon which llu- Tins) |;nml Position drlciimnalinii was made.
Id) Pimm; tin: first O’1) year of this amended ai'icenmnt, the Company sli.ill Unnisli to (lie Local Union ami Inlnnalionat Union a statement rcinlicd hy a qualified indt pimlcnl linn of (‘eilthul 1‘nlilif. Accountants selected liy tint (.’ompany:
(i) shownii1, (he tinmlii'i n( limns foi which associates drew pay limit tile Company and willi u-spcct lo which dm (.'oiuji.iny shall have made t nulltbulimis (o llu: liind diiiiiii; cacli period oldie pitccdim' yeai, anti
(n) vctily tin- .iccmacy ol' die int'oint.itmn loimslied liy die Company dnrim; dm ptet ctlnu; yeai pursuant to subsection (a) f I) ol (Ins section.
( i) lltc Company wtll comply with icasonabrc icipicsts by (he Onion (01 oihei -.latisln a! inloiniaiioi) on die ojmwdmu ot (he Plan which (he ( ompmiy shall i oni))ile. Such infuimillion will melndc the iolinwnii',:
(a) llu: iinmbei ol associates mi layoll inontlily,
{iij die ainonm ol Kcenliii BcncJiis paid, Special and Automatic Shoil Week Bandit'. paid;
|c) ilictlinalioii ol Kct^ulai Bandits,
(tl) dm niinilmi «d associates who have exhausted linn Kapil.u Benefits each calrnditr yeai,
(e) dm mmilirr ol associates laid oil and iiichi'.ihlo lor Regular lieimlils because ol liavim; less iliau one (i) yeai ol seniui ny,
dm total number ol associates who u-t.eiml one (I) oi more Itmpdai Bandits, Special and Aulomalio Blunt Wi ck Benefits,
(0
Section 6 (3) (C.'otifituicfi...)
(g)	Hh: amoiml of Ihc idudioiis monthly liom conliilmtioiis induced by (Ik; provisions of (c) of Section 3 ami Ihe amounts nuclei each cnlcgmy listed in (i0;
(li) (lie number of associates vvIkj drew mom than 17. Credit Units during a continuous period by designated semoiity buckets each calendar yeai,
(i)	on or before Jannaiy 31'1 of each year, (he Company sjmil fmnish (<> each associate ihe amount of benclils received by him/her under the Plan,
(j)	(lw. (aimjisny wilt comply with rrasmutlile requested by Hie International Union (or other statistical infounation on (he o|ii:<atiou of Ihc Plan which ll«: Company may have compiled.
{!>) Reports by the Truster
(I) Within (on (10) days alici (lie commencement of each month, bcgmuiiu; with ihc inontli in which the Company shall have made its (list cniuiilmlion under (In; Plan, die Tiustec shall lie rc(|iiircd in furnish to (lie Local Union, International Union and ihc Company a statement showing dm amounts iccim-d fiom (In; Company for die l-und during Ihc piecediiig monlli
(./) Nm later than die second (2,,J) Tuesday tallowing ihc lusi (C‘) Monday of each month, the. Tmstec shall lumish to (lie laical Union, lntniialioii.il Union and (he Company (i) a statement sliowing the total Mailed Value ol (he l-inul as of the close of business on the Fiiday t'ollovvim; the last Monday oftiic preceding momli, and (it) a staicmcnl showing (he amounts, if any, paid as IkucIiIs limn the hind each week dm mi1, (be preceding monlli.
Section 7	Cost of Administermg [he Plan
(a) Kxpensc of Trustee
The cost anti expenses incurred by the fi listen undei the Plan .mil the lees charged by the Tiiistce shall be dunged to the Fund.
(|>) The (!oni|icnsa{ion of the liii|iailul ( luiuuaii, whic h shall lie in such an amount and on such basis as may be (Ictciinmcd by Ihc oilier members of the. Hoard, shall he paid Irom the Fmul. Reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board lor fimus and stationary required in connection with (lie ItaiKlIiug of Ajipoah shall he lumic by the Fund. The Company members and die Union members of the Board sliall serve wilhoul eomjxmsation from Ihe F'nnd.
Sidinti V tCtiiuimitti ..)
(i) I 'ml »(Sri victs
l lu; <'uiiijiony siiv.ll lit itimlniist’d tvdi year hum liic l-nixt fu: iht nisi l« the C'oiupnny ;)t llUlik tf.T.I .li:ll .Wdlhlli'. I'TV
SaMi in X	Ikiu'lit Di afls Not I’n sciilnl
ii die I ni\i<v ii.ts u'l'K'i'.atcd any |hii(ioii ol (Ik I iiihI m rnimi:< iioi- Willi any dclemmiidion lluil a ih'nctii iMvalilt: imilci (In’ IM.ui ami (lie amount ol sin h Itcndii is nut claimed wnhm a |kihh! ul I wo (') yrar. linm llw dale ol Midi iklammalion, Midi .unmml shall mveil 10 lilt: l;und
AKTICI.KVII
(;th\niTU)NSltlim<:TlVKNKSSANt)(’t)NTINUAllONl>IM1.AN S. rli-in l	Klltd ol Amended Ajoeointut
Iks Amutdnl A?:ta«f'»iioi}.S»j>|)lr}iK)iia: Unemploynu-fti Heiichts, what ti Inm-mcs rUfciiyr.
MijKiMih' .nai u.oiijlcidy icpt.ia: and uippki: she oiiipuai Atpc-mutf .m K-ippkmenial UiK-ni|ihiy;m ol H.whls uwlmlrd bruv.tn Hit: patpiv. AmytM 11, l'/6.'. as lio.ti (mu* to Unit iliaraiti-f amt'inled llowrvr.i, mill! Midi mm: as Hu.', Aipnaiinit itmunts cHci tivc, tin: Plan shall In: I'.ovi'iiU'ti m :«li respeds by ike turns ol die mitpfial Av.iromeid id Aiupisl i t,)%?, as licdOihiic.mniii/i’d
Snliim	Incurnc T:ik Unlinks
I Ins .iimruihd A.ymnenl shall mil Ikyoiih' rlledivc unless and mini iln: <'nmp.uty shall Inmi Kvi ivid limn hit Mnin.lri ol N'.dnni.il Koviii;.-,	I'loiiimal : ir.ismy	am)
Hit i*o« i,i|iioy:iinil liismafttc (‘onm.issiofi, a. ini>'nOy rikvhvr • ntiti*' ol udim-s, sahsj.w imy U» •=•« i ciinnaiy. hnldme dial die Anifiuhm'iii ol ii«- ('{.in .m umpir-hul hcKiimh i' dors nu| mndily. .tlu (<n . haiipt m any m.iniK'; Hie mime, pstvtmisly issued hv liir Mimsiei. dir l minim, sum and it;;- ipoln .ihlr ihoviikiai iic.iMiiy Ol-jMtiiiie'i!, with itsjni i f t lltt Plan, tfj Unhfit', paihtulaiSy da n nch'inniuhmi that < mnpnuy ;ihiIk(hi(miis to the 1’i.ni .AuikoitsMirk: a tuuv'otjy dediidihlr expense. l!:al an h rtinifihutiuns an not l.ixabh* iticunn: to (In- host nuik't the ihiiiinunn liKoiin' );»\ At ! and .ippht.'ibk Piovnmni uodioi Mihhu-.'mI (‘nipo-i-mm 'lax Ail. a-, wov m cited. m as may be }|i.'i<\iilei in died, or male; ,my ollm apjdieubk iXtiiiinioi! or provincial ,iiid/o; Mmiii i|i.tl liltowe nr {.oifKiiftiujus l.i>: i aw.
Sri''(ion I	Ihumjdoymi'Hl liiMtiancc (aimmi’.sitm Untiii];x and Snpiih'iiii'iitiitiun
[i is tin: imipie.t: ol lilt I'l.tii lo Mijiplanctd lliit iHiiloyimu! In:,in.nn r lieiK'Ins Ki die. Iiwels htinn ]i,m nli'il, .mil noi in ii'|ii;uc m dii|ihi:alr llinin
ScilifJH <1
Appliralimi lot’
I Ik: Company shall apply |tu>n»(rtly IW any lapmcd iiilmip. limn tin: appiopmlc .it-ciidt s. Ctyins of all coues|Wndciic.e euvciinp, Mien miIhiijs shall hr mailed lo die itt(cut;iltoii;tl I lusmi .uni (ho J (Kiti Union.
AKTK !I,K VIII MIsna.LANKOII.S Sedimt I	Uewipl of Heuclils
Ndiher line Company's uintiilHiinm nor any brne.lil >raul under die Plan sliall l>c untsulemi a part of ;my associate's war»«$ for any ptnpuse. No pci:m» who receives any lienclii shah hit f(;a; icason In: deemed au associate of IhcConijiany duiiU;; sn: ll pCiiod. and he/slit; slid! nol (lieohy anam: any jpralcr n<;h( lo paiiicipnle in, accrue cir<iil*; or roceivt; iwaidiis imdn any olhn associate In'.ndil plan lo winch (he Company nmluhiilcs than Ite/slic would if hc/slic were nol
•leciVllll* NUtll lienelilv
Sedom t	Kill'd of Kevocatioti ol I’pdml Unlinks
In die event that any inline, rapmed midci Section 2 ami 1 ol AiluJo VII, havim; born obinmni shall he revoked oi modi foil in such manner as no loiii;ci lo he satislacioty to the Coinp.iny, all ohiliyiitons of ilu: Company nmicr ihe plan shall cease., ami the Plan siwll iheirtipnr in; minute ami he of no funhei elfru (witiimit in any way dTrdini'. ihe adultly of operation ol th<-(lolicdivi-1 altoui Aitrcciiinil m any uihw Ar.ueme.iil hciwccn llie Company aim the Umar,), except (or tin: puc|iose ol paynm, die i:X|M:nu;s ol ndimnishahnn and payiiw hciiclils, all u, .Kcnulanci: with Ilu* pioviunns of ihe Plan, milil the asset.', ol Ilu* hind shall haw been cvhmiMed, except dial Nation b ol Aitide If shall col hr .lppln aide. || dine lie :c,seis slii! leinatmn!'. m the Fund, die pim-isions of Section • fh) of Ann ie VIM .shall apply :o then (lisjm.sitnnt,
Sedinn .1	Ainciidmcnl and Tcnniiialion oi lin' I'lan
(a)	So lorri' as the Coltaliw I .alwur Ar.nrmenl of wlitcit this Stipplcmcnlai I Jneinploymciii Hcndit Plan as amended is a pail shall icinatn m dial, die Plan shall nol Ik amended, modified, Misjumdcd oi icumnnled, except ns may lx: piopei m pumisMiile nmlei die inms nf die Plan or die Collective l.alumr Ai’icenienl IJ|k>ii icinmiatmi) oi die Collc.chvc l.almm Aiyeement, Ihe Company -hall have ilu. lipjil m conlnmr. the. P!,.n in died and lo modify, amend, suspend <>• lamm ite die Plan, except ,t< may h«* efhetwi.c provided m any sui>sei|m:»l Coilcdive Lilwur Aipeeiix nt between the < ompany and the Union. The employer will inform Ilu: Canada i niploymeni and limme.i.nion Commission ol any champs in die Plan within Ihniy ( U>) daysoi llic.clln-.live daleoi c.hanv.c
Scvtioii \ (Continued...}
.;li) Upon liny lamination of the Plan, die Plan Khali terminate in all respects, except that tl.e assets then reinaniim; in (lie bund .shall Ire .subject to all ot the applicable provisions of (In,* Plan (lien in effect, ami shall In: used until exhausted to pay expenses of admmistuliun. anil In pay Ircnclils to eligible applicants laid off, or (haulier laid off, in the order each week nl' the respective dale as of which they wac laid oil. Section f> Ailirlc II, shall not lie applicable. in the event there air. any assets ill the I'und alter all ol the above payments have been made, and Iliac aic mi eligible applicants icmaumu;, all assets m the limil shall he reliiined (o (he Company. Upon lamination, the Company and Hie Union will tpvc iiiinicdiatcly a written oidu to the tiuMcc that the rniumitiii; assets lx: paid to die Company.
(c) Nntwithslaitdim; any otlm pmvisinns of the Plnn, the Company, will) the consent of the lliiion, may make such icvisions in the Clan not inconsistent with the puqroses, simcunc and haste |novisiom; theicof as shall he nrct’ssaiy to olrlam 01 maintam any lutings iL-ipmed hi idee tire Clan. Any such icvisions shall adlinr as closely as possible to the l.mrpiave ami nilciit of the Plan.
(<l) I ins Ai'iceinciit aud the nblirjulioii ol the Company to continue the Plan willioul diant'C or modification (except as |rcrmi(tcd hiueuikiet) dm mi; (he life of (he Collective Labour Atpcemeiit shall hr- deemed supplemental to and pail of the Collective Labour Ay,iccmcnl, and dm mg the lam of the Collective l .almnr Aipeancnl neither the Company nor the Union shall rnpicst any diaui'.e m, deletion from, nr addition to the Plan hi Aereaiieitl.
Section -1	Ratilicaiimi
I his Aipcemcnl shall not become ellcuivc unless and until tins Ay.iecnicnl and Ibe Cnileclivc i.abmn Aiprnnrni, executed coticiniciitly Imcwith, shall Ixith have been uliiicd .uni appioved Ivy the l ocal Union and also the International Union ami wnitcn notice of swh miilicnlion aiul appioval shall have hear leceived by the Company
Section S	Union Identification uf lleiielif t 'hajurs
All clieipies payable lm any bcnclil 01 payment under the Plan shall indicate that the benclit 01 IMynient is Irani; made m aecui dance with the Agreement on Supplenienial Unemployment Mendits between the C 'omp.my and the Union.
AHTICmX
IWHMTION.N
As used herein:
{1} “ACTIVK PAYROLL" - An associate is on (lie ad;vc payroll hi any pay pcnnd ten which InVshc draws pay.
1-0 "AVKMAUK HOURLY K.AttNiNUS" mans an	horn I y amine plus
his/im nil' shift picmmm 1ml exdu<iim< ovctiimc based on a m>: |h) week pay |M:iiini iniiiH'dialdy pieredim; the dale of his/liei lay oil, provided lli.it it such assuciale was assivnal in tiiinsICMcd lo a new oiieialion at a lower iale dunne, Midi six (6) week pay period, the limirs wmkeil and his/im aimin',!, on sih.Ii new job will he excluded from bWita AVLRACL HOURLY HAKNlNtiS. I’lovukii, hourvei, that shmed the associate have nocaieimp dminj;such mx (6) week pound oiiua tli.m as a ieaicei. halict AVlikAUH HOURLY liARMINt iS shall he basal on (la first (I-1) wuik week pim-iiiue, such leannn;; pound.
II a I'ciV'ral wai'e uie.ica.se lias become cll’n.tivc between die pcmwl lor whieh AVl-RACil- HOURLY l‘ARNIN(i$ has Ijcwi calculated and the dale nf lay olf, such "eueral \vai*e merensc shall l>c added lo die Imuiiy rammi*. so ealcuhilrd.
in nuJi’i lo |M<iVid:; (he muiununi, appropimic In the < imem wayt •.cairs in lia- i'bat. she AViiRAOI: HOURLY I'ARNINtiS shall m no case he deemed to he less ihmi iwo u) dollars and llmiy live (JS) calls pa hom lot the puiposc d uk'nlaUm* dm bc-mliis payable.
(I) "IIAROAININO IINIi” means a mm of associates covered by ihr Holla live J.ahom Aiiecmcnt.
(4| "HLNIsMr” means an Aimmialu. Shalt WVk licmdi!, koi'iil.u liccdii. Special Sbci Wis:k Be.iiolil, in any ui all Ihiei (t)as mdie.iied hy iliccnnicxt
(a)	’'Airiflituiiic Shurt Week Hemdil" mans du: bench! payable 10 .in ehiphlc associate lot a Sliorl Wmk Week im whieh his/her Company pay am! any Company pay which lic/she would have icu'ivk! !u; horns scheduled ini m made available So him/lie* hut mil woiked apmlcd oi exceed.d huAie-i Allnwaide
Ddmiliom ((.'oiiliinnd...)
(b)	“l.cveimjj Week tteiicfif • means Ik Weekly Supplemental Benelit payable («’
an eligible associate lor all or pail of a week liccansc, will) rcsjrecl lo tlie week, hc/she was scivini; an Unemployment Insurance System “wailing week" ami dmim; such week or pail thereof hc/she was tempoiarily laid off mil of line- ot seniority pending placement in acwndaucc with lire louts of (he Collective Libour Agiremetti;	’
(c)	“Regular Itfnclit" means the benefit payable to an eligible associate for a week of layoff in which hc/slre jicrfntnied no woik fm the Company, or in winch lie/slu: peiloiiucd some woik (or liic Company but m-uhci (lie period woikol noi pay lecctvcd was sufficient lo disi|iialily him/iitt loi an Unemployment Insuiauee System llomlil and llic amount of the Special Sltoii Week Hcncltl ealculaied lor such week was less than the Kegnl.ii licnetil attuuml;
(d)	‘'Special Short Week Ili'iiclU"	means the henelil payable to an eligible
associate fot a Shod Wmk Week tin winch his/hei Cmupany gray and any Company pay which hc/sk would have irceiwd lot limns sdicdnled fm 01 made .ivailablc lo lum/liei lull mil wmketl <lid bin not equal 01 exceed his/lici Alluwablc limning:;;
(e)	“Weekly Supplemental Hem-lit” means either a Regular Henelil or a Special Shuit Week Hcndit, payable unilei the i'l.in.
0) “HOARD” means the Hoaul of Appeals
Km “rOl.I.KCriVKLAUOIIK A<i'HKKMKN'r means Hie«umiUly .-iTwiivc ColleUivr l abour Agiceiucnt between the Cumpany ami iIk* Union which mioi|xiraU\s this I'lan by telcM'itce ami (In'; supplements iltcmUi
|/| “COMPANY" sltall mean fiomlyeai Canada Inc., Medicuu: ((at (-acini y, (i.iiL Warehouse, Medicine Hal, Alheila
(St	“COMPKiNSATKI) OH AVAII.Mfl.tf HOURS" foi a week shall Ire the sum of
(a) all hums lin winch an associate iccciees pay limn Ike Cunip.tuy (imlmliug icpojliui' pay and liolulay pay, but excluding pay in lieu of'vacation) with each hour pan! at piemiiun lutes to be counted as one (I) hum;
it
Definitions {< 'oiiliiunrd...)
(b)	all horns scheduled for or made available, io the assuciale. Iiy (fit (aimpauy I ml not woikcd by liim/hu after notice consistent with cxiMuii; inactux mulct lie: Colieelivc l ulmur Agrcemenl (mdudmi; any jiniod oflravo of absence). When wotk is ntfcird ;nid refuser!, Itoms charm'd will not exceed iuiitts ttttuli' available ami such horns will he chatted in die inltowmi; mdn:
(t) lo lire itssoeiates wlm actually jxn inun the wmk o| lured,
(if) lo lire associates wlw sij’mlicd then mlculioH lo woik and [lien ImlciS in
(iii) In flic associate;; w|m Inst icfnvcd llm i^^uimtily for tin*. vvotfc in (lie mall lltal iiiSidlietettl associates offend lo woik the Innas available (includes absenl associates wild otha wise have Ikte uffm.d die woik).
When woik is offered (ns opposed In scheduled) mi .'ciliiid.iy mid/or Sunday, Iioiiis woikcd will nol he charged, l;oi assoeaalcs woikiiu» on (he / day woik schedule, wlteit woik is offered on in-.ulai scheduled days oil, boms woikcd will not Imrium’d.
(c)	all ho.n.N r«nt woikcd by dm associate because ol any ni dte tr.'enm tl-aa^iaidyinv dm mean cite lioin imnvmi; a Itciteld liikim sniiserlion -1 (It) {/') ohAjucle I ami,
{<(' all horns ihk worked Ity the associate which me in .iccoidaiicc wil|i :t wnllctt ameeiiicnt between llte Local MaoaeemciH ami duMi'nuted l.ncal Union kc|iicsciilalivcs; ami
(e) all lumis which aie alliimdahle to absmdicistn n| other associate ., jiiuviflmt* Midi absenteeism was not caused by an ml of I iod; and
(0 with ies|j(u:| to any associate: wfm is u i'.iil.uly scheduled lers limn tin: itoms ni lie: Simulat'd Wmk Week (40), die nimilut of limn;. Ity whicli his/liei tei’ulmly scheduled hours arc (ess (turn die horns ollhc Slamlaid Work Week, and
(}>} all hours am woikcd tty lire associate Ik-< auso of woik -hai in*; icqnucb by i!<<: Collective I abnw: Ai'recmcol except •
• whcifi the Union is itot asked hy iIk; ('ouipaiiy !o waive the woik shamm Diovisions; or
IMimlinits (Conlimttil...)
ivlicii the Uimur i doses lo waive Hie woik shatim* jmivisions and I he Company, alter ihcwoik shaimp pound, fails lo lay off;
(h)	all lioiio; nol worked by llii; associate because ol a eleuu'.c in shill icsullim; lumi a ropiest ul the associate
(•)) "(.‘UKDIT UNITS" means the units di:icimmm!‘, the ilinalioii of an associate's hcoufils winch .tie enabled to hnn/hn t'eneially by tejson id liis/hm Weeks ol Active Scmce ami canceled al specified lutes I’m llie payment ofoctlam bciielils,
(Ml) "DI'll'KNPKNT” means any peison uvoi-m/eil as such nmlei the provisions ol the Uonimum Unemployment Immame Act. I'J5\ liy Hie Unemployment lnsiiiain:e l omimssimi.
(II) "ASSOUATK' means an associate ol Hie Company while, dmini' tltc hie ol this Averment, lu’/shc is m the collective lunsnuiiii1, mill as ilHmed in and coveted by the Cnllivtivi; I alwiut Atpeeiiteul
ll.O “Al.l.OWAHI/K KAUNlNfiS" means the amount ol eaiuiiuy; llie associate is pn milled to cam beioie any deductioiif, would he made lioiu liis/hei Weekly Unemployment litsniance Hcndits
(la) T'll/VI)” means a Trust Timd established im/ln llie I'lan lo receive .mil imrsl (‘ompany > oiinilnilioiis and io pay lieudit 111
111) "ITaN" menus die Supplemental llucmpluymeni Itendit Plan .Mnhlislnal by "Ae.i'.emeiii on Supplement Unemployment |>.-ueli!s" between the Company and the l immi dated AmptsI 11, 1%?, as Iiym lime In lime anietiileil, and as eoitlnmed nmlei this Aeorimnt.
(IS) Tl.ANT" means die Medicine Mat 1-aeiwy, li.h.L W.udnmse. Medicine Hat, Allnila.
(U*i "SluWllin'Y" fmvvi.uwotuy .status' whla llie I 'nllecmr l.abom Ai’mmrm
117) SIIOIM WORK WKEK" means a Wink Week (liimit*. wind) an associate peilmms -aune wmk loi thr Company <u jirilnuncd fomixiisatrcl Wmk loi the llmuii or was olheiwise compensated by the Company loi a day m pait llieico! Imt his/her Compensated or Available Homs loi sueli week me less than the muilbn of hoins m his'liu St.imlaul Woik Week. Uni me a week ot seln.du|ed shutdown, coni|*ei\:;.ttiou loi a holiday nr holidays (but only willi je.spn (to an associate laid oil m a lediit'lnm ol force m aceoidance with the applicable Collective l.abour Atpeermait). tor vacation oi lot
OMinilrotis (Continued.,.)
wiuk (01 iIk: Union or it combination llK-icot, sIihII not of itself ipmhfy l»mi/lici ini Imndil licramdd.
(Hi) “(INKMIM.OYMKNT INSUItANCK SYSTEM" means Hie system or provraiii, established liy law, ibr paying benefits lo persons mi account of their micmpioymrn', Hilda which .in individual's eligibility ibr luaiefil payments is not Udeiiiiuied by application oi a ''mains’' ot "disability" test; includim; any such system m established inf Hie ptimary propose of education or vocational IraiuiitK where stall jHot-iams may piovitlc for luimni’ allowances.
(I*)) “UNKMPIjOYMKNT HKNKKrr means a Iwudit payable miller such Unemployment Insurance System iiiriitdiny, any dependency allowance and Iramiro', allowances (excluding any allowance for iranspoitaUuii, Mibshtr.iicv., equipment m oilier cost of Iraimin*). If an associate ict'eives a Woikets' {.'ompensaiion Henefit while woikiug hili lime ami a liiijhei Workers’ Compensation ikiiolit while rot layoff 1mm the Company, only the amonnt by which the Woikas' Compensation Ixnefif is meitMsed shall In: included
(’0)	"SIIIM’I.KMENTATION" means lerni'intion of tlic light of a person to receive both
Unemployment Insinaucc .System Ikm-til ami Weekly Supplemenl.il Ikmutii under tin' Plan for die same week of layofl’at appioxmialeiy 11k; s;une imm ami wtlhoin inliictKm ol die Unemployment Insurance System Benefit Ijcawse of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental llejietit muter ihc Plan
{'1) 'TKIISTKH" roams the Tiuslcc in Tinsteesol the i'mul established nndci tlu: Plan.
(P) "TRUST I’UiVlJ POSITION" means the |h!icenl;ir,e |>o.hi(i<hi <>J (lie Pund as dckimmul peiimlically pmsiwnt lotkepiovisiom nfAuich* VI
"TRUST I'UNl) AMOUNT” humus fin*, dollar amount in fin- fund per u%ibl« associate as dctejiumrd periodically pursuant to the provision:, of Aitn.lc VI .
(At) “UNION” means laical MM of the United Sla'lwmkeis of Aineitea. repriscnlini', ecilam associates of the Company at ils Medicine Mat Pae-toiy, (i.l.l.. Warehouse, Medicine Hal, Albcita,
(?4) “WEEK" wiiei! used in comedian with eligibility tor and computation of knob's with lespcrt to an associate means:
(a) a period ofiayoll iipiivalenl ton wmk week, m;
Diliuiltmis (Coiitmuuf...)
(h) a wink week loi which :i lull time associate shall have Itccn scheduled nr ol fe ed woik lot less Ihau iwculy .seven (?'/) limns mejiidim', kins paid lull mil winked, it on a slaiulanl trip,hi (K) Iwuir day,
(i;) A Skill Wmk Week.
“Week iif l.ayufr' shall intitule any such week; piuvulcd, Itmvcvci, dial it (line is a di/lmiKV: Unwell Ik: sfailun; lime nl a wmk week and oi a week under an .ipphcalde Unemployment Instilanec Syslcin, ilic woik week shall he paned with die IIii0in|t1(iyniciil InsiiMin e System week winch eoncspnnds nmsl closely tlierdo m Uine., exccp! dial it an associate ifiuchvplile. (or an Unemployment InstnaiKC System Ikiiclit because <i| any ol [hr* icnsons sel foilli nl Section I |h) ol Ailicle I (oxcludiim, the leasims utulei items (1) and (•!) iheieol) loi dir calm; lOiiluuimis peiiod of layoff' (lie week under the Unemployment Insmanec System shall he assumed In he the. same as die wmk week. II an associate become:; mcluphle tin an l liniuploynienl Insurance. System Ih-nclil In-cause ol the leasnns sel Ini lit in Section I (h) ol Atlielc I, (e\cludtm> items (1) and (I) dieieol), iluinii’, a ennlimious peiuxl o( layolt, the week mulei die Unemployment Inonance Syr.icin .shall lie assumed to continue to he, loi die dmntmu ol die layolt peund dm 1111; which lie/she lemaios so imdh’ddr, die seven (7) day period lor which an Uncmplovimnil hiMiianee. System Heiiclil was paid lo die associate dtinm; surli continuous peimd ol l.iyolf l:.vh week within a continuous pet mil ol laynll will not he consideicd a new 01 stpauk layoff
i.h) "WKIcKI.V STHAUmr TIMK l*AV" an amoniil a|ual to an associate's amap.e liomly e,11111111',s (as lidcimmed loi a Weekly Siipplcmcnlniy Unielil) miilliplied by loity t HI) ui in the ease ol a pail lime associate, by die piepoiimnally minced miniliei ol
bows
(.'iij "WOKK WKI'!K”oi “I'AV I’KUKll)" meansseven(/) 1 onsecutiveitaysbn‘,iiiiiun,1 on Sunday at the icjpil.ir slainm', lime oi llie shifts lo whuh die associate is assii-.neil or was last assieneil imiiiditalely pi 101 lo km;', laid oil
i'l) "STANIUIU) WOKK WKKK" the Slandanl Wmk Week !m the pmpose of Mimpuimi'.a Special Slunt Wmk Week Heiiclil, iIr- Auloiiiaiie. Shod Week llenclit and a Incv.uI.h jtcnelii when emupaimt*, with a .Special Shod Wmk Week Benefit shall he no mnii' than loity (dll) limns, and shall he the- niimhei ol limns m the Slandanl Wmk Week as slated 111 the < 'olledivi: l.almnr Adccmem
akticmc x
DURATION AND TKKMINA TION
Ihc Twcinii Amended Agreement sliall become cffcclivo on March 74, 20(H), and shall continue in effect without change or modification, except as provided above (or a period of forty {wo (42) mouths expiring on Fclmiaiy 29,7.004. (The piior Agreement concluded between the pin tics on Miirch 7.4,2000, having been in effect from March 24,2000 to Fcbitiaty 29,2004).
iliis Agreement sliall continue in foice alter Fcbruaiy 29, 2004 finm yem to year unless cither paity gives to (lie other party notice in writing of cancellation or proposals tor revision within a period of not less than two (2.) monllis or more than three (it) mouths prior to the atmivcisiiiy date, if either |>ai ty gives to the other a notice of cancellation, this Agreement shall lei minate in accordance with such notice. If either |iaity gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with flic above terms, (lie patties sliall meet to consider the promised revisions within (iOecn (15) rlays of (he dale of delivery of such notice. If m agreement on (lie ptojmsul revisions is readied by midnight February 29, 2004, or hy midnight of any other subsequent armivcrsniy date, as the ease maybe, this Agreement shall be continued in opnalion for a jicriod not exceeding one (1) year until a new Agreement is reached or until the pioceilnrc contemplated hy Section 94 of lire Alberta Idiom Relations Act has born completed.
ft is agreed that ()msc changes will lake effect March 24, 2(K)0 as mpmed by paragraph 5V {l J) of the Uiiauplnymcut Insurance Regulations.
file turns of .settlement arc to be subject to approval on behalf of the Union by ils mcinhciship and approval by the lutci national! luion.
Subject to revision as required to comply with any applicable govcirum-ntal legislation Dated at Medicine Hat, Allwila this 3o,^.^aY(^	■	2000.
FOR Tllli COMPANY:
FOR TllH UNION:
41
!ln>. kiln wdl Jtw !o ronfmn 5Ik- muii-itakitit' I’.ivni (» yn» liy ll*:* 1 'nntjKii-y n'CCiK liCj-oiuiimn iliiil ilv piovisioH lot idu-liu;;:; kom	a:- oiiiimni m AilH-ic VI
i ulw turn I {»■)(!} t»i llic S.l Hi. Asymmiit will m»i apply <liinni* llic lu m o| ihis Awmncitt.
SKI’AKATION I'AYMKNT I'l.AiS
IIKIWKKN
COODYKARCANADA INC. MKDICINKIIAT KACTORY C.K.I.. WARKIIOIISK MKDIC1NK IIA I
Tlic ICm|ilnycr
AND
I.OCAI, UNION 0.!li Ol1’ Till1'.
(IIM1T'I>’J>STKKI.WOKKKK.1;OD AMKKICA
hot (lir Assm iaits
March 24,7,11011 I'YJii iiary 7,0, /(HIT
Sh'.l'AliATION !\AViVlKNI I’l.AN
j j;is .ViontUti	:ui<i uiicn’ti till.; as nt iJw.-; t”‘ »l;iy «.| (mu*, I i>y :;j!s| ;>HW*:< it
\ .< H I! iYIaR (\AMAOA INC." {huaoattu tvlutu} to .is Iln "( ‘muj».-.ity") awl tin- i *H!'I H > 'AIM V/DKKIiKNiil	‘A, I {Ji'Al. UNION VS, i.jia-.-iil:	Si* .i-m* ui, ■. m lit..
lUr'annm: I (till il lilt I t>lll|Mliy';. fvh-It. iti>' ii.il hi.. Imy awl < i 1- I. 'iV.in.lum .t, (Itate iii.tlu t u li'iH'j l.i as (In: ”t Jmtijj').
Wili	till- |t.;l ’ii , 'mil.! .-Jibllslii'i a Ka|i|iI*!;Kiil;l| I Hjcii;|»l.>Vf» ;.-ni K.wlll-. i’laiis ity
an A',li,i iin lil nil Sn|i|»l<.m. ilia! i;wm(t!i:)'in;!it Mr.:. III1. .1 (It;- ! I*1' .lay oj Allpusl, 1%/ -.vl.i- It j/ts iu'.'ii aitn.liii' .1 li.an linn In lim<-
ANU Wlil UhA'I ill i niiJUii. IK»:» ’.Villi unit I'l.-ai l!t=: |iali|t . leave avuvii lr> Ui{»;i ml*! litis |j;« !|n;*< i';tyuiutl t'hlt.
; ='i IV/ III! KM ( mi-. It r. Iinitu.iily anuv.i
la. iimi I	Driiiiiiimts
(..)	Ii,-- i.ti:l	'.ttitji.iil'.'' hr:ll lit. .Hi f jianiy. at t'aii;«*l.i Iw . Misluiw Hat i a fiay anl
'ill WiltrilOHM’
j!t! I!;- Irtii! “Mail" as «\u! Iinnn t.luill -iii’.iii ill-' Aumnutl .-H
ilt<-nt<*i(!yin.»l iiuit'hU uitunl title: i»v !hv < nii!|..my fin Htiiai a: i: may In-liwwi* «i j|.nit liii&t* i.» Kit;*! awl m -.*** It Amu tm sit !t>< ti nt! "!‘l,*tt" \i,ajl In; i .ntsiislui !.) uh lilti** III* !v |».nalii<!i l‘;*yiii. ui i'lmi r\t t|>l wlnt- mtl. iiMtslniditm w»mM Ik' mi.ill;,isluil Willi tin: |mivtM»iiM>t tins Anuuilutl.
a ) I h*1 K it;! “.Kutassii-m l*.syiti«*nl’* m.-.iiis au li }--> will as is-aavalil;- I t dwiHi . ssw •it a • nt.laiii ' will; Hit’ i.-jtits «i| lilts S:'ji,iiaiina I’nvmnif i’lan
l.i]	lit.- Sum	Ifmnii' iiwans iiiial fi/ii <ii tin; liimul .'itulwuikci1; n| Aniuna,
n jm antim: ' - ii.hu Av.wiales al lln i mnp.my’s Muh.-nn Hat l-’.n loiv aiul (i l-i I.
\V :H Jl'lllM-!■•} itlh-'i l.tm--
Any niliu li'tui ih'.l limin wlii'li lias ,i »<iiiiifu|taii winch is ilHim.i lit (he ' aipplniinilal I In-itt|i|i'vmt ul Hein hh Aenviwiil as aimmini shall luvr the same lit*...iitiiii'!.»' tile	.it tin-, .‘i. |>aiiiliMn I’.iyiiifiit llau as mu It Sum !ia‘. inilo !l«-
‘a:|5|j|f Uii fil.ii I hi* )II|-Ii:yli|: ill K: || lit Aa.K' itinil
Nrdiiw ).
Klifiibilily
An applicant wii<i is mi associate on 01 altei .Iiiim- 4, 19% shall lie du-dilc [in a Nt-ji.uution
''aymenl provided Iliad
(a) on ui after .lime 19%, hr/slm is laid ofl lioni die Company anti has nr,ill hvIik under the (xillcctn'o laliom Aiyrcmenl and (lie i cason tin tin; layoll was not the insult ui any o[ (he t-iiciimslaiiccs s|>cialjul in subsections 1 (b) {/), 4 (li) (.1) anil 4 (l>) (4) of A>licit; I ol die Supplemental Unemployment llenelits flans, amt the layoff is lot ,t ennliimonspeiiod ofai least (wop) yeais in Midi %lnu(ri poind as tin: Company may ildcimine on die basis nlie employment prospects, and
(it) lie/slu: lias bad two (it) or mote yeais of seniority <m die Iasi day woiked lor (be company; ami
(c) licAhe lias not received or is not db’ible to icceive a Sevoinwu: A Want under any Pension Plan and Se.veiancc Award Avjrcmcii! ol llrn Company; and
(<l) Im/she lias made a^ilicaliou loi a Separaliou Payment in amiidanre with llu; procedure established by (be Company subsequent to twenty torn (74) months from the commencement dale of dm layofl and |iiioi to llie dale hr/shc loses lus/Iiu sc.nioiily mnler die Cnlkctn’e Lahoui Ai'irnncnl, except in dir. caie. ol an applieaul wluisc scniuiity is lost on the expiry id (wo (2) ynus of layoff who must apply within lltitly (40) days alter the loss of liis/lmi scnioniy linjits to lx-- ehV.ibk
Scctiuti 4	Mefluul of I’ayimml
(a) A Sepaialinit Payment shall he payable to the associate by the Company in a lnin(< sum.
(It) When the applicable imsl I'uiid I’osilion lor the week m which a Nrpaialmn Payment becomes payalile is equal to ot m excess ol filly (Ml) pnccut such payment shall In- a lust chine,c. aqainsi any and all lulme Company l oiitiilmtions to the. l'iu.,1 t-iuid.
(e) When (he applicable Tiust Piuid Position for the week in which a Scpaialnm Paymeiii becomes payable is less than I illy (M>) peiccnt, such payment shall not lie chaii-nl ae.amst fmiuocnnliilnitinns to thcTiosl Pinul loi tlte |:iii|K);,c. ol computmy, Tiust I'liutl Position oi ollimvise and shall In: paid by the (uinipany diirclly
St ritoii i
Aiiuiiiiii t»I St [Kii ;i(jmt I'avinml
I h:- :i=:•<•(»•!! »<j |i;r Si |j.t;;i||t>n I'nyiiti Hi |>.iy.ii»!r !<; fift'.lhi.' .ipjtl-t .nil -.h.'ll lii' ilk Itiilnwmj-'
i;i i iti .i:t tv h'.lc h.ivmi-. -me i t! m nmu' h-tt Ii v. lit :ii iwi* (-i) ttifiiiitdt'ii yr.ir, nt • :>•.!><> «t :• :VS«i- tv-ill lii«- ('tHJiiMiiV }••«»: in Klti-'SU'i itmV Jf: t‘t!l liyolp i ft*t; ;;s|<*
i.it I u :«:t ivo: ink il.iVlti;:, |\Vi> (,!i t-s thon’ !';i; if.-; Ih.;:i ii-si r • i ,|ii|i|; li'ti ul n.iirtfti rim r v.-lli |||t- I hlti'iallV pito! hr-Uu.l c r. ;|i i.ivoll, hivlji i |ol> i.tlt: iuttil!|iIi* • I !»y M.
iiii) i i•; .hi .tv..mii.iIi liavim; Hn■<- (I) m limit- lml It".', Hi.m loin ( !) nmi|>jiirtl yvm.-. ol i iMlii'-t! •aivh:<- willi Hu- < '(ii!)|t.my |>inn In hiiflin iim-,1 m ml lavoll, liis/lnt |i>b t.ilt' r. nmih]ilt< il by MU).
I»v)	l-i,i	an	avoi'i.Ut: li.iviim	loin ('!) in SsKiit- bill if-’, llun live 0) < onipIrUil y,\uo|
, t< Alia!; v*vit !• with !hc	lm;Uj>;mv pi mi to liivlin urn .1 us * ni layoli. Iiii/liu job mlr
i- ;;iltiHpii* J by 13\
;■>}	It.-I	.1(1	.i.:.ot i.tlt iiaVi.-ii}	Ijvr (,’i) »,; limrt‘ bti! |i-$.\: liVO !*'ll (Hi) tmi-mbtU'd >V;iiS ol
: n	•.<•• vuv with sin:	( oiiiji.iiiy pim»i it* lii-.'tuti’.ic i i-\ fin iay.tjl, nis-hn Weekly
Sit inn-Pay mi!l’i|>lit ;l hy«»;V{'i) Hmm Vi- tr. «>!. tv.liuti it tv-re.
it'll I ni .in is.ot t.ilt' h.ivnn' im (Id) m limit' h«i lt:>, than lit imn (h}« el yi-.ii?. s>l fi.-,lii*-<l -.rivn.Y i‘.‘iiii (he l ‘oiiijt.niV pi mm lo bis'lmi tlio-.l osm! hyoll, Jiis/hn V/t-ckl1,' .‘.n.m'Jil 1 mt-' l‘:iy nmllt|ilieil liy I ;• unit s ye;i»:.nl i'u-tlil«-il m i vice.
a) I oi in .i '.mi. ii: li.ivnn-, iilimi (I ■>] oi imni' lml lev. llun luvniy (->0) • oniph-i.il yr.iis oi .'p.tiU,! i.-iviu- willi llm roiiiji.my |)iii>i ii) lii-.di*'! most usi-iil laynll. Iiis/lm W'.-.-kly Sit.iii'lrtTinit: l’.iy iiiiilii|i!n«! by ! '•/ linnym- <■( t inliUil m ivio-
. 7;:t;	1 Vll	il.iVHlV UVt <)*V {'■•I* IlliHi-	t>l	„r;Vn ,• x% iV.-t
ilic i K.iip.uiy pjMi lo iiis/ln'i iiio>; it< ml i.iyoll, in:‘.V* tT.iy Sinto-j-! lPay muilijPtvl by iU'ii i;) iim:-;; >*«•*.*?'*	v tvn e i
i 'V.j|.. i:i 1	V »Vll e It'iHfl St I ilOli V, '.!i, Vjt .Ul.l V'ili .Vd';' i"- fills !ll.l;:ti 5'» 11>:•	'
ii:
Section 5
Kill'd on Scnimily and llomlils
All applicant, tijiim ii<:(V|>(;m< c of a Separation Payment, shall erase (o lx-, an assoeulc and ■hall have his/liu senioiily cantclkil as of the dale his/her application fin :.iic]| Scpaiatioii Payment was icrrivcd hy the Company, ami shall finfcil any mui all pension, ritMiuutco nt otherni'lils iiikIci tiny Pension I'lan or Associate Hendil l‘l;m Jinancnl in whole or mi pail hy (lii-Company.
Si'dinii h	Itqiayiiu’iit
If a peiMiii is at*am employed by Ihr. <.'tmipiiny aha hr/slif: has tm’ivcd Separatum Payment no inpayment hy tin: prison of such Separatiim Payment paid pmvjotisly shall lie ici|imrd ni allnwnl ami no senioiily cancelled picvionsiy shall he reinstated.
Srdum 7	\Villi-Ilnldin|;'t'ax
The ('ompany :;IihI1 daluct Irnm the iinuiimt of any Sepaiahon Payment as computed under this Sepaiatioii Payment I'lan any ammini icipiircd to he withheld hy the (awipany hy mason ol any law nr leiyilalmti loi jiayincnt of taxes <n otliciwise n| any ledeiul, piovmeial m municipal I'ovciiimcnt.
Section d	Overpayment
if the Company detemiincs aflei issuance of a Nepaiatioii Payment (ltd the Supination I’aymrni should lint have Iwcn issued or should have hern issued in a lesser amount, wiilliai noliee ihcieoj shall he mailed to the applicant ami iie/shr. shall ictnm (lie amount of the ov«:ipayment to the Cmnpniiy.
Scdimi V	Reports hy the Company
Hie Company :.ii.dl Inmisli to the Union from tune (o lime a lislnii', slimvim', the mimes ol the prisons who, tlmuii' the ptiiod coveted hy ilir. icjkhI, incepted a Separatum Payment provided under this Sepatnliim i'aynieit! Plait, toi'rlhn with hath the individual ntnss and net amounts of such Separatum Payments
Sei/limt III	Cnniliti
In the event that Ihcic should he. any eonltiel helweeu the piovisioir. of this i’lan and the jHovisions of (lie Supplemental Unemployment Hotefils Plan, the pmvismns of (his Plan shall he pinammmi and -Jiall i;ovem.
Sci tidii 11	Duration and Termination
l lus Plan shall leiuain m died foi lliediiiattoii ofdim Supplemental Uneuiploymetii lleitelits Plan now in died helweeu (Ik: pailius ami shall (eiminate whaievct mm Ii Plan is laminated
JM \VI INI-NS Wiil-Kj'l >1 Ok panics Is.« U> Iwvtt <u. nkd (k. above m NH i t|( ‘(M 11AI,
1/.
AI.HiUiA,liiis $> ibyul' ../>k.Wa	. AKH'i
KJi'Al.UNION nil-UNI J M > S i H I V/( ){(KM(S Dl-AMI;KI(7v
(iOUOYIAU (’ANl)A I NT.
irJf.liAl l-AriuKY til I. WAKhllOUlili
I.illn III
Jin* Irilci svili uiiiJiiiit tin: uiuli:i(ukiii(’, i;ivt;a to you 'litiim: ic i jil m voUiilintr. tin .''o' ljj.niy will ttmloiaki. to advise (Imsit iuiiUM	iHcolictni utuu'i SiUlOit l (d) o|
!;ic Srpa! allot) i’aymi til oftiti;mjtiliomoith to .ijijily lot a .Srp.ii.iiioii t'itymrnt.
i oimi'i .i.v.oaates util in- aoUltd liy n^istercil mail W day;. }•.<(« to tin: ojiiintnui o| ttn ti :r;at>Mly atnl a copy td (Mi lt Midmiilirc will Ik- m.iilt-il !<• tin:	h'U-y ol tin: Union.
APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
LOCAL UNION 628 OF THE
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
March 24,2000 - February 29,2004
The Employer
-AND-
For the Associates
GOODYEAR MEDICINE HAT
THE APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
The purpose of Hie Apprentice Training Program is lo train and develop men/women to fill future vacancies in specified skilled trades. The specific requirements of the Company will be considered in the selection of trades for which training programs will be utilized and in the development of a program of training in those trades.
1.	DEFINITIONS
(a)	Apprenticeship Agreement is a written agrement between the person employed as an apprentice and Goodyear Medicine Hal, and the Apprenticeship Board when applicable.
(b)	"Apprentice" shall mean a person who is under an apprenticeship agrement to leam and assist in the trade covered by that agreement.
(c)	There will be two types of apprenticeship programs in the Goodyear Medicine Hat Plant.
(i)	An in-plant apprenheeshipprogram which upon successful completion will provide skilled trade with "no ticket status”.
(ii)	A fully registered contract between Hie employer and the Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Branch, upon successful completion will provide
skilled trade with ticket status.
2.	TERMS OF AGREEMENT
(a)	The term of apprenticeship shall be 8,000 hours of training except m the case of Ihc weldertrade which will bed, 000 hours. A program ofrelaled training will be prescribed for each trade which an apprenheeshipprogram is established and will be in addition to the scheduleofshop training.
(b)	For the purposeof this apprenticeship program, an applicant can be disqualified at any tune with just cause during his/her apprenticeship at the discretion of the employer. Associates who are disqualified and originally iransferred from a production depaHmenl shall find his/her rightful place as per Article 6.08 (6). Any assoctaie who is disqualified and was hired directly Into the apprenticeship program as a new hire may be given the opportunity to transfer into a production depaitment as per Article 609 (I Jd) a the discretion of Ihc company.
/is
2
(c)	The breakdown of skilled Irades program - department 4211 - minimum requirement:
Millwright - 4 year in-plant apprenticeship
Millwright	- 4 year registered contract
Sleamfilter	- 4 year registered contract
Machinist	-4 year registered contract
Electrician	- 4 year registeredconlract
Welder	- 3 year regislered compact
NOTE The Company can, where applicable, train associates who arc already skilled tradespeople theniselves within the division, for other skilled trades lor the improvement of both the operation and the individual. In order io fill future vacancies, this special improvement condition can use a variation of cither in-plant or registered contract application. The individual will receive his/her regular rale ofpay while training.
3.	ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
In order to be eligible lor apprenticeship under Hie program, the applicant must meet qualifications which include the folowing:
(a)	He/slte must be over the age of 18.
(b)	The applicant should have completed grade 12 for millwright, electrician, machinist, welder, or sieamfttter trades.
Each applicant will be required to pass a physical examination upon request.
(d)	Applicants will be required io pass a vocation and/or aptitude test.
(C) Any applicants who can allow sufficient related experience m Hie trade applied for will Ik given consideraiion under the Goodyear Medicine Hal Apprenticeship Program. In selecting apprenticeship trainees, special consideraiion will be given to Goodyear associates.
t
4,	TRAINING PROCEDURES
Shop mining and related classroom Inining will be set up in accordance will! the Provincial Apprenliceshipand Tnde Certification Program.
Each apprentice attending lire Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Branch Program will be compensated by the employer to the exlenl that Ite/she shall receive up (o a maximum of eighty-live (85) percent of his/her regular earnings. This amount will indude any subsidy hefshe may receive Tram the Apprenticeship Branch. The apprentice will be required to furnish proof of the outside payment received in order to receive Die additional remuneratioA front the employer.
5.	MERIT RATING
At the end of eadi 3 month period, the Engineering Managerwill find out a merit rating card for each apprentice. Close contact will also be maintained with the school, if applicable, where the apprentice is undergoing lire related school training and regular reports will be received front the school
6.	HOURS CF WORK
Apprentices shal wort lire same hours and be subject lo the same coodiliotts regarding overtime as the regularassociates of the Engineeringdivision.
7.	RATESOPPAY
Millwright, Sleamlltler. Electririan, and Machinist I" year-	8IX of current contract rare plus boxed earnings
y'year	86% ofcurrenlconlnci me plus boxed earnings
3** year	91% of current contract rare plus boxed earnings
4* year	96% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
Welder
1‘year	81%ofcuircntcmtnctratcplu3boxedeamings
2*year	86%ofcunerKconlractraleplusboxedesniings
year	91% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
Upon successful completion of required horn of apprenticeship training and upon receiving either in-plant certificate or obtaining his/her certificate from the Apprenticeship Branch, the payment of trade rate, either ticket or no ticket rare, as per contract will become elTeciive.
4
8.	SENIORITY
Bach apprentice will cove aprobationaryperiod as per 2.01 (d) InlheCollectiveLabar Agreement
Apprentices wiH be assigned lo a regulardepartmenl of the Engineeringdivision and while utdergoing training in a particular trade will be SLdoject lo lay off prior to any established skied trades (ticketed) assodalesbeinglaid off. Apprentices will be laid off and recalled inaccordsncewHh (heirseniority withia heirtntde.
An apprenticettho is laid off inder (he provisionsof the Apprentice!raining Program shad have the right lo transfer into a production department in accordance with the provisionsof Article 6 of the current Collective Labour Ageement
9, MISCELLANEOUS
Apprentices shad be included in the factory bargaining unit and shad be subject lo all provisionsaid benefits inder the Collective Labour Agreement.
The company will post an apprenticeship position udnen avaiaUe, for a period of three (3) weeks on the bulletin boaris. All appicanlsmust respond in writing to the Personal Manger.
In the event Hat any of the provisionsof Ibis agreements!* found to be in conflict with any appfcable provindalor federal law, now existing, or hereunder enacted it is agreed that such law shad render (he conflicting provision of Ibis agreement null and void without in any way arffectingthe remainderof the Apprentice Agreement
Apgorentice positions will not exceed the ratio as established by the Apprenticeship and Trades Brandi
Time limits between transfer u shown inder section 6.13 (8) of the Colective Labour Agreement will not apply to applicant for Apprenticeship openings.
10. TOOLS
The policy already estabfehedand in effect with the Engineering divisionwill be appied to the Apprenticeship Program.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
WM/hn. jtdr-S
2001 Calendar
January
S M T W T F S
12	3	4	5	6
7	S	7	19	II	U	13
U	IS	It	17	It	19	20
21	22	23	U	25	2t	27
»	29	»	31
February
S M T WT F S
1	2	3
4	$	6	7	I	9	It
II	12	13	14	15	16	17
II	19	»	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	»
March
S M T W T F S
l X 3 4	5	6	7	$	9	10
U	12	13	14	1$	16	17
18	19	20	21	£2	II	U
a	26	27	a	29	30	31
April
SMTWTPS
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	It	II	12	13	14
E	16	17	It	9	»	21
ci	23	24	a	a	27	a
29 30
May
5	M T W T F S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	I	9	10	H	12
13	14	IS	16	IT	18	19
W	21	11	U	P	15	26
27	U	29	H	31
June
S M T W T F S
I 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
19	(I	»	JJ	14	If	16
IT	It	19	a	21	22	23
u	a	a	27	a	29	a
July
SMTWTFS
August
S M T VV T F S
S W T W T ITS
5	6	7	8	9	10	II
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	»	21	22	23	24	a
26	27	a	29	30	3i
September S MSqptwbpr F S S M T W T F S
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	ftf	11	12	13	24	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	»	26	27	U	29
30
October
SMTWTFS
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	t	9	20	11	12	13
14	1$	16	17	18	19	a
21	22	a	24	a	a	27
a	a	»	3i
S M	November T W T F	s
	1 2	3
4 5	6 7 19	10
ii ii	D 14 15 15	17
18 19	a 21 U 23	u
a 26	27 a a 30	
S M	December T W T		F	s
2 3	4	S 6	7	1 8
f 10	II	12 13	24	15
16 1?	II	19 a	2k	22
U 24	a	a 2i	a	a
30 31				
2002 Calendar
Jwury
S	M	T	WT	F	S
1	1	J	4	S
4 7 I * M 11 U U	14	U	14	17	10	H
it	a	n	a	»	is	u
v	a	»	jo	it
March
S M T WT F S
2
4
14
u
JO
3	4
11 II 17 10 U »
31
April SMTWT F S		May S M T W T F S		June SMTWT F S
1 1 J 4 5 6 7 « Y 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 11 19 20 21 U U U 15 26 27 21 29 30		12 3 4 j 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 11 19 20 21 22 23 U 25 26 17 21 29 30 31		I 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 .? 10 11 12 H 14 15 " 17 18 19 W 21 22 3J 24 25 26 27 21 »
1	July
S M T WT F S
12	3	4	5*
1	I	9	10	II	12	13
14	B	1*	17	IS	19	24
21	22	23	24	25	24	27
2*	29	30	31
August
S M T WT F S
1	2	3
4	$	6	7	I	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	14	17
II	19	24	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	21	29	#	31
September S M T W T F S
1	2	3	4	5	4	7
U	Y	14	II	12	13	14
15	16	17	II	»	2*	21
22	23	24	25	2*	27	21
29 34
October
SMTWT F S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	I	9	10	11	12
13	14	IS	U	17	111	19
24	21	U	U	24	15	24
27	21	29	30	31
November S M T W T F S 1 2
3	4	5	6	7	I	9
II	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	2V	29	30
December
S M_T W T FJ
I	2	3	4	5	6	~7
V	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	II	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	21
29 30 31
2003 Calendar
January		February		March
SMTWTFS		SMTWTFS		SMTWTFS
5 6 7 1 9 10 11				t 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
l U 14 15 16 17 |8		9 10 11 12 13 14 15		9 10 11 12 U 14 IS 16 17 18 19 21 21 22
9 20 21 22 23 U 2$		16 17 18 19 20 21 U		23 U 25 26 27 28 29
S 27 21 29 30 31		23 24 25 26 27 28		30 31
				
S M TA'WrilT F s		May		June
SMTWTFS		SMTWT F S		S M T W T F S
6 7 | 9 10 11 IS		1 2 3		1 2 3 4 5 6 7
16 19 18 10 10 1« U		4 S 6 7 9 9 10		9 9 10 11 12 13 14
10 24 21 U a 28 K		11 12 0 14 IS 16 17		IS 16 17 18 19 20 21
i a s i ii s >		It 19 20 21 22 23 U		22 23 J1 25 26 27 28
		25 26 27 28 29 30 31		29 30
SMTWTFS * *
I 2	3	4	5
6	1	9	9	JO	||	12
13	14	IS	Id	17	19	19
10	21	V	23	U	15	2d
*7	28	29	30	31
August
S M T WT F S
i ?
3	4	5	6	7	1	9
10	11	12	13	14	IS	16
17	19	19	20	21	22	U
U	25	26	27	29	29	30
31
September S M T W T F S
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	I	9	IQ	11	12	13
14	IS	Id	17	19	19	20
21	22	U	U	2S	26	27
28	29	30
October
SMTWT	F	S
12	3	4
$	6	7	9 9	10	11
12	13	14	IS 16	17	19
19	20	21	U U	U	25
26	27	29	29 30	31
November SMTWT F S
2	3	4	S	6	7	I
9	10	11	12	13	14	IS
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	2S	26	27	29	29
30
December
SMTWT F S
1	2	3	4	$	6
7	I	9	10	11	12	13
14	IS	16	17	19	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
29	29	30	31
2004 Calendar
February
SMTWTFS
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
I	9	10	n	U	13	14
15	16	17	IS	19	20	21
22	23	V	25	26	27	20
29
		March			
s	M	T	W T		F :
	1	2	3	4	5
7	S	9	10	11	12 1
14	1$	16	17	It	19 2’
21	V	23	V	25	26 2
2X	29	30	31		
April
S M T W T F S
I	2	3
4	5	6	7	S	9	10
II	I!	13	14	IS	16	17
tS	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	U	29	30
May
S M T W T F S
i
2	3	4	S	6	7	S
4	10	II	12	13	14	15
16	17	IS	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	2S	29
30	31___
Trmr
§&«£{Li
~--1—V -3- *
		July		
s	M	T W T	F	s
s	M	T W T	f	$
4	5	(17*	9	10
11	12	IJ 14 If	16	17
IX	19	20 21 22	23	24
25	26	27 2* 29	30	31
		August				
s	M	T	w	T	F	s
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
«	9	IV	11	12	13	14
IS	16	17	IX	19	20	21
22	11	24	25	26	27	K
29	30	31				
September SMTWTF.
'	i	Y	3
i	6	7	S	9	1ft	I
12	13	14	IS	16	17	1
19	20	21	12	23	24	2
26	27	U	29	10
October
S M T W T F S
I 2
3	4	5	6	7	1	9
10	II	12	13	14	IS	1$
17	IS	19	20	21	22	13
a	25	26	27	2S	29	30
M
November
S M T W T F S
1	2	2	4	S	6
7	X	9	10	11	12	|]
14	IS	16	17	IS	19	2»
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
2S	29	30
December
S M T W T K ‘
I	2	3
5	6	7	X	9	10	I
12	13	14	IS	16	17	16
19	20	21	22	23	24	2f
26	27	2S	29	30	31
GOODYEAR MEDICINE HAT HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY
The Goodyear Medicine Hat team will strive to provide an accident free environment by adhering to all govemmentregulations& corporate policies.
Wfe are committed to good health and safety practiceson and off the job to maintain the desired quality of life for aU associates.
V\fe believe that safety is equal to cost, quality, productivity and is everyone's responsibility. V\te will accomplish this through teamwork and continuousimprovement,
Team Responsibilities:
Managers? Provide leadership, Tme, Moneys Resources Supervisors? Provide leadership, Training, Support, Reportings Enforcement Associates > Safework behavior, Complying with all regulations,provide information about any unsafe conditionslbr continuous improvement Contractors > Provide a service and comply with all government and corporate regulations
Goodyear Medicine Hat plant is committed to pollution prevention and operates in a way tc minimize and continuously improvethe environmental impact cf its activities. Goodyear Medicine Hat plant complies with all applicable laws and regulationsand works for conformance to Corporate Canadian Environmental compliance guidelines. Environmental objectivesand targets are regularly reviewedduring quarterly meetings. This environment policy is implemented, maintainedand communicated to all associates. Environmental dati is made available lo the public.
Goodyear Medicine Hat plant is committed to produce quality products that meet customer expectations and all applicable standards. This is accomplished through teamwork and continuous improvement
GOODYEAR MEDICINE HAT ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
GOODYEAR MEDICINE HAT QUALITY POLICIES