AGREEMENTS
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
The Employer
-AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
For the Employees
May 1,2007 - July 22,2009
00748 (08)
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
THE EMPLOYER
-AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER,
MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
May 1,2007 - July 22,2009
INDEX
Page#
ARTICLE 1
Purpose-------------------------------------------------------------- 1
ARTICLE 2
Interpretation------------------------------------------------------- 2
ARTICLE 3
Scope of Agreement--------------------------------------------------- 4
ARTICLE 4
Hours of Work-------------------------------------------------- 5
ARTICLE 5
Rates of Pay--------------------------------------------------- 7
ARTICLE 6
Seniority------------------------------------------------------ 11
ARTICLE 7
Designated Holidays------------------------------------------------- 20
ARTICLE 8
Vacations----------------------------------------------------------- 22
ARTICLE 9
Union Security------------------------------------------------------ 25
ARTICLE 10
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure--------------------------------- 27
ARTICLE 11
Miscellaneous------------------------------------------------------- 30
ARTICLE 12
Duration of Collective Agreement------------------------------------ 32
APPENDIX A
Job Rates & Classifications----------------------------------------- 33
APPENDIX B
Interim Increase Formula'
36
APPENDIX C
Crew Progression and Regression--------------------------------- 38
INDEX Continued APPENDIX D
5 Day, or 7 Day Crew Work Schedule------------------------------ 39
LETTERS-------------------------------------------------------------- 40
ALPHABETICAL INDEX--------------------------------------------------- 45
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
This Collective Labour Agreement is made and entered into as of the 1st day of May, 2007, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to certain employees at its Medicine Hat Plant, and G.E.L. Warehouse, hereinafter referred to as the “employer” and Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers), hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE
1.01	It is the mutual desire of the contracting parties to promote co-operation and harmony and to provide an amicable method of settling any dispute or grievance that might arise between them.
1.02	They agree to work in harmonious relationship and undertake:
(a)	That there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by or on behalf of the employer regarding any employee covered by this Agreement because of membership or nonmembership in the union;
(b)	That the union, its members or its agents shall not intimidate or coerce said employees into membership.
(c)	The Company and the Union are committed to conduct themselves in a manner which is consistent with the applicable Human Rights legislation in the force in the provincial jurisdiction of this agreement.
1.03	The Company and the Union are committed to the principles of “equality in employment” for all persons regardless of race, religious belief, colour, gender, physical disability, mental disability, marital status, age, ancestry or place of origin, family status or source of income.
This principle embraces all matters pertaining to employee interaction, not solely employment practices designed to eliminate discriminatory barriers and to provide in a meaningful way, equitable opportunities in employment.
Decisions regarding recruitment and selection of applicants for employment will be based on the qualifications of the individual.
1.04	The Company and the Union are committed to provide a safe work environment free from harassment and violence.
The parties have developed this explicit policy and procedures to deal with harassment and violence. A written copy of the policy and procedures shall be provided to each employee.
The employer and the union will not tolerate nor condone behavior that is likely to undermine the dignity or self esteem of an employee or which creates and intimidating, hostile or offensive environment.
Harassment shall be defined as engaging in a course of offensive comment or conduct that is known, or ought reasonably to be known as offensive and unwelcome. Harassment can include but is not limited to: unwanted comments, slurs, racist or sexist jokes, pictures or posters, bullying or intimidation, graffiti, physical contact of any kind, remarks about a person’s appearance or personal life, unwelcome sexual advances or demands, suggestive looks or gestures.
1.04	Continued...
Violence shall be defined as any incident in which an employee is abused, threatened, harmed, injured or assaulted in circumstances arising out of his/her employment with Goodyear. This includes the application of force, threats, severe verbal abuse and persistent sexual and racial harassment.
All complaints involving aggression, violence, or harassment shall be brought in writing to the attention of the plant Human Resources Manager and a designated Union Executive who shall concern itself and investigate all matters pertaining to violence and harassment.
If it is found that harassment or violence has taken place, the employer after consultation with the union, shall take appropriate action to ensure that harassment or violence ceases.
All reports and investigations of harassment and violence will be handled by the parties in a confidential manner to the extent reasonably practicable.
ARTICLE 2 INTERPRETATION
2.01	In this Collective Agreement and its application, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words
and expressions will have the meaning hereafter given to them:
a)	“employee” means and includes all hourly rated employees of the Employer at its Medicine Hat Plant and its Medicine Hat Warehouse, below the level of Shift Co-ordinator, with the exception of office employees, Security Guards, Production Squadron training group, and production schedulers.
b)	The term “credited service” means the service of an employee with the employer as it appears on his/her record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement. The terms “credited service” and “continuous service” as used throughout this agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an employee, a former employee, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
c)	“Crew seniority” means that the status that an employee acquires in respect to the time accumulated by him/her while working on a specific operation within the same department regardless of the shift to which he/she is assigned.
d)	“Department seniority” means the status that an employee (with factory seniority) in the Engineering Division acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months in the same department.
e)	“employer” means Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Plant, and Medicine Hat Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
f)	“Factory seniority” means the status that an employee acquires after he/she has worked for the employer for four (4) consecutive months.
2,01	Continued...
g)	“Job rate” shall mean the hourly rate per Appendix “A” that an employee shall be paid for all hours worked on that operation or another operation to which he/she is assigned unless the assigned operation warrants a higher job rate. In such case, the higher job rate will be paid for all hours worked on that operation provided a satisfactory effort is made.
h)	“Lay-off means the termination of work of an employee by the employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; “laid off’ shall have a like meaning.
“probationary period” means a four (4) consecutive month period during which the probationer works for the employer prior to acquiring seniority rights.
To ensure that proper evaluation can be made, the probationary period will be extended for employees who do not complete four (4) consecutive months due to illness or injury resulting in an absence of seven (7) or more consecutive calendar days commencing from the first regularly scheduled shift of work missed. Extension of probation will equal time lost due to said illness or injury.
No employee will serve his/her probationary period in the capacity of a “temporary vacation relief person.
j)	“probationer” means an employee without seniority.
k)	“Qualification” means the ability to perform the operation to which an employee is assigned in a competent manner and to produce the same standard of quantity and quality of work as is usually obtained from such operation after the usual learning period; “to qualify” and “qualify” shall have a like meaning.
l)	“Temporary” or temporary period shall mean a period of time not to exceed three (3) consecutive months duration. At the end of the three (3) month period the employee who has been assigned to the temporary position will be returned to his/her original position. In the event no qualified volunteers are available the most junior qualified employee will be reassigned.
m)	“Surplus employee” means an employee on lay-off status from his/her regular operation for an indefinite period.
n)	The term “vacancy” shall not include a vacancy caused by any of the following:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
when an employee is absent by reason of sickness;
when an employee is on vacation;
when an employee is on an authorized leave of absence;
when a qualified employee is in lay-off status except as provided in Article 6.13, subsection 3 of this Collective Agreement.
3
ARTICLE 3
Scope and Recognition:
3.01	The terms of this Collective Agreement shall apply to all employees and the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for the said employees for the duration of this Collective Agreement.
3.02	Nothing in this Collective Agreement shall conflictwith the Employer's functions and responsibility to manage the factory/facility and direct the working force insofar as it is not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
3.03	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the employer:
(a)	to maintain order, discipline and efficiency,
(b)	to hire, discharge for just cause, transfer, upgrade, promote, demote or discipline employees and to increase and decrease the work force, provided that if there is a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he/she has been disciplined or discharged without just cause, it may be made the subject of a grievance and dealt with as provided in this Agreement,
(c)	to determine the qualifications of each employee,
(d)	to operate and manage its business in all respects and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of plants, the products to be manufactured, the methods of manufacturing and the production schedules to be used, the type and location of machines and tools to be used, the engineering and design of its products the control of material and parts to be incorporated into the product.
(e)	the Company will be solely responsible for the proper implementation of
work rules and shall have the right to implement a rate for any new or significantly changed job. However the Union shall have the right to grieve whether or not the rate is proper based on similar jobs in the plant.
The employer agrees that these functions will be exercised in a manner not inconsistentwith the terms of this Agreement.
3.04	There shall be no lockout, strike, slowdown or stoppage of work during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof.
3.05	In the event that any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement are found to be in
conflictwith any valid and applicable Federal or Provincial Law now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall supersede the conflicting provisions without in any way affecting the remainder of the Collective Agreement, except in situations where the provisions of the collective agreement provide a greater benefit then the enacted law.
ARTICLE 4
HOURS OF WORK
4.01	(1) With the exception of operations which are scheduled on a 5 day, 40 hour workweek Monday to
Friday inclusive, the regular weekly schedule for the factory is a 7-day operation, and each employee is assigned regular shift hours according to his/her type of work. However, this shall not be taken as a guarantee of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
The regular weekly schedule is an average of forty-two (42) hours (based on a thirty six (36) hour and forty eight (48) hour rotation) within a period from 8:00 am Sunday to 8:00 am Sunday. (In any week in which a designated holiday occurs, the weekly hours may vary).
(2)	The employer may schedule work in excess of regular plant hours in order to maintain the factory and equipment, or to keep the production processes in balance, or to avoid the temporary hiring and laying off of employees.
(3)	All overtime shall be voluntary. Overtime shall be distributed in an equal and impartial manner among the qualified employees of the department (who have volunteered) in which overtime becomes necessary. In the event there are insufficient volunteers from the department for overtime work, the employer will offer the overtime work to qualified employees outside the department provided the employee has put their name on the overtime sign up sheet located in the shift 1 coordinators office. In the event the overtime cannot be filled the most junior qualified employee(s) from the department will be required to work.
(4)	(a)	7 day work schedule is as follows:
D - Day Shift	12 hour shifts - various
N -Night Shift	starting times
CREW PREMIUMS #1 - $0.90/HR WORKED #2 - S0.90/HR WORKED #3 - $0.90/HR WORKED #4 - S0.90/HR WORKED
OVERTIME PROVISION
1st SCH. DAY OFF: TIME AND ONE HALF
2nd SCH. DAY OFF: DOUBLE TIME
3rd SCH. DAY OFF: TIME AND ONE HALF
Employee works - off:	2-2, 3-2,2-3 rotation
	S	M	T	W	T	F	“s		S	M	T	W	T	F	S		S	M	T	W	T	F	S		S	M	T	W	T	F	S
Crew 1	N	-	-	D	D	-	-		-	N	N	-	-	D	D		D	-	-	N	N	-	-		-	D	D	-	-	N	N
Crew 2	D	-	-	N	N	-	-		-	D	D	-	-	N	N		N	-	-	D	D	-	-		-	N	N	-	-	D	D
Crew 3	-	D	D	-	-	N	N		N	-	-	D	D	-	-		-	N	N	-	-	D	D		D	-	-	N	N	-	-
Crew 4	-	N	N	-	-	D	D		D	-	-	N	N	-	-		-	D	D	-	-	N	N		N	-	-	D	D	-	-
NOTE:	Shift schedule to work Sunday will be paid 8.0 hours straight time and 4,0 hours time and
one half.
(b) Eight (8) hour shifts - rotating or non-rotating - various starting times - with a 20 minute paid lunch.
Current established shifts and start times may be changed by mutual agreement,
Article 4 Continued. ..
4,02	“Overtime work” means all time worked in excess of an employee’s regularly scheduled eight (8) hour or twelve (12) hour shift in a twenty-four (24) hour period from the time he/she is regularly scheduled to start work; and also means all time worked form 8:00 am Saturday to 8:00 am Monday for those on an eight (8) hour shift, forty (40) hour work week.
Overtime work does not include:
(a)	Time worked by employees substituting for one another at their own request.
(b)	A change of an employee’s working hours at his/her own request.
(c)	Regular weekly shift change.
(d)
The time spent on employee committee work or similar activity.
4.03	An employee will be advised of any change that is made on his/her time sheet before the end of the pay period.
4.04	The employer will provide adequate relief when necessary.
4.05	The employer shall not reduce the regular working time of an employee because he/she has done overtime work, unless the employee consents to such reduction.
An employee will not construe overtime worked as a reason to take a “regularly scheduled day” off.
4.06	It is the policy of the Company not to schedule an employee to work for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours at one time. However, it is recognized that in emergency situations or when other qualified employees are not available, it may be necessary to request an employee or employees to work beyond twelve (12) consecutive hours. It is the Company’s intention to keep such occurrences to an absolute minimum.
4.07	When an employee has reason to be absent on his/her regularly scheduled shift, advance notice must be given no later than two (2) hours before the start of that shift, except in emergency situations.
4.08	An employee, who has not been relieved by the subsequent shift, will remain on the job until alternate arrangements can be made, but limited to a 1.5 hour period.
4.09	Employees will be required to work the full shift, less approved breaks and lunch periods and it is understood that all employees will apply themselves to their work with a satisfactory effort for the entire shift.
There will be no late starts or early quits or company paid wash-up times.
It is then understood that all operations will function on a continuous basis, with employees working until the next shift takes over.
6
ARTICLE 5
RATES OF PAY
5.01	The rates of pay shall be the ones in effect at the date hereof, as set out in Appendix A and is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
These rates will be revised in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the employer and the union on May 1, 2007.
The rates as so revised shall remain in effect for the balance of the term of the Collective Labour Agreement.
Interim increases will be calculated and applied in accordance with the formula as set out in Appendix B and is attached hereto, and forms part of the Agreement.
5.02	In the event of a change to established methods, specifications, established working conditions and job content, which would result in a change in production, the operations affected will be re-evaluated for labour balance, manning levels, and any corresponding changes to the job rate.
5.03	(a) Effective April 1, 2000, new employees will receive the following percentages of applicable
wage payments, including COLA for thejob classification in which the employee is assigned.
Progressive hire in rates:
Date of Hire to Six (6) months	70.0%
Seven (7) to Twelve (12) months	75.0%
Thirteen (13) to Eighteen (18) months	80.0%
Nineteen (19) to Twenty-four (24) months	85.0%
Twenty-five (25) to Thirty (30) months	90.0%
Thirty-one (31) to Thirty-six (36) months	95.0%
After Thirty-six (36) months	100.00%
These rates do not apply to Department 4211 and Department 4216. It is understood that the progressive hire in rate does not affect any wage payments for employees hired prior to the date of ratification.
Job transfer rates:	An employee who is transferred to another operation, either through
displacement or through a transfer request, shall be paid he rate of thejob to which he/she has transferred provided he/she can qualify or his/her job rate until such time as he/she can qualify on the new operation, except where the rate of the new operation is less than his/her current rate, in such case he/she will be paid the rate of the new operation.
7
Article 5 Continued...
5.04	(1) If the employer temporarily assigns an employee, for the benefit of the employer, to another
operation, while there is work available on the employee’s regular operation, he/she will be paid their existingjob rate, or the rate of the temporaryjob, whichever is greater, provided he/she has made a satisfactory effort.
(2)	When an employee is assigned to instruct other employees or is assigned to perform experimental work under the guidance of the Development Department he/she shall be paid his/herjob rate.’
5.05	Time lost on a shift by an employee, owing to breakdown, stock shortage, defective stock or any other reason beyond the employee’s but within the employer’s control, shall be paid for at the rate of the job. However, in the case of a breakdown beyond the control of both the employer and the employee, the employee shall be paid the job rate only for the period he/she is required by the employer to remain on thejob.
5.06	Employees on 5 day, 40 hour schedule shall be paid time and one half for all overtime work except during the period from Saturday midnight to Sunday midnight or from 11:00 p.m. Saturday to 11:00 p.m. Sunday for those employees whose regular shift starts at 11:00 p.m., when double time will be paid.
Employees on a 7-day schedule shall be paid time and one half for all overtime work except for their second scheduled day off which shall be paid at double time.
Overtime premium shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked.
5.07	An employee not previously scheduled to work who is called to work and consequently works in an emergency on Sunday or on a holiday, or at any time between one (1) hour after he/she has left work and two (2) hours before his/her next scheduled shift shall receive either six (6) hours at his/her regular rate of pay, or regular rate of pay plus premium pay applicable for the actual time worked, whichever is the greater.
5.08	When an employee has not been notified of a change in his/her starting time and he/she comes to work at his/her customary time, he/she shall be paid his/herjob rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the employee has advised the employer of his/her last and correct address. This shall apply only when conditions are within the employer’s control. Such employees may be offered other suitable work, and if she/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
5.09	When an employee reports for work on his/her scheduled shift and is sent home by reason of some breakdown in the factory, he/she shall be paid his/herjob rate for four (4) hours of his/her regular shift, provided that the conditions which caused the breakdown were within the employer’s control. Such employee may be offered other suitable work, and if he/she refuses to accept such work he/she shall forfeit such pay.
Article 5 Continued.. .
8
5.10	In the case of an emergency where it is necessary for the employer to send an employee home before the conclusion of his/her regular shift in order to have him/her report for work on a later shift, the employee will be given the privilege on completing up to a maximum of four (4) hours of work on his/her regular shift before going home. Payment will be made for such work at the regular straight time rate for hours worked on his/her regular shift, All hours worked on his/her later shift will be paid at the rate of time and one half. In all such cases the employee affected must accept and complete the work assignment given to him/her by the employer in order to qualify for a benefit under this subsection.
5.11	An employee who is injured in the factory and is treated in the factory or is sent to an outside hospital shall be paid at his/her job rate for time lost on his/her shift.
5.12	An employee will be paid his/her job rate for time lost on his/her operation if he/she is called away from same by his/her employer, This does not apply, however, in cases where disciplinary action is warranted. If it is necessary to bring someone in on their day off to investigate the incident, they will be paid their job rate at straight time for the duration of the meeting.
5.13	Each member of an employee committee who is present at special meetings called by the employer, and with the employer present at the regular monthly meeting with the employer, or at 3rd and 4th step grievance meetings with the employer shall be paid his/her job rate for the period until the time at which the meeting is adjourned. Each member of the Bargaining Committee shall also be paid at his/her job rate for time spent, to a minimum of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day for days in which meetings are scheduled with the employer during negotiations for renewal of agreements until such time as application is made for conciliation services.
The designated steward or local union official representative will be paid at his/her job rate for time spent making time studies authorized by the employer or calculations therefrom or to a maximum of five
(5)	working days while examining new or revised disputed rates in the time study department or while undergoing training conducted by the employer or authorized by the employer. For the purpose of this provision, consent for time off does not necessarily constitute authorization for payment.
5.14	If settlement of the grievance results in an adjustment in the contested job rate, it shall be made retroactive to the effective date of the rate, but not to exceed 180 days on the operation.
5.15	Employees shall be granted shift premium in the amount of $0.55 per hour for all hours worked between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 am.
5.16	Any employee who is required to serve on a jury or as a witness subpoenaed by the crown shall be paid the difference between the amount paid for such service and his/her job rate for the time lost from his/her regularly scheduled work shift by reason of such service, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their area manager within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of selection for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness.
(b)	Any employee called for jury duty or who is subpoenaed as a crown witness and who is temporarily excused from attendance at court must report for work if a reasonable period of time remains to be worked in his/her shift.
9
5.16	Continued...
(c)	Employees selected for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as a crown witness who are on other than first shift shall be assigned to the first shift for those days they are required to serve. Anyone called for jury duty or subpoenaed as a crown witness bn a Monday and is scheduled to work the preceding Sunday, will be given the Sunday off without pay and will be required to work the Monday in lieu of Sunday for eight (8) hours at straight time less the time spent at court, (as per (b) above)
(d)	In order to be eligible for such payment, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of pay received.
(e)	Should an employee’s scheduled vacation be affected due to his/her selection for jury duty or his/her being subpoenaed as a crown witness, the area manager will reschedule said employee’s vacation, if he/she so requests in the current year. Said rescheduled vacation will be taken at a time mutually agreed upon.
5.17	An employee on the active payroll of the Company who is excused by the employer solely because of the death and funeral of a parent, parent-in-law, spouse, common-law spouse covered under the Goodyear benefit system, child, child-in-law, common law child covered under the Goodyear benefit system, grandchild, grandparent, spouse’s grandparent, brother/sister, brother/sister-in-Iaw, spouse’s brother/sister-in-law or a dependent who lives in the household of the employee, will be compensated at his/her job rate upon presentation of proof of death for time lost by him/her from his/her regular working schedule by reason of such absence, up to a maximum of 24 working hours, commencing with the date of the death for each such death and funeral. Time off will not be paid beyond the date of the funeral unless prior arrangements are made with the department manager, which will not be unreasonably denied.
This provision to apply when it is necessary for the employee to make funeral arrangements, and/or attend the funeral.
For the purpose of this section, a step-parent or foster parent shall be considered as a parent and a stepchild or foster-child shall be considered as a child only where the step-parent or foster parent has taken the place of the natural parent in relation to such child and is not in receipt of any financial aid for support of such child.
For the purpose of this section an employee who is on vacation will be paid to a maximum of 24 hours for those days he/she would have normally been scheduled to work had he/she not been on vacation. Such employee may extend his/her vacation by the number of days he/she is eligible for payment under this provision provided he/she notified his/her Area Manager promptly of the funeral and in sufficient time for the Area Manager to secure a replacement.
5.18	No person on the payroll of the Company outside of the bargaining unit shall perform any part of the work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. However, this provision will not prohibit instructions, the training of new employees, the handling of emergency situations or training of the Production Squadron training group.
5.19	Shift differential will be added separately.
Future COLA increases will be folded in and a new rate schedule issues as they occur.
10
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY
6.01	Seniority shall be calculated as from the date of the employee’s first working day for the employer.
Employees hired with identical service dates will use relative age as the factor for determining seniority. The older employee will be deemed to have the most factory seniority. Employees hired with identical service dates and identical birth dates will use the first or subsequent letters of the surname as the factor for determining factory seniority. The employee whose surname starts with the letter of the alphabet that precedes the other employee will be deemed to have the most factory seniority.
6.02	(1) An employee shall lose his/her seniority when he/she resigns or is discharged.
(2)	A laid off employee shall lose his/her seniority whenever he/she fails to:
(a)	Inform the employer of the address at which he/she can be reached when required to report to work. Address changes may be forwarded by mail, addressed to the Human Resources Department, and will be acknowledged in writing;
(b)	Notify the employer of his/her intention to return to work within three (3) working days after having been notified to do so by messenger or receiving a notice to do so by registered mail or telegram, in either case to his/her address on the records of the employer;
(c)	Report for work within seven (7) days after he/she has stated his/her intention to return to work.
In each of such cases, his/her employment and his/her seniority shall terminate at once without notice or other act on the part of the employer; provided that the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) do not apply if the employee furnishes a satisfactory reason to the employer within thirty (30) days of his/her failure. This exception may be made only once in favor of any one employee.
(3)	An employee with seniority who is laid off with less than five (5) years of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following two (2) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority. An employee who is laid off with five (5) years or more of factory seniority and is not recalled to work by the employer during the following five (5) year period shall thereupon lose his/her seniority.
(4)	(a) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status who held less
than five (5) years of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority held at time of layoff but in no event shall such accumulation of seniority exceed one (1) year.
(b) In any one layoff period, a former employee with seniority in layoff status, who held five
(5)	years or more of seniority at time of layoff, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and services to a maximum of two (2) years.
li
6.02 Continued...
(c)	The accumulation of seniority and service as provided under this subsection will be credited to an employee upon his/her return to work.
6.03	(1) An employee absent from work because of bodily injuries caused by accident or sickness
and qualified to receive weekly indemnity benefits under the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect from time to time between the employer and the Union, shall be entitled to accumulate seniority and service during the period of his/her absence on the following basis:
(a)	An employee who has less than five (5) years of continuous service with the employer will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of one (1) year, but his/her accumulated seniority and service shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her illness.
(b)	An employee who has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the employer, will be entitled to accumulate seniority and service for a maximum period of two (2) years.
(c)	An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness, and under the advice of a doctor and at the discretion of the employer, returns to work on an operation other than his/her own, shall be allowed to accumulate his/her regular crew seniority while on such operation for the length of time of such assignment, to a maximum period of three (3) months, or for a period equal to the number of calendar days he/she was absent because of such accident or sickness whichever is greater. His/her accumulated crew seniority shall not exceed his/her factory seniority.
(2)	The provisions of subsection (1) shall in no way limit the accumulation of seniority and service by an employee who is receiving Workers’ Compensation Benefits.
(3)	An employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury caused by accident or sickness and who has accumulated seniority and service in accordance with the provisions of Article 6.03 shall be entitled to retain such accumulated service and seniority together with his/her prior credited service and seniority so long as he/she remains disabled because of injury and is not able to return to work or to accept other employment. If he/she should accept other employment during such absence he/she shall be deemed to have resigned.
12
Article 6 Continued...
6.04	(1) An employee who is selected as a delegate to a convention of the United Steelworkers of
America, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Alberta Federation of Labour, or specific union duties or municipal elective duties, may apply to his/her foreman for time off to attend such duties and will be granted such time as maybe necessary for this purpose provided that such leave will not interfere with the efficient operation of the factory. Under this provision, not more than one (1) employee from each division may be absent at the same time. The Company will not limit the number of members of the Bargaining Committee who are entitled to attend grievance meetings beyond Step II.
(2)	After normal placement under Article 6.09 the President, Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer, in order of priority, and Executive Board members, in order of factory seniority, will not be laid off factory employment while there is work to be performed in the plant. In such event he/she shall displace the employee with the least seniority in the factory. The displaced employee will be laid off.
(3)	An employee who is elected or selected for full time duty as an officer for, or representative of, the United Steelworkers of America or to the executive staff of the Canadian Labour Congress or to the Alberta Federation of Labour, which assignment will take him/her away from his/her employment with the employer, may apply in writing for leave of absence; such leave of absence shall be requested and granted yearly and shall cancel itself automatically upon termination of this Collective Agreement. For two (2) years following the date the leave of absence is granted the employee will accumulate seniority and service for employment reinstatement and thereafter will retain seniority for as long as his/her leave of absence continues in force, Following the termination of his/her leave of absence and his/her immediate return to work for the employer, he/she shall be reinstated to all privileges of employment and he/she shall be offered the same work in the department which he/she had left or similar work at the then current rate of pay for such work.
For pension purposes only, such employees will be credited with the seniority and service which he/she had attained up to the time his/her leave of absence had been granted and will also be entitled to accumulated seniority and service, but his/her accumulated seniority and service, shall not exceed his/her service with the employer as of the day on which he/she last worked prior to his/her leave of absence. Such employee will not have to return to active employment with the employer in order to qualify for a pension or severance award if otherwise eligible for the same. The Pension Plan in effect at the date of the employee’s application for retirement shall be the Pension Plan applicable to him/her.
Application of Article 6,04 (3) is conditional upon the Pension Plan receiving all necessary approvals from relevant government authorities.
6.05	The probationer shall be a temporary employee for all the time of his/her probationary period. His/her employment may be terminated at any time without reference to seniority and in no event shall the employer have an obligation to rehire him/her or offer him/her work. It is understood, however, that he/she has all other applicable rights as contained under this Agreement. In the event of lay-offs, positions held by probationers will be included in the lay-off procedure.
13
Article 6 Continued.
6.06	No employee with seniority shall be laid off in a department of the factory before all probationers in the factory are laid off.
6.07	Notwithstanding any provisions that may be contained in this Article to the contrary, no employee shall be assigned operation for which he/she is not then qualified, except where the provisions set forth in Article 6.09 are applicable. The employer may assign or transfer any employee to an operation for a period in which to qualify.
SENIORITY PROVISIONS - ENGINEERING DIVISION
6.08	(1) The employees of the engineering division are not included in the job seniority system as
outlined
in Article 6.09 and 6.11 of this article. These employees shall be subject to layoff and recall only within their own division based on qualifications, and their seniority rights shall be determined only in relation to each other in that division under a department seniority system.
(2)	LAYOFFS from a particular department shall be made according to department seniority, provided that if the employee whose work has been terminated has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department, he/she may displace the employee on that operation with less department seniority than himself/herself; any employee so displaced and who has had previous satisfactory experience of three (3) months of actual work on another operation in the same department shall have the same privilege as the employee above, whose work has been terminated, until the layoff procedure reaches the employee with the least department seniority in the department; said employee with the least department seniority in the department shall be laid off from factory employment.
(3)	RECALLS to a department will be made in the reverse order of layoff provided the employee recalled is qualified to fill the vacancy.
(4)	An employee of the engineering division may request a transfer from the engineering division to a production department provided he/she is qualified, and an employee of the production department may request a transfer to the engineering division provided he/she is qualified and is considered by the Company to be the best candidate for the job.
(5)	Employees in the engineering division who are about to be laid off shall be given the opportunity to displace employees in production in accordance with Article 6.09 (1) using their factory seniority.
14
Article 6 Continued..
LAYOFFS - PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.09	(I) When it becomes necessary to layoff or surplus one or more employees, the employee(s) with the
least factory seniority on the operation(s) affected will be removed from the operation(s) in reverse order of factory seniority. Employees so removed shall be referred to the Human Resources Department to fill available vacancies. If there are none, or they cannot qualify for the vacancy, employees with factory seniority will be given the opportunity to bump the least senior employee(s) on the last position(s) they held and on which they had completed the learning period, provided they have greater factory seniority than the least senior employee(s) on that operation. Failing that the surplus employee(s) shall bump into the first position for which they can qualify by starting with the least senior employee(s) in the plant. If these provisions result in bumping more than 20% of the experienced employees on any operation of more than 10 employees during a period of time equal to the learning period for that operation, bumping privileges by additional surplus employees must be exercised on the next least senior employee in another operation. On operations of 1 to 5 employees, one (1) bump will be allowed rather than the 20% rule. On operations of 6 - 10 employees two (2) bumps will be allowed rather than the 20% rule. At any given time these constraints will be limited to a maximum of 120-day period for any operation. After all bumpings have been determined the low seniority employee(s) displaced per the above shall be laid off.
(2) When it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in a crew, the employee(s) with the least crew seniority (have been on the specific operation(s) the shortest time) on the job(s) affected shall be considered the surplus employee(s) and shall displace others in the crew according to crew seniority (time on the specific operation) as follows and in accordance with Appendix C,
a)	A surplus employee from one group (specific operation) shall displace the employee with the least crew seniority (time on the specific operation) in the group (specific operation) immediately below the group (specific operation) in which he/she was working, provided his/her crew seniority (time on the specific operation) is sufficient to do so. The displaced employee shall have the same privilege in the group (specific operation) below his/hers until those employees with the least crew seniority (time on the specific operation) have become surplus in the crew (specific department per Appendix C).
b)	No employee shall be surplused off a crew (specific department per Appendix C) while there is an employee with less factory seniority remaining. In such event, the employee with the least factory seniority shall be surplused from the crew (specific department per Appendix C), regardless of his/her crew position (order of operation as shown in Appendix C), and will take his/her place in the factory in accordance with Article 6.09 (1). The crew (specific department per Appendix C) will then progress according to crew seniority (time on a specific operation) to fill said vacated position, and the employee with the greatest factory seniority, initially surplused, will fill the vacancy in the bottom position.
6.10	An employee to be laid off for an indefinite period shall be given not less than five (5) working days notice of the effective date of layoff and such employee will be granted pay at his/her job rate for such time during the five (5) day period that work is not available. The employee shall give one (1) week’s notice of the effective date of his/her resignation, if possible.
15
Article 6 Continued.
REINSTATEMENT AND RECALL - PRODUCTION DEPARTMENTS
6.11 (1)	In the event of an increase in production resulting in the recall of former employees, and an employee who was placed on other work in the factory shall be reinstated on the former job on which he/she worked immediately prior to the date of placement; in order of factory seniority except that if the said employee has worked for six (6) consecutive months on his/her new job he/she may retain his/her newjob.
(2)	After all employees have been reinstated or transferred according to the provisions on Article 6.11 (1), the balance of the employees in a lay off status shall be recalled in order of factory seniority. In each case consideration will be given to the physical fitness of the individual for the job, to ensure the safety of himself/herself and others and a competent working force will be maintained at all times.
6.12 (a)	Employees who have transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit prior to the February 1996, and who had least one (1) year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat Plant. After the expiration of sixteen (16) months after transferring back to the bargaining unit, he/she shall be granted factory seniority equivalent to their continuous service with the employer.
(b)	Employees transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit after February 12, 1996 and who had at least one (1) year of seniority in the bargaining unit prior to transfer, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit upon being transferred back into the bargaining unit for the purpose of finding their rightful place in the factory, provided such service outside the bargaining unit has been accumulated in the Medicine Hat Plant.
00	Employees transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit on or after January 1, 2000, shall be granted the factory seniority held at the time of transfer out of the bargaining unit if he/she returns to the bargaining unit within a six (6) month period and shall find their rightful place according to Article 6.12 (d). An employee who returns after the six (6) month period will return with no bargaining unit seniority as though he/she were a new hire.
(d)	Such employee will take his/her place in the factory in the following manner: (1)	He/she may displace the employee with the least factory seniority in his/her previous department, provided his/her factory seniority at the time of his/her transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her. (2)	He/she may displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the factory provided his/her factory seniority at the time of transfer outside the bargaining unit so entitles him/her.
16
6.12	Continued
(3)	An employee who has returned to the bargaining unit under this section will be permitted to exercise his/her bumping rights only in accordance with article 6.12 (d) (1) or 6.12 (d) (2) until the expiration of nine (9) months from the date he/she first returns to the bargaining unit.
(4)	Employees who have transferred to positions outside the bargaining unit after March 1, 2004 will forfeit their right to return to the bargaining unit.
6.13	(1) An employee who wishes to transfer from one operation to another shall lodge a written request
“Transfer on File” with the Human Resources Department, which shall keep all such requests on file.
(2)	“Transfer on File” requests will be submitted to the Company by the employee requesting a transfer, No employee shall be allowed to have in force more than one “transfer on file” at one time. All “transfer on file” requests must state the “department”, “specific operation” and specific crew(s), (1, 2, 3, 4)” to which the employee wishes to be transferred. Each “Transfer on File” will automatically cancel any previous “Transfer on File” request made by the same employee. Refusing a transfer when offered automatically cancels the “Transfer on File” request.
(3)	When the first vacancy occurs, it will be posted ninety-six (96) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holiday(s)) before being filled. Postings will state “specific department”, “specific operation”, and “specific crew (1,2, 3,4)”. The employee with the longest factory seniority, on the list of applicants to transfer who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an employee in a laid off status from that operation has more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. (See Article 6.08 (4) for transfers into the engineering division). The employee who is offered the opportunity to transfer will have 24 hours to accept the transfer. If the transfer has not been accepted within said 24 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused the transfer and the opportunity to transfer will be offered to the next employee on the list of applicants. The second vacancy created will be posted and filled as outlined in this subsection.
(4)	The third vacancy created will be filled by a restricted worker, in order of factory seniority. If there is no restricted worker who can qualify for the position, the vacancy shall be filled using the “Transfer on File” system as described in Article 6,13 (1) and (2). The employee with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a “Transfer on File” request for that department, specific operation and specific crew(s) (1,2,3,4) prior to the filling of the second vacancy, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an employee in a laid off status from that operation, has more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. The employee who is offered the opportunity to transfer will have 24 hours to accept the transfer. If the transfer has not been accepted within said 24 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused
the transfer and the opportunity to transfer will be offered to the next employee on the list of applicants.
17
6.13 Continued..,
(5)	The fourth vacancy created will be filled using the “Transfer on File” system as described in Article 6.13 (1) and (2). The employee with the longest factory seniority who had filled out a “Transfer on File” request for that department, specific operation and specific crew(s) (1,2,3,4), prior to the filling of the second vacancy, and who can qualify, shall be given the first opportunity to transfer, except where an employee in a laid off status from that operation, has more factory seniority than the applicant for transfer. The employee who is offered the opportunity to transfer will have 24 hours to accept the transfer. If the transfer has not been accepted within said 24 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused the transfer and the opportunity to transfer will be offered to the next employee on the list of applicants.
(6)	The fifth vacancy created will be filled with a new hire. Prior to filling the fifth vacancy the Company will consider current employees on a factory seniority basis that are not eligible to transfer.
(7)	If the employee fails to qualify on the new operation after the usual learning period, he/she may return to his/her previous department, providing a vacancy exists. If there is no vacancy in his/her previous department he/she may displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the department provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee. Failing that, he/she shall displace the employee with the least factory seniority in the factory provided his/her factory seniority is sufficient to displace such employee.
(8)	When an employee is transferred, he/she shall be paid in accordance with the wage rate provided for in Article 5.03, and he/she shall accept the prevailing wage rate scale of the operation to which he/she has transferred. The rate change will not be made until the employee has actually started training or working on the awarded job. An employee’s experience and effort may warrant a higher rate as determined by the Company.
(9)	An employee who has been transferred under the provisions of Article 6.13 will not be permitted to file another application for transfer until expiration of twelve (12) months from the date on which the employee is awarded the newjob.
All new employees will not be permitted to file for a transfer until the expiration of sixteen (16) months from the date they are awarded their first permanent position. However, prior to hiring from outside, the Company may consider allowing these employees to transfer.
(10)	Whenever vacancies occur in a crew or when new crews are formed the crew or crews shall progress as follows:
(a)	The employee with the longest crew seniority (has been on the specific operation the longest) in the group below that in which the vacancy occurs, will advance to the vacancy provided he/she wishes to do so and can qualify. An employee who is offered the opportunity to progress shall be given 48 hours to accept. If he/she does not accept within said 48 hours, he/she will be deemed as having refused the progression and the opportunity to progress will be offered to the next employee on the list of candidates from the specific operation.
18
6.13 Continued . ..
(b)	The employee with the longest crew seniority (has been on the specific operation the longest) in the next lowest group will advance to the position vacated through the progression above, and so on until the bottom position on the crew becomes vacant.
(c)	This position shall be filled through the transfer system.
(11)	Exceptions to the transfer procedure outlined in this Article may be made for those jobs which require special qualifications and responsibilities. These exceptions include and are limited to Tire Room Set-Up Techs, Group Leaders, Quality Assurance Techs, Maintenance Lead Hands and Warehouse Lead Hand. In order to be eligible for these positions applicants must meet qualifications which include the following:
(a)	applicants will be required to pass an aptitude test related to the position for which they are applying;
(b)	applicants must have sufficient related experience pertinent to the positions for which they are applying;
(c)	in selecting eligible candidates special consideration will be given to senior candidates.
(d)	in selecting eligible candidates consideration will be given to the candidates personnel file.
The total number of employees in these positions shall not exceed sixteen (16) employees and may be changed by mutual agreement.
6.14	An employee shall have the right to examine his/her seniority records at any time in the Human Resources Department. A seniority list shall be posted in each department showing the names of all the employees in said department, This list will be revised by the employer at regular intervals of approximately three (3) months, and each revision will be posted in the department concerned as soon as possible thereafter. The Union shall be given a copy of the seniority list after each such revision.
6.15	For the purpose of this Article, a list of all departments and jobs of the factory shall be given by the employer to the Union once per year.
6.16	The Union acknowledges that in the administration of Article 6 it will be necessary for the employer to maintain at all times a competent and trained working force.
6.17	For the purpose of Article 6.13 (4) a “restricted worker” is an employee who suffers serious injury or impairment, which results in permanent disability that prevents the employee from working on his/her own operation.
“Restricted worker” status shall be come effective once the permanent disability has been certified by a medical doctor and the list of jobs on which an employee can qualify has been determined. The list of jobs on which an employee can qualify will be determined by matching the employee’s functional capacity to the physical demands of the jobs in the bargaining unit.
The company and the union recognize that there exists a duty to accommodate employees with disabilities. Therefore, the parties agree to meet and discuss the situation of any employee with a
disability to explore what steps may reasonably be taken in the workplace to accommodate the employee’s disability. These steps will be implemented provided it does not cause undue hardship to the company.
6.18	A female employee who becomes pregnant shall present a certificate from her physician to such effect.
If she has at least twelve (12) months continuous service with the employer she shall, be granted upon request, a leave of absence until twelve (12) months after the birth or delivery. Her seniority will be accumulated during said leave of absence.
If she has less than twelve (12) months continuous service with the employer she shall, be granted upon request, a leave of absence until twenty-six (26) weeks after the birth or delivery, but her leave at that time shall not exceed her total service. She shall be granted upon request, a leave of absence of twelve
(12)	months if her continuous service exceeds twelve (12) months when her leave starts. Her seniority will be accumulated during said leave of absence but not to exceed her total service with the employer.
If she presents the written opinion of her physician to the Human Resources Department of the employer to the effect that she is incapable of performing her normal work, she shall be placed on medical leave, if eligible, under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement and accumulate seniority per Article 6.03.
6.19	An employee who wishes a leave of absence for personal reasons shall make written application to the Human Resources Department, setting out the reason for his/her request. If granted, such leave shall be in writing and a copy will be given to the union secretary. Leave of absence will not be granted for selfemployment or for employment elsewhere. The employee must return to work on the date indicated in the letter of authorization and he/she will be placed on his/her previous job provided that he/she is able to perform the work. The employee will be credited with service and seniority during the period while he/she is on leave of absence up to a maximum of two (2) months. Welfare benefits, exclusive of weekly indemnity, will be continued during the period of leave of absence up to a maximum of two (2) months.
6.20	If any manufacturing or operating method is permanently eliminated or modernized, causing the layoff of employees, the employees so affected at the time will be transferred according to Article 6.09.
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
7.01	A holiday will be observed for a twenty-four (24) hour period from 8:00 am on the day of the holiday to 8:00 am the day following the holiday or other mutually agreed to starting times. When a holiday occurs it may be necessary for some employees to work after 8:00 am to complete work in progress or to close down properly for the holiday. In departments where a seven (7) day schedule is required and/or in maintenance departments, the minimum number of employees necessary to keep the factory in operating condition shall work on the holiday. From time to time emergencies may arise which will make it necessary for certain employees to work on a holiday in order that other employees will not suffer loss of time.
20
Article 7 Continued...
7.02	(a) Employees who qualify will be paid an amount equal to one (1) standard shift but not exceeding
twelve (12) hours for each of the following designated holidays:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day
and three (3) other holidays which will be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union before April 1st of the year in which the holidays occur.
If an additional statutory holiday is proclaimed by either level of Government, such holiday would take the place of one of the floaters.
(b)	If a designated holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the following Monday, or another date mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(c)	In any year in which the Civic Holiday falls during a plant vacation shutdown period, the Monday following the vacation shutdown period will be observed as Civic Holiday, or another day mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
(d)	In the event a holiday falls during an employee’s regular vacation and provided the employee qualifies for holiday pay per Article 7.06 he/she shall at his/her option (1) take an additional day of vacation at mutually agreed to time during that year; or (2) be paid one additional day’s pay in lieu of extending his/her vacation period.
7.03	In order to qualify, an employee must be on the payroll for a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled holiday, and must have worked the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday. In a case where there are circumstances beyond the employee’s control and the employee could have worked if the factory had operated, payment for a holiday may be made upon recommendation of the employee’s Area Manager and approved by the Human Resources Manager and the Plant Manager, Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor’s certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holiday, shall receive holiday pay. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee received as the result of such illness.
7.04	Payment for designated holidays shall be calculated as follows:
All employees shall be paid eight (8) or twelve (12) hours, as per their regular schedule, multiplied by their job rates.
21
Article 7 Continued . .
7.05	An employee who is required to work on a designated holiday, shall be paid double time for the time worked in addition to his/her holiday pay.
In situations where employees are required to work one hour after he/she has left work or two hours before his/her next scheduled shift the employee shall receive minimum call in pay per Article 5.07.
7.06	An employee shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period provided that the said employee actually works on his/her last regularly scheduled shift prior to and on his/her first regularly scheduled shift following his/her vacation period and such holiday.
In a case where an employee is absent on his/her regular scheduled shift before or his/her first regular scheduled shift after such holiday and vacation and such absence is excused, payment for the holiday may be made upon a recommendation as outlined in Article 7.03
Subject to the above, an employee who is absent because of sickness or accident evidenced by a doctor’s certificate and limited to a thirty (30) day period inclusive of Saturday and Sunday, which period includes such designated holidays, shall receive holiday pay for a holiday that occurs either during his/her regular vacation or on the day before or the day after his/her regular vacation period. There shall be deducted from such pay any payments which the employee receives as the result of such illness.
7.07	An employee who is laid off within period of five (5) working days immediately preceding a holiday and who actually performed his/her assigned work on the day of layoff shall be entitled to receive holiday pay for such holiday.
ARTICLE 8
VACATIONS
8.01	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation year will be the calendar year. For vacation purposes, the vacation week is deemed to begin as of 7:00 am Sunday. For the purpose of scheduled vacation, the vacation year will be from May 1 in one year to April 30 of the following year.
8.02	(1) An employee with less than one (1) year of continuous service as of December 31 of the
previous calendar year shall be granted one (1) day of vacation for each complete month worked during the previous vacation year.
(2)	An employee with one (1) year but less than five (5) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted two (2) weeks of vacation.
(3)	An employee with five (5) years or more but less than ten (10) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted three (3) weeks of vacation.
An employee with ten (10) years or more but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted four (4) weeks of vacation.
An employee with twenty (20) years or more but less than twenty-five (25) years of service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted five (5) weeks of vacation.
8.02	Continued..
22
(6) An employee with twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous service as of December 31 of the previous year shall be granted six (6) weeks of vacation.
8.03	(1) An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (1) and (2) will receive
vacation pay equal to four (4) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(2)	An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (3) will receive vacation pay equal to six (6) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(3)	An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (4) will receive vacation pay equal to eight (8) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(4)	An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (5) will receive pay equal to ten (10) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(5)	An employee entitled to a vacation as outlined in Article 8.02 (6) will receive pay equal to twelve (12) percent of the actual earnings received by him/her during the previous calendar year.
(6)	An employee who completes five (5) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a third week of vacation on his/her completion of five (5) years of continuous service in addition to the two (2) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that third week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes five (5) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(7)	An employee who completes ten (10) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a fourth (4th) week of vacation on his/her completion of ten (10) years of continuous service in addition to the three (3) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fourth (4lh) week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes ten (10) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
23
8.03 Continued.. ..
(8)	An employee who completes twenty (20) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a fifth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty (20) years of continuous service in addition to the four (4) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that fifth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty (20) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(9)	An employee who completes twenty five (25) years of continuous service on or before April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted in the same current vacation year a sixth week of vacation on his/her completion of twenty five (25) years of continuous service in addition to the five (5) weeks of vacation he/she has already been granted for his/her previous calendar year of service and will receive as vacation pay for that sixth week of vacation two (2) percent of his/her earnings in the previous calendar year.
An employee who completes twenty five (25) years of continuous service after April 24 in the current vacation year shall be granted vacation for the remaining days of the vacation year with pay for his/her remaining regularly scheduled days of work.
(10)	An employee may upon his/her request, receive vacation pay in lieu of time off for all eligible vacation weeks in excess of two (2) weeks. Such vacation payments will be made to the employee the next pay period if possible.
(11)	In computing the actual earnings for vacation pay, the following items shall be included; actual wages earned (including bonuses and overtime payment), vacation pay for the previous year, Workers’ Compensation payments for lost time, Alberta Health Care premiums which are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee, short work week benefits paid under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and weekly indemnity payments paid under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
(12)	When an employee has been unable to work during a portion of the preceding calendar year owing to maternity leave, sickness or injury not covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act, and for these reasons only the vacation pay is less than the minimum mentioned below, the vacation pay shall be increased to a minimum of $300.00 per week, provided that said employee must have worked during some portion of the preceding calendar year and have resumed his/her normal duties not less than one (1) month before vacation is granted.
(13)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has had vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive four (4) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed one (1) year or more but less than five (5) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or six (6) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed five (5) years or more but less than ten (10) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves
24
Continued.. .
the employ of the employer or dies, or eight (8) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed ten (10) years or more but less than twenty (20) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or ten (10) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twenty (20) years or more but less than twenty five (25) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer or dies, or twelve (12) percent of his/her earnings in the current year if he/she has completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous service at the date he/she leaves the employ of the employer of dies.
(14)	An employee with seniority who leaves the employ of the employer for any reason or who dies during his/her employment, if he/she has not had his/her vacation or pay in lieu of vacation in the current vacation year shall be entitled to receive or in the case of death his/her estate shall be entitled to receive such vacation pay in lieu of vacation plus the same applicable percentage of his/her current year's earnings calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.03 (11) and based on his/her length of continuous service with the employer.
8.04
Vacations may be taken at any time during the vacation year, at such time as may be most convenient to the employer, but every effort shall be made to schedule vacations at times suitable to the employee. However, the final right to allot vacations is reserved by the employer so that orderly operation of the plant is assured.
All employees will be given the opportunity, on a factory seniority basis within the Business Centers, Engineering, Powerhouse and Warehouse, to schedule their vacation until the end of January each year. If vacation dates are not selected by that time they will be taken on first come first serve basis until the end of March, After March 31st the employer may schedule vacations.
All employees who have more than two (2) weeks vacation entitlement will be given the opportunity within the Business Centers, Engineering, Powerhouse and Warehouse to schedule one week of vacation one day at a time up to a maximum of 48 hours (4 shifts) for continuous operations and 40 hours (5 shifts) for five (5) day operations. Sunday will be considered one complete shift.
Vacation pay will be made for the entire week's vacation at the time the first single day is taken, or as arranged by the employee and his/her manager.
Single day vacations will be distributed only after vacation canvassing has been completed and all complete week vacations have been approved by the manager or designate. The employee will be granted his/her vacation entitlement one day at a time up to the maximum allowed if he/she arranges his/her own coverage.
Should the current payroll system change to allow vacation payment one day at a time, this will be granted upon request.
The Company will notify employees of the shutdown plans for the upcoming year before the end of December in each year. However, the Company reserves the right to alter those plans due to changes in requirements, and/or emergency situations.
The Company will make every effort to accommodate the time off for Friday, Saturday, and the following Sunday for one full week of vacation provided the previous scheduled day(s) in the week are
worked by the employee.
If another employee is on scheduled vacation for the Sunday, the employee who finds their own coverage for the Sunday will be granted the time off.
8,05	(1)	An employee is not entitled, under any conditions, to more than six (6) weeks vacation with pay.
(2)	Vacations are not cumulative, and they cannot be deferred until the following vacation year.
ARTICLE 9 UNION SECURITY
9.01	The Company and the union agree that all present employees who are members of the Union shall, as a condition of employment remain members of the Union and all new employees hired after the effective date of this agreement shall become and remain members of the Union as a condition of their employment.
9.02	Within a reasonable time from the date of hire, the Company must present the newly hired employee to the Union in order to allow the Union to inform him of the content of the Collective Agreement.
9.03	The Company shall deduct Union dues including, where applicable, initiation fees and assessments, on a weekly basis, from the earnings of each employee covered by this Agreement. The amount of dues shall be calculated in accordance with the Union’s Constitution. Assessments, other than Union dues, as indicated to the Company by the Union, shall be remitted to the Union in the same manner as dues are remitted.
9.04	All dues, initiation fees and assessments shall be remitted to the Union forthwith and in any event within fifteen (15) days following the last day of the month in which the remittance was deducted. The remittance shall be sent to:
The International Secretary Treasurer of The United Steelworkers Unit D, Box 34223 Vancouver, BC.
V6J4N1
in such form as shall be directed by the Union to the Company along with a completed Dues Remittance Form R-115. A copy of the Dues Remittance Form R-115 will also be sent to the Union office designated by the Area Coordinator/Key Staff.
a) A duplicate itemized statement shall be forwarded as follows to:
United Steelworkers Local 628 Box 502
Medicine Hat, Alberta T1A 7G2
cc. United Steelworkers
150-2880 Glenmore Trail SE Calgary Alberta T2C 2E7
9.05	The remittance and the R-115 form shall be accompanied by a statement containing the following information:
a)	a list of the names of all employees from whom dues were deducted and the amount of dues deducted;
b)	a list of Bargaining Unit employees from whom no deductions have been made and reasons, if known by the Company,
This information shall be sent to the three Union addresses identified in Article 9.04 in such form as shall be directed by the Union to the Company.
9.06	The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against all claims or other forms of liability that may arise out of any actions taken by the Company in compliance with this article.
9.07	The company shall, when preparing T-4 slips for the employees, will enter the amount of Union dues paid by the employee during the previous year.
ARTICLE 10
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
10.01 It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees shall be adjusted as quickly as possible, and any dispute or complaint between the employee and the employer shall be dealt with hereunder.
10.02	It is agreed that any employee does not have a grievance until he/she or his/her steward has discussed the complaint with his/her supervisor.
10.03	If such complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee concerned it shall be reduced to writing and signed by the griever or when not available the Union on their behalf, such complaint shall be considered to be a grievance and subject to the following steps of the grievance procedure once presented to the employee’s supervisor:
Step 1 The grievance may be discussed by the steward and/or Union representative with the Production Manger of the division in which the grievance occurred. A decision will be rendered in writing by the Production Manager within a period of 5 days.
Step 2 If no satisfactory solution is reached at step 1 of this procedure, the grievance may be discussed by the Grievance Committee of the Union and representatives of the Employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more that five (5) working days following a decision at step 1 of this procedure. A decision will be furnished in writing by the Human Resources Manager to the President of the Union not later than five (5) working days following the commencement of the discussion in step 2.
Step 3	If no satisfactory solution is reached at Step 2 of this procedure the grievance may be discussed by the
Grievance Committee of the union and a representative of the International Union and representatives of the employer designated for this purpose within a period of not more than five (5) working days after the receipt by the union of the decision in Step 2.
The Company undertakes to reply, in writing to the President within five (5) working days following a step 3 grievance meeting as outlined in the Collective Labour Agreement. The date of receipt of such letter will constitute the completion of discussions at the Step 3 meeting.
Step 4 If a grievance has not been settled at Step 3 and if the grievance is one, which concerns the application, administration, interpretation of alleged violation of the Agreement, it may be referred to an arbitrator by either party. Notice in writing of such reference to an arbitrator must be given to the other party within thirty-five (35) working days of the completion of discussion in Step 3. Failing such notice the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned unless the parties have agreed to the contrary.
10.04	It is agreed that the aggrieved employees shall be at liberty, and may be required by either party, to appear in person at any step of the procedure set forth above.
10.05	Whichever party requests arbitration as referred to in Step 4, shall specify a list of names of persons it is willing to accept as the single arbitrator. If the party receiving notice accepts one of the persons suggested it shall within 7 days notify the other party accordingly and the grievance shall be submitted to the arbitrator. If the party does not accept any of the names suggested it shall within 7 days notify the other party accordingly and send a list of names of persons it is willing to accept as the single arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as the single arbitrator, either party may request the Director of the Alberta Labour Relations in writing appoint a single arbitrator.
10.06	The arbitrator shall meet promptly to hear and consider the grievance with all reasonable dispatch.
The decision of the arbitrator made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the employer, the union, and the employee or employees concerned.
10.07	Each of the parties will jointly bear the expense of the arbitrator.
10.08	The arbitrator shall not have any power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement, or to substitute any new provision for any existing provision, or to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Collective Labour Agreement.
10.09	Any or all of the time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement and any such agreement will be put in writing.
10.10	Any dispute between the employer and the union as to the interpretation of this Collective Labour Agreement and any allegation by either party that the other has violated any term of this Collective Labour Agreement shall be deemed to be a grievance when notice in writing thereof has been delivered by the party considering itself aggrieved, to the other party. Such grievance shall be presented at Step 2 of the grievance and arbitration procedures as set forth in this Article.
10.11	Discharge Cases
If an employee with seniority is discharged or suspended as a penalty by the employer and feels that he/she has been unjustly dealt with, he/she shall have the privilege of discussing the discharge or suspension with the union steward and/or a Grievance committee member prior to leaving the plant. It is understood that the
Manager will inform the steward and/or a Grievance committee member of the discharge or suspension as a penalty as soon as possible.
If the employee or the Union on their behalf considers the penalty unjust, he/she may file a claim in writing with the Human Resources Department within five normal working days of ceasing to work stating that he/she has been unjustly discharged or suspended.
10.12	All such cases shall be processed begining at Step III of the grievance Procedure within three normal working days of the receipt of the claim from the employee who has been discharged or suspended. If no satisfactory solution is reached as a result of the application of step III of the Grievance Procedure, the dispute shall be subject to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Collective Labour Agreement.
10.13	If it is decided that the employee was unjustly discharged or suspended he/she shall be reinstated, and he/she may, subject to the agreed to settlement be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay for time lost, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
10.14	The Arbitrator shall have the right to decrease the penalty if the arbitrator feels the circumstances justify such action, and shall have authority to determine the amount of pay, if any, the employee is to receive for the period of his/her discharge or suspension if he/she is subsequently reinstated.
10.15	In calculating the amount of pay the employee is to receive if reinstated, any monies earned by the employee from other employment and any Employment Insurance benefits received by the employee during the period of his/her suspension or discharge, shall be deducted.
10.16	An employee will be given a copy of any notation concerning his/her misconduct or inefficiency at the time it is placed in his/her personal record. A copy of every notation will be forwarded to the President of the Union by the Production Manager of the employer.
10.17	Notations reporting offenses, exclusive of the violation of the no strike provisions in this Agreement, not repeated within a one-year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline. Notations reporting offenses involving violation of the no strike provisions in the agreement not repeated within a three year period will be disregarded in the administration of discipline.
10.18	An employee when called into the office for reprimands will have a Union steward with him/her during the meeting.
10.19	Policy and Management Grievances- It is agreed that all Policy and Management Grievances will begin at step III of the Grievance procedure. It is further agreed that a grievance filed as a Policy grievance but is more appropriate as an individual grievance must be sent back through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS
11.01	The employer will provide reasonable protective devices and other equipment necessary to protect employees from injury and sickness. The union agrees to co-operate with the employer in the use of these devices and in the elimination of industrial accidents.
A Plant Health and Safety Committee shall be maintained as presently constituted, consisting of not more than six (6) members representing the employer and not more than six (6) members representing
the local union. The function of the committee is to facilitate the promotion of safe work practices and accident prevention in the plant.
The committee shall meet not less than once per month in order to discuss safety problems. The committee’s function will include a periodic tour of a section of the factory to observe and report on unsafe conditions or procedures. The committee will make recommendations concerning safety in the factory with the status of any recommendation made to be reviewed at each meeting. The committee should periodically verify that adopted recommendations are being compiled with.
11.02	Each employee shall use reasonable care for the cleanliness of his/her machine and the immediate working area.
11.03	The employer agrees to permit the union to post notices of meetings and other union business or affairs on bulletin boards throughout the factory provided for such purposes; it is agreed, however, that such notices shall be approved by the Human Resources Manager.
11.04	A Bargaining Committee consisting of four (4) members, all of whom shall be regular employees of the employer, shall be selected by the employees who are members of the union, in a manner determined by the union. The employer shall be informed by the union, in writing, of the personnel of the committee and of any changes which may occur from time to time.
11.05	The Union recognizes the need for improved methods and agrees to co-operate with the employer in suggesting and introducing such methods and in educating its members in the need of such changes and improvements; the employer and the union agree that, consistent with fair and reasonable labour practices, it is desirable to maintain the best productivity possible.
11.06	The union pledges that it will co-operate with the employer in an effort for the highest quality of product.
30
Article 11 Continued...
11.07 (1)	The membership of the Production Squadron Training Group shall not exceed two (2) percent of
the employees in the bargaining unit. Bargaining employees shall not be reassigned, sent home or replaced by Production Squadron Trainees.
The training program for any member will not exceed beyond a three (3) year period unless mutually agreed upon by both the Company and the Union.
(2) Employees recruited from the bargaining unit for the Production Squadron Training Program who fail to meet accepted training standards at any time during the course, will forfeit their rights to return to the bargaining unit as outlined in Section 6,12 (d) (4).
11.08 The Union shall have the right to select not more than one (1) steward for every fifteen (15) employees on the seniority list. A list of stewards shall be furnished to the employer before the employer is required to recognize them.
11.09	The following shall be covered by separate Agreements but form part of this Collective Labour
Agreement:
(a)	Health and Life Agreement (and attached letters)
(b)	Separation Payment Plan (and attached letters)
(c)	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Agreement (and attached letters)
(d)	The Apprentice Training Agreement
(e)	Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement (and attached letters)
11.10	The letters of understanding, the letters of intent, and the interim wage increase provisions are attached hereto, and form part of this Agreement.
11.11	The Company agrees to provide an annual tool allowance in the amount of $200.00 to employees in departments 4211 and 4216. The purpose of this tool allowance is to compensate maintenance and powerhouse employees for any of their own personal tools which get broken, lost or stolen. Said payment will be made the first week of February of each year.
11.12	The Company agrees to allow the Union President or his designate up to a maximum of 12 hours per week off his/her regular job, company paid, in order to work on union, management problems as they occur. Said hours may be accumulated to a maximum of 96 hours however, no more than 36 banked hours may be taken in any one two week period. The time required must be requested in advance in order to provide proper coverage and must be approved by his/her Manager. In the event of special circumstances the maximum accumulation of hours and/or the banked hours taken in any one two (2) week period may be increased upon mutual agreement.
11.13	Effective March 1, 2004 the Company agrees to pay a maximum of $200.00 every two (2) years for the purchase of safety shoes upon proof of purchase.
11,14	The Company agrees to review all return to work plans with the employee and a designated union representative.
Article 11...Continued
11.15	Right to Refuse Unsafe Work
1.	No employee shall carry out work if, on reasonable and probable grounds he/she believes that there exists an imminent danger to the health and safety of that worker or another worker present at the work site.
2.	No employee who in good faith exercises his or her rights under the Article shall be disciplined, or suffer any loss of pay or benefits, even if it is later determined that the alleged unsafe condition did not exist.
3.	An employee must notify, as soon as possible, his/her manager of his/her refusal to work and the reason for refusal.
4.	No employee or group of employees shall be required or permitted to work on a job or machine while it is considered unsafe. During such time the employee or group of employees shall receive their normal hourly rate.
ARTICLE 12
DURATION OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
12.01	This agreement shall be effective the 1st day of May, 2007 and shall remain in effect until the 22nd day of July, 2009, and there after from year to year unless either party gives the other party notice in writing of proposals for revision within a period of not less than sixty (60) days and not more than 120 days preceding the expiry of the term of the Collective Labour Agreement.
12.02	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provision of article 12.01 the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. This Collective Agreement shall continue to apply until a new agreement is reached, or until the procedure contemplated in accordance with Division 13 of the Alberta Labour Relations Code, has been completed.
IN WITNESS WHERE OF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this 1st day of May, 2007.
For the Company Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor
For the Union Sheldon Denman Don Harris Barry Thompson Dave McMenemy
32
APPENDIX A
Job rates effective May 1,2007. Rates shown include all increases (including COLA) effective May 1,2007.
JOB RATES
DEPARTMENT NAME AND NUMBER	POSITION TITLE	RATE
4026 - Janitorial	Janitor/Security	$21.28
4102 - Technical Service	Physical Lab	$21.84
	Q.A. Lab	$22.07
	Q.A. Tech	$23.99
4211 - Maintenance	Apprentice Year 1 of 4	81% of Maintenance Ticket Rate
	Apprentice Year 2 of 4	86% of Maintenance Ticket Rate
	Apprentice Year 3 of 4	91% of Maintenance Ticket Rate
	Apprentice Year 4 of 4	96% of Maintenance Ticket Rate
	Maintenance with Ticket	$26.45
	Oiler with Ticket	$26.45
	P.M. Coordinator	$27.00
	Lead Hand	$30.17
4216 - Powerhouse	Shift Engineer	$26^5
	Chief Engineer	$30.17
4321 - Receiving and Stores	Receiving and Shipping	$21.52
	Stores	$21.72
4390- Warehouse	Receiving and Shipping	$2132
	Shipper/Tractor Driver	$21.86
	Lead Hand	$22.68
4432 - Banbury	Operator	$23.37
	Compounder	$22.82
	Mill Operator	$22.82
	Laydown	$22.73 ^
4433 - Calender	Operator	$23.58 *
	Mill Operator	$23.06 *
	Helper	$22.97
	Calender Relief	$22.97 * add$0.25forfabric operation
4541 - Bias Cutter	Operator Roll Changer	■	$23.37 	 : $22.73
4542 - Bead Unit	Insulate, Build & Wrap	$22.90
4543 - Tuber	Tuber/Calender Operator	$23.58 .
	Operator	$23.37
	Mill Operator	$22.82
	Tank Pusher/Skiver	$22.73
	Helper	$22.73
Appendix A/Job Rates Continued ...
DEPARTMENT NAME	POSITION	RATE
AND NUMBER	TITLE	05/30/04
4550 - Tire Room	Set Up Tech	$23.99
	Builder Level 1	$23.58 *
	Builder Level 2	$22.74 *
	Builder Level 3	$22.22 *
	*Training rates allow progression to Level 1	
	Service	$21,52
	Repair Green Tires	$21.21
4560 - Cures	Paint & Line	$21.52
	Cure Operator	$22.32
	Mold Changer/Cleaner	$23.30
4570 - Final Inspection	Inspect and Trim	$22.22
	Classifier/Repair Tires	$22.22
	Group Leader	$23.99
WAGES
Effective May 1, 2007
General Wage increase to all bargaining employees..................$0.05 per hour
COLA fold in.,.....................................................$0.20 per hour
Lump Sum Payment,,.......................................................$350.00
Effective January 1, 2008
General Wage increase to all bargaining employees..................$0.15 per hour
APPENDIX B
INTERIM WAGE INCREASES
1.	The amount of interim increase shall be calculated and recalculated as provided below on the basis of
the Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada (1986 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the
C.P.I.
2.	First Year of Agreement
(a)	“The Base for calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2006, January 2007, and February 2007.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of May 27, 2007. It will reflect one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2007,, March 2007, and April 2007 exceeds the base of calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 26,
2007.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 2007, June 2007, and July 2007 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 25,2007. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 2007, September 2007, and October 2007 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 24, 2008. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 2007, December 2007 and January 2008 exceeds the base for calculation.
3.	Second Year of Agreement
(a)	“The Base for Calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2007, January 2008, and February 2008.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 25,
2008.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01)per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2008, March 2008, and April 2008 exceeds the base for calculation.
(c)	A second adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on August 31, 2008. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of May 2008, June 2008, and July 2008 exceeds the base for calculation.
(d)	A third adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on November 30, 2008. It will reflect one cent ($0.01)per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of August 2008, September 2008, and October 2008 exceeds the base for calculation.
(e)	A fourth adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on February 22,2009. It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of November 2008, December 2008, and January 2009 exceeds the base for
calculation.
8.
Third Year of Agreement
(a)	“The Base of Calculation” - the average C.P.I. for the months of December 2008, January 2009, and February 2009.
(b)	The first adjustment will be calculated and paid as of the pay period commencing on May 31,
2009.	It will reflect one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .083 points that the average C.P.I. for the months of February 2009, March 2009, and April 2009 exceeds the base for calculation.
In the event Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Index on or before the date on which an adjustment is to be calculated, any adjustment required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period following receipt of the index.
No adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any published Consumer Price Index by Statistics Canada.
Continuation of the interim adjustments is dependent upon the availability of the official Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index calculated on the same basis and in the same form as that published for May 2007.
Each adjustment specified in the interim wage increase formula will replace the previous adjustment, if any, in its entirety except the fourth adjustment in the first year of the Agreement will be carried over throughout the second and third years of the Agreement, the fourth adjustment in the second year of the Agreement will be carried throughout the third year of the Agreement.
APPENDIX C
CREW PROGRESSIONS AND REGRESSIONS
Crew progressions and regressions will be applied to the following crews and order of progression of each unit will be as follows:
BANBURY
1.	Operator
2.	Compounder
3.	Mill Operator
4.	Laydown
CALENDER	
1.	Operator
2.	Mill Operator
3.	Helper-Splitter/Gum Operator
4.	Helper - Letoff
5.	Helper - Windup
6.	Calender Relief
TUBER
1.	Operator
2.	Mill Operator
3.	Tank Pusher/Skiver
4.	Helper
BIAS CUTTER
1.	Operator
2.	Roll Changer
The two compounders on the banbury will progress or regress based on crew seniority as both employees do the samejob.
When a condition occurs where more than 50% of the total job positions in any single status are filled by employees who cannot qualify for advancement or who wish not to advance, the Company reserves the right in all cases to make the final decision on whether to remove the employee with the least crew seniority of the nonprogressive employees from their status. The employee so affected will revert to the next lower position within the crew to enable other employees who are willing to progress to do so.
In order that training needs may be filled, employees will be rotated at the discretion of the Area Manager. This training program will not change the employee’s priority to any vacancy which may occur while he/she is involved in the training rotation.
Crew seniority does not apply however to make up crews which may be required to operate equipment outside of their regular department. In these instances crews shall accumulate seniority on their regular equipment only.
Crew seniority will not apply in temporary emergency situations. However, normal crew progression and regression will be followed, if possible, and providing a competent working force can be maintained at all times. For normal vacation purposes, when an employee is on his/her regular scheduled vacation, progressions will be followed within the absent employee’s crew only.
An employee shall not attain crew seniority until he/she has worked in the same crew or crews for three (3) cumulative months in any twenty-four (24) month period.
APPENDIX D
5 DAY. OR 7 DAY WORK SCHEDULE
This Agreement is made and entered into as of the 1st day of May, 2007, between Goodyear Canada Inc. with respect to its employees at its Medicine Hat Plant and Warehouse located at 1271 12th Street N.W., hereinafter referred to as the “employer” and, Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers), hereinafter referred to as the “union”.
It is understood and agreed that in order to make full use of the Medicine Hat Plant, the employer may schedule any operations including warehouse operations, as required, on a 5 day, or 7 day, work schedule.
When it becomes necessary for the employer to schedule one or more of the plant’s operations on the 7 day work schedule, a fourth crew will be instituted and a shift schedule will be adopted which would schedule each employee to work a regular schedule averaging forty two (42) hours per week based on a thirty six (36) hour and a forty eight (48) hour rotation.
The employer undertakes to provide the local union with a minimum notification of one (1) month prior to implementation of any new schedule. The employer further undertakes that upon implementation of any new schedule, reasonable efforts will be made to ensure continuity of the schedule.
Letter of Understanding #1
It is the policy of the Company to perform maintenance and engineering work with its own employees, provided it has the manpower, skills, equipment and facilities to do so and can do the work competitively and within prescribed time limits.
The Company will place primary importance on maintaining maximum employment opportunities for its skilled trade employees.
The Company will continue to notify the Union in advance if possible, when an outside contractor is to be engaged to work in the plant.
Letter of Understanding #2
This will confirm the Company’s commitments with respect to the closure of Medicine Hat Plant covered by this Agreement. In the event a full plant closure occurs during the life of the Agreement:
1.	The Company agrees to notify the Local and International Union at least four (4) months prior to the cessation of production operations.
2.	Following such notification, the Local and International Union will have the right to discuss and explore with the Company any possible means of adverting the closure.
3.	If attempts to avert the plant closure are not successful, Company and Union representatives will meet to negotiate the manner in which the closure is carried out.
Letter of Understanding #3
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding severance pay if there is a total plant closure of the Medicine Hat plant during the term of this agreement.
The Company will provide a severance payment of l-'A weeks of regular pay for each year of service for each employee up to a maximum of 26 years of service.
This letter is provided contingent upon a signed Memorandum of Agreement and recommendation to the membership.
Letter of Understanding #4
This will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding time lost on a shift where it pertains to Article 6.04 (1).
An employee who is granted leave in accordance with Article 6.04 (1) shall have his/her time considered part of his/her regular shift hours in determining overtime hours on regular departmental work.
Letter of Understanding US
It is understood and agreed that piece work has been removed from the Medicine Hat Plant. All reference to piecework has been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement.
Should a piecework wage payment system be reinstated at any time in the future, the piecework clauses from the February 13, 1987 - February 12, 1990, Collective Labour Agreement will be used as the basis of negotiations between the two parties.
Letter of Understanding #6
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding the hiring of summer vacation relief.
The Company will hire summer vacation relief, as required, during the period of May through August. These employees will be paid 70% of the job rate in Appendix A for the term of their employment as summer vacation relief.
Employees hired as summer vacation relief will not be offered overtime until all eligible employee(s) have been canvassed.
No summer vacation relief will be hired when there are employees that are in layoff status outside the plant.
The total number of summer vacation relief shall not exceed the greater of sixteen (16) or 5.0% of the total number of permanent bargaining unit employees at the Medicine Hat Plant.
Letter of Understanding: #7
It is understood and agreed that the 6 2/3 day work schedule has been removed from the Medicine Hat Plant. All references to this schedule have been deleted from the Collective Labour Agreement. Should a 6 2/3 day work schedule be reinstated at any time in the future, the 6 2/3 day work schedule language from the June 3, 1996 - December 31, 1999 Collective Labour Agreement will be used as the basis of negotiations between the two parties. The stop and start times for the eight (8) hour shift will be 6:30 am or 7:00 am and the second shift will be 2:30 pm or 3:00 pm unless mutually agreed on.
Letter of Understanding #8
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached on contracting out miscellaneous painting and clean up work.
The Company reserves the right to use contract labour (outside the bargaining unit) to perform general plant clean up and painting as warranted.
The use of contract labour will not interfere with the current janitor’s work schedule and will only be used when the unusual situation occurs that requires additional cleaning and painting.
Letter of Understanding #9
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached with respect to overtime premium pay.
The Union acknowledges that overtime premium will not be paid at both ends of the shift in any circumstance.
Letter of Understanding:#!0
This letter will service to confirm the understanding reached with respect to the Steelworker Humanity Fund.
The Company agrees to deduct 42 cents ($0.42) per week from the wages of all employees in the bargaining unit. Deductions will be included on the employee’s T4 slips under our Charitable Donation registration number. The deductions will commence the first pay period in May 2000.
Funds collected will be forwarded to the Steelworkers following the annual meeting of the Charity Trust Committee to the following address:
United Steelworkers
150 - 2880 Glenmore Trail SE
Calgary Alberta
T2C 2E7
Letter of Understanding;#! 1
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations regarding tire room building preference.
The company will agree to allow ATV builders to return to a spare tire machine when ATV tires are not being built. If an implement machine needs to be manned, the least senior spare tire builder will be required to build implement tires, unless there is another volunteer to do so. ATV builders will not have rights to a specific machine if ATV tires are not being built, however, if there is an open spare machine that needs to be manned full time while ATV’s are not being built, those builders can claim the open machine in order of seniority as their home machine until ATV’s are required again.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE; Agreement of Cooperation
1.	MISSION STATEMENT
Goodyear Canada Inc. and the United Steelworkers on behalf of its Local 628 are committed to creating a facility that will exceed all the requirements of the market.
We will be a world-class performer in safety, quality, customer service and profitability. We will establish a work environment based on trust and respect between a strong company and a strong union, such that we are willing to contribute to our mutual success and long term goals.
2.	GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
To create better jobs by increasing worker responsibility and involvement in the work place.
Continue to provide a healthy work environment accompanied by proper attitudes and responsibilities employed with safety.
To create a work environment that is free of discrimination, and provide opportunities for all workers equitably.
Develop productivity and general operating improvements to offset increasing costs and thereby enhance job security.
To enhance customer satisfaction, process improvement, financial development and employee development.
To enhance our competitive position in the market.
EMPLOYMENT SECURITY
To assist in enhanced employment security, the parties agree that the Joint Labour/Management Committee shall be consulted, in advance, of all layoffs.
If layoff situations occur as a result of economic conditions or reorganized work programs, the Committee will review and recommend alternatives to layoffs, while considering the needs of the Company and needs of the employee. In all circumstances the Committee will comply with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
In addition, the Committee will have input into the communication and implementation of job restructuring and training that may occur from time to time. However, nothing herein shall be considered a limitation on the rights provided to the parties under the Collective Agreement.
JOINT LABOUR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Joint Labour/Management Committee shall consist of the members of the Employer bargaining committee, as selected by the employer and members of the Union bargaining committee as selected by the Union, the Plant Manager and one (1) other union member selected by the Union, will also be members of the committee.
The Committee meetings shall be co-chaired by a Union representative and a Company representative on an alternating basis.
The Committee shall meet once a month unless otherwise mutually agreed.
Time spend in the Committee meetings will be compensated under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
Union Staff Representatives will be allowed to participate in any meetings of the Committee,
Management will share information about the operations, its business and capital plans and new technology with the Committee and the Union.
The parties agree that the Joint Labour/Management Committee shall not be responsible for dealing with issues, which are the responsibility of other recognized committees.
Through the desire by the Joint Labour/Management Committee to operate in good faith and mutual respect at all times, and to enhance the well-being of both the employee and the Company, negotiation of labour language changes may be recommended by either party through the course of the current Collective Agreement. Mutual agreement and employee acceptance would enact these changes.
6.	Whenever the Joint Labour/Management Committee is unable to reach an agreement on any issue before the committee, the parties will revert to their rights under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
7 This letter shall form and be part of the Collective Agreement.
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
ARTICLE
Agreement Cancellation--------------------------------------------------------------- 12.02
Agreement Duration------------------------------------------------------------------- 12.01
Arbitration
Single Arbitrator---------------------------------------------------------- 10.05
Nominee-------------------------------------------------------------------- 10.05
Decision------------------------------------------------------------------- 10.08
Arbitration Expense------------------------------------------------------------------ 10.07
Arbitration - Notice of------------------------------------------------------ 10.03
Bargaining Committee Meetings Payment-------------------------------------------------- 5.13
Bargaining Committee Personnel----------------------------------------------- 11.04
Bargaining Unit Recognition-----------------------------------------------------------   3.01
Bereavement - Time Off---------------------------------------------------------------- 5.17
Breakdowns---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.05
Breakdowns - Sent Home------------------------------------------------■------ 5.09
Call In Pay--------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.07
Changes In Starting Time - Minimum Pay----------------------------------------------   5.08
Cleanliness - Work Area------------------------------------------------------ 11.02
Deduction of Union Dues------------------------------------------------------------ Article	9
Definitions-------------------------------------------------------------------------   2.01
Department Lists for Seniority Purposes-------------------------------------- 6.14
Discharge or Suspension as Penalty--------------------------------------------------- 10.12
Duration of Collective Agreement--------------------------------------------------- Article	12
First Aid Payment--------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.11
Grievance & Arbitration Procedure-------------------------------------------------- Article	10
Grievance - Rate---------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.14
Handicapped Employees - Seniority----------------------------------------------------- 6.17
Holidays------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 7.01
Holiday During Vacation--------------------------------------------------------------- 7.06
Holiday Pay - Qualification----------------------------------------------------------- 7.03
Holiday Pay - Payment----------------------------------------------------------------- 7.04
Holiday Pay - Time Worked------------------------------------------------------------- 7.05
Hours of Work---------------------------------------------------------------------- Article	4
Hours - Standard-
4.01
Improved Methods--------------------------------------------------------------- 11.05
Interim Increase Formula------------------------------------------------------------- Appendix	B
Interpretation of Agreement Dispute----------------------------------------------------- 10.11
Interpretation of Terms--------------------------------------------------------------- Article	2
45
ARTICLE
Job Rates---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Appendix	A
Jury Duty - General Provisions----------------------------------------------------------- 5.16
Law - Confliction with--------------------------------------------------------- 3.04
Layoffs------------------------------------------------------------------------ 6.08 - 6.09
Layoffs - Elimination/Modernization of Methods etc.---------------------------- 6.20
Layoffs Prior to Holiday----------------------------------------------------------------- 7.07
Layoffs - Privileges----------------------------------------------------------- 6.06 - 6.07
Layoffs - Union Officers------------------------------------------------------- 6.04 (2)
Leave of Absence - Union Officers---------------------------------------------- 6.04
Leave of Absence - Personal Reasons-------------------------------------------- 6.19
Management Functions--------------------------------------------------------------------- 3.02
Minimum Wages - Hiring------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.03
Miscellaneous------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article	11
Night Shift Premium------------------------------------------------------------ 5.15
Notation on Record------------------------------------------------------------- 10.17
Notice - Layoff or Leaving----------------------------------------------------- 6.10
Notices - Union---------------------------------------------------------------- 11,03
Overtime Distribution----------------------------------------------------------------- 4.01(3)
Overtime Payment------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.06
Overtime Work--------------------------------------------------------------------------   4.02
Principles of Equality--------------------------------------------------------- 1.03
Probationer-------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.05 - 6.06
Progression/Regression--------------------------------------------------------- Appendix C
Protective Equipment-------------------------------------------------------------------- 11.01
Purpose of Agreement------------------------------------------------------------------ Article	1
Quality of Product------------------------------------------------------------- 11.06
Rates of Pay------------------------------------------------------------------------   Article	5
Rates of Pay - Bereavement--------------------------------------------------------------- 5.17
Rates of Pay - General Adjustment-------------------------------------------------------- 5.01
Rates of Pay - Hire On Rate---------------------- ----------------------------- 5.03 (a)
Rates of Pay - Individual Adjustment----------------------------------------------------- 5.02
Rates of Pay - Jury Duty------------------------------------------------------- 5.16
Rates of Pay - Temporary Work------------------------------------------------------------ 5.04
Recalls - Engineering Division------------------------------------------------ 6.08 (3)
- Production------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.11
Recognition of Bargaining Unit---------------------------------------------------------- 3.01
Record of Notation------------------------------------------------------------ 10.17
Records - Seniority--------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.14
Relief Help----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4.04
ARTICLE
Safe Workplace---------------------------------------------------------------- 1.04
Safety Committee----------------------------------------------------------------------- 11.01
Safety Shoe Allowance------------------------------------------------------------------ 11.13
Scope of Agreement------------------------------------------------------------------- Article	3
Seniority---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article	6
Seniority - Accumulation During Sickness------------------------------------------------ 6.03
Seniority - Calculation----------------------------------------------------------------- 6.01
Seniority - Crews------------------------------------------------------------- Appendix C
Seniority - Factory------------------------------------------------------------------ Article	6
Seniority - Engineering Division-------------------------------------------------------- 6.08
Seniority - Handicapped Employees------------------------------------------------------- 6.17
Seniority - Loss of--------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.02
Seniority - Revision of Lists----------------------------------------------------------- 6.14
Seniority Records----------------------------------------------------------------------- 6.14
Squadron Membership----------------------------------------------------------------     11.07
Standard Hours---------------------------------------------------;------------ 4.01
Stewards - Numbers of----------------------------------------------------------------   11.08
Strikes, Lockouts, Slowdowns, etc------------------------------------------------------- 3.03
Supervisor - Return to Employee Status-------------------------------------------------- 6.12
- Prohibited bargaining work------------------------------------------------- 5.18
Temporary Work Payment----------------------------------------------------------------   5.04
Time Lost - Injury------------------------------------------------------------ 5.11
Time Sheet Changes---------------------------------------------------------------------- 4.03
Tool Allowance-----------------------------------------------------------------------   11.11
Transfers - Employee Request------------------------------------------------------------ 6.13
Transfers - Engineering Division---------------------------------------------- 6.08 (4) (5J
Union Notices-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11.03
Union Officers - Layoff & Leave of Absence---------------------------------------------- 6.04
Union President - Time Off------------------------------------------------------------- 11.12
Vacancies - Filling of------------------------------------------------------------------ 6.13
Vacation - Eligibility------------------------------------------------------------------ 8.02
Vacation-Pay---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8.03
Vacation - Minimum------------------------------------------------------------ 8.03 (11)
Vacation Pay - Computation-------------------------------------------------------------- 8.03
Vacation - Year--------------------------------------------------------------- 8.01
Violation of Agreement----------------------------------------------------------------- 10.11
APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
THE EMPLOYER
- AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER,
MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
May 1,2007 - July 22,2009
GOODYEAR MEDICINE HAT THE APPRENTICE TRAINING PROGRAM
The purpose of the Apprentice Training Program is to train and develop men/women to fill future vacancies in specified skilled trades. The specific requirements of the Company will be considered in the selection of trades for which training programs will be utilized and in the development of a program of training in those trades.
1 DEFINITIONS
Apprenticeship Agreement is a written agreement between the person employed as an apprentice and Goodyear Medicine Hat, and the Apprenticeship Board when applicable.
“Apprentice” shall mean a person who is under an apprenticeship agreement to learn and assist in the trade covered by that agreement.
There will be two types of apprenticeship programs in the Goodyear Medicine Hat Plant.
0) An in-plant apprenticeship program which upon successful completion will provide skilled trade with “no ticket status”.
0j) A fully registered contract between the employer and the Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Branch, upon successful completion will provide skilled trade with ticket status.
2.	TERMS OF AGREEMENT
(a)	The term of apprenticeship shall be 8,000 hours of training except in the case of the welder trade which will be 6,000 hours. A program of related training will be prescribed for each trade which an apprenticeship program is established and will be in addition to the schedule of shop training.
(b)	For the purpose of this apprenticeship program, an applicant can be disqualified at any time with just cause during his/her apprenticeship at the discretion of the employer. Employees who are disqualified and originally transferred from a production department shall find his/her rightful place as per Article 6.08 (6). Any employee who is disqualified and was hired directly into the apprenticeship program as a new hire may be given the opportunity to transfer into a production department as per Article 6.09 (1) (d) at the discretion of the Company,
(a)
(b)
(c)
2
(c) The breakdown of skilled trades program - department 4211 requirement:
- minimum
Millwright
Millwright
Steamfitter
Machinist
Electrician
Welder
-	4 year in-plant apprenticeship
-	4 year registered contract
-	4 year registered contract
-	4 year registered contract
-	4 year registered contract
-	3 year registered contract
NOTE:	The Company can, where applicable, train employees who are already
skilled tradespeople themselves within the division, for other skilled trades for the improvement of both the operation and the individual. In order to fill future vacancies, this special improvement condition can use a variation of either in-plant or registered contract application. The individual will receive his/her regular rate of pay while training.
3. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
In order to be eligible for apprenticeship under the program, the applicant must meet qualifications which include the following:
(a)
He/she must be over the age of 18.
The applicant should have completed grade 12 for millwright, electrician, machinist, welder, or steamfitter trades.
(c)
Each applicant will be required to pass a physical examination upon request.
Applicants will be required to pass a vocation and/or aptitude test.
Any applicants who can show sufficient related experience in the trade applied for will be given consideration under the Goodyear Medicine Hat Apprenticeship Program. In selecting apprenticeship trainees, special consideration will be given to senior Goodyear employees.
3
4.
TRAINING PROCEDURES
Shop training and related classroom training will be set up in accordance with the Provincial Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Program.
Each apprentice attending the Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Branch Program will be compensated by the employer to the extent that he/she shall receive up to a maximum of eighty-five (85) percent of his/her regular earnings. This amount will include any subsidy he/she may receive from the Apprenticeship Branch. The apprentice will be required to furnish proof of the outside payment received in order to receive the additional remuneration from the employer.
5.	MERIT RATING
At the end of each 3 month period, the Engineering Manager will find out a merit rating card for each apprentice. Close contact will also be maintained with the school, if applicable, where the apprentice is undergoing the related school training and regular reports will be received from the school.
6.	HOURS OF WORK
Apprentices shall work the same hours and be subject to the same conditions regarding overtime as the regular employees of the Engineering division.
7.	RATES OF PAY
Millwright. Steamfitter. Electrician, and Machinist
1st year	81% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
2nd year	86% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
3rd year	91% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
4th year	96% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
Welder
1st year	81 % of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
2nd year	86% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
3rd year	91% of current contract rate plus boxed earnings
Upon successful completion of required hours of apprenticeship training and upon receiving either in-plant certificate or obtaining his/her certificate from the Apprenticeship Branch, the payment of trade rate, either ticket or no ticket rate, as per contract will become effective.
4
8.
SENIORITY
Each apprentice will serve a probationary period as per 2.01 (d) in the Collective Labour Agreement.
Apprentices will be assigned to a regular department of the Engineering division and while undergoing training in a particular trade will be subject to lay off prior to any established skilled trades (ticketed) employees being laid off. Apprentices will be laid off and recalled in accordance with their seniority within their trade.
An apprentice who is laid off under the provisions of the Apprentice Training Program shall have the right to transfer into a production department in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the current Collective Labour Agreement.
9. MISCELLANEOUS
Apprentices shall be included in the factory bargaining unit and shall be subject to all provisions and benefits under the Collective Labour Agreement.
The company will post an apprenticeship position when available, for a period of three (3) weeks on the bulletin boards. All applicants must respond in writing to the Personnel Manager.
In the event that any of the provisions of this agreement are found to be in conflict with any applicable provincial or federal law, now existing, or hereinafter enacted, it is agreed that such law shall render the conflicting provision of this agreement null and void without in any way affecting the remainder of the Apprentice Agreement.
Apprentice positions will not exceed the ratio as established by the Apprenticeship and Trades Branch.
Time limits between transfer as shown under section 6.13 (9) of the Collective Labour Agreement will not apply to applicants for Apprenticeship openings.
The policy already established and in effect with the Engineering division will be applied to the Apprenticeship Program.
10. TOOLS
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor
Barry Thompson Dave McMenemy
Sheldon Denman Don Harris
5
HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
THE EMPLOYER
- AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER,
MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
May 1, 2007 - July 22, 2009
INDEX
Page #
PARTI
DEFINITIONS------------------------------------------------------ 3
PART II
BENEFITS
Article A - Life and Accidental Death and
Dismemberment Insurance and Survivor Income Benefits-- 5
Article B - Welfare Benefits (Hospitalization, Surgical, Medical
Ambulance and Drugs)-------------------------------- 12
Article C - Weekly Indemnity Benefits---------------------------- 16
PART III
ELIGIBILITY------------------------------------------------------- 18
PART IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS------------------------------------------------ 20
PART V
TERM OF AGREEMENT------------------------------------------------- 22
2
HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of May 1, 2007, by and between Goodyear Canada Inc., hereinafter referred to as the “Company” and Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers), hereinafter referred to as the “Union”, representing the employees in the bargaining unit at the Company’s Medicine Hat Plant, Medicine Hat, Alberta and G.E.L. Warehouse, Medicine Hat.
WITNESSETH THAT:
Subject to the approval of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Company agrees with the Union that it will continue the establishment, maintenance, and administration of a life and disability insurance, sickness and accident, hospital and surgical benefit plan hereinafter described as the “Plan”, in such manner as the Company shall determine consistent with the terms of this Agreement. No action taken in performance of the terms of this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union.
PARTI
SECTION 1 DEFINITIONS
1.	In this Agreement:
(a)	the term “credited service” means the service of an employee with the employer as it appears on his/her record maintained by the employer in conformity with the Collective Labour Agreement, The terms “credited service” and “continuous service” are used throughout this Agreement shall be synonymous. The records of the employer shall be presumed to conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability, retirement of an employee, a former employee, pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect;
(b)	“dependent” means and includes a person not employed by the Company who is the spouse of an employee and the unmarried child under the age of 21 years of an employee who is supported by such employee. In the definition, spouse shall mean: (1) the husband or wife of an employee who is legally married to the employee, or (2) a person who has for a continuous period of not less than one year . . . resided with the employee and during such period has been publicly represented as the spouse of the employee; wherever the word “dependent” shall
3
Part I. Section 1 (bf - Definitions (Continued ...)
bear a wider meaning in the plans or contracts entered into by the Company in satisfaction of its obligations hereunder, such wider meaning shall be used if, and to the extent, applicable;
(c)	“employee” means and includes each and every hourly-rated employee working at the Medicine Hat Plant, G.E.L. Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta of the Company below the rank of supervisor, with the exception of office employees, security guards, factory squadron training groups and production schedulers;
(d)	“insurer” means any duly qualified insurance company licensed to undertake a contract of life insurance and/or group life insurance and/or sickness and accident insurance in the Province of Alberta and includes any association registered under the Prepaid Hospital and Medical Service Act of Alberta;
(e)	“lay off’ means the termination of work of an employee by the employer for an indefinite period, caused by the decision of the employer to reduce or eliminate the work upon which the employee was engaged; “laid off’ or “to be laid off’ shall have a like meaning;
(f)	“pensioner” means an employee who retires on or after the effective date of this Agreement and who becomes and continues to be eligible for a pension (other than a Deferred Vested Pension) pursuant to the terms of a Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into the parties hereto on the 10th day of May, 2004;
(g)	“physician” means a medical practitioner who is registered under the Medical Profession Act of Alberta or such similar statute or law as governs the practice of medicine in the jurisdiction in which any medical, surgical or obstetrical services are rendered to an employee or his/her dependent.
PART I - Section 2
2.	In this Agreement, wherever the pronouns “he” or “she” appears, it shall be construed as
meaning any employee, unless the context requires otherwise.
PART I - Section 3
3.	Each employee shall be deemed to be single and without dependents until he/she has satisfied the Company with such proof as it shall reasonably require, of the existence of his/her dependent or dependents. Completion and delivery to the Company of a statement in a form satisfactory to the Company, fully and correctly completed and signed by the employee, will be accepted by the Company as satisfactory evidence of the status of an employee’s dependent or any change thereof.
4
PART II
BENEFITS
A. LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
AND SURVIVOR INCOME BENEFITS
1. Effective May 1 , 2007:
The Company will enter into a contract of group life insurance with an insurer or insurers insuring each employee and pensioner as follows:
CLASSIFICATION	AMOUNT
All Employees Pensioners (other than for a total & permanent disability)	$50,000.00
(j) All employees hired prior to March 24, 2000 who will be 65 years of age prior to attaining 30 years of service.	$8,000.00
(ii) Retirees with 30 or more years of service.	$8,000.00
(iii) Retirees with 20 years of service but less than 30 years of service.	$6,000.00
(iv) Retirees with 10 years of service but less than 20 years of service.	$4,000.00
(v) Retirees with less than 10 years of service.	Life Insurance Benefits Discontinued
This insurance will take effect upon the day the employee or pensioner first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. The insurance in respect of an employee shall automatically terminate on the date of termination of the Plan or on the date of termination of active employment of such employee, whatever date is the earlier. The insurance in respect of a pensioner shall automatically terminate upon the date he/she becomes ineligible for the payment of a pension pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into by the parties hereto on the 1st day of May, 2007.
5
PART IIA - Section 2 (Continued ...)
2.	(a) If any employee, before attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years and while
insured hereunder, becomes totally disabled and presumably will thereafter during his/her life be unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit, and is not eligible for a Total and Permanent Disability Pension pursuant to the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement dated the 1st day of May 2007, the Company will cause the insurer upon proof thereof to the satisfaction of the insurer, to pay to such employee the amount of life insurance in force upon such life at the time such disability commenced, either in one lump sum or instalments as the Company may direct. Such payment in full shall be accepted in lieu of all other life insurance benefits provided for on the life of such person under the Plan. Without restricting the meaning on the phrase “totally disabled”, the entire and irrevocable loss of the sight of both eyes, or of the use of both hands, or both feet, or of one hand and one foot, shall be deemed to be total and permanent disability.
(b)	If an employee for whom life insurance coverage is provided in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement is eligible to receive a Total and Permanent Disability Pension prior to his/her Normal Retirement Date under the terms of the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement entered into between the parties hereto on the 1st day of May, 2007, the Company will cause the insurer or insurers insuring such employee, in lieu of paying the proceeds thereof to the employee in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article A, Section 2 (a) hereof, to continue his/her life insurance coverage (but not Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance) until his/her Normal Retirement Date as defined in the said Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, in the amount of $50,000.00 and on reaching Normal Retirement Date the amount of life insurance coverage shall then be reduced based on service at time of retirement. See Part II (A)(1).
3.	The Company will enter into a contract of group insurance with an insurer or insurers insuring each employee for Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance in the amount of $50,000.00. It is understood and acknowledged that Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will not be provided for pensioners (including pensioners in receipt of a Total and Permanent Disability Pension). Such insurance shall be payable in a lump sum in the event the death of an employee follows within twelve (12) months as a result of bodily injury caused, directly and independently of all other causes, by external violent and accidental means.
Such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event an employee suffers the entire and irrevocable loss or loss of use of (the total and irrevocable loss of use provided the loss is continuous for 12 consecutive months and such loss of use is determined to be permanent) two hands or feet or sight of eyes or any two of them, caused by accident and one-half of such insurance shall likewise be payable in the event an employee suffers the entire and irrevocable loss or loss of use of one hand or one foot or sight of one eye, caused by accident.
6
Part IIA - Section 3 (Continued...)
To qualify for this dismemberment insurance the bodily injury must occur within twelve (12) months of the occurrence of the accident. The amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance payable under this plan in respect of an employee shall in no event exceed the principal sum specified in this paragraph. The contract may contain such limitations and conditions as are normally found in contracts issued in Alberta for insurance of this type.
4.	Survivor Income Benefit Insurance
(a)	Transition Survivor Income Benefit
Subject to the provisions of Section 4 (e) hereof, the Company agrees to provide Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurance to a maximum amount of $500.00 per month for a period up to a maximum of twenty-four (24) months. Such Transition Survivor Income Benefit Insurance shall be in force only after an employee has had one (1) year of continuous service with the employer and while he/she is insured for Accidental Death and Dismemberment under Article A, Section 3, and only while he/she has at least one (1) eligible dependent.
(b)	Payment of Transition Survivor Income Benefit
In the event of death of an insured employee on or after May 10, 2004, from any cause, benefits shall be payable monthly commencing on the first (1") day of the calendar month following the death of the employee, and on the first (1") day of each month thereafter until twenty-four (24) such payments have been made or until there are no eligible survivors in any class of eligible survivors, if earlier. In no event will the maximum amount payable on account of the death of any employee exceed $500.00 per month or $12,000.00 in total. Payments shall be made to the eligible survivor or in equal shares to the eligible survivors in the first of the Classes of survivors set forth in subsection (c) herein which there is an eligible survivor or survivors.
(c)	Classes of Eligible Survivors
The Classes of eligible survivors (also referred to herein as eligible dependents) and the order of qualifying for benefit are as follows:
Class A:	A person who has been the spouse (as defined in Part 1(b) of this
agreement) of a deceased employee for at least one (1) year immediately prior to the employee's death.
Class B:	Any child of the deceased employee, who at the time a Transition
Survivor Income Benefit first becomes payable to him/her is both unmarried and under twenty-one (21) years of age, but such child shall cease to be a
7
PART IIA - Section 4 (c) (Continued...)
Class B eligible survivor upon marrying or reaching his/her twenty-first (21st) birthday.
Class C:	A parent of the deceased employee for whom the employee had, during
the calendar year preceding the employee's death, provided at least 50% of the parent's support.
(d)	Sequence of Payments
Payments shall be made to the eligible survivors as set forth in subsection (c) above in the following order:
(i)	Class A Eligible Survivors
If a Class A eligible survivor dies or becomes ineligible prior to the payment of the maximum number of twenty-four (24) benefit payments, the right to any remaining payments shall pass in equal shares for the balance of the maximum number of payments to any surviving children who then qualify under Class B or, if there are none, then in equal shares for the balance of the maximum number of payments to any surviving parents who then qualify under Class C.
(ii)	Class B Eligible Survivors
If, after having qualified under Class B, a child marries, or dies, or attains age twenty-one (21), any remaining payments shall be divided equally among any surviving children who continue to qualify under Class B. After the last child marries, dies, or attains age twenty-one (21), any remaining payments shall be divided equally among any surviving parents who then qualify under Class C.
(iii)	Class C Eligible Survivors
If more than one (1) parent qualifies under Class C and either parent dies, any remaining payments shall be payable to the surviving parent.
(iv)	No Eligible Survivors
If no eligible survivor of the employee qualifies in any Class on the first (1") of the month following the death of the employee, no payments will be made hereunder. Once begun, payments will cease when there is no eligible survivor in any Class.
8
PART IIA - Section 4 (Continued...)
(e)	For the eligible Class A survivor of an employee who was actively at work on or after May 1, 2007, and who had died since that date, the amount of the Transition Survivor Benefit shall be $500.00 per month reduced by the amount of any survivor's disability or retirement benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan or by any Old Age Security benefits payable under the Old Age Security Act in accordance with the terms of such Plan and Acts as may be now in effect or hereafter amended; provided that in no event shall the monthly Transition Survivor Benefit be reduced below the sum of $350.00.
(f)
For the eligible Class B or Class C survivor or survivors of an employee who was actively at work on or after May 1, 2007, and who had died since that date, the amount of the Transition Survivor Benefit shall be $500.00 for any month for which no eligible survivor or survivors of the deceased employee is or are entitled to a survivor's disability or retirement benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan or an Old Age Security benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act in accordance with the terms of such Plan and Acts as may be now in effect or hereafter amended, and shall be reduced to $350.00 for any month for which an eligible survivor or survivors is or are entitled to such a statutory benefit, except that for months which two (2) or more survivors share a Transition Survivor Income Benefit immediately following the death of the employee, each survivor's share is computed as a fraction of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit that would be paid to him/her as a sole survivor according to his/her own eligibility for a statutory benefit.
Survivor Income Benefits for Class A Eligible Survivor Age 47 or Over at the Time of Death of Employee
There shall also be payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of this subsection to a Class A eligible survivor, as defined in subsection (c) above, who was forty-seven (47) years of age or more on the date of the employee's death and who has received twenty-four (24) monthly payments of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit provided in subsections (a), (b) and (e) above, an additional survivor income benefit of $500.00 per month (hereinafter referred to as a Bridge Survivor Income Benefit) as follows:
(i)	The Bridge Survivor Income Benefit will become payable commencing with the first (1st) month following the month for which the twenty-forth (24th) monthly payment of the Transition Survivor Income Benefit is paid.
(jj) The Bridge Survivor Income Benefit will cease to be paid immediately upon the occurrence of:
(a) the death or marriage of the Class A eligible survivor or;
9
PART IIA - Section 4 (fl (Continued ...)
(b)	attainment by the Class A eligible survivor of such age -at which Old Age Security Benefits become payable, other than on a "needs" basis under any Federal or Provincial legislation, as now in effect or hereafter enacted or amended.
(jjj) The amount of the Bridge Survivor Income Benefit shall be reduced by any Survivor's or Disability Benefit payable under the Canada Pension Plan, in effect as of May 1,2007.
5.	Continuance of Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance During
Leave of Absence. Illness and Layoff
(a)	Leave of Absence
If an employee is granted leave of absence by the Company with or without pay and for any reason, his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance shall continue until he/she returns to active work or until the first (ls<) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the date of cessation of work whichever shall first occur. An eligible employee who is granted leave of absence for personal reasons shall have the right after his/her insurance has terminated, in addition to the foregoing, to continue his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in effect at the date he/she was granted such leave of absence at his/her own expense at the prevailing group rates for the duration of his/her leave of absence,
(b)	Illness
If an employee is absent from work by reason of bodily injury or sickness, his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance shall continue for a period which is equivalent to the period he/she is entitled to accumulate seniority and service during his/her absence for this reason under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement commencing with the first (1") day of the month next following the date upon which the disability begins as defined in Part II, Article C, Section 5. However, an employee who is continuously absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness in excess of the period for which coverage is paid for by the Company may, at his/her own expense, continue his/her life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance at the current group rates until such time as his/her case is decided but in any event no longer than a further twelve (12) month period.
10
PART IIA - Section 5tc1 (Continued...)
(c) Layoff
(i)	If an employee is laid off and is eligible for a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan in effect with the Company, the life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in respect of the employee shall continue until the last day of the weekly supplemental unemployment benefits with respect to such layoff is paid or until the expiration of six (^months from the date of the layoff whichever is the shorter period.
(ii)	If an employee is laid off and is not eligible for a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan in effect with the Company, the life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in respect of the employee shall continue until the end of the calendar month in which his/her layoff occurred.
(iii)	If an employee is laid off and is already in receipt of weekly indemnity benefits under this Agreement, the life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in respect of such employee shall continue for the period to which he/she is entitled under Section 5 (b) hereof but he/she shall not be entitled to any additional extension of his/her coverage during the period of layoff.
(iv)	An employee whose life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance have terminated at the expiry of the period referred to in Section 5 (c) (i) and (ii) hereof shall have the right to continue at his/her own expense the life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance in effect at the date of his/her layoff at the current group rates for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of such termination.
6.	The policy of group life insurance shall provide that a person within thirty-one (31) days after the later of:
(a)	the date of termination of his/her employment while insured, or
(b)	the date of termination of his/her insurance if such insurance has been continued under Section 5 of this Article shall have the privilege (herein called the conversion privilege) of obtaining, without medical examination, an individual policy of life insurance upon written application made to the insurer and payment of the first premium therefore, within said thirty-one(31) day period. The amount of such policy may not exceed the amount of life insurance in force under the group policy with respect to the life of such person upon the first date the privilege can be exercised; the policy may be on any of the regular life and endowment plans; premiums shall be based upon the age of the person at the time
ll
PART IIA - Section 6 lb) (Continued...)
of conversion for the class of risk to which he/she belongs. During the thirty-one (31) day conversion period, notwithstanding the termination of life insurance under the Plan, the insurer will maintain group life insurance in force with respect of the said person and if the conversion privilege is exercised the individual policy will take effect upon the expiration of the said thirty-one (31) day period.
B. WELFARE BENEFITS ^HOSPITALIZATION. SURGICAL. MEDICAL
AMBULANCE AND DRUGSI
1,	The Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium to the Alberta
Health Insurance Plan, in respect to each employee eligible to receive this benefit from the Company so as to qualify the employee and his/her dependents, if any, for entitlement to receive the insured services on and after the effective date of this Agreement provided by the Alberta Hospitals Act S.A. 1961 C.36. The amount of the monthly premium, the due date of payment and the benefit period provided by such payment shall be such as are prescribed by the Regulations pertaining thereto.
(b)	In addition by way of supplementary hospital benefit, the Company agrees to pay the whole of the monthly premium due on or after May 1,2007, in respect to each employee eligible to receive this benefit from the Company as a result of the enrolment of himself/herself and his/her dependents, if any, on or after the effective date of this Agreement, in an insured plan which will provide such employee and his/her dependents, if any, with reimbursement or indemnity for the excess of the cost incurred by him/her and/or his/her dependents on or after the above date, for hospital accommodation provided at the semi-private rate level (up to a maximum of $100.00) over the cost of hospital accommodation at the standard or public ward level provided and included in the in-patient insured services supplied under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan.
(c)	For the purpose of determining whether an employee or other person is eligible to have the premium or premiums referred to in (a) and (b) of the above of this Section paid by the Company with respect of any particular month, such employee or person shall be deemed to be so eligible with respect to the first (1st) and each succeeding month in which he/she is described in Part III hereof as being eligible for the benefits of the plan arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred in such month and each succeeding month so that the Company’s obligation to provide benefits will be fully discharged by the making of the payment of the monthly premium as aforesaid on such dates, notwithstanding that the said employee or other person may not be entitled under the Plans described in (a) and (b) above of this Section to receive the benefit of the services therein provided in concurrent months or succeeding months.
12
PART IIB -	- Section 1 (Continued.. .1
(d)	An employee who is hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement, or a person who is re-employed with credit for prior service on or after such date, being ineligible to have the aforesaid premiums paid by the Company immediately upon his/her employment or re-employment, if subsequent to the first (1st) day of the month of his/her re-employment, as the case may be, shall have deducted from his/her wages for the first (1st) month or any portion thereof in which he/she commenced his/her employment or re-employment with the Company and thereafter for each succeeding month that he/she remains ineligible, a sufficient amount to pay the monthly premium due and payable by him/her for himself/herself and his/her dependents to the Alberta Health Insurance Plan for insured services under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan and to pay the monthly premium due and payable by him/her for himself/herself and his/her dependents to the insurer, if he/she is duly enrolled therein, for the supplementary hospital benefit described in Section 1 (b) above until such time as he/she becomes eligible to have the payments of such premiums made by the Company as benefits. The Company is hereby authorized and empowered to deduct from the wages of such employee as an insured person and to pay the monthly premium due and payable by him/her for himself/herself and his/her dependents to the Alberta Health Insurance Plan for insured services under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan and any arrears of premiums due and owing to the insurer in respect to enrolment in such a Plan prior to his/her employment or re-employment with the Company. Each such employee shall sign a wages deduction authorization in a form satisfactory to the Company authorizing the Company to deduct from his/her wages for each month, the requisite amount to pay the monthly premium or premiums including any arrears of premium to enable him/her and/or his/her dependents to qualify at the earliest possible date for the insured services and supplementary hospital benefits referred to above.
(e)	An employee who does not qualify as a member of the Company's mandatory group and on whose behalf the Company is not required to remit to the Alberta Health Insurance Plan a monthly report or monthly premium payment under the Alberta Health Insurance Plan shall not be entitled to any benefits from the Company under this Section 1 of this Part.
(0	In the event that an employee fails to record with the Company a change in his/her marital status or in the number of dependents, he/she shall not be entitled to have payments of premiums made or remitted on his/her behalf with respect to any dependent acquired but not reported and recorded by name.
2. (a)	As set forth in Section 1 (a) above, should the terms and conditions of enrolment in the Alberta Health Insurance Plan be varied, or should the services to be rendered and benefits to be provided under such Plan be varied, extended or restricted in more than a nominal manner, the Company may at any time thereafter at its option, and shall upon request in writing of the Union, if permitted by law, negotiate with other insurers to procure a contract or contracts to
13
PART IIB - Section 2 (a) (Continued...)
provide benefits or services or any part thereof that has been discontinued as a result of a variation or restriction in the Plans having a marked resemblance or likeness in the aggregate to the benefits provided in Section 1 (a) above. If the Company is not permitted by law to negotiate with an insurer for substituted benefits either in whole or in part, then the services to be rendered under such Plans as modified, shall be substituted for the services described under Section 1 (a) above, but the Company may at its option and is in that event authorized to deduct from the wages of each employee a sufficient amount each month thereafter to defray the cost of any increase in premium resulting from any change in the terms and conditions of enrolment and/or any variation in the services and benefits as aforesaid.
(b) Should the Alberta Hospital Association at any time increase its rate or subscription payment and/or vary the terms of enrolment in the supplemental benefits program provided in Section 1 (b) above, or should the services to be rendered be extended, varied or restricted in more than a nominal manner, the Company may at any time thereafter, at its option, and shall upon the request in writing of the Union negotiate with other insurers to procure a contract to provide hospitalization benefits for employees and their dependents having a marked resemblance or likeness to the benefits provided in Section 1 (b) of this Part, The Company shall discontinue the payments pursuant to Section 1 (b) hereof contract with another insurer becomes effective, and in lieu thereof will pay the whole of the charges made by such other insurer for such substituted benefits.
3.	The Company will pay the whole of the monthly subscription rates due on or after May 1, 2007 charged to an employee by the insurer as a result of the enrolment of himself/herself and his/her dependents for the benefits provided by the Extended Health Care Plan including eyeglasses (maximum ;$275.00/24 months on or after January 1,2005) hearing aids (maximum $500.00 every 3 calendar years) and private room hospital accommodation (maximum $100.00) (not a suite), as in effect May 1, 2007. In the event that an employee fails to deliver to the Company the enrolment record provided by the Extended Health Care Plan he/she shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Plan. In the event that an employee fails to record with the Company any change in his/her marital status or in the number of his/her dependents, he/she shall not be entitled to any benefits under the plan with respect to any dependent acquired but not reported and recorded by name.
4.	(a) Employees who were eligible for a monthly pension (but not a deferred vested
pension) and who were retired by the Company prior to May 1, 2007, will continue to be provided with life insurance, hospital expense benefits, surgical expense benefits, medical expense benefits and ambulance expense benefits, which were applicable at the date of being retired by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement in effect at the date of such retirement.
14
PART IIB - Section 4 (Continued...)
(b) Employees eligible for a pension (but not a deferred vested pension) who are in receipt of a pension or become entitled to the receipt of a pension pursuant to the provision contained in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement, above referred to, or any predecessor Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement between the parties and who are residents of either Canada or the United States of America will be provided with the following benefits, based on their service, in respect to illness or injuries sustained by them or their dependents after the effective date of this Agreement providing they have been or are retired by the Company after May 1,2007.
(i)	Hospital, Surgical, Anaesthetic, Medical and Diagnostic Expenses;
Hospital, surgical, anaesthetic, medical and diagnostic expense benefits for themselves and their dependents similar to those benefits which they received as employees immediately prior to their retirement under Section 1 (a) and 1 (b) of Part II, Article B.
(ii)	Extended Health Care Plan including Eyeglasses, Hearing Aids and Private Room Hospital Accommodation as in effect May 1, 2007.
After May 1, 2007, benefits for themselves and their dependents similar to those described in Section 3 of Part II, Article B.
(iii)	Effective January 1, 1997, retirement benefits will be based on years of service with employees who were hired prior to May 1, 2007, and will be 65 years of age prior to attaining 30 years of service receiving retirement benefits as if they had 30 years of service.
Retirees with 30 or more years of service will receive the full benefits they had at the time of retirement.
For retirements with 20 years of service, but less than 30 years of service, the drug and dental coverage will have co-insurance of 10% while all other benefits will remain in effect as at the time of retirement.
For retirements with 10 years of service, but less than 20 years of service, the drug and dental coverage will have a co-insurance of 20% while all other benefits will remain in effect as at the time of retirement.
For retirees with less than 10 years of service all benefits covered under the Health and Life Agreement will be discontinued at retirement.
Only those eligible dependents on record with the Company at retirement will be covered in respect of the benefits provided in this Section 4 of Part II, Article B.
15
PART II C - WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFITS
Effective with respect to claims originating on or after May 1,2007.
1.	If bodily injury caused by accident or sickness, shall directly and independently of all other causes, totally and continuously disable an employee and prevent him/her from performing any and every duty pertaining to his/her regular occupation with the Company, the Company will pay or cause to be paid to the employee weekly indemnity at the rate of 66 2/3% of the employee's average insurable earnings over the last twenty (20) weeks of insurable employment (as used by the Unemployment Insurance Commission) or at the rate of 66 2/3% of the employee's job rate times forty (40) hours whichever is higher. However, in either case the amount of weekly indemnity will not exceed the Unemployment Insurance maximum weekly benefit or be less than $500.00 a week and will be payable for a period of such continuous total disability but not exceeding fifty-two (52) weeks of any such disability of all employees.
2.	There will be no limit to the number of different periods of disability for which benefits will be paid. Periods of disability due to the same cause will be considered the same period of disability, unless separated by return to full-time work for at least two (2) weeks. Periods of disability due to different causes will be considered different periods of disability if separated by return to full time work. An employee in receipt of weekly indemnity at the time of layoff shall continue to receive his/her weekly indemnity payments for the maximum period for which he/she would have been entitled if he/she had not been laid off.
3.	If the disability is the result of an accident the benefits will be paid as, from and including the first (lsl) day of disability. If the disability is the result of sickness the benefits will be paid as, from and including the eighth (8th) day of continuous disability except that when the disability results in the confinement to hospital of the employee or such employee has surgery by a registered physician in the physician's office or hospital as an out-patient, the benefits will be paid as, from and including the first (1") day of such hospitalization. A day shall be deemed to start at midnight; part days shall be treated as whole days' and part weeks shall be indemnified at the rate of one-fifth for each working day of disability.
4.	Weekly indemnity shall not be payable for disability resulting from bodily injury or sickness for which the employee is not under the care of a physician. Subject to the foregoing, the date upon which the disability begins shall be deemed to be the first (lsl) day upon which the employee fails to report to the Company for work or is required to cease work before his/her regular quitting time and the date upon which the disability terminates shall be deemed to be the day before the first (1") day upon which the employee is capable of performing the duties pertaining to his/her occupation with the Company.
5.	Weekly indemnity benefits shall not be payable for any disability:
16
PART II C - Section S (Continued...)
(a)
(b)
(c)
resulting from injury or sickness for which the employee is entitled to receive indemnity in accordance with any Workers' Compensation or similar law;
resulting from injury sustained or sickness contracted as a direct or indirect result of war or engaging in a riot;
resulting from the use of drugs, or alcohol, unless the employee is certified as being actively supervised by and receiving continuing treatment from a rehabilitation centre, a provincially designated institution or a licensed physician;
(d)	resulting from any cause for the period
(i)	of formal maternity leave taken pursuant to Provincial or Federal law or pursuant to mutual agreement between the employee and the Company or,
(ii)	for which Unemployment Insurance maternity benefits are paid, or
(iii)	commencing with the tenth (10th) week prior to the expected week of confinement and ending with the sixth (6th) week after the week of confinement,
Whichever is the longest period.
Part-time employees whose regularly scheduled work shift or normal work week is less than the standard work shift, or the normal work week, shall receive reduced weekly indemnity benefits based upon the proportion which their work shift or work week bears to the regular work shift or the normal work week.
Where an employee receives weekly indemnity benefits by reason of a bodily injury or sickness in respect of which some third (3rd) party is under legal liability, the Company shall be subrogated to the employee's right to compensation for the cost of benefits provided in respect of such bodily injury or sickness to the extent of the amount paid by the Company either directly or indirectly in respect thereof, and the employee by acceptance of the benefits will undertake that he/she shall prosecute such claim against the third (3rd) party at the expense of and to the extent directed by the Company, and pay over to the Company what it is entitled to receive as aforesaid, together with arw expenses it may have paid or incurred from any monies recovered from such third (3'd) party, and he/she will do all acts and execute all documents necessary to permit the Company to obtain the benefits of this clause.
Should the earnings index under the Unemployment Insurance Act change the criteria for maximum benefits, the Company may elect to adjust the maximum weekly benefit of $500.00 to the extent of maintaining the minimum qualification requirements of the Weekly Indemnity Plan for premium reductions under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
17
PART II C - Section 8 (Continued...)
In consideration of the improved weekly indemnity benefits, the Union and the employees agree that the entire amount of rebate due to any reduced unemployment premium, if the plan is approved, shall be retained by the Company.
PART III
ELIGIBILITY
1.	All employees eligible for benefits under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement dated the 1st day of May, 2007, as amended by the terms of this Agreement, shall be eligible for the benefits of this amended Plan covering death, bodily injury or sickness sustained or incurred after the effective date of this Agreement.
2.	An employee hired after the effective date of the Plan as amended will become eligible for the benefits of the Plan arising out of death, bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred on or after the first (1st) day of the month following the month in which he/she completes his/her probationary period, provided that he/she is actively employed on the working day coincident with or next following that date.
3.	Except as provided in Section 1, an employee who is absent from work on the first (lsl) working day coincident with or next following the date upon which he/she would otherwise be eligible for benefits of the Plan shall be eligible upon return to active employment.
4.	Benefits in respect of any dependent of an employee shall become effective as of the date he/she is properly recorded with the Company, provided that the employee is eligible upon that date.
5.	Notwithstanding the limitations contained in Part II, Article C, Section 6 (d); an employee who is eligible for benefits on the effective date of the Plan shall forthwith be entitled to weekly indemnity benefits for disability arising out of pregnancy.
6.	(a) An eligible employee who is laid off with one (1) or more years of seniority and
entitled to the receipt of a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company shall be entitled to the benefits described in Part II, Article B, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himself/herself or his/her dependents during the period from the date of his/her layoff that he/she receives weekly supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company or during the period ending six (6) months from the date of his/her layoff, whichever is the shorter period, but he/she shall not be entitled to the
18
PART III - Section 6 (al (Continued ...)
benefits described in Part II, Article C, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the date upon which the layoff occurred.
(b) An eligible employee who is laid off with one (1) or more years of seniority and not entitled to the receipt of a supplemental unemployment benefit under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan with the Company, or an eligible employee who is laid off with less than one (1) year's seniority shall, in either case be entitled to the benefits described in Part II, Article B, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himself/herself or his/her dependents during the period ending upon the last day of the calendar month following the month during which the layoff occurs, but shall not be entitled to benefits described in Part II, Article C, arising out of any bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred after the date upon which the layoff occurred.
7.	An eligible person who is re-employed with credit for prior service shall be reinstated:
(a)	automatically with respect to the benefits described in Part II, Articles A and C in that his/her eligibility shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 2 of this Part, and
(b)	with respect to the benefits: described in Part II, Article B, as of the date of reemployment if such re-employment occurs on the first (1st) day of a month, and in other cases on the first (1st) day of the month next following.
8.	An eligible employee who is on leave of absence with the consent in writing of the Company shall be entitled to the benefits described in Part II, Article B, for bodily injury or sickness suffered or incurred by himself/herself and/or his/her dependents up to but not including the first (1st) day of the third (3rd) month following the leave of absence.
9.	An eligible employee who is absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness shall continue to be eligible for the benefits described in Part II, Article B, for a period commencing with the first (1st) day of the month next following the date upon which 'disability begins, which date shall be deemed to be the first (1st) day upon which the employee fails to report to the Company for work or is required to cease work before his/her regular quitting time, and equal to twelve (12) months with respect to an employee who has less than ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company upon that date and equal to twenty-four (24) months with respect to an employee who has ten (10) years or more of continuous service with the Company upon that date.
10.	An eligible employee
(a)	who is granted a leave of absence for personal reasons, or
(b)	who is absent from work because of bodily injury or sickness, or
19
PART III - Section 10 (Continued...)
(c)	who is laid off by the Company.
and whose benefits described in the Part II, Article B, have ceased, shall be entitled to purchase at his/her own expense such benefits directly or through the Company, from the insurer or insurers providing them at prevailing group rates for the period the leave of absence with respect to the eligible employee on leave of absence for personal reasons and for an additional period of twelve (12) months with respect to the other eligible employees referred to in this Section, if such benefits are available on this basis.
11.	The surviving spouse of a deceased employee or of a deceased pensioner shall be given the right to purchase at his/her own expense directly from the insurer or insurers providing them, the benefits described in Part II, Article B, on a pay-direct basis if the Company is able to arrange such coverage with an insurer on this basis.
12.	Subject to the provisions of Part II, Article A, eligibility for an employee for any benefits under the Plan will terminate automatically upon termination of active employment and active employment of a disabled employee shall be deemed to terminate upon termination of eligibility for benefits pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
13.	An unmarried child twenty-one (21) years or more of age, who is dependent on the employee for support and maintenance, and who is either a full time student or mentally or physically incapable of self-support, will be entitled to the benefits provided under Part II B, Section 1 (a), 1 (b) and 3. An unmarried child of twenty-one (21) years of age, but under twenty-five (25) years of age, who is dependent on the employee for support and maintenance, and who is either a full time student or mentally and physically incapable of self-support, will be entitled, in addition to the benefits outlined above, to the benefits provided under the dental plan.
PART IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	The Company shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Plan.
2.	The Company may enter into a contract or contracts with an insurer or insurers to provide all or any of the benefits described herein, and, upon so doing the Company shall be relieved of any liability to any employee, pensioner, or dependent with respect to performance of the obligations contracted for by the insurer; and the Company may from time to time without the consent of any employee or pensioner amend, terminate, reinstate, and/or substitute any such contact or contracts.
3.	The employee shall complete any application or questionnaire relating to the number, sex, and age of himself/herself and his/her dependents or the facts pertaining to a claim for benefit presented to him/her by an insurer, either through the Company or otherwise.
20
PARTIV (Continued...)
4.	The insurer shall issue or cause to be issued a certificate to each employee eligible for benefits which will describe the benefits and privileges provided hereunder by said insurer. The employee shall be deemed to accept all the benefits and privileges thus described and all the liabilities and obligations except the liability and obligation to pay the premium, fee or other regular charge of the insurer.
5.	If the benefits described in Part II, Article C, together with weekly indemnities payable under contracts of insurance upon the employee make up an aggregate weekly value in excess of the average weekly earnings of the employee during the year preceding and ending with the disability, the Company shall be liable only for such proportion of the benefits so described as such average weekly earnings bear to the aggregate of the benefits payable under all such contracts on the person of the employee.
6.	The Company shall have the right, and an employee or pensioner claiming payment of disability shall afford an opportunity, to examination of the person of the employee or his/her dependent, by a physician appointed by it, when and as often as it may reasonably require while a claim for benefits is pending.
7.	If a dispute shall arise between the Company, or its insurer as the case may be, and an employee as to whether such employee is, or continues to be, suffering from bodily injury or sickness of a degree, extent, and type that gives rise to a claim for benefits under the Plan, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The employee or disabled person shall be examined by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Company or the insurer and by a physician appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning the kind and nature of the disability the question shall be submitted to a third (3rd) physician selected by the said two (2) physicians. The opinion of the third (3rd) physician, after examination of the disabled person and consultation with the other two (2) physicians, shall be accepted by the Company or the insurer, the Union, and the employee as irrefutable evidence of the facts therein disclosed, and the degree, extent and type of disability suffered by the disabled person. The fees and expenses of the third (3'“) physician shall be shared equally by the Company or the insurer and the Union.
8.	If a dispute shall arise between the Company and an employee with reference to eligibility for benefits or payment of claims under the Plan, or if a dispute shall arise between the Company and the Union as to whether the Company has provided and continues to provide benefits as hereinbefore described, such dispute may be taken as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the Manager of Industrial Relations of the employer. If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it may be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and of the Collective Labour Agreement. He/she or it shall have no authority to add to or subtract from any provision of this
21
PART IV - Section 8 (Continued...)
Agreement or to waive or fail to apply any requirement of eligibility for benefit under the Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Company, the Union and the employee.
9.	The establishment of the Plan shall not give any employee any additional right to be retained in the employment of the Company; and each employee shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if such Plan had not been put into effect.
10.	The Plan is subject to such amendment from time to time as may be necessary to meet the requirements of any applicable Federal or Provincial laws, orders or regulations, and the relevant provisions of the Insurance Act of Alberta shall be deemed to apply except to the extent that such provisions may be waived or are superseded by the express provisions of this Agreement.
11.	Payment of claims shall be made with due regard to the time and manner in which payments of claims of the types provided in this Agreement are customarily paid in Alberta. Any notice or payment directed to an employee shall be deemed to be properly delivered or tendered when mailed, postage prepaid, to the most recent address of the employee shown upon the records of the Company.
PARTY
TERM OF AGREEMENT
1. The Company has entered into this Agreement on condition that the whole of the premiums, costs and expenses it incurs in fulfillment hereof shall be and shall continue to be allowed by government tax authorities as a proper deduction in computing income taxable under the provisions of the Income Tax Act or any other applicable tax laws now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted. In the event the relevant government tax authorities refuse to allow such deduction or withdraw their approval of such deduction, this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of such refusal or withdrawal or upon the expiration of thirty (30) days after the Company shall first have been advised by such tax authorities of such refusal or withdrawal of approval, whichever is later. During the such thirty (30) day period, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modification or changes required in order to obtain such approval of such tax authorities, provided, however, the Company during such thirty (30) day period shall not be required to pay any premiums, costs, or expenses arising out of this Agreement which it is not entitled to deduct as an expense before taxes under the provisions of The Income tax Act and any other applicable tax laws now in effect or hereafter amended or adopted, and payment of benefits shall be discontinued to a like extent.
22
PART C (Continued...)
2.	If at any time a Federal or Provincial Government passes legislation which directly or indirectly has the effect of providing benefits similar to one (1) or more of the benefits described in the Plan for which the employees as a class shall be eligible, this Agreement shall automatically be revised for the purpose of integrating such Federal or Provincial Government Plan with this Plan on the expiration of thirty (30) days after the proclamation of such statute or on the date such statute comes into effect, whichever is later. During such thirty (30) day period or such longer period as may reasonably be required to carry out such integration, the Company will take such steps as may be necessary or desirable to terminate any duplication of benefits and to assure that the aggregate of the statutory benefits so provided and the benefits provided under this plan shall approximate in kind and money value the benefits provided under the Plan before said statutory enactment, providing this can be done without additional cost to the Company.
3.	If at any time it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revision of this Agreement pursuant to Section 1 of this Part, the Company may make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revision shall be the subject of immediate negotiations between the Company and the Union. In such negotiations the Company and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect was executed in the expectation that the Plan, or one with substantially equivalent benefits, would be and remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and of any renewal thereof theretofore made.
4.	In the event of the refusal of the Board of Directors of the Company to approve this Agreement on or before the ls( day of May, 2007, or in the event that this Health and Life Insurance Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 1 of this Part, either the Union or the Company may apply to the Alberta Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any Collective Labour Agreement this in effect and the other party shall join in such application. If, subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement or subsequent to termination of this Agreement the parties settle any difference between them and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made then such Collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
5.	This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all demands of the Union for life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance and accident and sickness benefits, including Weekly Indemnity Benefits for the duration of the Agreement and during the term hereof of any renewal hereof. Subject to the provisions of Section 2, Article B, Part II, neither the Union nor its representative shall:
(a)	make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated or that a new life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, or sickness and accident benefit plan be established for the employees, or that the
23
PART V - Section 5 (a) Continued...
Company contributes or pays any greater amount for such benefits for the employees than it is required to pay under the provisions hereof;
(b)	engage in or continue to engage in , or any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Company for the purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination;
and except during the last seventy-five (75) days of the term of this Agreement, or of any renewal thereof, the Company shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters referred to in clause (a) of this Section.
Any and all benefits similar in kind to those described in clause (a) hereof heretofore supplied, granted or sponsored by the Company for the employees shall be discontinued as of the effective date of this Plan, insofar as lies within the powers of the Company, and the Union will support the Company in its efforts to accomplish such discontinuance.
6.	(a) Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall become effective as of May 1,
2007, and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter in respect to all benefits until the 22nd day of July, 2009, and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or of proposals for revisions within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to the termination date, the last day of the original period or of any extended period being referred to herein as the termination date.
(b)	If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (a) of this Part, this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(c)	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (a) of this Part, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revision within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight July 22, 2009 or by midnight of any subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one (1) year or until a new agreement is reached or until the procedures contemplated by Section 74 of the Alberta Labour Act has been completed. Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, the benefits described therein shall be provided for ninety (90) days following termination. The termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically discontinuing the payment of benefits insofar as it affects the benefits payable with respect to disabilities which were suffered or incurred prior to the date of termination.
24
UNDERSTANDING OF DENTAL PLAN
It is understood that, effective May 1, 2007, arrangements will be made to provide all eligible employees and their dependents, with a dental plan which contains extended service coverage to that authorized in the Blue Cross Preventative Dental Care Plan No. 7 with Riders No. 1,2 and 4, which is based on the 1995 Alberta Dental Association fee guide.
New employees, hired after the effective date of this coverage will receive such coverage as outlined in Part III, paragraph 2 of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
Only employees at work will be eligible for coverage. One year lag ADA or applicable Clarica (Mutual) fee schedule.
It is further understood that, effective January 1,1997, the benefits described above will be based on the 1996 Alberta Dental Association Fee Guide.
Effective January 1, 1998, the benefits will be based on the 1997 Alberta Dental Employee Fee Guide.
Effective January 1, 1999, the benefits will be based on the 1998 Alberta Dental Association Fee Guide.
Effective March 1, 2000, the benefits will be based on the 1999 Alberta Dental Association or 1999 Clarica (Mutual) fee guide as applicable.
Effective January 1,2001, the benefits will be based on the 2000 guide.
Effective January 1,2002, the benefits will be based on the 2001 guide.
Effective January 1,2003, the benefits will be based on the 2002 guide.
Effective January 1,2004, the benefits will be based on the 2003 guide.
Dental Sealants
The Company will allow the provision of dental sealants to eligible dependent children under the age of sixteen (16). These sealants are applied to permanent molars and intended to protect the child’s teeth from cavities. The usual and customary limitations would apply.
Electronic filing of dental claims will be implemented.
25
ADDITIONAL COVERAGE
Electronic Drug Card
Effective in year 1 in the 2000 - 2004 Agreement, the Company agreed to arrange through Assured Health Inc., a pay direct drug card which allows for the purchase of eligible prescription drugs, without the exchange of cash. This card can be used in all pharmacies in Alberta (and other provinces) with the implementation of the pay direct drug card, the current drug plan will remain in effect, however, the Company reserves the right to review and approve any new drugs before they are added to the Medicine Hat drug plan. The plan will not cover lifestyle drugs such as, but not limited to, fertility drugs (for the purposes of infertility matters), anti-obesity drugs, erectile dysfunction drugs, (e.g. Viagara), hair loss medication and alcohol and drug abuse medication.
Dispensing Fees
Although dispensing fees (professional fees) vary from pharmacy to pharmacy;
$2.88	Real Canadian Superstore
$7.22	Canada Safeway
$4.58	Wal-Mart
$7.02	Zellers
$9.94	Shoppers Drug Mart
Effective March 1,2007, the Company will set the maximum dispensing fee for all prescriptions at $9.00 per prescription for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
Orthotics
Effective March 1, 2000, the Company agrees to provide orthotics to all employees and their eligible dependents up to a maximum of $200.00 per calendar year for each eligible person.
Orthotics must be prescribed by an appropriate medical professional.
Massage Therapy
Effective March 1, 2000, the Company agrees to provide massage therapy with a registered massage therapist to all active employees and their eligible dependents up to $20.00 per visit to a maximum of $200,00 per year.
Vision
Effective January 1, 2005, increase to $275 every twenty-four (24) months. The Company will pay for one eye examination every twenty-four (24) months and every twelve (12) months for children under age 18.
26
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT MEDICINE HAT, ALBERTA, and THIS 1st DAY OF-MAY, 2004.
The Company Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor	The Union Sheldon Denman Don Harris Barry Thompson Dave McMenemy
27
Letter#!
This will confirm our understanding concerning Nursing Services reached during the recent negotiations.
Services rendered in a patient’s home by a registered nurse (R.N.) will be subject to a maximum eligible expense in a year of $25,000 less the amount paid for registered nurses services during the two (2) preceding years plus $100.00 per day thereafter.
Letter #2
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations.
It is the intention of the Company to pay the present rate or subscription payment as well as any subsequent increase that might be implemented during the term of this Agreement, for the Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan.
No supplementary benefit plans that may be in existence will be considered included in the above references to the Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan.
Letter #3
This will confirm the Company policy with respect to claims for weekly indemnity. Upon receipt of satisfactory medical proof, the time during which an employee is ill while on vacation or on an approved leave of absence will be counted as waiting days in determining as employee’s eligibility for weekly indemnity benefits under the provisions of Part II C, Section 4 of the Health and Life Insurance Agreement. In no event will benefits be paid prior to the date on which the employee is scheduled to return to active employment.
Letter #4
This will confirm the undertaking reached during the recent negotiations to the effect that all present pensioners presently covered under the Mutual Dental Plan No. 7 with either Riders No. 1 and 2 (1977 A.D.A.) or Riders No. 1,2 and 4 (1980 A.D.A.) will continue to receive the same coverage. All future eligible pensioners will receive coverage under the plan as negotiated in this Agreement.
28
Letter #5
This will confirm the Company policy concerning the eligibility for weekly indemnity benefits for employees working on the seven (7) day work schedule.
The waiting period for weekly indemnity benefits as a result of sickness will be forty (40) regular scheduled working hours on continuous disability.
Letter #6
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached with respect to Alberta Health Care.
In order to control escalating medical costs, if the Alberta Health Care Association decides to cut back its coverage on certain items, the Company will not automatically pick up the coverage on those items through Mutual, but will review each of those items and determine the feasibility of doing so.
Letter #7
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached during recent negotiations with respect to coordination of benefits.
In order to control benefit costs, the Company will ask its employees whose spouses are employed elsewhere and have company-provided benefit coverage to submit their own claims through their own respective employers first. Any portion of the claim not paid by the other employer can then be submitted to Goodyear for reimbursement. The claims for children will be paid through the spouse whose birthday is earlier in the calendar year.
29
PENSION PLAN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC.
MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
THE EMPLOYER
-AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER, MANUFACTURING, ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION
(UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
MAY 1,2007 - JULY 22,2009
PENSION PLAN AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the 1st day of May, 2007, by and between Goodyear Canada Inc., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and the Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers), representing the employees in the Bargaining Unit at the Employer's Medicine Hat Factory and G.E.L. Warehouse located at Medicine Hat, Alberta, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WHEREAS the parties hereto established a Pension Plan effective on the thirteenth day of
February 1962, which Pension Plan has thereafter been amended from time to time;
AND WHEREAS the parties desire to provide for certain modifications and amendments
thereto;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Employer agrees with the Union that it will maintain the Pension Fund during
the term of this Agreement and of any subsequent renewal thereof, subject to:
(a)	the approval of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of the Employer,
(b)	the receipt and retention by the Employer of such approval of the Pension Plan by the Alberta Ministry of Labour as the Employer may deem necessary to establish that the Pension Plan conforms with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act, and
(c)	the receipt and retention by the Employer of such approval of the Pension Plan by die relevant tax authorities as the Employer may deem necessary to establish that the Employer is entitled to deduct the amount of its payments of contributions to the Pension Fund as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act or any other applicable tax laws, as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted.
No action taken in performance of this Agreement and consistent herewith shall be construed or interpreted to be a violation of any of the terms of any Collective Labour Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
This Agreement shall apply only to those eligible Employees who retire, die, become Totally and Permanently Disabled or otherwise terminate Employment on or after May 1, 2007 and during the term of this Agreement, except as expressly stated to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 2.10 and Schedule 1 are effective January 1,2002.
Article
1. DEFINITIONS
1.1	Actuarial Equivalent	1
1.2	Actuary	1
1.3	Bargaining Unit	1
1.4	Basic Pension	1
1.5	Beneficiary	1
1.6	Collective Labour Agreement	2
1.7	Commuted Value	2
1.8	Continuous Service	2
1.9	Credited Service	2
1.10	Effective Date	3
1.11	Employee	3
1.12	Employment	3
1.13	Employment Pension Plans Act	3
1.14	Former Employee	3
1.15	Fund Manager	3
1.16	Income Tax Act	4
1.17	Normal Retirement Date	4
1.18	Pension CommencementDate	4
1.19	Pension Fund	4
1.20	Pension Plan	4
1.21	Pensioner	4
1.22	Spouse	4
1.23	Statutory Benefit	5
1.24	Statutory Benefit Date	5
1.25	SupplementaryPension	5
1.26	Totally and Permanently Disabled	5
2.	ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIREMENT AND AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
2,1	Normal Retirement	6
2,2	Special Early Retirement	6
2.3	Regular Early Retirement	7
2.4	Plant Closure	9
2.5	Retirement During Absence From Work	9
2.6	Disability Retirement	10
2.7	Maximum Basic Pension	11
2.8	Maximum Basic and Supplementary Pension	12
2.9	Maximum SupplementaryPension	12
2.10	Additional Pension	13
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'dl
Article	Page
3. DEDUCTIONS
3.1	Statutory Benefit Deduction	14
3.2	Inter-Plan Transfers	14
4.	COMMENCEMENT DATE FOR BASIC PENSION
4.1	Net Amount Payable	16
4.2	Commencement Date for Basic Pension	16
4.3	Normal Form of Payment for Basic Pension	17
4.4	Automatic Spouse Option for Basic Pension	17
4.5	Waiver of Spouse Option	18
4.6	Optional Forms of Payment for Basic Pension	18
4.7	Payment of Supplementary Pension	19
4.8	Small Payments	19
4.9	Pensioner Unable To Care For His Affairs	19
4.10	Non-Alienation of Benefits	20
4.11	Credit Splitting	20
BENEFITS ON DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT		
5.1	Spousal Pension	21
5.2	Alternative Death Benefit	21
TERMINATION BENEFITS		
6.1	Deferred Vested Pension After 10 Yeas	23
6.2	Deferred Vested Pension Before 10 Years	23
6.3	Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension	24
6.4	Alternative Settlements	24
6.5	Re-employment	25
6.6	Termination Before Effective Date	26
BENEFICIARY		
7.1	Designation of Beneficiary	27
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cant'd)
Article	page
8.	ADMINISTRATION		
	8.1	Administrator	28
	8.2	Proof of Age	28
	8.3	Written Explanation	28
	8.4	Information to Union	28
	8.5	Records of Employer	28
9.	FINANCING		
	9.1	Pension Fund	29
	9.2	Employer Contributions	29
	9.3	Employee Contributions	29
	9.4	Disbursement from the Pension Fund	30
	9.5	Pensions Payable Solely from the Pension Fund	30
	9.6	Overpayments and Refunds	30
	9.7	Surplus Assets	30
	9.8	Excess Assets	30
10.	GENERAL PROVISIONS		
	10.1	Contributory Pension Plan	32
	10.2	Effect of Retirement	32
	10.3	No Guarantee of Employment	32
	10.4	Grievance Procedure	32
	10.5	Dispute as to Disability	33
11.	TERM	OF AGREEMENT	
	11.1	Submission for Approval	34
	11.2	Negotiations on Refusal of Approval	34
	11.3	Application to Labour Relations Board	34
	11.4	Amendment During Term	35
	11.5	Requirement for Modified Pension Plan	35
	11.6	Duration of Agreement	35
	11.7	Amendment Not to Reduce Accrued Benefits	36
	11.8	Full Settlement	36
	11.9	Termination of Plan	37
SCHEDULE 1		- INCREASES TO PENSIONS IN PAY	38
Table of Contents
ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(1)	The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings for all purposes of the Pension Plan unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning.
(2)	All references in the Pension Plan to "Article" or "Section" shall refer to the articles and sections of this Pension Plan. The headings in this Pension Plan are inserted for convenience only and shall not have any effect upon the meaning of the provisions thereof.
(3)	Words in the singular shall be construed as including words in the plural and words in the plural as including words in the singular and words importing the masculine gender shall be construed as including the feminine gender.
1.1	"Actuarial Equivalent" means a benefit having an equal value to the normal form of benefit from which it is determined when computed on the basis of interest, mortality and other rates and tables adopted by the Employer for such purpose on the advice of the Actuary and in accordance with the Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act and accepted actuarial principles.
1.2	"Actuary" means the actuary or firm of actuaries appointed for the purpose of preparing the necessary actuarial valuations and calculations under the Pension Plan. The actuary or firm of actuaries shall be, or shall include, a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries.
1.3	"Bargaining Unit" means the unit of employees defined in the Collective Labour Agreement.
1.4	"Basic Pension" means the lifetime pension calculated in accordance with Section 2.1.
1.5	"Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated by an Employee in accordance with Article 7 to receive any benefits which may be payable as a result of the death of the Employee.
Definitions
1.6	"Collective Labour Agreement", except where otherwise provided herein, means the Collective Labour Agreement between the Employer and the Union in effect at the time.
1.7	"Commuted Value" means the aggregate actuarial present value of a benefit as of a fixed date as determined by the Actuary in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act.
1.8	"Continuous Service" means the continuous service of an Employee with the Employer as it appears on his records maintained by the Employer, whether in or out of the Bargaining Unit.
Continuous Service shall include any layoff or period of absence authorized by the Employer of 26 or less consecutive weeks immediately after which the Employee returns to his Employment.
1.9	"Credited Service" means the Employee's pensionable service under another pension plan maintained by the Employer accrued prior to the time of transfer of membership from that plan to this Pension Plan, if applicable, plus the Employee's Continuous Service while in the Bargaining Unit (computed to years and completed months for a fractional year) up to the date when the Employee ceases to be an Employee.
Credited Service in respect of an Employee in full-time Employment for any calendar year is limited to one year of Credited Service. Credited Service in respect of an Employee in less than full-time Employment shall be limited to a portion of the year determined by dividing the Employee's regular hours of Employment in the year (excluding overtime) by the scheduled regular hours of Employment for a full-time Employee in a comparable position.
Credited Service shall include:
(a)	pregnancy and parental leaves to the extent that relevant employment standards legislation requires such leaves to be credited under the Pension Plan, and
(b)	periods of absence while in receipt of disability benefits under relevant workers' compensation legislation to the extent that such legislation requires such periods of absence to be credited under the Pension Plan.
- 2 -
Definitions
Notwithstanding the above or any other provision of the Pension Plan, Credited Service before and after January 1, 1992 shall be determined in accordance with the applicable eligible service provisions of the Income Tax Act. In particular, except for periods of disability credited under the Pension Plan, Credited Service for eligible periods of reduced pay or temporary absence (as defined under the Income Tax Act) after December 31, 1990 shall be limited in accordance with the prescribed compensation rules under the Income Tax Act.
In no event will an Employee accrue Credited Service while he is in receipt of pension payments under the Pension Plan or under any other registered pension plan in which the Employer or another employer with whom the Employer does not deal at arm's length has participated for the benefit of the Employee. There will be no duplication of Credited Service in respect of any period of service with the Employer.
1.10	"Effective Date" means, subject to the provisions of Section 11.1, the 1st day of March, 2004.
1.11	"Employee" means any male or female who is in Employment, excluding any person who is a connected person as defined under the Income Tax Act.
1.12	"Employment" means the status of a person who is employed by the Employer in the Bargaining Unit, as defined in this Article, during all times he is enrolled on its active factory or warehouse payroll.
1.13	"Employment Pension Plans Act" means the Employment Pension Plans Act of Alberta, and any future legislation amending, supplementing, superseding or incorporating it, including any regulations issued pursuant to it, and also including, where applicable, any similar pension benefits legislation of Canada or another province having jurisdiction over the Pension Plan.
1.14	"Former Employee" means a person who previously had been in Employment and who is not in receipt of a pension under this Pension Plan.
1.15	"Fuad Manager" means the individual trustees, corporate trustee and/or insurance company, as selected by the Employer from time to time in accordance with the
- 3 -
Definitions
Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act, for the purpose of establishing and maintaining apart or all of the Pension Fund.
1.16	"Income Tax Act" means the relevant rules under the Income Tax Act (Canada), including all regulations and administrative rules issued pursuant to it, which are applicable to registered pension plans. In general, the rules under Information Circular 72-13R8 as amended apply to service prior to January 1, 1992 and the rules under Part LXXXV of the regulations apply to service from January 1,1992.
1.17	"Normal Retirement Date" means the first day of the month next following an Employee's 65th birthday, or the Employee's 65th birthday if it should fall on the first day of the month.
1.18 "Pension Commencement Date" means the date on which payment of a pension commences, determined in accordance with Section 4.2.
1.19	"Pension Fund" means the fund into which the Employer's contributions are being deposited as well as the investment income of this fund, and from which any pension, other benefits, administration expenses and other payments under the Pension Plan are paid.
1.20	"Pension Plan" means the non-contributory Pension Plan as set forth in Articles 1 to 11.
1.21	"Pensioner" means a person who has retired, terminated Employment or become Totally and Permanently Disabled and is commencing or has commenced to receive pension payments from the Pension Plan.
1.22 "Spouse" means:
a person, who, at the relevant time, was married to the Employee and had not been living separate and apart from the Employee for three or more consecutive years, or
if there is no qualifying spouse under (a), the Employee's common-law spouse. A common-law spouse shall be the person who, immediately preceding the relevant time, had lived with the Employee in a conjugal relationship,
(i)
for a continuous period of at least three years, or
- 4 -
Definitions
(ii)	of some permanence, if there is a child of the relationship by birth or adoption.
1.23	"Statutory Benefit" means the amount of any old age or disability benefit payable under any federal and/or provincial legislation to which a Pensioner shall be or upon application would be entitled; provided that such term does not include:
(a)	a benefit payable under workers' compensation legislation, or
(b)	a benefit payable pursuant to occupational disease legislation, or
(c)	a benefit payable on a "means test" basis or solely on account of blindness or service in the armed forces or other national service, or
(d)	a benefit payable to or in respect of dependants, or
(e)	a benefit payable under the Old Age Security Act (Canada).
1.24	"Statutory Benefit Date" shall mean the date not later than the Employee's or Pensioner's Normal Retirement Date, at which any benefit becomes payable under the provisions of the Old Age Security Act (Canada) in effect as of May 1,2007.
1.25	"Supplementary Pension" means the bridging benefit calculated in accordance with Section 2.1.
1.26	"Totally and Permanently Disabled" means the condition of an Employee who is disabled by bodily injury or disease, which disability will presumably be permanent and continuously and wholly prevent him, during the remainder of his life, from meeting the job requirements of anyjob in the Bargaining Unit, other than a disability which:
(a)	was contracted, suffered or incurred while the Employee was engaged in, or resulted from his having engaged in, a criminal enterprise, or
(b)	resulted from a wilfully self-inflicted injury, or
(c)	can be established as due to service in the armed forces of any country.
- 5 -
Definitions
ARTICLE 2
ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIREMENT AND AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
2.1	Normal Retirement
2.1.1	Normal Retirement Date
Eveiy Employee will be retired automatically on his Normal Retirement Date, which is the first day of the month coincident with or next following his 65th birthday.
2.1.2	Normal RetirementPension
The monthly benefit paid to an Employee who retires on his Normal Retirement Date on or after the Effective Date shall be equal to:
(a)	a monthly Basic Pension, payable for life, equal to the Basic Pension rate set out in the following table for each year of Credited Service; plus
(b)	a monthly Supplementary Pension, payable with each monthly Basic Pension up to and including the payment for the month in which the Statutory Benefit Date occurs, equal to the Supplementary Pension rate set out in the following table for each year of Credited Service, up to 30 years.
Date of Retirement or Termination	Basic Pension rate	Supplementary Pension rate
On or after January 1,2005	$41.00	$20.00
July 1,2007	$42.00	$20.00
July 1,2008	$43.00	$20.00
- 6 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
2.2
Special Early Retirement
2.2.1	Special Early Retirement Date
An Employee qualifies for special early retirement if he:
(a)	has attained age 62 and completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, or
(b)	has completed 30 or more years of Continuous Service.
2.2.2	Special Early Retirement Pension
The special early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement.
2.3	Regular Early Retirement
2.3.1	Regular Early Retirement Date - Type 1
An Employee qualifies for regular early retirement if he is not eligible for special early retirement but he:
(a)	has attained age 60 and completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, or
(b)	has attained age 55, but not age 60, and his combined age and Continuous Service (in completed months in each case) total 85 or more.
2.3.2	Regular Early Retirement Pension - Type 1
The regular early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, but may be reduced, depending on when payment starts. If the Employee's Pension Commencement Date is on or after the first day of the month coincident with or next following his 62nd birthday, his pension will be unreduced. If it is prior to that date,
Eligibility for Retirement
- 7 -	and Amount of Benefits
his pension will be reduced by 4/10ths of 1 % for each complete month between his Pension Commencement Date and the first day of the month coincident with or next following his 62nd birthday.
2.3.3	Regular Early Retirement Date - Type 2
An Employee qualifies for regular early retirement if he is not eligible for special early retirement but he:
(a)	has attained age 55, but not age 60, and
(b)	has completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, and
(c)	retires at the option of the Employer or under mutually satisfactory conditions.
2.3.4	Regular Early Retirement Pension - Type 2
The regular early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, but it may be reduced. The pension will be reduced by 1/4 of 1% for each complete month between his Pension Commencement Date and the first day of the month coincident with or next following the earliest of the three following dates:
(a)	his 60th birthday,
(b)	the date when he would have completed 30 years of Credited Service, and
(c)	the date when his combined age and Credited Service would total 80.
This reduction will be applied before the Statutory Benefit deduction is subtracted from the Supplementary Pension pursuant to Article 3.
2.3.5	Regular Early Retirement Date - Tvne 3
An Employee qualifies for regular early retirement if he is not eligible for special early retirement but he:
- 8 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
(a)	has attained age 55 and completed two or more years of continuous membership in the Pension Plan, or five or more years of Continuous Service, and
(b)	does not retire under regular early retirement Type 1 or 2.
2.3.6	Regular Early Retirement Pension - Type 3
The regular early retirement pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, but it will be reduced as follows. The Basic Pension will be the Actuarial Equivalent of the pension otherwise payable at Normal Retirement Date subject to the minimum reduction required under the Income Tax Act. No Supplementary Pension will be payable.
2.4	Plant Closure
If the Medicine Hat Factory or G.E.L. Warehouse are completely and permanently closed down:
(a)	an Employee who is not offered like employment by the Employer in the Province of Alberta will be deemed to have the Employer's consent for any pension under the Pension Plan requiring consent;
(b)	an Employee with 25 or more years of Continuous Service who is not eligible for an unreduced pension will be entitled to an immediate Basic Pension calculated as for a normal retirement. No Supplementary Pension will be payable. In such case, the Employee must waive the pension to which he is otherwise entitled. Such pension shall be reduced by 1/4 of 1% for each completed month by which his Pension Commencement Date precedes the first day of the month coincident with or next following the month in which (i) he will attain age 60, (ii) he would have completed 30 years of Credited Service, or (iii) his combined years of age and Credited Service (computed to completed months for a fractional year in each case) would total 80, whichever is the earliest.
2.5	Retirement During Absence From Work
An Employee who is absent from active Employment, by reason of disability, sickness, layoff or other Employer approved leave of absence, may still qualify for a normal
- 9 •
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
retirement, special early retirement or regular early retirement pension. In order to qualify, the Employee must have kept his seniority under a Collective Labour Agreement since he was last in Employment. When he retires, he will stop accruing Credited Service under the Pension Plan.
2.6	Disability Retirement
2.6.1 Disability Retirement Date
An Employee who:
(a)	becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled while in Employment or while accumulating seniority with the Employer since he was last in Employment, and
(b)	has completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service, but has not reached his Normal Retirement Date, at the time he becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled,
may retire on disability retirement.
Application for a disability pension must be made within one year following the end of 52 weeks of weekly indemnity benefits.
The pension will be payable while the Employee remains Totally and Permanently Disabled, as described in Article 4.
2.6.2	Disability Retirement Pension
Upon disability retirement, the pension will be calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, except that any Statutory Benefit for which the Employee qualifies will be subtracted from the Supplementary Pension. This calculation will be made in accordance with the Pension Plan's provisions at the date of the Employee's application for disability retirement.
2.6.3	Medical Examination
An Employee applying for disability retirement or a Pensioner on disability retirement is required to undergo a physical examination whenever such examination is requested by the
- 10 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
Employer. In the case of a Pensioner, the Employer will not request more than two examinations in any calendar year.
A disability pension will not be payable without certification by a medical doctor licensed to practice under provincial law that the Employee is Totally and Permanently Disabled.
If an Employee or Pensioner refuses to submit to such physical examination, the application for, or payment of, the disability retirement pension will be suspended until he does submit to such examination.
2.6.4 Recovery
If a Pensioner ceases to be Totally and Permanently Disabled or engages in any work similar to the work covered by the Bargaining Unit before he reaches his Normal Retirement Date, the Employer may terminate his disability retirement and rehire him in a position reflecting his seniority and physical and mental ability.
Upon his return to work, his seniority and service will be reinstated.
2.7	Maximum Basic Pension
In accordance with the Income Tax Act, notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, the benefits payable on behalf of an Employee, on an annual basis excluding any Supplementary Pension payable under the Pension Plan, but including any payments to a Spouse or ex-Spouse as a result of a marital breakdown, upon retirement, termination of Employment or termination of the Pension Plan, shall not, in the year of pension commencement, exceed the lesser of:
(a)	the defined benefit limit for the year of commencement, and
(b)	2% of the Employee's highest average compensation, indexed to the year of commencement,
multiplied by the number of years of the Employee's pensionable service.
- 11 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
For the purposes of this Section 2.7, an Employee shall not be credited with more than 35 years of pensionable service for Employment prior to January 1, 1992 and the terms "defined benefit limit", "highest average compensation" and "pensionable service" shall have the meanings ascribed to them under the Income Tax Act.
2.8	Maximum Basic and Supplementary Pension
In accordance with the Income Tax Act, notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, in respect of pensionable service from January 1, 1992, the sum of the annual Basic Pension and any Supplementary Pension payable to an Employee under the terms of this Pension Plan or any other registered pension plan in which the Employer participates (including any registered pension plan in which any other employer with whom the Employer does not deal at arm's length participates) shall not, in the year of commencement, exceed the sum of:
(a)	the defined benefit limit for the year of commencement multiplied by the Employee's pensionable service; and
(b)	25% of the average of the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings under the Canada Pension Plan for the year of commencement and the two immediately preceding years multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the Employee's pensionable service (not exceeding 35 years) accrued after December 31, 1991 and the denominator of which is 35.
For the purposes of this Section 2.8, the terms "defined benefit limit", "pensionable service" and "arm's length" shall have the meanings ascribed to them under the Income Tax Act and "pensionable service" shall refer to Credited Service under this Pension Plan and pensionable service under any other registered pension plan in which the Employer participates (including any other registered pension plan in which any other employer with whom the Employer does not deal at arm's length participates) which is not already included in Credited Service.
2.9	Maximum supplementary Pension
The Supplementary Pension shall conform with the Income Tax Act's requirements concerning the amount of bridging benefits provided under a registered pension plan and
- 12 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
the payment of bridging benefits under two or more registered pension plans in respect of related employers.
2.10	Additional Pension
The Employer may, from time to time, grant an additional pension to a Pensioner who has met the eligibility conditions specified in Schedule 1, For the purposes of this Section and Schedule 1 the amount of such pension shall be referred to as “Additional Pension”.
In no event shall an Additional Pension granted in a given year exceed the pension payable to a Pensioner at the date the pension commences multiplied by the cumulative increase in the Consumer Price Index (as published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the Statistics Act) from the month in which the pension commenced to the beginning of the year in which the Additional Pension is granted, less any Additional Pension previously granted to the Pensioner.
- 13 -
Eligibility for Retirement
and Amount of Benefits
ARTICLE 3 DEDUCTIONS
3.1	Statutory Benefit Deduction
A deduction will be made from any Supplementary Pension payable to a Pensioner on disability retirement or on Type 2 regular early retirement. This deduction will be made after the Supplementary Pension has been reduced on account of early retirement.
The amount of this deduction is the Statutory Benefit which the person is receiving or could receive upon application. This includes all amounts he would have qualified for, whether he is receiving them or not.
If appropriate information is not given to the Employer, the Employer may make an estimate of the Statutory Benefit which it considers reasonable.
If the Statutory Benefit is payable in a lump sum, no Basic or Supplementary Pension will be payable until the total payments that the Pensioner would have received from the Pension Plan are equal to the lump sum.
3.2	Inter-Plan Transfers
3.2.1	Eligibility
This Section applies to an Employee who ceases to be an Employee and transfers membership to another pension plan maintained by the Employer (referred to as a "successorplan").
3.2.2	Calculation of Pension
If the successor plan recognizes Credited Service under this Pension Plan for benefit calculation purposes, a deduction will be made from the pension payable under this Pension Plan.
- 14 -
Deductions
If the Employee terminates his Employment, retires or dies under the successor plan, the deduction will be the amount of any non-contributory Basic Pension and Supplementary Pension provided by the successor plan in respect of Credited Service under this Pension Plan. This amount will be determined as of the date of termination, retirement or death.
3.2.3	Subsequent Transfer
If the Former Employee transfers again to another successor plan instead, the deduction will be calculated in a manner consistent with Section 3.2.2, taking account of the impact of any consolidation of pensionable service arising from all previous transfers.
3.2.4	Conditions for Calculation
For the purposes of this Section 3.2, the benefits payable under the different pension plans will be measured on a comparable, consistent basis.
- 15 -
Deductions
ARTICLE 4
COMMENCEMENT DATE FOR BASIC PENSION
4.1	Net Amount Payable
No Employee, Former Employee or Pensioner shall be entitled to a pension under the Pension Plan, except as expressly provided in this Article 4. Only the net amount of any pension, after making all the deductions which are provided for in Article 3, shall be payable.
4.2	Commencement Date for Basic Pension
4.2.1	Normal Retirement Commencement Date
If an Employee retires on his Normal Retirement Date, the Basic Pension will commence on the Pensioner's Normal Retirement Date.
4.2.2	Regular or Special Early Retirement Commencement Date
If an Employee retires under the regular or special early retirement rules, the Basic Pension will commence on the first day of the month coincident with or next following his termination of employment, The retiring Employee may choose to have the Basic Pension commence on the first day of any subsequent month. The Basic Pension may not commence later than the end of the calendar year in which he attains age 69 or such later date as may be permitted under the Income Tax Act.
4.2.3	Disability Retirement Commencement Date
If an Employee retires under the disability retirement rules, the Basic Pension will commence on the first day of the month next following the latest of:
(a)	the date when the Pensioner files proper application with the Employer,
(b)	the date when the disability retirement commenced,
- 16 -
Commencement Date
for Basic Pension
(c)	the date when his pay stopped,
(d)	the date when weekly indemnity stopped under the Health and Life Insurance Agreement.
4.2.4	Commencement Date for Deferred Vested Pensions
A deferred vested pension will commence on the Former Employee's Normal Retirement Date. The Former Employee may choose to have the deferred vested pension commence on the first day of any earlier month coincident with or following his attainment of age 55. If he does, it will be reduced as described in Section 6.3. The pension may not commence later than the end of the calendar year in which he attains age 69 or such later date as may be permitted under the Income Tax Act.
4.3	Normal Form of Payment for Basic Pension
This Section applies unless the Pensioner has elected the optional form in Section 4,6 or the automatic spouse option in Section 4.4 applies.
The Basic Pension is payable for the Pensioner's lifetime. If a Pensioner dies before 60 monthly payments have been made, the balance of these Basic Pension monthly payments will be paid to his Beneficiary or, if he does not have a Beneficiary, to his estate.
However, for a Pensioner on disability retirement who had less than 30 years of Continuous Service at retirement, the Basic Pension will be payable without guarantee until the earlier of the Pensioner's death and attainment of age 55. If the disability Pensioner survives until his 55th birthday, payment of the Basic Pension will be guaranteed for the following 60 months.
4.4	Automatic Spouse Option for Basic Pension
If a Pensioner has a Spouse at his Pension Commencement Date, the automatic form of pension payable shall be the joint and survivor type of annuity. The Basic Pension payable under this automatic spouse option will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the amount payable in the normal form, Under this pension, 60% of the pension payable to the Pensioner will continue to the surviving Spouse if the Pensioner dies before his Spouse.
- 17 -
Commencement Date
for Basic Pension
4.5
Waiver of Spouse Option
An Employee or Former Employee and his Spouse may waive the entitlement to the automatic spouse pension by filing an appropriate waiver as required under the Employment Pension Plans Act.
In the case of a waiver, the normal form of payment will apply unless another form is elected.
The waiver must be provided to the Employer before the Pension Commencement Date.
4.6	Optional Forms of Payment for Basic Pension
4.6.1	Eligibility
Subject to any waiver required, an Employee may elect in writing an optional form of pension payable on his normal retirement.
The election must be submitted to the Employer before the Employee's 65th birthday and must be accompanied by evidence of good health satisfactory to the Employer.
4.6.2	Options
The Employee may elect that his Basic Pension be paid for his lifetime, with a guarantee that it will be paid for at least 10 or 15 years regardless of when he dies.
The Basic Pension (before deductions) will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the Basic Pension in the normal form.
4.6.3	Revocation of Option
An Employee may revoke his election of an optional form in writing at any time before his retirement, but may not thereafter make another election.
- 18 -
Commencement Date
for Basic Pension
4.7 Payment of supplementary Pension
A Supplementary Pension is paid for the same months as the Basic Pension, except that the Supplementary Pension stops after the month in which the Pensioner dies or the Statutory Benefit Date, whichever occurs first.
4.8	Small Payments
An Employee or the surviving Spouse of an Employee may at the earliest of termination of Pension Plan participation, termination of the Pension Plan, death or pension commencement, elect to receive an amount equal to the Commuted Value of the pension to which the Employee is entitled, if the annual pension, that would be payable to the Employee at Normal Retirement Date is less than 4%, or if the Commuted Value of such pension is less than 20%, of the Yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings under the Canada Pension Plan for the calendar year in which that earliest event occurs or such other amount as may be prescribed under the Employment Pension Plans Act.
The Employer may require that an Employee or the surviving Spouse of an Employee, upon the earliest to occur of termination of Pension Plan participation, termination of the Pension Plan, death or pension commencement, transfer the Commuted Value of the pension to which the Employee is entitled to a registered retirement savings plan or receive such amount in the form of a lump sum cash payment less applicable withholding tax, if the Commuted Value of the pension is less than 20% of the Yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings under the Canada Pension Plan for the calendar year in which that earliest event occurs or such other amount as may be prescribed under the Employment Pension Plans Act.
4.9	Pensioner Unable To Care For His Affairs
If the Employer finds that any Pensioner is unable to care for his affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless a prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian, committee or other legal representative), may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent or a brother or sister, or to any person deemed by the Employer to have incurred expense for such Pensioner. However, the Employer shall endeavour to give effect to the wishes of the Pensioner in this respect when such wishes shall have been expressed in writing by him before he shall have become unable to care for his affairs. Any such
- 19 -
Commencement Date
for Basic Pension
payments shall be a payment for the account of the Pensioner, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Pension Plan in respect of the Pensioner.
4.10	Non-Alienation of Benefits
The pensions payable under the Pension Plan shall be deemed alimentary and for the personal use of the Pensioners and, to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable laws, shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge as security, encumbrance, surrender or charge, or to attachment or legal process for debts of Employees, Former Employees or Pensioners.
4.11	Credit Splitting:
When an order from a court of law having jurisdiction or a valid written domestic contract has been received by the Employer requiring division of an Employee's benefits under the Plan due to breakdown of marriage or dissolution of a common-law relationship, such division shall be made in accordance with such order or contract, as determined by the Employer, and subject to any requirements prescribed under applicable law. Any necessary adjustments shall be made to the Employee's benefit entitlement under the Plan.
- 20 -
Commencement Date
for Basic Pension
ARTICLE 5
BENEFITS ON DEATH BEFORE RETIREMENT
5.1	Spousal Pension
5.1.1	Eligibility
If an Employee has attained age 55 or has 30 or more years of Continuous Service and dies while accumulating seniority, while eligible to retire and prior to retirement, his Spouse will receive a spouse pension for life.
5.1.2	Amount
The amount of the spouse pension is 60% of the monthly Basic Pension which would have been payable if the Employee had retired immediately prior to death and the automatic spouse option had applied.
5.2	Alternative Death Benefit 5,2.1 Eligibility
The surviving Spouse of a qualifying Employee or Former Employee who dies will be entitled to an alternative death benefit, if it is greater than the death benefit under Section 5.1 or if that Section does not apply.
A qualifying Employee or Former Employee is one who:
(a)	completed two or more years of continuous membership in the Pension Plan, or completed five or more years of Continuous Service or reached his Normal Retirement Date, and
(5) dies before commencing to receive a pension under this Pension Plan and before a transfer of benefits under Article 6.
- 21 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
5.2.2 Amount and Payment
Under the alternative death benefit, the Spouse is entitled to either:
(a)	a pension based on:
(i)	if the qualifying Employee or Former Employee had completed two years of continuous membership in the Pension Plan or reached his Normal Retirement Date, 100% of the Commuted Value of the pension accrued from January 1,2000, as determined under Section 6.2, plus
(ii)	if the qualifying Employee or Former Employee had completed five years of Continuous Service or reached his Normal Retirement Date, 60% of the Commuted Value of the pension accrued from January 1,1987 to December 31,1999, as determined under Section 6.2, or
(b)	a transfer of the value of the death benefit under (a) in accordance with Section 6.4.
5.2.3	Other Conditions
The election of a death benefit under (a) or (b) must be made within the required time period under the Employment Pension Plans Act. If the election is not made a pension will be payable to the Spouse.
- 22 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 6
TERMINATION BENEFITS
6.1	Deferred Vested Pension After Ten Years
6.1.1	Eligibility
A deferred pension will be payable under this Section 6.1 where an Employee:
(a)	has his services with the Employer terminated on or after the Effective Date for reason other than death, disability or retirement, and
(b)	has completed 10 or more years of Continuous Service.
6.1.2	Amount
The deferred pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, except
that no Supplementary Pension is payable.
6.2	Deferred Vested Pension Before Ten Years
6.2.1 Eligibility
A deferred pension is payable under this Section 6,2 where an Employee:
(a)	has his services with the Employer terminated on or after the Effective Date for reason other than death, disability or retirement, and
(b)	has completed two or more years of.continuous membership in the Pension Plan or has completed five or more years of Continuous Service, but has completed less than 10 years of Continuous Service.
- 23 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
6.2.2 Amount
The deferred pension is calculated in the same manner as for a normal retirement, except that it is based on:
(a)	if the Employee has completed two years of continuous membership in the Pension Plan, his participation in the Pension Plan since January 1,2000, plus
(b)	if the Employee has completed five years of Continuous Service, his participation in the Pension Plan from January 1,1987 to December 31,1999,
and no Supplementary Pension is payable.
6.3	Commencement of Deferred Vested Pension
The deferred pension will commence on the Former Employee's Normal Retirement Date or the Former Employee may elect to have the deferred pension commence on the first day of any month on or after his 55th birthday.
A pension commencing before the Normal Retirement Date will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the pension payable at Normal Retirement Date.
6.4	Alternative Settlements
An Employee whose services with the Employer are terminated and who is entitled to a deferred pension but who has not reached age 55 may, instead of receiving pension payments from the Pension Plan, request the Employer to transfer the Commuted Value of the pension to:
(a)	another registered pension plan if the administrator of that pension plan agrees to accept the payment,
(b)	a company authorized to cany on a life insurance business in Canada for the purchase of a life annuity to commence no earlier than age 55, or
- 24 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
(c)	a locked-in retirement account, retirement income fund or other retirement income arrangement as permitted under the Employment Pension Plans Act and Income Tax Act.
Notice of the election must be given to the Employer within the time limit under the Employment Pension Plans Act. The transfer must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer may, in its discretion and subject to the terms imposed by the Employer, permit a Former Employee who is entitled to a deferred vested pension and who has not reached the age of 55 years to request a transfer of the Commuted Value after the expiration of the time period provided under the Employment Pension Plans Act. Such Employer discretion may also be exercised for those Former Employees whose employment terminated prior to the Effective Date, who have not reached the age of 55 years, and who remain entitled to a deferred vested pension under the Pension Plan which has not commenced to be paid. Any such transfer must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act.
Upon the transfer of the Commuted Value of the pension, the Former Employee will have no further entitlement under the Pension Plan.
6.5	Re-employment
If a Pensioner is re-employed by the Employer, payment of the pension shall be suspended during such period of re-employment and upon subsequent retirement, the pension will be resumed in an Actuarial Equivalent amount to account for the period of suspension and payments received prior to re-employment.
Further, the Pensioner will receive an additional amount of pension based on his Credited Service from his date of re-employment. However, the Credited Service maximum for calculation of a normal retirement pension will be based on the Pensioner's total Credited Service both before and after re-employment.
- 25 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
6.6	Termination Before Effective Date
All deferred vested pensions are calculated in accordance with the Pension Plan's provisions at the time of an Employee's termination of employment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Former Employee whose employment terminated prior to the Effective Date may elect to have his deferred pension commence on the first day of any month on or after his 55th birthday. A pension commencing before the Normal Retirement Date will be reduced to the Actuarial Equivalent of the pension payable at the Normal Retirement Date.
- 26 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 7
BENEFICIARY
7.1 Designation of Beneficiary
Subject to the provisions of this Section, an Employee or Former Employee who is or may become eligible to receive a monthly Basic Pension under this Pension Plan may designate a Beneficiary or a new Beneficiary to receive the payments, if any, to be made under this Pension Plan after his death. An Employee or Former Employee who has designated a Beneficiary or a new Beneficiary pursuant to this Section 7.1 may revoke any such designation but such revocation shall not revoke any election of an optional form of pension.
The right to designate or to revoke a designation of Beneficiary pursuant to (a) above is to be exercised by the execution by the Employee or Former Employee, and delivery to the Employer, of an instrument in writing provided by the Employer.
Where an Employee or Former Employee has not made a designation under the provisions of this Section 7.1, any payments to be made to a Beneficiary with respect to him after his death will be made to his estate. No provision of the Pension Plan is to be construed as taking away any rights of such an Employee or Former Employee to direct how monies received by his estate are to be distributed or otherwise dealt with by his personal representatives.
• 27 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 8
ADMINISTRATION
8.1	Administrator
The Employer shall have the sole responsibility and authority consistent with the provisions of this Agreement for the operation and administration of the Pension Plan.
8.2	Proof of Age
An applicant for pension or Pensioner shall prove his age by evidence satisfactory to the Employer.
8.3	Written Explanation
The Employer will provide a written explanation to each Employee of the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan and amendments thereto applicable to him, together with an explanation of the rights and duties of the Employee with reference to the benefits available to him under the terms thereof, and such other information as may be required under applicable legislation. In addition, such information as may be prescribed by applicable legislation shall be provided to any other person entitled thereto.
8.4	Information to Union
The Union shall be furnished with such pertinent information as it may request from time to time concerning the operation and administration of the Pension Plan and benefits thereunder, insofar as it affects Employees, applicants for pension who are represented by the Union and Pensioners.
8.5	Records of Employer
The records of the Employer shall be presumed to be conclusive of the facts concerning the service, employment, non-employment, or disability retirement of an Employee, a Former Employee, Pensioner or applicant for a pension, unless shown beyond a reasonable doubt to be incorrect.
- 28 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 9 FINANCING
9.1	Pension Fund
The Employer shall establish and maintain, with the assistance of the Fund Manager, a Pension Fund sufficient to provide the pension benefits under this Pension Plan. All monies in the Pension Fund shall be invested in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act and Income Tax Act.
9.2	Employer Contributions
The Employer shall make such contributions to the Pension Fund, as shall be recommended by the Actuary after taking into account, among other things, the assets in the Pension Fund, to provide for:
(a)	the normal cost of benefits accruing under the Plan, and
(b)	the proper amortization of any unfunded liability or solvency deficiency,
all in accordance with the requirements of the Employment Pension Plans Act and Income Tax Act, Such Employer contributions shall be made within the time limits required by the Employment Pension Plans Act.
9.3	Employee Contributions
No Employee shall be required or permitted, during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, to make any contribution to or under the Pension Plan.
9.4	Disbursement from the Pension Fund
The Pension Fund shall be used on proper authorization of the Employer to the Fund Manager in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan to pay reasonable expenses of administration of the Pension Plan and Pension Fund and to pay such pensions as are payable under the Pension Plan. No Employee or Former Employee shall have any right to
- 29 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
a pension, prior to his retirement, or any interest in any insurance company contract or trust fund which may be entered into or established for the purpose of providing pensions under the Pension Plan.
9.5	Pensions Payable Solely from the Pension Fund
The pensions which shall be payable in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan shall be paid solely from the Pension Fund, and each Employee, Former Employee or Pensioner or other person who shall claim the right to any payment under the Pension Plan shall be entitled to look only to the Pension Fund for such payment. No liability for the payment of pensions under the Pension Plan shall be imposed upon the Employer or the officers, directors, or stockholder of the Employer, save and to the extent to which the Employer shall fail to make the contributions due under Section 9.2.
9.6	Overpayments and Refunds
Subject to the Employment Pension Plans Act and the Income Tax Act, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Pension Plan, contributions made under the Pension Plan may be refunded and benefit entitlements under the terms of the Pension Plan may be reduced, as appropriate, in order to comply with the Employment Pension Plans Act, Income Tax Act and terms of the Pension Plan or to avoid revocation of the registration of the Pension Plan.
9.7	Surplus Assets
Surplus assets represent the excess of the assets over the liabilities of the Pension Plan, as determined by the Actuary upon the termination of the Pension Plan. The Employer shall receive, upon the termination of the Pension Plan, any remaining surplus assets after the provision for all liabilities under the Pension Plan. Any payment of surplus assets to the Employer shall be subject to any prior approval required under the Employment Pension Plans Act.
9.8	Excess Assets
Excess assets represent the excess of the assets over the liabilities of the Pension Plan, as determined by the Actuary on an ongoing basis. The Employer may choose to:
- 30 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
(a)	use any portion of such excess assets to reduce the contribution requirements of the Employer with respect to the Pension Plan or for any other purpose not prohibited by legislation or government rules as the Employer may direct; or
(b)	receive upon application by the Employer any portion of such excess assets that may be refunded under applicable legislation and government rules.
Any payment of excess assets to the Employer shall be subject to any prior approval required under the Employment Pension Plans Act.
- 31 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
10.1	Contributory Pension Plan
Any vested interests which the Employees have acquired in the benefits purchased by contributions made by or for them prior to the Effective Date, under the Employer’spresent Contributory Pension Plan, shall be preserved but, subject to the foregoing, the Employer shall have the right to amend or modify the said Contributory Pension Plan at any time and to discontinue it at any time.
10.2	Effect of Retirement
The service of any Employee who shall retire or terminate Employment shall cease for the purpose of applying the provisions of any Collective Labour Agreement which now is, or hereafter shall be in effect between the Employer and the Union, except that if a person is rehired on cessation of his disability retirement, he shall be credited with the service which he had at the time of his disability retirement and shall accumulate further service from the time that he starts to work after his rehire.
10.3	No Guarantee of Employment
The establishment of the Pension Plan shall not give any Employee any additional right to be retained in the Employment of the Employer; and all Employees shall remain subject to discipline, discharge or layoff to the same extent as if such Pension Plan had not been put into effect.
10.4	Grievance Procedure
If any dispute shall arise between the Employer and an Employee, an applicant for a pension who is represented by the Union or a Pensioner with reference to eligibility, age, Credited Service or amount of pension, or as to his retirement by the Employer, such dispute may be taken up as a grievance under the grievance provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, omitting, however, all steps preceding presentation of the grievance to the
• 32 •
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
Manager Industrial Relations. If any such grievance shall be taken to arbitration in accordance with such procedure, the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration, insofar as it shall be necessary to the determination of such grievance, shall have authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement. He or it shall have no authority to add to, or subtract from any provision in this Agreement, or to waive or fail to apply any deduction or any requirement of eligibility for benefit under this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator or Board of Arbitration on any grievance properly referred shall be binding upon the Employer, the Union, the Employee, applicant for pension, Pensioner or person concerned therein.
10.5	Dispute as to Disability
If any dispute shall arise between the Employer and any Employee, applicant for a disability pension who is represented by the Union, or person on disability retirement as to whether such person is, or continues to be, Totally and Permanently Disabled as defined in this Agreement, such dispute shall be resolved as follows:
The Employee, applicant, or person on disability retirement shall be examined by a medical doctor appointed for that purpose by the Employer and by a medical doctor appointed for that purpose by the Union. If they shall disagree concerning total and permanent disability, the question shall be submitted to a third medical doctor selected by the said two medical doctors. The opinion of the third medical doctor, after examination of the Employee, applicant or person on disability retirement, and consultation with the other two medical doctors, shall decide such question and such decision shall be binding upon the Employer, the Union and the Employee, applicant or person on disability retirement or person concerned therein. Any medical doctor appointed or selected as provided for herein must be legally licensed to practice medicine and the fees and expenses of the third medical doctor shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. If the dispute is as to whether or when the Employee has become Totally and Permanently Disabled and the decision made pursuant to this Section is that the Employee is Totally and Permanently Disabled, he shall be deemed to have been Totally and Permanently Disabled as of the commencement of continuous total and permanent disability.
- 33 -
Benefits on Death
Before Retirement
ARTICLE 11 TERM OF AGREEMENT
11.1	Submission for Approval
The Employer shall submit the Pension Plan to the relevant government authorities for the purpose of obtaining their approval of it. If, by the 1st day of April, 2005 the Employer has not all approvals under the Employment Pension Plans Act and tax approvals which it may deem necessary to establish that it is entitled to deduct the amount of its contributions to the Pension Plan as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, or any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or as hereafter amended or adopted, the Agreement shall not become effective. If the requirements of any such authorities shall necessitate any modifications or changes herein, the Employer will promptly notify the Union and the parties will meet within ten days thereafter for the purpose of negotiations regarding such modifications or changes.
11.2	Negotiations on Refusal of Approval
In the event of refusal or withdrawal of the approval referred to in Section 11.1 by the relevant government authorities after the 1st day of April, 2005, this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of such refusal or withdrawal, or upon the expiration of thirty days after the Employer shall first have been advised by such authorities of such refusal or withdrawal of approval, whichever is later. During such thirty day period, the parties will meet for the purpose of negotiating any modifications or changes required in order to obtain the approval of such authorities; provided, however, that the Employer during such thirty day period shall not be required to make any contributions to the Pension Fund, which it is not entitled to deduct as an expense before taxes under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and any other applicable tax laws as now in effect or hereafter amended or adopted.
11.3	Application to Labour Relations Board
In the event of refusal by the Board of Directors of the Employer or by the relevant authorities to approve this Agreement on or before the 1st day of April, 2005 or in the event of the authorities refusing to approve this Agreement or of their withdrawal after such date of their approval of this Agreement previously given, either the Union or the Employer may
- 34 -
Term of Agreement
apply to the Alberta Labour Relations Board for permission to terminate any Collective Labour Agreement then in effect, and the other party shall join in such application. If subsequent to notice of termination of such Collective Labour Agreement, or subsequent to termination of this Agreement, the parties settle any difference between them, and this Agreement is reinstated or a successor Agreement is made, then such Collective Labour Agreement, if terminated, shall be reinstated to continue in full force until subsequently terminated according to its provisions as contained therein.
11.4	Amendment During Term
If at any time during the term of this Agreement it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revisions of this Agreement in order to obtain or retain the approval referred to in Section 11.1 by the relevant authorities, the Employer may make such revisions retroactively or otherwise with the consent of the Union. The making of such revisions shall be the subject of immediate negotiations between the Employer and the Union, and in such negotiations the Employer and the Union shall recognize that the Collective Labour Agreement, then in effect, was executed in the expectation that this Pension Plan or one with substantially equivalent benefits, would be and remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and of any renewal of this Agreement made prior to the negotiations.
11.5	Requirement for Modified Pension Plan
If the Employer is required by law to institute a contributory pension scheme or to modify or revise the Pension Plan to make it conform to future federal or provincial enactments dealing with minimum requirements of pension plans, the Employer may make such modifications or revisions retroactively or otherwise so as to ensure that the aggregate of the benefits provided by this Pension Plan, as revised, together with any other pension plan it may be compelled to institute shall approximate in value and nature the pension and other benefits provided under this Pension Plan providing such revisions are made without additional cost to the Employer.
11.6	Duration of Agreement
(a)	Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in respect of all benefits at least until the 22nd day of July, 2009 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of
- 35 -
Term of Agreement
cancellation or of proposals for revision within a period of not less than two months nor more than three months prior to the termination date, the last day of the original period or of any extended period being referred to herein as the termination date.
(b)	If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation in accordance with the provisions of (a) above, this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice.
(c)	If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the provisions of (a) above, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen days after the date of delivery of such notice, If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight July 22, 2009 or by midnight of any subsequent annual termination date, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, subject to termination upon at least sixty days' written notice by either party to the other given on or after the termination date.
11.7	Amendment Not to Reduce Accrued Benefits
In no event shall any revision to this Pension Plan reduce any benefits accrued to Employees, Former Employees or Pensioners prior to the effective date of revision, except as may be permitted or required under the Employment Pension Plans Act or Income Tax Act.
11.8	Full Settlement
This Agreement constitutes a full settlement of all retirement pension demands of the Union
for its duration, and during the term hereof or any renewal hereof, neither the Union nor its representatives shall:
(a)	make any demand that this Agreement be changed in any respect or terminated, or that a new Pension Plan be established for the Employees, or that the Employer contribute or pay any greater amount for pensions for the Employees than it is required to pay under the provisions of Section 9.2 hereof, or
- 36 -
Term of Agreement
(b)	engage in, or continue to engage in, or in any manner encourage or sanction any strike or other action which will interfere with work or production at the plants of the Employer for the purpose of securing any such change, increase or termination,
and except during the last 75 days of the term of this Agreement or of any renewal thereof, the Employer shall not have any obligation to negotiate or bargain with the Union with respect to any of the matters referred to in (a) of this Section.
11,9	Termination of Plan
Termination of this Agreement shall not have the effect of terminating the Pension Plan in respect of accrued benefits, unless the Employer and the Union agree that the Pension Plan is to be so terminated.
If this Pension Plan is terminated, the benefits accrued to Pension Plan termination date and payable to Employees, Former Employees and Pensioners or their surviving Spouses or Beneficiaries who have entitlements under the Pension Plan shall be provided for in an equitable and suitable manner in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Pension Plans Act, Income Tax Act and the Pension Plan, and subject to any agreement in force between the Employer and the Union. If any assets remain after the provision for all accrued liabilities under the Pension Plan, such assets shall be dealt with in accordance with Section 9.7.
- 37 -
Term of Agreement
SCHEDULE 1
INCREASES TO PENSIONS IN PAY
Pursuant to Section 2.10, an Additional Pension payable in accordance with this Schedule 1 shall commence with the pension payment due on January 1, 2002 and shall be payable for the Pensioner’s lifetime, ceasing with the payment due on the first day of the calendar month immediately following the death of the Pensioner. However, where any Pensioner’s Basic Pension is required to be paid in the form of a joint and survivor pension (automatic spouse option), the Additional Pension payable on behalf of such Pensioner shall be paid in the joint and survivor form on a reduced Actuarial Equivalent basis. The amount of Additional Pension granted to eligible Pensioners is set out below:
Commencement Date of Basic Pension	Monthly Additional Pension Per Year of Credited Service
Before January 1,1981	$1.5Q
January 1,1981 to December 31,1983	0.50
- 38 -
Term of Agreement
SIGNED AND EXECUTED AT MEDICINE HAT, ALBERTA this 1st day of May, 2007.
The Company
Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor
The Union
Sheldon Denman Don Harris Barry Thompson Dave MeMenemy
- 39 -
Term of Agreement
SEPARATION PAYMENT PLAN
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE MEDICINE HAT
THE EMPLOYER
-AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER,
MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
May 1,2007 - July 22,2009
SEPARATION PAYMENT PLAN
This Agreement made and entered into as of this ls< day of May, 2007, by and between Goodyear Canada Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and the Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) representing the employees in the Bargaining Unit at the Company’s Medicine Hat Factory and G.E.L. Warehouse, (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
WHEREAS the parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plans by an Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits dated the 13th day of August, 1962 which has been amended from time to time.
AND WHEREAS in conjunction with such Plan the parties have agreed to enter into this Separation Payment Plan.
NOW THEREFORE it is mutually agreed as follows:
Section 1	Definitions
(a)	The term “Company” shall mean Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Factory and G.E.L. Warehouse.
(b)	The term “Plan” as used herein shall mean the Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits entered into by the Company and the Union as it may be amended from time to time and in such Agreement the term “Plan” shall be construed to include the Separation Payment Plan except where such construction would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)	The term “Separation Payment” means such benefit as is payable to eligible employees in accordance with the terms of this Separation Payment Plan.
(d)	The term “Union” means Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers), representing certain employees at the Company’s Medicine Hat Factory and G.E.L. Warehouse.
(e)	Other Terms:
Any other term used herein which has a counterpart which is defined in the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement as amended shall have the same meaning for the purposes of this Separation Payment Plan as such term has under the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Agreement.
2
Section 2
Eligibility
An applicant who is an employee on or after May 1, 2007 shall be eligible for a Separation
Payment provided that:
(a)	on or after May 1, 2007, he/she is laid off from the Company and has recall rights under the Collective Labour Agreement and the reason for the layoff was not the result of any of the circumstances specified in subsections 1 (b) (2), 4 (b) (3) and 4 (b) (4) of Article I of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plans, and the layoff is for a continuous period of at least two (2) years or such shorter period as the Company may determine on the basis of re-employment prospects; and
(b)	he/she has had two (2) or more years of seniority on the last day worked for the company; and
(c)	he/she has not received or is not eligible to receive a Severance Award under any Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement of the Company; and
(d)	he/she has made application for a Separation Payment in accordance with the procedure established by the Company subsequent to twenty-four (24) months from the commencement date of the layoff and prior to the date he/she loses his/her seniority under the Collective Labour Agreement, except in the case of an applicant whose seniority is lost on the expiry of two (2) years of layoff who must apply within thirty (30) days after the loss of his/her seniority rights to be eligible.
Section 3	Method of Payment
A Separation Payment shall be payable to the employee by the Company in a lump sum.
When the applicable Trust Fund Position for the week in which a Separation Payment becomes payable is equal to or in excess of fifty (50) percent such payment shall be a first charge against any and all future Company contributions to the Trust Fund.
When the applicable Trust Fund Position for the week in which a Separation Payment becomes payable is less than fifty (50) percent, such payment shall not be charged against future contributions to the Trust Fund for the purpose of computing Trust Fund Position or otherwise and shall be paid by the Company directly.
3
Section 4
Amount of Separation Payment
The amount of the Separation Payment payable to an eligible applicant shall be the following:
(i)	For an employee having one (1) or more but less than two (2) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her job rate multiplied by 50.
(ii)	For an employee having two (2) or more but less than three (3) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her job rate multiplied by 70.
(iii)	For an employee having three (3) or more but less than four (4) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her job rate is multiplied by 100.
(iv)	For an employee having four (4) or more but less than five (5) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her job rate is multiplied by 135.
(v)	For an employee having five (5) or more but less than ten (10) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by one (1) times years of credited service.
(vi)	For an employee having ten (10) or more but less than fifteen (15) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by 1 lA times years of credited service.
(vii)	For an employee having fifteen (15) or more but less than twenty (20) completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by 1 'A times years of credited service.
(viii)	For an employee having twenty (20) or more completed years of credited service with the Company prior to his/her most recent layoff, his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay multiplied by two (2) times years of credited service.
The years of credited service under Section V, VI, VII and VIII will be calculated to complete
twelfths.
4
Section S
Effect on Seniority and Benefits
An applicant, upon acceptance of a Separation Payment, shall cease to be an employee and shall have his/her seniority cancelled as of the date his/her application for such Separation Payment was received by the Company, and shall forfeit any and all pension, insurance or other rights under any Pension Plan or Employee Benefit Plan financed in whole or in part by the Company.
Section 6	Repayment
If a person is again employed by the Company after he/she has received Separation Payment no repayment by the person of such Separation Payment paid previously shall be required or allowed and no seniority cancelled previously shall be reinstated.
Section 7	With-Holding	Tax
The Company shall deduct from the	amount of any Separation Payment as computed under
this Separation Payment Plan any amount required to be withheld by the Company by reason of any law or regulation for payment of taxes or otherwise of any federal, provincial or municipal government.
Section 8	Overpayment
If the Company determines after issuance of a Separation Payment that the Separation Payment should not have been issued or should have been issued in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the applicant and he/she shall return the amount of the overpayment to the Company.
Section 9	Reports bv the Company
The Company shall furnish to the Union from time to time a listing showing the names of the persons who, during the period covered by the report, accepted a Separation Payment provided under this Separation Payment Plan, together with both the individual gross and net amounts of such Separation Payments.
Section 10	Conflict
In the event that there should be any conflict between the provisions of this Plan and the provisions of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan, the provisions of this Plan shall be paramount and shall govern.
Section 11	Duration and Termination
This Plan shall remain in effect for the duration of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan now in effect between the parties and shall terminate whenever such Plan is terminated.
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed the above at MEDICINE HAT, ALBERTA, this 1st day of May, 2007.
FOR THE COMPANY Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor	FOR THE UNION Sheldon Denman Don Harris Barry Thompson Dave McMenemy
6
Letter #1
This letter will confirm the undertaking given to you during recent negotiations that the Company will undertake to advise those former employees mentioned under Section 2 (d) of the Separation Payment Plan of the requirements to apply for a Separation Payment.
Former employees will be notified by registered mail 30 days prior to the expiration of their seniority and a copy of each such notice will be mailed to the Secretary of the Union.
7
TWELFTH AMENDED AGREEMENT ON
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
BETWEEN
GOODYEAR CANADA INC. MEDICINE HAT FACTORY G.E.L. WAREHOUSE
THE EMPLOYER
- AND-
LOCAL UNION 628
UNITED STEEL, PAPER AND FORESTRY, RUBBER,
MANUFACTURING,
ENERGY, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL AND SERVICE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (UNITED STEELWORKERS)
FOR THE EMPLOYEES
May 1,2007 - July 22, 2009
ARTICLE INDEX
ARTICLE I
Eligibility for a Regular Benefit------------------------------ 3
ARTICLE II
Amount of Benefits--------------------------------------------- 9
ARTICLE III
Credit Units & Duration of Benefits--------------------------- 14
ARTICLE IV
Application & Determination of Eligibility-------------------- 18
ARTICLE V
Administration of the Plan and Appeal Procedures---------------20
ARTICLE VI
Financial Provisions------------------------------------------ 26
ARTICLE VII
Conditions to Effectiveness and Continuation of Plan---------- 34
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous------------------------------------------------- 35
ARTICLE IX
Definitions--------------------------------------------------- 37
ARTICLE X
Duration and Termination-------------------------------------- 43
LETTER-------------------------------------------------------------- 44
2
TWELFTH AMENDED AGREEMENT ON
SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 1st day of May, 2007, by and between GOODYEAR CANADA INC., with respect to certain employees at the Medicine Hat Factory, G.E.L. WAREHOUSE Medicine Hat, Alberta, (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and Local Union 628 United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (United Steelworkers) (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
WHEREAS the parties hereto established a Supplemental Unemployment Benefits Plan by an Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits dated the 13th day of August 1962 as amended.
AND WHEREAS the parties desire to provide for certain modifications and amendments thereto.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS
Section 1	Eligibility for a Regular Benefit
An employee shall be eligible for a Regular Benefit for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if with respect to such week he/she:
(a)	was on qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article, for all or part of the week;
(b)	has made a benefit application in accordance with procedures established by the Company hereunder and received an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit not currently under protest by the Company or did not receive an Unemployment Insurance Benefit for any one of the following reasons:
(1)	he/she did not have, prior to layoff a sufficient period of employment or earnings covered by the Unemployment Insurance System;
(2)	exhaustion of his/her Unemployment Insurance System Benefits rights;
3
Section 1 (bl (continued...)
(3)	he/she was serving an Unemployment Insurance System “waiting period” while temporarily laid off out of line of seniority for a maximum period up to six (6) weeks pending placement under the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement provided that the provisions of this Item (3) shall not be applicable to: (1) plant rearrangement, (2) inventory layoff;
(4)	the week was a second “waiting week” within his/her benefit year under the Unemployment Insurance System, or was an Unemployment Insurance System “waiting week” immediately following a week for which he/she received an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, or occurring within less than fifty two (52) weeks since his/her last Unemployment Insurance System “waiting week”;
(5)	he/she refused a Company work offer which he/she has an option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement or which he/she could refuse without disqualification;
(6)	he/she was on layoff because he/she was unable to do work offered by the Company while able to do other work in the plant to which he/she would have been entitled if he/she had sufficient seniority;
(7)	he/she was denied an Unemployment Insurance Benefit solely because of the E.I. allocation to such week of earnings from a “waiting period”;
(8)	it is determined with the concurrence of Canada Employment and Immigration Commission, that, under the circumstances, it would be contrary to the intent of the Plan and Commission policy to deny him/her a benefit;
(9)	he/she was required to take work under the Unemployment Insurance law paying less than 80% of his/her “weekly straight time pay”, while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall.
(10)	He/she voluntarily took work paying less than 80% of his/her “weekly straight time pay”, while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall.
was actively seeking work or had accepted work other than that covered by the Bargaining Unit which paid less than 80% of his/her “weekly straight time pay” while temporarily laid-off and waiting recall, and not failed or refused to accept work deemed suitable under the applicable Unemployment Insurance System and has met any registration and reporting requirements of an unemployment office of such applicable Unemployment Insurance System.
4
Section 1 (continued...)
has to his/her credit a Credit Unit or fraction thereof;
did not receive an unemployment benefit under any contract or program of another employer or under any other “SUB” plan of the Company (and was not eligible for such a benefit under a contract or program of another employer with whom he/she has a greater seniority than with the Company nor under any other “SUB” plan of the Company in which he/she has credit units which were credited earlier than his/her oldest credit units under this Plan);
(f)
was not eligible for an automatic Short Week Benefit;
Section 2	Eligibility for a Special Short Week Benefit
Any employee shall be eligible for a Special Short Week Benefit for any week beginning on or
after the effective date of this Agreement if:
(a)	during such week he/she performed some work for the Company or performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his/her compensated or available hours were less than the number of hours in his/her standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder;
(b)	with respect to such week his/her Company pay and any Company pay which he/she would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked did not equal or exceed his/her allowable earnings;
(c)	with respect to such week he/she satisfied all of the eligibility conditions for a regular benefit.
Section 3	Eligibility for an Automatic Short Week Benefit
(a)	An employee shall be eligible for an Automatic Short Week Benefit for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement if:
5
Section 3 (continued...)
(1)	during such week he/she performed some work for the Company, or performed compensated work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof, but his/her compensated or available hours were less than the number of hours in his/her standard work week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder;
(2)	he/she had at least one (1) year of seniority as of the last day of such week;
(3)	he/she was on qualifying layoff, as described in Section 4 of this Article, for some part of such week;
(4)	with respect to such week his/her Company pay and any Company pay which he/she would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked, equalled or exceeded his/her allowable earnings; and
(5)	he/she did not have a period or periods of layoffs in the week and in the preceding or following week occurring in such sequence as to constitute a “week of unemployment” (as defined under the applicable Unemployment Insurance System) which included some part of the week; provided, however, that when an employee has a period of layoff with respect to which he/she has established such an Unemployment Insurance System “week of unemployment”, which starts on a day other than Sunday or Monday, he/she will be entitled (if otherwise eligible) to receive a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit with respect to any hours of layoff on days within a work week which are not included in such (or any other) established Unemployment Insurance System “week of unemployment”.
(b)	No application for an Automatic Short Week Benefit, other than a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit, will be required of an employee. However, if an employee believes himself/herself entitled to an Automatic Short Week Benefit for a week which he/she does not receive on the date when such benefits for such week are paid, he/she may file written application therefore in accordance with procedures established by the Company.
(c)	An Automatic Short Week Benefit payable for a week shall be in lieu of any other benefit under this Plan for that week, except that this provision does not apply to a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit.
6
Section 4	Conditions With Respect to Layoff
A layoff for the purposes of this Plan shall arise from:
any temporary layoff resulting from a reduction in force, the discontinuance of a plant or an operation or a temporary layoff occurring or continuing because the employee was unable to do the work offered by the Company although able to perform other work in the plant to which he/she would have been entitled if he/she had sufficient seniority. Medically restricted employees awaiting suitable placement will be considered on layoff occurring in a reduction in force.
an employee’s layoff, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, for all or part of any week will be deemed qualifying for Plan purposes only if the following conditions are met, as applicable thereto:
such layoff was from the Bargaining unit;
such layoff was not for disciplinary reasons, and was not a consequence of:
any strike, slowdown, work stoppage, picketing (whether or not by employees), or concerted action, at a Company plant or plants, or any dispute of any kind involving employees or other persons employed by the Company and represented by the Union whether at a Company plant or plants or elsewhere;
any war or hostile act of a foreign power (but not government regulation or controls connected therewith);
(iii) sabotage or insurrection, or
(jv) any act of God; provided, however, this subsection (iv) shall not apply to the first two (2) weeks of layoff resulting from such cause;
At the end of any legal strike by employees, the Company and the Union shall mutually agree as to the period of time necessary for normal start-up which shall be incorporated as part of any strike settlement memorandum. After such period of time an employee will not be disqualified for S.U.B. solely because of such strike.
7
Section 4 fb) (continued...)
(3) with respect to such week the employee did not refuse to accept work when recalled pursuant to the Collective Labour Agreement and did not refuse an offer by the Company of other available work, which he/she had no option to refuse under the Collective Labour Agreement; provided, however, that where maintenance employees refuse production work it will not disqualify them under this subparagraph (3);
(4)	with respect to such week the employee was not eligible for and was not claiming;
(i)	any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit; or
(ii)	any company pension or retirement benefit; and
If, with respect to some but not all of his/her regular work days in a week, an employee is ineligible for a benefit, he/she will be entitled to a reduced benefit payment as provided in Section 1 (c) of Article II.
Section S	Disputed Claims for Unemployment Insurance System Benefits
with respect to any week for which an employee has applied for a benefit and for which he/she:
(•)) has been denied an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, and the denial is being protested by the employee through the procedure provided therefore under the Unemployment Insurance System, or
(2)	has received an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, payment of which is being protested by the Company through the procedure provided therefore under the Unemployment Insurance System,
and the employee is eligible to receive a benefit under the Plan except for such denial, or protest, the payment of such benefit shall be suspended until such dispute shall have been determined.
(b) If the dispute shall be finally determined in favour of the employee, the benefit shall be paid to him/her if and to the extent that he/she had not exhausted Credit Units subsequent to the week to which Unemployment Insurance System Benefit in dispute is applicable.
8
Section 6
Vacation Shutdowns
It is understood that an employee who is eligible for weeks of paid vacation in an amount not less than the period of scheduled plant vacation shutdown, will not be eligible to receive a benefit under the Plan for the period of plant shutdown, regardless of whether he/she has taken his/her vacation prior to or is deferring his/her vacation until after the shutdown and regardless of his/her eligibility for unemployment compensation under these circumstances.
ARTICLE II
AMOUNT OF BENEFITS
Section 1	Regular Benefits and Special Short Week Benefits
(a)	The Regular Benefit payable to an eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount, which, when added to his/her Unemployment Insurance Benefit and other compensation, will equal 80% of his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay for each week for which he/she is eligible for a Regular Benefit.
(b)	The Special Short Week Benefit payable to an eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount which, when addedto the employee’s Unemployment Insurance Benefit and other compensation, (excluding the amount of any pay received or receivable from the Company) will equal the product of the number which his/her standard work week exceeds his/her compensated or available hours, counted to the nearest tenth of any hour, multiplied by 80%, of his/her Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings; provided, however, that a Regular Benefit shall be payable for the week if the amount of such Regular Benefit is equal to or greater than the amount of the Special Short Week Benefit.
(c)	An otherwise eligible employee entitled to a benefit reduced, as provided in subsection 4 (c) of Article I, because of ineligibility with respect to part of the week, will receive the greater of:
(1)	1/5 computed under subsection (a) of this section for each work day of the week
for which he/she is eligible under this Plan, provided, however, that there shall be excluded from such computation any pay which could have been earned, computed, as if payable, for hours made available by the Company but not worked during the days for which he/she is not eligible for a benefit under subsection 4 (c) of Article 1; or
9
Section 1 (cl (Continued...)
(2)	any Special Short Week Benefit computed under subsection (b) of this section for which he/she may be eligible.
Section 2	Automatic Short Week Benefit
The Automatic Short Week Benefit payable to any eligible employee for any week beginning on or after the effective date of this Agreement shall be an amount equal to the product of the number by which the number of hours in his/her standard work week exceeds his/her compensated or available hours, counted to the nearest tenth of an hour, multiplied by 80% of his/her Short Work Week Average Hourly Earnings.
An eligible employee entitled to a partial Automatic Short Week Benefit with respect to certain hours of layoff not included in an Unemployment Insurance System “week of unemployment”, as provided in Section 3 (a) (5) of Article I, will receive an amount computed as provided in subsection 2 (a) above, based on the number by which the hours for which the employee would regularly have been compensated exceeds his/her compensated or available hours, with respect to the days within the work week not included in such Unemployment Insurance System “week of unemployment”.
Section 3	Unemployment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation
(a)	As employee’s Unemployment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation for a week means:
(1)	the amount of Unemployment Insurance System Benefits received or receivable by the employee for the week or the estimated amount which the employee would have received; plus
(2)	all pay received or receivable by the employee from the Company and except in determining the amount of a Special Short Week Benefit, any amount of unearned pay computed, as if payable, for hours made available by the Company but not worked after notice consistent with practices under the Collective Labour Agreement has been given for such week; and provided, that if wages or remuneration are received or receivable by the employee from employers other than the Company and are applicable to the same periods as hours made available by the Company, only the greater of (a) such wages or remuneration in excess of his/her allowable earnings from the other employers; or (b) any amount of pay which could have been earned, computed, as if payable, for hours made available by the Company shall be included; and further provided, that any pay received or receivable for a shift which extends through midnight shall be allocated:
10
Section 3 fat (2) (Continued...)
(i)	to the day on which the shift started if he/she was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the following day.
(ii)	to the day on which the shift ended if he/she was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shift on the preceding day, and
(jji) according to the pay for the hours worked each day, if he/she was on layoff with respect to the corresponding shifts on both the preceding and the following days;
and, in any such event, the maximum Regular Benefit amount shall be modified to any extent necessary so that the employee’s benefit will be increased to offset any reduction in his/her Unemployment Insurance System Benefit which may have resulted solely from the Unemployment Insurance System’s allocation of his/her earnings for such a shift otherwise than as specified in this subsection; plus
(3)	all wages or remuneration, as defined under the law of the applicable Unemployment Insurance System, in excess of his/her Allowable Earnings received or receivable from other employers for such week (excluding such wages or remuneration which were considered in the calculation under subsection (a) (2) of this Section); plus
(4)	the amount of all other benefits in the nature of compensation or benefits for unemployment received or receivable under any Province or Canadian Government System.
(b)	For purposes of subparagraph (a) (1) above, the estimated amount of the Unemployment Insurance System Benefit which would have been received by the employee shall be equal to whichever of the following amounts is applicable:
if he/she has an established and currently applicable weekly benefit rate under the Unemployment Insurance System, such benefit rate plus any dependents’ allowances, or
in all other cases, the Unemployment Insurance System Benefit which would apply to an individual having the same number of dependents as the employee and having weekly earnings equal to the employee’s Weekly Straight Time Pay.
If the Unemployment Insurance System Benefit actually received by an employee for a week shall be for less, or more, than a full week (for reasons other than the employee’s receipt of wages or remuneration for such week), because
ll
Section 3 (Continued ...)
(1)	he/she has been disqualified or otherwise determined ineligible for a portion of his/her Unemployment Insurance System Benefit for reasons other than set forth in Section 1 (b) of Article 1, or
(2)	the applicable Unemployment Insurance week includes one or more “waiting period effective days”, or
(3)	of an underpayment or overpayment of a previous Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, the amount of the Unemployment Insurance Benefit which would otherwise have been paid to the employee for such Unemployment Insurance week shall be used in the calculation of “Unemployment Insurance Benefit and other Compensation” for such Unemployment Insurance week.
(<j) If the Unemployment Insurance System Benefit applies to a period of less than seven (7) days due to the commencement or termination of unemployment other than on the first (1st) or last day of the normally applicable week, the seven (7) day period of the normally applicable Unemployment Insurance week will be used in calculating Unemployment Insurance Benefit and Other Compensation for such Unemployment Insurance week.
Section 4	Definition of Scheduled and Unscheduled Short Work Week
(a)	For purposes of the Plan, a Scheduled Short Work Week with respect to an employee is a short work week which management schedules in order to reduce the production of the plant. Department, or other unit in which the employee works, to a level below the level at which the production of such plant, department, or unit would be for the week were it not a short work week, but only where such reduction of production is for the purpose of adjusting production to customer demand.
For purposes of the Plan, an Unscheduled Short Work Week with respect to an employee is any Short Work Week:
which is not a Scheduled Short Work Week as defined in subsection 4 (a) above;
in which an employee returns to work from layoff to replace a separated or absent employee (including an employee failing to respond or tardy in responding to recall), or returns to work, after a full week of layoff, in connection with an increase in production, but only to the extent that the Short Work Week is attributable to such cause.
The Company will advise a designated Union Representative or Representatives, of the Local Union at the time of layoff of the reason or reasons causing any Short Work Week involving a substantial number of employees.
12
Section 5
Insufficient Credit Units for Full Benefit
If an employee has to his/her credit less than the full number of Credit Units required to be cancelled for the payment of a benefit for which he/she is otherwise eligible, he/she shall be paid the full amount of such benefit and all remaining Credit Units or fractions thereof to his/her credit shall be cancelled.
Section 6	Effect of Low Trust Fund Position
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the Plan, if, and as long as the applicable Trust Fund Position for any week shall be less than 4%, no benefit for such week shall be paid.
Section 7	Benefit Overpayment
(a)	If the Company or the Board determines that any benefit(s) paid under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be mailed to the employee receiving the benefit(s) and he/she shall return the amount of overpayment to the Trustee, providing, however, that no repayment shall be required if the cumulative overpayment is $3 or less or if notice has not been given within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the day the overpayment was established or created, except that no such time limitation shall be applicable in cases of fraud or wilful misrepresentation.
(b)	If the employee shall fail to return such amount promptly, the Trustee shall arrange to reimburse the Fund for the amount of overpayment by making a deduction from any future benefits (not to exceed $ 15 from any one benefit except in cases of fraud or wilful misrepresentation), or by requesting the Company to make a deduction from compensation payable by the Company to the employee (not to exceed $25 from any one pay cheque except in cases of fraud or wilful misrepresentation), or both. The Company is authorized to make such deduction from the employee’s compensation and to pay the amount deducted to the Trustee.
Section 8	Withholding; Tax
The Trustee shall deduct from the amount of any benefit any amount required to be withheld by the Trustee or the Company by reason of any law or regulation for payment of taxes or otherwise to any Federal, Provincial, or Municipal Government of Canada.
Section 9	Minimum Regular Benefit
Whenever an employee performs no work for the Company or any other employer, in a week and his/her Regular Benefit computed under Section 1 (a) of this Article provides no benefit or benefits of less than $10 for the week, he/she shall be paid an amount sufficient to bring his/her benefit for the week up to $ 10.
13
Section IQ
Deduction of Union Dues
The Trustee shall deduct from benefits paid under the Plan, to those employees who have signed a written authorization, Union membership dues in such amount as may be fixed by the Local Union.
ARTICLE III
CREDIT UNITS AND DURATION OF BENEFITS Section 1	General
Credit Units shall have not fixed value in terms of either time or money, but shall be a means of determining eligibility for the duration of benefits.
Section 2	Accrual of Credit Units
(a)	For work weeks commencing on or after the effective date of this Agreement, Credit Units shall be credited at the rate of ‘A of a Credit Unit for each work week for which an employee receives any pay from the Company and for work weeks for which he/she does not receive pay from the Company but for which he/she receives a levelling week benefit.
(b)	For the purpose of accruing Credit Units under this section:
(1)	pay in lieu of vacation shall be considered as pay for the work week in which it is paid; and
(2)	back pay shall be considered as pay for each work week to which it may be allocable;
(3)	non-occupational accident and sickness payments, and Worker’s Compensation payments shall be considered as pay for the work week for which they are paid;
(4)	time lost when excused for Local Union business and a leave of absence for Local Union business shall be included in determining a work week under this section.
(c)	No employee may have to his/her credit in the aggregate at any one time under this Plan and under any other “S.U.B.” Plan of the Company more Credit Units than specified below:
14
Section 2 (cl (Continued ...)
Years of Employee’s Seniority
Maximum Credit Units
Less than 5	52
5 but less than 10	78
10 but less than 15	104
15 but less than 25	130
25 and Over	208
However, any employee who has at any time to his/her credit in the aggregate a total of the applicable maximum number of Credit Units (as specified above) under this Plan and any other “S.U.B.” Plan of the Company and who would otherwise accumulate additional Credit Units in the bargaining unit in which he/she is currently employed, may direct that such additional Credit Units shall be credited to him/her and a corresponding number of Credit Units accumulated under this Plan in any other bargaining unit or under any other “S.U.B.” Plan of the Company, shall be cancelled, as long as the aggregate of his/her Credit Units at any one time does not exceed the applicable maximum.
No employee shall be credited with any Credit Unit prior to the first (1st) day of which he/she:
has at least one (1) year of seniority; and
is on the active payroll in the bargaining unit (or was on such active payroll within forty five (45) days prior to such first (1st) day) but as of such day he/she shall be credited with Credit Units for weeks subsequent to his/her Company service date at the rate specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
For the purposes of this subparagraph only, an employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he/she draws pay while in a bargaining unit or is on authorized leave of absence which is limited, when issued to ninety (90) days or less; during the first ninety (90) days of continuous absence due to illness or injury; on disciplinary layoff; absent without leave up to fourteen (14) calendar days from his/her last day worked.
An employee who has Credit Units as of the last day of the week shall be deemed to have them for all of the week.
15
Section 2 (Continued ...)
(f)	At such time as the amount of any benefit overpayment is repaid to the Fund, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the number of Credit Units, if any, theretofore cancelled with respect to such overpayment of benefits shall be restored to the employee, except to the extent that such restoration would raise the number of his/her Credit Units at the time thereof above the applicable maximum, and except as otherwise provided with respect to Credit Unit forfeiture under Section 3 of this Article.
Section 3	Forfeiture of Credit Units
A person shall forfeit permanently all Credit Units with which he/she shall have been credited if
at any time:
(a)	he/she shall be removed from the rolls of the Company for any reasons other than layoff or entering Military Service,
(b)	he/she shall lose his/her rights to rehire with credit for back service,
(c)	he/she shall be on layoff from the bargaining unit for a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months (or for employees with fifteen (15) but less than twenty-five (25) years of seniority, thirty (30) months, or for employees with twenty five (25) or more years of seniority, forty-eight (48) months), or
(d)	he/she shall wilfully misrepresent any material fact in connection with an application by him/her for benefits under the Plan.
Section 4	Credit Unit Cancellation on Payments of Benefits
The number of Credit Units to be cancelled for any benefit shall be determined in accordance
with the following table on the basis of:
(1)	The seniority of the employee to whom such benefit is paid;
(2)	The Trust Fund Position applicable to the week for which such benefit is paid.
16
Section 4 (2) (Continued ...)
If the Seniority of the Person to Whom Such Benefit is Paid is:
If the Trust Fund Position Applicable To the Week for which Such Benefit is Paid is:
80% or over 70 - 79.99%
60 - 69.99%
50 - 59.99%
40-49.99%
30 - 39.99%
20 - 29.99%
10-19.99%
04 - 09.99%
Under 4%
1-5	5-10	10-15	15-20 20 Years
Years Years Years Years &Over
The Credit Units cancelled for such Benefit shall be:
1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00
1.15	1.00	1.00	1.00	1.00
1.30	1.15	1.00	1.00	1.00
1.50	1.30	1.15	1.00	1.00
2.00	1.50	1.30	1.15	1.00
2.50	2.00	1.50	1.30	1.15
3.33	2.50	2.00	1.50	1.30
5.00	3.33	2.50	2.00	1.50
7.50	5.00	3.33	2.50	2.00
■No Benefits Payable-
Exceptions to the Credit Unit Cancellation rates in the above table are as follows:
(1)	Vz of the number of Credit Units will be cancelled for an unscheduled Automatic Short Week Benefit payable for three (3) or more hours when with respect to such week the employee has earned from the Company an amount equal to or in excess of 80% of his/her Weekly Straight Time Pay; and
(2)	No Credit Units shall be cancelled when an employee receives:
(i)	an Automatic Short Week or Special Short Week Benefit for a Scheduled Short Work Week;
(jj) a levelling Week Benefits; or
(iij) an Automatic Short Week Benefit for an Unscheduled Short Work Week payable for less than three (3) hours.
17
Section 5
Armed Services
An employee who enters the Armed Services of Canada directly from the employ of the Company shall, while in such service, be deemed, for purposes of the Plan, to be on leave of absence and shall not be entitled to any benefits. All Credit Units credited to the employee at the time of his/her entry into such service shall be credited to him/her upon his/her reinstatement as an employee.
Section 6	Transfer Out of Bargaining Unit
If an employee is transferred out of the bargaining unit to a job which is not covered by a similar Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan of the Company, his/her Credit Units shall be cancelled. They shall be reinstated, however, if he/she is transferred back to the bargaining unit with, or after he/she acquires, at least one (1) years seniority therein.
Section 7	Exhaustion of Credit Units
On exhaustion of an employee’s Credit Units he/she shall not be entitled to further benefits. Section 8	Cancellation of Credit Units
When an employee’s Credit Units are cancelled under the provisions of Section 3 of this Article, he/she shall be entitled to no further benefits until he/she shall have been credited with additional Credit Units.
ARTICLE IV
APPLICATION AND DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY
Section 1	Annlications
(a)	Filing of Applications
An application for a benefit may be filed either in person or by mail in accordance with procedures established by the Company. Such procedures shall require the applicant to apply for a benefit within sixty (60) days after each week for which he/she is claiming benefits; provided, however, that if the payment of the benefit is delayed because of an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit being protested, an application may be made within two (2) weeks after the protest has been settled. Under such procedures an employee applying for a benefit shall be required to appear personally at a location designated for this purpose to register as an applicant and to supply needed information at the time of, or prior to, making his/her first (1st) application following layoff.
IS
Section 1 (Continued...)
(b)	Application Information
Applications filed for a benefit under the Plan will include:
(1)	in writing any information deemed relevant by the Company with respect to other benefits received, earnings and the source thereof, dependents, and such other information as the Company may require in order to determine whether the employee is eligible to be paid a benefit and the amount thereof; and
(2)	with respect to a Regular or Special Short Week Benefit the exhibition of the employee’s Unemployment Insurance System Benefit cheque or other evidence satisfactory to the Company of either
his/her receipt of or entitlement to an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit, or
his/her ineligibility for an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit only for one (1) or more of the reasons specified in Section 1 (b) of Article I; provided, however, that in the case of Unemployment Insurance System Benefit ineligibility by reason of the pay received from the Company or otherwise (Item 3 of Section 1 (b) of Article I), Unemployment Insurance System evidence for such reason of ineligibility shall not be required.
Determination of Eligibility
(a)	Application Processing bv Company
When an application is filed for a benefit under the Plan and the Company is furnished with the evidence and information required, the Company shall determine the employee’s entitlement to a benefit. The Company shall advise the employee of the number of Credit Units cancelled for each benefit payment and the number of Credit Units remaining to his/her credit after such payment.
(b)	Notification to Trustee to Pav
If the Company determines that a benefit is payable, it shall deliver prompt written notice to the Trustee to pay the benefit. The payment of benefits under the Plan may be made by, and the return of amounts of overpayments may be made to, the representatives of the Trustee appointed by it for such purpose. Such representatives may be employees of the Company.
(i)
(ii)
Section 2
19
Section 2 (Continued...)
(c)	Notice of Denial of Benefits
If the Company determines that an employee is not entitled to a benefit, it shall notify him/her promptly, in writing, of the reason(s) for the determination.
(d)	Union Conies of Application and Determinations
The Company shall furnish promptly to the Local Union S.U.B. Representative a copy of each application and a copy of all Company determinations of benefit payment ineligibility or overpayment.
ARTICLE V
ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN AND APPEAL PROCEDURES
Section 1	Powers and Authority of the Company
(a)	Company Powers
The Company shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and appropriate in order to carry out its duties under this Article, including, without limitation, the following:
(1)	to obtain such information as the Company shall deem necessary in order to carry out its duties under the Plan;
(2)	to investigate the correctness and validity of information furnished with respect to an application for a benefit;
(3)	to make initial determinations with respect to benefits;
(4)	to establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures concerning
(i)	the manner in which and the times and places at which applications shall be filed for benefits; and
(ii)	the form, content and substantiation of applications for benefits.
(5)	to designate an office or department at the plant, or in the alternative a location in the general area of the plant, where employees laid off may appear for the purpose of complying with the Plan requirements;
20
Section 1 (Continued...)
(6)	to determine the Maximum Funding of the Fund and the Trust Fund Position;
(7)	to establish appropriate procedures for giving notices required to be given under the Plan;
(8)	to establish and maintain necessary records; and
(9)	to prepare and distribute information explaining the Plan.
(b)	Company Authority
Nothing contained in this Plan shall be deemed to qualify, limit or alter in any manner the Company’s sole and complete authority and discretion to establish, regulate, determine or modify at any time levels of employment, hours of work, the extent of hiring and layoffs, production schedules, manufacturing methods, the products and parts thereof to be manufactured, where and when work shall be done, marketing of its products, or any other matter related to the conduct of its business or the manner in which its business is to be managed or carried on, in the same manner and to the same extent as if this Plan were not in existence; nor shall it be deemed to confer either upon the Union or the Board of Appeals any voice in such matters.
Section 2	Appeals Procedure
(a)	First Step Appeals
The Company shall designate one (1) person to serve as its representative for the consideration of appeals by applicants and the Union shall designate a representative for the same purpose. The employee designated as the representative of the Union shall be paid for time lost from work in attending meetings with the Company representative for the consideration of such appeals. Such payments shall be made directly by the Company.
Any person who shall have been determined by the Company not to be entitled to a benefit, who shall have been determined to be entitled to be paid a benefit that is lesser in amount than the amount to which such person believes he/she is entitled, who questions the number of Credit Units credited to him/her at the time of layoff, who has had more of his/her Credit units cancelled than he/she believes correct or who is determined to be ineligible for a benefit which determination is disputed by him/her, may appeal such determination by presenting an Appeal (other than determinations made in connection with Section 1 (b) (11) of Article (1), on a form to be provided for this purpose, either to the Company representative or to the Union representative.
21
Section 2 (a) (Continued...)
In situations where a number of employees had filed applications for benefits under substantially identical conditions, an appeal may be filed with respect to one (1) of such employees and the decision thereon shall apply to all such employees. If there is no Local Union or plant S.U.B. representative at any plant because of a discontinuance of such plant, the appeal may be filed directly with the Board of Appeals.
Appeals concerning determinations made in connection with Section 1 (b) (1 1) of Article 1 (contrary to intent of Plan) shall be made directly to the Board. Such written Appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days following the date of notice of such determination or denial or reduction of such benefit to such person, or within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of a cheque of such smaller amount by the Trustee to such person. The representative who receives said written Appeal will promptly furnish one (1) copy to the representative of the other party. If either the Company representative or the Union representative shall find that such Appeal is justified, he/she shall so notify the other representative and the Company representative and Union representative shall meet within ten (10) days from the date of the Appeal (or such extended time as may be agreed upon) to determine the disposition of such Appeal.
In event the two (2) parties cannot agree upon the disposition of the Appeal, either representative may refer the matter to the Board of Appeals for disposition, on a form to be provided for that purpose.
(b)	(1) Within twenty (20) days after disposition of an Appeal by the Company and
Union representatives, the Union representative may request a ruling by the Board of Appeals. Such a request shall be in writing, shall specify the respects in which the Plan is claimed to have been violated and shall set forth the facts relied upon as justifying a reversal or modification of the determination appealed from. A copy of said request will be furnished to the Company representative. The Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction to act upon an Appeal made after the time specified above or upon an Appeal which does not otherwise comply with this subparagraph. Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (2) set forth below, the handling and disposition of such request to the Board of Appeals shall be in accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board. The Union representative or the Union members of the Board of Appeals may withdraw any Appeal to the Board at any time before it is decided by the Board.
(2) In ruling upon Appeals, the Board shall have no authority to waive, vary, qualify, or alter in any manner, the eligibility requirements set forth in the Plan, the procedure for applying for benefits set forth herein, or any other provision of the Plan, and shall have no jurisdiction other than to determine, on the basis of the facts presented and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.
22
Section 2 (bt (Continued...)
(1)	whether the first step Appeal and the Appeal to the Board were made within the time and in the manner specified in this Section;
(ii)	whether the employee is an eligible person with respect to the benefit involved and, if so;
(iii)	the amount of any benefit payable;
(iv)	whether the accrual or cancellation of Credit Units was properly determined;
(v)	any question by either the Company or the Union concerning the interpretation or application of this Plan unless specifically excluded from the Appeals Procedure.
(3)	There shall be no Appeal from the decision of the Board of Appeals. It shall be final and binding upon the Union, its members, the employee involved, the Trustee, and the Company. The Union will discourage any attempt of its members to appeal and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any Appeal to any court or labour board from any decision of the Board, nor will the Union or its members by any other means attempt to bring about a settlement of any claim or issue on which the Board is empowered to rule hereunder,
(c)	Applicability of Appeals Procedures
The Appeals procedure set forth in this section may be employed only for the purposes specified in the Plan. Such procedure shall not be used to protest a denial of an Unemployment Insurance System unemployment benefit or to determine whether or not a benefit should have been paid under an Unemployment Insurance System. (Appeal Procedures under unemployment Insurance law being the exclusive remedy therefore). The Board of Appeals shall have no power to determine questions arising under any Collective Labour Agreement, even though relevant to the issues before the Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefore by the Collective Labour Agreement, and all determinations made pursuant to such Agreement shall be accepted by the Board.
(d)	Composition and Procedure - Board of Appeals
(1) There shall be established a Board of Appeals consisting of four (4) members, two
(2)	of whom shall be appointed by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company members), and two (2) of whom shall be appointed as follows; one (1)
23
Section 2 (tD (Continued...)
by the International Union, United Steelworkers, and one (1) by Local 628, hereinafter referred to as the Union members. Each member of the Board shall have an alternate. In the event a member is absent from a meeting of the Board, his/her alternate may attend, and when in attendance, shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of such member. Either the Company or the Union at any time may remove a member appointed by it and may appoint a member to fill any vacancy among the members appointed by it. The Company and the Union each shall notify the other in writing of the members respectively appointed by it before any such appointment shall be effective.
(2)	The members of the Board shall appoint an Impartial Chairman, who shall service until requested in writing to resign by two (2) members of the Board. If the members of the Board are unable to agree upon a Chairman, he/she shall be selected in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Collective Labour Agreement. The Impartial Chairman shall be considered a member of the Board, but shall attend meetings and shall vote only in matters within the Board’s authority to determine, and only when the other members of the Board shall have been unable to dispose of a matter by a majority vote, except that the Impartial Chairman shall have no vote concerning determination made in connection with Section 1 (b) (11) of Article I (contrary to intent of Plan).
(3)	At least one (1) Union member and one (1) Company member shall be required to be present at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the Board, the Company members shall have a total of two (2) votes, and the Union members shall have a total of two (2) votes, the vote of any absent member being given to the member present, appointed by the same party. Decisions of the Board shall be by a majority of the votes cast.
(4)	The Board shall not maintain any separate office or staff, but the Company and the Union shall be responsible for furnishing each clerical and other assistance as its respective members of the Board shall require. Copies of all Appeals, reports, and documents to be filed with the Board pursuant to the Plan shall be filed in duplicate, one (1) copy to be sent to the Company members at the address designated by them, and the other to be sent to the Union members at the address designated by them.
Section 3	Determination of Dependents
(a)	Regular Benefits
In determining an employee’s dependents for purposes of Regular Benefits
determinations, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon the official form filed by the
24
Section 3 (a) (Continued...)
employee with the Company for income tax withholding purposes, and the employee shall have the burden of establishing that he/she is entitled to a greater number of withholding exemptions that he/she shall have claimed on such form.
(b)	Allowable Earnings
In calculating an employee’s Allowable Earnings, the Company shall be entitled to rely upon such information as may be available listing dependents. The employee shall have the burden of establishing that he/she is entitled to a different number of dependents than that being used by the Company.
Section 4	To Whom Benefits are Payable in Certain Conditions
Benefits shall be payable only to the eligible employee, except that if the Company shall find that the employee is deceased or is unable to manage his/her affairs for any reason, any benefit payable to him/her shall be paid to his/her duly appointed legal representative, if there be one, and, if not, to the spouse, parents, children, or other relatives or dependents of the employee as the Board in its discretion may determine.
Any benefit so paid shall be a complete discharge of any liability with respect to such benefit. In the case of death, no benefit shall be payable with respect to any period following the last day of layoff immediately preceding the employee’s death.
Section 5	Non-Alienation of Benefits
Except for a deduction specifically provided for under this Plan, no benefit shall be subject in any way to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, execution, or encumbrance of any kind and any attempt to accomplish the same shall be void. In the event that such attempt has been made with respect to any benefit due or to become due to any employee, the Company in its sole discretion may terminate the interest of the employee in the benefit and apply the amount of the benefit to or for the benefit of the employee, his/her spouse, parents, children, or other relative or dependents as the Company may determine and any such application shall be a complete discharge of all liability with respect to the benefit.
Section 6	Applicable Law
The Plan and all rights and duties there under shall be governed, construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the Province of Alberta, except that the eligibility of an employee for, and the amount and duration of, Unemployment Insurance System Benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance laws of the Unemployment Insurance System.
25
Section 6 (Continued...)
Payments in respect to guaranteed annual remuneration or in respect to deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits are not reduced or increased by payments received under the Plan.
Section 7	Grievance Procedure
No question involving the interpretation or application of the Plan, except to the extent otherwise specified in Section 2 of this Article, shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided in the Collective Labour Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Section 1	Establishment of Fund
The Company shall maintain a Fund in accordance with this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan, with a chartered bank or banks or a qualified trust company or companies selected by the Company as Trustee. The Company’s contributions shall be made into the Fund, the assets of which shall be held, invested and applied by the Trustee, all in accordance with the Plan. Benefits shall be payable only from such Fund. The Company shall provide in the contract with the Trustee that the Fund shall be held in cash or invested only in general obligations of the Government of Dominion of Canada and/or the government of a Canadian province.
Section 2	Maximum Funding and Trust Fund Position
(a)	Maximum Funding
There shall be a Maximum Funding of the Fund for each calendar month (and for each pay period when required by the provisions of subsection (b) of this section). Commencing with the month following the month in which the plan becomes effective and for any month thereafter the Maximum Funding of the Fund shall be determined by multiplying the sum of (i) the number of employees on the active payroll and (ii) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll but who have credit units; the above number of employees and persons shall be as determined by the Company as of the latest period for which the figures are available prior to the first Monday in the month for which the Maximum Funding is being determined (or prior to the pay period if the Maximum Funding is being determined for a pay period) by the applicable amount as shown in the following table:
26
Section 2 <al	(Continued...)	
(1)	For the months of March 1981 and succeeding months	$350
(2)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $350 and succeeding months	$375
(3)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $375 and succeeding months	$400
(4)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $400 and succeeding months	$425
(5)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $425 and succeeding months	$450
(6)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $450 and succeeding months	$475
(7)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $475 and succeeding months	$500
(8)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $500 and succeeding months	$525
(9)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $525 and succeeding months	$550
(10)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $550 and succeeding months	$575
(11)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $575 and succeeding months	$600
(12)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $600 and succeeding months	$625
(13)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $625 and succeeding months	$650
(14)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $650 and succeeding months	$675
(15)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $675 and succeeding months	$700
27
Section 2 (a1) (Continued...)
(16)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $700 and succeeding months
(17)	For the month in which the Trust Fund amount first reaches $725 and succeeding months
(b)	Trust Fund Amount
$725
$750
There shall be a Trust Fund Amount for the Fund for each month commencing with the month of September 1963. The Trust Fund Amount for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the sum of (i) the number of employees on the active payroll and (ii) the number of persons laid off from work who are not on the active payroll, but who have Credit Units, such total number to be that used in determining the Maximum Funding for such month in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The Trust Fund Amount for the Fund for any particular month commencing with September 1963, shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month.
(c)	Trust Fund Position
There shall be a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for the Fund for each calendar month commencing with the month of September 1963. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the close of business on the Friday preceding the first Monday of such month, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such month. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan to each of the pay periods beginning within such month; provided, however, that after September 1963, whenever the Trust Fund Position for the Fund for any particular month is less than 10%, such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for all purposes under the Plan only to the first pay period beginning within such month, and thereafter there shall be determined a Trust Fund Position (stated as a percentage) for such Fund for each pay period until the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds 10%. When the Trust Fund Position for a particular pay period equals or exceeds such percentage such Trust Fund Position shall be applied in connection with such Fund for such purposes to be each pay period until a Trust Fund Position for the following calendar month shall be applicable pursuant to this section. The Trust Fund Position for the Fund for a particular pay period shall be determined by dividing the current market value of the total assets in such Fund as of the
28
Section 2 (c) (Continued ...)
close of business on the Friday preceding such pay period, as certified by the Trustee, by the Maximum Funding of such Fund for such pay period.
(d)	Finality of Determinations
No adjustment in the Maximum Funding, Trust Fund Amount or the Trust Fund Position of the Fund shall be made on account of any subsequently discovered error in the computations or the figures used in making the computations, except (i) in the case of an error in bad faith, or (ii) in the case where after discovery of an error adjustment is practicable, and then the adjustment shall only be prospective in effect, unless such adjustment would be substantial in the opinion of the Company. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to excuse the Company from making up any shortage in its contributions to the Fund.
Section 3	Contributions bv Company
(a)	Company Contributions
(1)	Commencing with the Pay Period beginning June 2, 1996, and with respect to each Pay Period thereafter, for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is less than the figure shown in column A; the Company shall make a contribution to the Fund of an amount to be determined by multiplying the applicable figure in column B by the total number of hours for which employees shall have received pay from the Company for such Pay Period (or lesser amount as will bring the total market value of the Fund to the then applicable Trust Fund Amount in column A, in which case the remainder of said total number of hours shall be multiplied by the next lower figure in the applicable column B).
Column A	Column B
$150	$0.19
$300	$0.17
$450	$0.15
$550	$0.13
$650	$0.11
$750	$0.09
(2)	In addition to the contributions otherwise required by this Article, the Company shall contribute to the Fund the amount of any Automatic Short Week and Special Short Week Benefits paid from the Fund as Scheduled Short Work Week Benefits for any pay periods for which the Trust Fund Amount is less than $ 180.
29
Section 3 (Continued...)
(3)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement the Company shall not be obligated to make any contribution to the Fund with respect to any pay period for which the applicable Trust Fund Amount is more than $750, and no contribution to the Fund for any pay period shall be in excess of the amount necessary to bring the total market value of the assets in such Fund up to $750.
(b)	When Contributions are Payable
Contributions by the Company shall be made on or before the close of business on the first regularly scheduled work day in the third (3 rd) calendar week following the pay period with respect to which the contribution is being made.
In periods in which the Trust Fund Position equals or exceeds 10% weekly contributions may be accumulated and made on or before the close of business on the first (1st) regularly scheduled work day of the calendar week in which the Friday used for determining the Trust Fund Position falls.
The first contribution by the Company to the Fund shall be made on the Monday following the last Friday of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which fulfillment of all of the applicable conditions to effectiveness of the Plan with respect to such Fund set forth in Article VIII shall have been completed.
The first contribution by the Company to the Fund shall cover all amounts required to be paid under this Article to such Fund with respect to each pay period beginning within the period of time commencing after March 1, 1987 and ending with the last day of the last pay period immediately preceding the date on which the first contribution under subsection (a) (1) of this section shall become payable.
(c)	Reductions from Contributions
Contributions required by the provisions of Section 3 (a) of this Article shall be reduced
by the following:
(1)	The cost of providing Hospital-Medical Benefits for laid off employees as specified in the Pension Plan and Severance Award Agreement and the Health and Life Insurance Agreement less the period following layoff for which the Company pays otherwise;
(2)	The amount of money added to each vacation cheque at the time written due to Short Week Benefit payments, consistent with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement;
30
Section 3 (Continued...)
(3)	If contributions to the Fund are not required for any period, or if the contributions required are less than the amounts to be offset under this paragraph (c), then any subsequently required contributions shall be reduced by the amount not previously offset against contributions;
any such amount not previously offset against contributions shall be deducted from the Market Value of the assets in the Fund In determining Trust Fund Position and the relationship of the Fund to Maximum Funding;
(4)	If the Company at any time shall be required to withhold any amount from any contribution to the Fund by reason of any government, or provincial law or regulation, the Company shall have the right to deduct such amount from the contribution and pay only the balance to the Fund.
Section 4	Liability
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
The Company shall not be obligated to make up, or to provide for making up, any depreciation, or loss arising from depreciation, in the value of the securities held in the Fund (other than as contributions by the Company may be required under the provisions of this Article when the Market Value of the assets of the Fund is less than the Maximum Funding); and the Union shall not call on the Company to make up, or to provide for making up, any such depreciation or loss.
The Company, the Trustee and the Union, and each of them, shall not be liable because of any act or failure to act on the part of any of the others, and each is authorized to rely on the correctness of any information furnished to it by an authorized representative of any of the others.
Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve any person from liability for wilful misconduct or'fraud.
The Trustee shall not be liable for the making or retaining of any investment or for realized or unrealized loss thereon whether normal or abnormal economic conditions or otherwise.
Section 5	No Vested Interest
No employee shall have any right, title, or interest in or to any of the assets of the Fund, or in or to any Company contribution thereto.
31
Section 6
Reports
(a) Reports by the Company
(1)	The Company shall notify the Local Union and International Union monthly of the Maximum Funding, Trust Fund Amount and the Trust Fund Position for the Fund as determined by it under the Plan, and shall furnish a statement showing the number of employees on the active payroll and the number of laid off employees having Credit Units upon which the Trust Fund Position determination was made.
(2)	During the first (1st) year of this amended agreement, the Company shall furnish to the Local Union and International Union a statement certified by a qualified independent firm of Certified Public Accountants selected by the Company:
(i)	showing the number of hours for which employees drew pay from the Company and with respect to which the Company shall have made contributions to the Fund during each period of the preceding year, and
(ii)	verify the accuracy of the information furnished by the Company during the preceding year pursuant to subsection (a) (1) of this section.
(3)	The Company will comply with reasonable requests by the Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan which the Company shall compile. Such information will include the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
the number of employees on layoff monthly;
the amount of Regular Benefits paid, Special and Automatic Short Week Benefits paid;
the duration of Regular Benefits;
the number of employees who have exhausted their Regular Benefits each calendar year;
the number of employees laid off and ineligible for Regular Benefits because of having less than one (1) year of seniority;
the total number of employees who received one (1) or more Regular Benefits, Special and Automatic Short Week Benefits;
32
Section 6 (31 (Continued...)
the amount of the reductions monthly from contributions reduced by the provisions of (c) of Section 3 and the amounts under each category listed in (c);
(h)	the number of employees who drew more than 52 Credit Units during a continuous period by designated seniority brackets each calendar year;
(i)	on or before January 31st of each year, the Company shall furnish to each employee the amount of benefits received by him/her under the Plan;
(j)	the Company will comply with reasonable requested by the International Union for other statistical information on the operation of the Plan which the Company may have compiled.
(b) Reports bv the Trustee
(1)	Within ten (10) days after the commencement of each month, beginning with the month in which the Company shall have made its first contribution under the Plan, the Trustee shall be required to furnish to the Local Union, International Union and the Company a statement showing the amounts received from the Company for the Fund during the preceding month.
(2)	Not later than the second (2nd) Tuesday following the first (1st) Monday of each month, the Trustee shall furnish to the Local Union, International Union and the Company (i) a statement showing the total Market Value of the Fund as of the close of business on the Friday following the last Monday of the preceding month, and (ii) a statement showing the amounts, if any, paid as benefits from the Fund each week during the preceding month.
Section 7	Cost of Administering; the Plan
(a)	Expense of Trustee
The cost and expenses incurred by the Trustee under the Plan and the fees charged by the Trustee shall be charged to the Fund.
(b)	The Compensation of the Impartial Chairman, which shall be in such an amount and on such basis as may be determined by the other members of the Board, shall be paid from the Fund. Reasonable and necessary expenses of the Board for forms and stationary required in connection with the handling of Appeals shall be borne by the Fund. The Company members and the Union members of the Board shall serve without compensation from the Fund.
33
Section 7 (Continued...)
(c)	Cost of Services
The Company shall be reimbursed each year from the Fund for the cost to the Company of bank fees and auditing fees.
Section 8	Benefit Drafts Not Presented
If the Trustee has segregated any portion of the Fund in connection with any determination that a benefit is payable under the Plan and the amount of such benefit is not claimed within a period of two (2) years from the date of such determination, such amount shall revert to the Fund.
ARTICLE VII
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND CONTINUATION OF PLAN Section 1	Effect of Amended Agreement
This Amended Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits, when it becomes effective, shall supersede and completely replace and supplant the original Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits concluded between the parties August 13, 1962, as from time to time thereafter amended. However, until such time as this Agreement becomes effective, the Plan shall be governed in all respects by the terms of the original Agreement of August 13, 1962, as heretofore amended.
Section 2	Income Tax Rulings
This amended Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Company shall have received from the Minister of National Revenue, applicable Provincial Treasury Department and The Unemployment Insurance Commission, a currently effective ruling or rulings, satisfactory to the Company, holding that the Amendment of the Plan accomplished hereunder does not modify, alter or change in any manner the ruling previously issued by the Minister, the Commission and the applicable Provincial Treasury Department, with respect to the Plan, including particularly their determination that Company contributions to the Plan shall constitute a currently deductible expense, and that such contributions are not taxable income to the trust under the Dominion Income Tax Act, and applicable Provincial and/or Municipal Corporation Tax Act, as now in effect, or as may be hereafter in effect, or under any other applicable Dominion or Provincial and/or Municipal Income or Corporations Tax Law.
Section 3	Unemployment Insurance Commission Rulings and Supplementation
It is the purpose of the Plan to supplement Unemployment Insurance Benefits to the levels herein provided, and not to replace or duplicate them.
34
Section 4
Application for Rulings
The Company shall apply promptly for any required rulings from the appropriate agencies. Copies of all correspondence covering such rulings shall be mailed to the International Union and the Local Union.
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1	Receipt of Benefits
Neither the Company’s contribution nor any benefit paid under the Plan shall be considered a part of any employee’s wages for any purpose. No person who receives any benefit shall for that reason be deemed an employee of the Company during such period, and he/she shall not thereby accrue any greater right to participate in, accrue credits or receive benefits under any other employee benefit plan to which the Company contributes than he/she would if he/she were not receiving such benefits.
Section 2	Effect of Revocation of Federal Rulings
In the event that any ruling required under Section 2 and 3 of Article VII, having been obtained shall be revoked or modified in such manner as no longer to be satisfactory to the Company, all obligations of the Company under the plan shall cease, and the Plan shall thereupon terminate and be of no further effect (without in any way affecting the validity of operation of the Collective Labour Agreement or any other Agreement between the Company and the Union), except for the purpose of paying the expenses of administration and paying benefits, all in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, until the assets of the Fund shall have been exhausted, except that Section 6 of Article II shall not be applicable. If there are assets still remaining in the Fund, the provisions of Section 3 (b) of Article VIII shall apply to their disposition.
Section 3	Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) So long as the Collective Labour Agreement of which this Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan as amended is a part shall remain in effect, the Plan shall not be amended, modified, suspended or terminated, except as may be proper or permissible under the terms of the Plan or the Collective Labour Agreement. Upon termination of the Collective Labour Agreement, the Company shall have the right to continue the Plan in effect and to modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan, except as may be otherwise provided in any subsequent Collective Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union. The employer will inform the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission of any changes in the Plan within thirty (30) days of the effective date of change.
35
Section 3 (Continued...)
(b)	Upon any termination of the Plan, the Plan shall terminate in all respects, except that the assets then remaining in the Fund shall be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the Plan then in effect, and shall be used until exhausted to pay expenses of administration, and to pay benefits to eligible applicants laid off, or thereafter laid off, in the order each week of the respective date as of which they were laid off. Section 6 Article II, shall not be applicable. In the event there are any assets in the Fund after all of the above payments have been made, and there are no eligible applicants remaining, all assets in the fund shall be returned to the Company. Upon termination, the Company and the Union will give immediately a written order to the trustee that the remaining assets be paid to the Company.
(c)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, the Company, with the consent of the Union, may make such revisions in the Plan not inconsistent with the purposes, structure and basic provisions thereof as shall be necessary to obtain or maintain any rulings required under the Plan. Any such revisions shall adhere as closely as possible to the language and intent of the Plan.
(d)	This Agreement and the obligation of the Company to continue the Plan without change or modification (except as permitted hereunder) during the life of the Collective Labour Agreement shall be deemed supplemental to and part of the Collective Labour Agreement, and during the term of the Collective Labour Agreement neither the Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to the Plan or Agreement.
Section 4	Ratification
This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until this Agreement and the Collective Labour Agreement, executed concurrently herewith, shall both have been ratified and approved by the Local Union and also the International Union and written notice of such ratification and approval shall have been received by the Company.
Section 5	Union Identification of Benefit Cheques
All cheques payable for any benefit or payment under the Plan shall indicate that the benefit or payment is being made in accordance with the Agreement on Supplemental Unemployment Benefits between the Company and the Union.
36
ARTICLE IX
DEFINITIONS
As used herein:
(1)	“ACTIVE PAYROLL” - An employee is on the active payroll in any pay period for which he/she draws pay.
(2)	“AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS” - means an employee’s hourly earning plus his/her off shift premium but excluding overtime based on a six (6) week pay period immediately preceding the date of his/her lay off, provided that if such employee was assigned or transferred to a new operation at a lower rate during such six (6) week pay period, the hours worked and his/her earnings on such new job will be excluded from his/her AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS. Provided, however, that should the employee have no earnings during such six (6) week period other than as a learner, his/her AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS shall be based on the first (1st) work week preceding such learning period.
If a general wage increase has become effective between the period for which AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS has been calculated and the date of lay off, such general wage increase shall be added to the hourly earnings so calculated.
In order to provide the minimum, appropriate to the current wage scales in the Plant, the AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS shall in no case be deemed to be less than two (2) dollars and thirty-five (35) cents per hour for the purpose of calculating the benefits payable.
(3)	“BARGAINING UNIT’ - means a unit of employees covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
(4)	“BENEFIT” - means an Automatic Short Week Benefit, Regular Benefit, Special Short Week Benefit, or any or all three (3) as indicated by the context.
(a) “Automatic Short Week Benefit” - means the benefit payable to an eligible employee for a Short Work Week for which his/her Company pay and any Company pay which he/she would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked equalled or exceeded his/her Allowable Earnings;
37
Definitions (Continued...)
(b)	’’Levelling Week Benefit” - means the Weekly Supplemental Benefit payable to an eligible employee for all or part of a week because, with respect to the week, he/she was serving an Unemployment Insurance System “waiting week” and during such week or part thereof he/she was temporarily laid off out of line of seniority pending placement in accordance with the terms of the Collective Labour Agreement;
(c)	“Regular Benefit” - means the benefit payable to an eligible employee for a week of layoff in which he/she performed no work for the Company, or in which he/she performed some work for the Company but neither the period worked nor pay received was sufficient to disqualify him/her for an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit and the amount of the Special Short Week Benefit calculated for such week was less than the Regular Benefit amount;
(d)	“Special Short Week Benefit” - means the benefit payable to an eligible employee for a Short Work Week for which his/her Company pay and any Company pay which he/she would have received for hours scheduled for or made available to him/her but not worked did but not equal or exceed his/her Allowable Earnings;
(e)	“Weekly Supplemental Benefit” - means either a Regular Benefit or a Special Short Week Benefit, payable under the Plan.
(5)	“BOARD” - means the Board of Appeals.
(6)	“COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT” - means the currently effective Collective
Labour Agreement between the Company and the Union which incorporates this Plan by
reference and the supplements thereto.
(7)	“COMPANY’ - shall mean Goodyear Canada Inc., Medicine Hat Factory, G.E.L.
Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(8)	“COMPENSATED OR AVAILABLE HOURS” - for a week shall be the sum of:
(a) all hours for which an employee receives pay from the Company (including reporting pay and holiday pay, but excluding pay in lieu of vacation) with each hour paid at premium rates to be counted as one (1) hour;
38
Definitions (Continued...)
(b)	all hours scheduled for or made available to the employee by the Company but not worked by him/her after notice consistent with existing practice under the Collective Labour Agreement (including any period of leave of absence). When work is offered and refused, hours charged will not exceed hours made available and such hours will be charted in the following order:
(i)	to the employees who actually perform the work offered;
(ii)	to the employees who signified their intention to work and then failed to report;
(iii)	to the employees who first refused the opportunity for the work in the event that insufficient employees offered to work the hours available (includes absent employees who otherwise have been offered the work).
When work is offered (as opposed to scheduled) on Saturday and/or Sunday, hours worked will not be charged. For employees working on the 7 day work schedule, when work is offered on regular scheduled days off, hours worked will not be charged.
(c)	all hours not worked by the employee because of any of the reasons disqualifying the employee from receiving a benefit under subsection 4 (b) (2) of Article I and;
(d)	all hours not worked by the employee which are in accordance with a written agreement between the Local Management and designated Local Union Representatives; and
(e)	all hours which are attributable to absenteeism of other employees, providing such absenteeism was not caused by an act of God; and
(f)	with respect to any employee who is regularly scheduled less than the hours of the Standard Work Week (40), the number of hours by which his/her regularly scheduled hours are less than the hours of the Standard Work Week; and
(g)	all hours not worked by the employee because of work sharing required by the Collective Labour Agreement except:
- where the Union is not asked by the Company to waive the work sharing provisions; or
39
Definitions (Continued...)
- when the Union refuses to waive the work sharing provisions and the Company, after the work sharing period, fails to lay off;
(h)	all hours not worked by the employee because of a change in shift resulting from a request of the employee.
(9)	“CREDIT UNITS” - means the units determining the duration of an employee’s benefits which are credited to him/her generally by reason of his/her Weeks of Active Service and cancelled at specified rates for the payment of certain benefits;
(10)	“DEPENDENT” - means any person recognized as such under the provisions of the Dominion Unemployment Insurance Act, 1955, by the Unemployment Insurance Commission.
(11)	“EMPLOYEE’ - means an employee of the Company while, during the life of this Agreement, he/she is in the collective bargaining unit as defined in and covered by the Collective Labour Agreement.
(12)	“ALLOWABLE EARNINGS” - means the amount of earnings the employee is permitted to earn before any deductions would be made from his/her Weekly Unemployment Insurance Benefits.
(13)	“FUND”- means a Trust Fund established under the Plan to receive and invest Company contributions and to pay benefit.
(14)	“PLAN” - means the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan established by “Agreement on Supplement Unemployment Benefits” between the Company and the Union dated August 13, 1962, as from time to time amended, and as continued under this Agreement.
(15)	“PLANT”- means the Medicine Hat Factory, G.E.L. Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(16)	“SENIORITY” - means seniority status under the Collective Labour Agreement.
(17)	“SHORT WORK WEEK’ - means a Work Week during which an employee performs some work for the Company or performed Compensated Work for the Union or was otherwise compensated by the Company for a day or part thereof but his/her Compensated or Available Hours for such week are less than the number of hours in his/her Standard Work Week. During a week of scheduled shutdown, compensation for a holiday or holidays (but only with respect to an employee laid off in a reduction of force in accordance with the applicable Collective Labour Agreement), for vacation or for
40
Definitions (Continued...)
work for the Union or a combination thereof, shall not of itself qualify him/her for a benefit hereunder.
(18)	“UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE SYSTEM” - means the system	or program,
established by law, for paying benefits to persons on account	of their unemployment,
under which an individual’s eligibility for benefit payments is not determined by application of a “means” or “disability” test; including any such system or program established for the primary purpose of education or vocational training where such programs may provide for training allowances.
(19)	“UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT” - means a benefit	payable	under such
Unemployment Insurance System including any dependency	allowance	and training
allowances (excluding any allowance for transportation, subsistence, equipment or other cost of training). If an employee receives a Workers’ Compensation Benefit while working full time and a higher Workers’ Compensation Benefit while on layoff from the Company, only the amount by which the Workers’ Compensation benefit is increased shall be included.
(20)	“SUPPLEMENTATION” - means recognition of the right of a person to receive both Unemployment Insurance System Benefit and Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan for the same week of layoff at approximately the same time and without reduction of the Unemployment Insurance System Benefit because of the payment of the Weekly Supplemental Benefit under the Plan.
(21)	“TRUSTEE”- means the Trustee or Trustees of the Fund established under the Plan.
(22)	“TRUST FUND POSITION” - means the percentage position of the Fund as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
“TRUST FUND AMOUNT” - means the dollar amount in the Fund per eligible employee as determined periodically pursuant to the provisions of Article VI.
(23)	“UNION’ - means Local 628 of the United Steelworkers of America, representing certain employees of the Company at its Medicine Hat Factory, G.E.L. Warehouse, Medicine Hat, Alberta.
(24)	“WEEK”- when used in connection with eligibility for and computation of benefits with respect to an employee means:
(a) a period of layoff equivalent to a work week, or;
41
Definitions (Continued...)
(b)	a work week for which a full time employee shall have been scheduled or offered work for less than twenty seven (27) hours including hours paid but not worked, if on a standard eight (8) hour day;
(c)	A Short Work Week.
“Week of Layoff shall include any such week; provided, however, that if there is a difference between the starting time of a work week and of a week under an applicable Unemployment Insurance System, the work week shall be paired with the Unemployment Insurance System week which corresponds most closely thereto in time; except that if an employee if ineligible for an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit because of any of the reasons set forth in Section 1 (b) of Article I (excluding the reasons under items (3) and (4) thereof) for the entire continuous period of layoff, the week under the Unemployment Insurance System shall be assumed to be the same as the work week. If an employee becomes ineligible for an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit because of the reasons set forth in Section 1 (b) of Article I, (excluding items (3) and (4) thereof), during a continuous period of layoff, the week under the Unemployment Insurance System shall be assumed to continue to be, for the duration of the layoff period during which he/she remains so ineligible, the seven (7) day period for which an Unemployment Insurance System Benefit was paid to the employee during such continuous period of layoff. Each week within a continuous period of layoff will not be considered a new or separate layoff.
(25)	“WEEKLY STRAIGHT TIME PAY’ - an amount equal to an employee’s average hourly earnings (as determined for a Weekly Supplementary Benefit) multiplied by forty (40) or in the case of a part time employee, by the proportionally reduced number of hours.
(26)	“WORK WEEK’ or “PAY PERIOD”- means seven (7) consecutive days beginning on Sunday at the regular starting time of the shifts to which the employee is assigned or was last assigned immediately prior to being laid off.
(27)	“STANDARD WORK WEEK’ - the Standard Work Week for the purpose of computing a Special Short Work Week Benefit, the Automatic Short Week Benefit and a Regular Benefit when comparing with a Special Short Work Week Benefit shall be no more than forty (40) hours, and shall be the number of hours in the Standard Work Week as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement.
42
ARTICLE X
DURATION AND TERMINATION
The Twelfth Amended Agreement shall become effective on May 1, 2007, and shall continue in effect without change or modification, except as provided above for a period of twenty-six (26) months expiring on July 22, 2009. (The prior Agreement concluded between the parties on July 22,2006, having been in effect from May 10,2004 to July 22,2006).
This Agreement shall continue in force after July 22, 2009 from year to year unless either party gives to the other party notice in writing of cancellation or proposals for revision within a period of not less than two (2) months or more than three (3) months prior to the anniversary date. If either party gives to the other a notice of cancellation, this Agreement shall terminate in accordance with such notice. If either party gives to the other a notice of proposals for revision in accordance with the above terms, the parties shall meet to consider the proposed revisions within fifteen (15) days of the date of delivery of such notice. If no agreement on the proposed revisions is reached by midnight July 22, 2009, or by midnight of any other subsequent anniversary date, as the case may be, this Agreement shall be continued in operation for a period not exceeding one (1) year until a new Agreement is reached or until the procedure contemplated by Section 94 of the Alberta Labour Relations Act has been completed.
It is agreed that these changes will take effect May 1, 2007 as required by paragraph 57 (13) of the Unemployment Insurance Regulations.
The terms of settlement are to be subject to approval on behalf of the Union by its membership and approval by the International Union.
Subject to revision as required to comply with any applicable governmental legislation.
Dated at Medicine Hat, Alberta this I s* day of May, 2007.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
Geoff Challinor Steve Seitz Mike MacGregor
Sheldon Denman Don Harris
Barry Thompson Dave McMenemy
43
Letter #1
This letter will serve to confirm the undertaking given to you by the Company during recent negotiations that the provision for reductions from contributions as outlined in Article VI subsection 3 (c) (1) of the S.U.B. Agreement will not apply during the term of this Agreement.
44